that is, going into poultry-rearing-and know- ing that our pork and, at any rate, our hams and bacon are to be excluded from the Aus- tralian market, we must find an outlet in the Home markets. In addition there is fruit and other industries that we are going in for, and in order to place these delicate products in the Home market we must have a smart direct service. There is also the question of butter and cheese, and one of the great draw- backs in connection with our dairying industry is irregular communication between here and the Home-country with these consignments. We want these articles placed in the Home market in about forty days, and the greatest point in this connection is the one I am now going to touch upon. It is this : In the export of pork and poultry to the Home-country you must ship under some system of chilling, and convey the products under a chilling process. An experiment was recently tried in the Argen tine by which products were successfully con. veyed to London under a process of chilling in thirty-two days ; and I think it is quite possible for us to have a forty days service, and to use that forty days service for sending products Home under a chilling process. If we succeed in doing that cheaply we shall be able to pay a much increased cost of freightage for the con- veyance of these choice products, because when chilled foods are opened in the Home-country they are absolutely equal to any of the Home- produced articles, and will bring about Home- grown prices. Therefore I think that the mem- bers here who represent in the truest manner the interests of our farmers will keep more prominently before their eyes the best system of produce transit, rather than the quickest method of paper transit service. The one means our material life and prosperity ; the other is only contingent on the success of the former. We should insist in connection with our mail- services that there shall be a smarter connec- tion for these delicate products in the markets of the world, and we shall have attained a very great deal, and I hope the Postmaster-General, with his known enterprise, will go into this question. I believe it is one that must attract the attention of the House. I would just like to say, in conclusion, that I hope, although our products have been excluded largely from Aus- tralia by the Federal tariff, that this country will not take up any retaliatory attitude at the present time or at any future time. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - That question cannot be gone into now. No tariff is involved in this question. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I have listened to the remarks made by honourable members in this debate, and I am satisfied that the representatives of the people in this House have given a clear indication to the Govern- ment that it is the wish of the people of this colony to discontinue as soon as possible the mail-service via Fr'isco, and the Government will do well to take this as an instruction from the House, so that when the eighteen months embodied in the resolution expire, an arrange- that time, so that no further renewal of this contract will be necessary. Our mails should be carried in vessels carrying the old flag. I be- lieve in the all-red line. Sir, I think it is an unfortunate circumstance that overtures were not made by the Government to the Union Company and to the New Zealand Shipping Company, two companies with their headquar- ters and proprietary in New Zealand, and which have rendered valuable services to the colony. We should encourage home industry in ship- ping as well as in every other industry, and I hope the Government will not lose sight of that. All things considered, I believe the best mail-service will be the Federal service, and next to that a direct service with the Old Country, calling at South Africa ; and, next to that, I would like to see the Vancouver service. I hope that before next session the Government will have a postal scheme prepared, so that when the House meets members will be able to fall in line with the recommendation of the Government to convey the mails of this colony in British vessels. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I desire to make a personal explanation. It is due to myself to state that in the remarks which I made and which have been commented upon by various members, I did not make nor did I intend to pass any personal reflection on any member of the Native race in this Chamber. I used no words which could be understood as implying such a personal reflection in any shape. I said that in this, as in other things, the desti- nies of this country have been altered by the Maori vote. My objection is that the votes of the Maori members are brought in in connection with matters that are almost exclusively of interest to Europeans when it suits the Govern- ment that those votes should be brought in. Mr. SEDDON .- I rise to a point of order. Is not the honourable member exceeding a per- sonal explanation ? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - I think the honourable member is now going beyond a per- sonal explanation. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- With regard to the remarks of the Native Minister, I will only say that when I meet my constituents I shall be prepared to go into this question fully. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) .- I think the explanation of the honourable mem- ber to some extent is more unfortunate than his first statement. It means that, if you are not to allow representatives of the Native race to vote upon questions of European concern, then, logically, the European members ought not to vote on questions of Native concern. Why, the very reason for the representation of the Native race is that they should take an intelligent interest not only in Native affairs, but in all matters which come before us for our consideration, whether it be concerning the Natives themselves or whether it be concerning the Europeans. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many times have they voted this session ? 