were 3,940, and the cargo 8,331 tons. It shows that the number of passengers from San Francisco to Auckland were less by one thousand than the passengers from Auckland to San Francisco. That shows that the tourists do not come that way. The principal great route for tourists is via Australia. Then, Sir, I do not think that this colony should support to the extent of $20,000 a year a line of steamers belonging to a country that has certainly shown a great deal of commercial hostility to this colony, that has denied our vessels the right to trade in American ports. While these restrictions are placed by 9.0. the United States Government on our shipping, I think we are not justified in subsi- dising this line. The surest way of getting the restrictions removed is by showing independ- ence. If we agreed to subsidise them they would have no object in removing the restric- tions. Something similar was done in regard to Canada. There was a give-and-take policy agreed to at the time that the Dominion was established, and the United States had to give way; and I have no doubt if we were to show a bold front it will help to secure a proper treat- ment of this colony. I do not think we are under any special obligation to the Oceanic Company for the carrying of our mails. I be- lieve that we could, by encouraging the Van- couver service, get a route not quite equal in despatch to the Fr'isco route, but one that would, at any rate, be acceptable, and sufficient to meet our requirements. It has been said that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 we need not consider the Vancouver service, be- cause it will be eighteen months before we can join in with it-that is, before its existing con- tracts expire; but I would point out that it http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero is not subsidised by the States of Queensland and New South Wales to carry their mails exclusively. I have heard no arguments to convince me that negotiations could not be entered into with that service at very short notice. Of course, we should have to make our time fit in with their arrangements, but we have vessels in this colony that could be got ready in a month's time to connect between Auckland or Wellington with Sydney. The " Rotomahana " and the "Mararoa " are quite fast enough and large enough to meet requirements in the meantime. The " Roto- mahana " has beaten the record between Auckland and Sydney of the fastest boat of the Oceanic service. And, seeing that the Van- couver service practically belongs to the New Zealand Shipping Company and the Union Steamship Company, we have a right to en- courage both of those companies. It is true that they are not entirely owned in New Zea- land, but the people belonging to the Union Steamship Company have their homes in New Zealand, and there is not a seaport of any con- sequence in the colony where there are not a number of the employés of the company living. The class of men engaged in the Union Com- pany's service is an excellent class. Even those employed in the humblest positions in the service are all people of good character. Mr. E. G. Allen much good to the colony, and I am sure the colony appreciates the company. There is another reason why we should select the Van- couver-Sydney service and subsidise it, as it has been proposed by the Postmaster-General. It is one of the proposals before the House that we should subsidise steamers to take our mails from this colony to Sydney. Well, if we sub- sidise the steamers to the extent of £10,000 a year, or more if necessary, the steamers would be enabled to carry the produce of our farmers to Sydney at a cheaper rate, and thus minimise to some extent the effect of the increased tariff that has been put on our goods by the Federal Parliament. I believe that this phase of the question should have our ear- nest consideration. We should certainly never lose an opportunity of assisting our farmers; and, in my opinion, we can assist them by adopting the Vancouver line, and subsidising liberally the steamers of the Union Company to carry our mails between this country and Australia. Of course, any arrangement made now would only be of a temporary character. It would, at any rate, provide a means of carry- ing our mails until tenders were invited and fast and large steamers provided. Probably the Union Steamship Company would be prepared with vessels of any size required to take up the service, which would be a guarantee that it would be well performed and the greatest satis- faction given to the travelling public, Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, I have only a few words to say, because I suppose the matter has now been well threshed out ; yet there may be something still to be said from the lips of a southern member. I suppose most of the southern members have, as has been suggested by the member for Napier, looked on the San Francisco service for some time past with a somewhat jealous eye. I cannot say I have done so, and I cannot say I do so now, and I think there is more to be said for the Fr'isco service than has been said so far in the debate, even under the present conditions. Sir, the debate has been extremely interesting, partly because party has been for once in the history of our Parliament done away with altogether. There has been no party call, and no attempt has been made to bring men to heel by the party whip. It is gratifying that on one occa- sion at least we have an opportunity of voting either as we are led by sentiment or by convic- tion. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Opposi- tion Whip ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- There is no Opposition leader, and there is no Opposition Whip. We are all entitled to vote as we think fit. How- ever, I will tell the honourable member pre- sently what I think one of the Opposition members has done. Sir, the debate, I say, has been interesting because of the arguments that seem to have influenced members. Sentiment has been adduced by some as the reason why they should vote this way or that way, and the member for Ashburton was extremely interest- ing, because he said that sentiment made him 