had with my worthy friend - for I still call him so -- I prefer the present representative, who, as far as the district is concerned, has done more for that district in the short time he has repre- sented it than Mr. Buchanan did during the whole ten years he was here. In the interests of the district, therefore, and its representation in the House, I must decline to meet my friend under these circumstances, or do anything that would result in his resignation. Then, Sir, - I have only got five minutes' time left,-what is raked up now? Not the wretched past. I have been called to account for not being loyal in that I had voted for an elective Governor. Ah, ha! Sir, the honourable member only quoted a certain portion of the speech I made on that occasion. But what were my open- ing remarks ?- " If I thought for a moment that the fact of the people of New Zealand, claiming their undoubted right under the Constitution Act to eleet their own Governor, meant the separating of us from the Home-country and our beloved Queen, I should be very sorry that we should take such a course, for I claim, myself, to be a New-Zealander, and as loyal a subject as any in Her Majesty's dominions." Those are my opening remarks. I then went on to say, and I repeat it : -- " History tells us that in the early days of the colonization of America there were people then guiding the British nation who held it to be criminal on the part of the colonists of America that they should manufacture so much https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 as a horse shoe or a hobnail. If such an argu- ment as that were used -that it was wrong on the part of the people of the colony to manufac- tore articles for themselves, the people using such an argument might also apply it to the case of a colony which chose to elect its own Governor, and might say that the colony could no longer be recognised as an integral portion of the British Empire. I believe this colony is capable of electing a person quite competent to represent British interests here and at the same time to conserve the rights of the people of New Zealand. It is a slur on the people of New Zealand to say they are not capable of electing their own Governor." And, Sir, I was glad, in supporting that Election of Governor Bill, to be standing shoulder to shoulder with Sir George Grey, and I then believed, and I still believe, that to have passed that Act, and to have had him elected our Governor, we were paying a tribute to the greatest statesman that has ever been in the colony. There is, Sir, my answer to that. Time will not permit me to go further than to say this: I believe that the House will now pass this Bill by a large majority - I hope almost unanimously. It would have been well if it had been passed without debate at all. We gave a reception unsurpassed, I be- Heve, in the British colonies to their Royal Highnesses, and they went away from New Zealand delighted with its people and with our country. There are those who are watching carefully what is going on, and they will seize said during the second reading and third read- ing debate on this Bill, and they will say that it was all hollow, that underneath there was disaffection, that there were those who did not desire to tender to our future King and Queen that hospitality and devotion to which they were entitled. I repeat, Sir, the people of New Zealand are a loyal people, and I say the people of New Zealand gave a hearty and a cordial welcome ; but, at the same time, I do say there are some members in this House who, by what they have said under circumstances probably that they will regret, have detracted from that which was done in accordance with the wishes of the people of this country; and if I have been pained under such circumstances-if I have said anything, Sir, to which exception is taken -members will understand that I only did it from a sense of duty, believing it to be in the best interests of the House, and in the best interests of the colony. I hope to see this Bill carried through the third reading without a division at all. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). 9.0 -I wish to make a personal explana- tion. The Right Hon. the Premier has stated - or, at any rate, insinuated-that I and other members of the House who spoke as I did on the second reading of the Bill have been so ashamed of what we said in that debate that we have garbled the Hansard proofs of what we then said. I desire to say that, so far as I am concerned, I have not eliminated or softened a single word or syllable that I found upon my Hansard proof. On the contrary, I found it necessary to put in a good deal of fairly strong matter which the reporter had unfortunately omitted. I can only speak for myself, but I hope other honourable members concerned will get up after me and repudiate the insinuation as I have done. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- As a personal explanation, I wish to say, ditto. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- As a personal explanation I wish to say that, so far as I am concerned, I did not alter in any way, or in any material sense whatever, any words spoken by me in the debate on the second reading. I have here the rough Hansard proof, and I will show it to any members of this House who want to see it, so that they may see whether there is the slightest alteration in the remarks I made on the second reading of the Bill. Sir, it is all here, and I do not take a single sentence of it back - not even the quotation from Hans Breitmann's poem. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City). - I desire, Sir, to say much the same thing, and would like to say this : That the Premier has, by the state- ment he made, laid himself open to this rising up of every member who spoke on the debate the other night to deny the imputation that he has garbled or materially altered his Han- sard proof. And I should like to ask how it is that the Premier or any member of the House can look over the proofs of another member and ascertain that they have been altered. 