even although the Government had protected itself by legal enactment. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he had no objection to the honourable gentle- man doing the best he could in the interests of one of his constituents, but in advocating what he believed to be right it was not fair for him to blame the officials of the department in the way that he had. He felt sure, from what he knew of the matter, that they were not to blame. He had not yet had the opportunity of seeing the evidence taken by the Committee, nor of going into the facts of the case, and until he had done that he would not express an opinion one way or the other whether there was reasonable justification for any monetary consideration. It appeared from the honourable gentleman's quotation from the letter that a thousand sheep were in charge of three boys. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I think six people altogether were in charge. Sir J. G. WARD said he understood him to say they were boys. It would be recognised that the railways were for the benefit of the farmers and the people in general, and trains had to be run whenever the exigencies of the service demanded. Of course, reasonable care was expected to be exercised by those in charge of engines or of stock, and so was it expected of the public. He thought it was rather hard on a great organization like the Farmers' Union- of which he believed himself to be a member- to suppose that they were going to ask the Rail- way Department to agree to paying away large https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 sums of money unless the department was re- sponsible for it. The employés generally from end to end of the colony were men of intelli- gence and careful men, and he would be sur- prised to find that the Committee had not made & recommendation in accordance with the facts. He only rose to say that the matter would be looked into; but to send a petition back to the Committee unless there were fresh facts to adduce was only delaying the final considera tion of the matter. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) said it would be of no use sending the petition back to the Committee unless the honourable member had some fresh evidence to place before the Com- mittee. But the honourable member appeared to have no evidence, outside the fact that the sheep were killed. The honourable member was now only taking advantage of this report being brought up to ingratiate himself and curry favour with the Farmers' Union. He was simply doing a little cheap electioneering. This case was not exceptional at all; the negligence, if there was any, was on the part of the persons driving the sheep. The honourable member tried to persuade the Committee that the engine-driver was reading a newspaper at the time of the accident, but he (Mr. Mckenzie) toid him at the time that that was an unwar- rantable reflection upon the engine-driver and fireman of the train, unless he could produce substantial evidence to prove it. The honour- able gentleman did not, and probably could not, tind any reply to that. He happened to thirty years, and if he had a just claim upon the colony he would be only too willing to assist him in advancing that claim ; but in this case the petitioner had no equitable or moral claim . against the colony at all, as all the apparent carelessness and negligence in the case was on the part of the people driving the sheep. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) thought the argu- ment just used by the honourable member for Motueka was in favour of referring the ques- tion back to the Committee. He understood the honourable member to say that they had not sufficient evidence. Well, he presumed the honourable member for Waihemo wished to refer it back for the purpose of adducing some further evidence. He (Mr. Allen), from what he heard, believed this man had a good case. He understood that the sheep were going over an ordinary railway-crossing when the mishap occurred. No train was expected at the time, and suddenly a ballast train popped up when these men were crossing with a thousand sheep. Sir J. G. WARD .- Ballast trains must run. Mr. J. ALLEN said there should surely be some exceptional precautions taken on such occasions. It appeared that the sheep were in charge of three of the sons of the farmer and three other persons. That was, six people in charge of the thousand sheep at the railway- crossing. Surely the Minister did not argue that, if a man had lost his sheep through a train not pulling up in time, even though the people in charge of the train saw them, the man had no claim for compensation. He pre- sumed that if the matter were referred back to the Committee evidence could be adduced which might cause the Committee to make a more favourable report. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) knew nothing about the case, but he was rather surprised at the argument of the Chairman of the Railways Committee. According to his argument, a farmer or a settler who had to drive his stock across railway-crossings had no protection what- ever. He understood this man took the pre- caution of waiting until all the regular trains had passed. Then, while crossing, a ballast train came along and dashed into his stock. He thought it would be only fair in a case like that that the department should make every inquiry, and if the man had suffered loss Sir J. G. WARD had no doubt that had already been done. Mr. R. THOMPSON said, If after inquiry it was found that the stock had been destroyed through carelessness of the engine-driver, it was only right that some fair and reasonable compensation should be paid. This case, of course, really opened up a very large question affecting settlers all over the colony. Had these settlers gone across the railway-line at a time when the ordinary train was likely to arrive the position would have been different ; but in the present instance an unexpected train arrived, and he thought if an inquiry had not already been held that one should be held, and some reparation should be made. 