anything whatever to prevent me making what use of my time in the recess I chose to make of it. If I was inclined, as I have been and am in- clined, to do some other work in my own time, or such portion of it as is not required by my constituents, I ask no one's leave to do it ; and I do not know of any other member of this House who is so situated that, if he strenuously desired to do some other work, would not find the means of doing it. I myself, being a man of plain living and habits, could live, practically speaking, like a fighting-cock on £240 a year if I had it all for my own uses. A few honourable members have tried to play the role of Lord Bountiful, but have found, to their disappoint- ment, that being in Parliament alone did not make them millionaires. They found that, though they were members of Parliament, and had all the alleged honour and glory attached to it, they were poorer men financially than when they were working at their trades. I am not going to make a poor mouth of it, but I have had as hard a time to pull along since I have been a member as ever I had at my trade, and, but for my endeavour to have some other occupation from which to supplement my pay as a member, I certainly would have run the chance of being very hard up be- fore I had got to the end of another session. I saw that, and I was not going to take any chance of it. I am simply taking care to insure that, when the precarious living of a politician is refused me, I will have at least the where- withall to earn my daily bread and to insure my self-respect. I say to the labour members of this House, " Never trust to making a living out of politics, but always have something to turn your hand to when your constituents are done with you ; for you, when you are cast out, there will be none so poor as do you reverence." Those who vote for this Bill, I have no doubt, feel justified in doing so, and I hope those who do that will not assume that I am voting in the opposite way with a desire either to baulk them in what they deem to be right or to pose as a Pharisee or Puritan in the eyes of the people. I would like to say, before I sit down, and it is in reply to something said by the honourable member for Wairarapa-he said that those who voted against the appropria- tion of the £40 sessional allowance last year were in unseemly haste to go to the Trea- sury and collect the sum. Well, I did go to the Treasury, and I did collect the sum, be- cause, after due consideration, I came to see that that was the only way I could divest my- self of it, because if it laid to my credit there, after I had declined to take it, I would lay my- self open to the imputation that I was playing "'possum " until the noise subsided, and then could get it. So I took it, but I took care to go along the Quay and pay it into a public in- stitution-the Bank of New Zealand-to the credit of the Public Account, for which I hold this receipt :- " Voucher No. -. "Bank Receipt .- Public Account. " Received into the Bank of New Zealand at placed to the credit of the Public Account. " Dated this second day of November, 1900. "For the Bank of New Zealand, "DUDLEY TRIPE. " £40 0s. 0d." Now, I would never have referred to that but for the fact that it has been stated in this House, and with all sorts of exaggerations in the town, that they all took it. And I am not singular in this respect, for other of my fellow-members have done likewise. Mr. SEDDON .- You took it. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I took it? The Pre- mier is trying to play the same shabby game that he tried to play on the member for Ashley the other day, but he cannot " bluff " the people all the time. Mr. SEDDON .- What did you take it for ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- So that I could divest myself of it. Had I left it there, it must have lain to my credit ; you could not have taken it. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Oh, no; it would lie to my credit, and you dare not touch it. Mr. SEDDON .-- Yes. Mr. HUTCHESON .- It would be mine all the time until the end of the present Parlia- ment. Now, I say, the man who lives in this House in fear of his constituents, who trims, and dodges, and tries to regulate his conduct between the different interests, will come down to the level of all dodgers ; and, if he does not come down, the Premier stigmatizes all those who oppose his imperious will as traitors to their trust and enemies of the Democracy. So, after all, there is nothing for it but guidance by principle and a stiff back. Well, I may ask my constituents to put me back here, and they may not respond ; and, again, I may not ask my constituents to renew their trust; but, whether I ask them or not, my only reason for opposing this Bill is that I do not feel I am privileged to accept any increase of emolu- ment for services without asking the people -my employers. Of course, if I thought the emolument was not adequate, and that the deficiency should be made up by some sacri- fice on my part, I could either loyally accept those conditions or tell my constituents to get a cheaper man. But my belief is that the people of the colony would almost unanimously agree to grant this £300 if it were explained to them the expense a member of the House was put to. I say that, under present conditions, a man who has no other source of income than the £240 is in a state not far removed from chronic poverty ; and if the amendment to be proposed by the member for Lyttelton to make this Bill come into force from the first day of the next Parliament were agreed to, we should have a clean record and a clear mind about the matter. I should not be a little bit afraid to tell the people of Wellington that they were "sweating " their representatives if they did not give them a fair remuneration for the work they do. Unless the operation of the Bill is suspended till after next general election I shall oppose it at all stages with all my might. 