He Railway during the present session. abled to take such steps as would be necessary learned with surprise and indignation that before the scheme could be carried out. The city would require to obtain the best expert evidence, there was no amount on the supplementary estimates for the North of Auckland Railway. and unless they knew that they would obtain the When the House considered the thousands of power to carry out the scheme they could not go names attached to the petitions which had to the expense of getting the best expert advice been presented to Parliament in favour of a money could command. As things were now, vigorous prosecution of this line, he thought twelve months would have to elapse before the it showed clearly that those petitions had not city would be warranted even in going so far influenced the Government to the extent of as to getting that expert evidence. It was a the expenditure of a single pound. He hoped matter which concerned an important and large the Auckland phalanx would gather round in city, and the commercial prosperity of a city a strong body and force the Government to which promised to become the manufacturing do something. That was why he moved his centre of the colony. He would undertake to amendment. He was quite sure he would say that if this scheme were a feasible one, and have the support of the other Auckland City were given effect to, it would mean greatly en- members. When the House considered that hanced prosperity and an immense impetus to the North Island was five hundred miles short the manufacturing capabilities of Christchurch of the length of railways which had been made and the surrounding districts, and would be a in the South Island, he was certain that in a great advantage not only to the city, but to small matter like this the House would sympa- Canterbury and the whole colony as well. thize with him in the course he was taking. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) seconded the church people had taken a deep interest in the proposal contained in the Bill in question for amendment. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) said he would some considerable time. That city had no support the motion which had been moved by high-pressure water-supply, and it was to give the member for Auckland City (Mr. Withe- that that the Bill was required, and also to give ford). power to be used for electric lighting, power Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) had no to be used in manufactures, and as a means of desire to delay the House, but wished to call driving the trams, for which the city were in attention to a matter of importance which he negotiation to purchase. There were a number of small towns between Christchurch and the thought ought to have been dealt with-namely, the question of dealing with local Bills. A few place of supply, and those towns wanted the days ago provision had been made by the Pre- use of the electricity also. It would be seen, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 mier for dealing with the unopposed local Bills, therefore, that the question was one which did and under that arrangement a number of Bills not affect Christchurch only, but extended far which had been nearly at the top of the Order into the country. A distinct promise had been given earlier in the session that this Bill would Paper were relegated to an inferior position at have an opportunity of being dealt with, and the bottom of the Paper. Amongst those Bills was one which was under his charge, to the ex- he believed a large number of members of the treme importance of which he wished to direct House were anxious that the Bill should be attention. It was a Bill to give the City of passed into law. Christchurch power to construct works for the establishment of an electric-power scheme to be against the action of two Auckland City mem- obtained from the waters of the Waimakariri, bers in bringing in this amendment in such a frivolous way as representing the wants of to be utilised in the city and its surroundings the district north of Auckland. That was not for electric power, lighting, and other pur- the way to assist the North of Auckland. Those It was impossible to overestimate poses. the immense advantages which this scheme honourable members had been presenting would give to the City of Christchurch. And numerous petitions this session from people it would not only be of immense advantage in the North of Auckland, and the settlers to Christchurch itself, but to the colony as a looked upon these honourable gentlemen as whole, since it would be an object-lesson and their friends, and he regretted that the wants illustration of what might be done in that of that district should be brought up in the direction. He understood that the Bill would manner in which they had been brought up have been opposed by those who had interests by Mr. Witheford and Mr. Fowlds. If those connected with the Selwyn County Council and honourable gentlemen could not do something the Waimakariri-Ashley Water-supply Board, better to assist the North of Auckland, he, as and he thought Parliament ought to have been a member representing that part of the colony, permitted to decide whether those bodies were would be much obliged to them if they never mentioned that district in the House at all. entitled to monopolize the waters of the river. He protested against the wants of that dis- He thought that a Bill of that importance ought to have had the opportunity of going be- trict being ridiculed by any member of this fore Parliament and being considered on its House. He did not ask for any different treat- merits ment than should be accorded to any ordinary know whether the honourable gentleman re- ferred to him or not, but he did not think he member, nor did he take it as a personal matter. What the city asked was to be empowered not had said anything in a frivolous manner. Mr. ELL (Christchurch Cityi said the Christ- Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) protested Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) said he did not 