been done, all the difficulties and waste of time that has gone on ever since would have been done away with ; but the Premier has endea- voured to show-at the expense of the Natives -- how largely he is endowed with the initiative he is accused of lacking, by his Native-land legislation. I am tired of repeating the truism that in the West Coast 'Reserves Act the Go- vernment have a solution of the Native-land difficulty-economical, efficient, satisfactory, and just. Admitting these facts, one cannot understand why the example thus set by the late Mr. Ballance has not been more extensively followed by the present Government, for I feel assured there is no better method of preserving to the Maoris the benefits of the lands, while insuring the best use being made of them. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori District) .- Sir, I regretted to hear the Hon. the Premier say that if the Natives fail to carry out the provisions of the Act of last year the Govern- ment would adopt free-trade as a policy. I do not believe in his heart he desires it. I believe the Government have laid down well-formed foundations for Native legislation, and it only requires some alteration here and there to secure to the Natives the balance of their lands, and to make provision for its leasing. There is nothing in the Act of last year which pro- hibits any European from holding Maori lands. All the forms set out last year to enable Euro- peans to settle on Maori land are as good as the means by which you set apart Crown lands https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 for European settlement. We want to secure to the Maoris a means by which they will not in the future be deprived of their livelihood. We have to look forward to their future. The available balance of Maori lands is very small, and if a proportional distribution were to be made each individual would not re- ceive more than fifty acres per head. But, still, we have to consider this : We have chari- table aid and old-age pensions. We have to provide means by which the Maoris in future shall not be dependent upon charitable aid or become a burden on the Old-age Pensions Fund. The only means by which we can prevent this is by the legislation of last year. The Premier has also made this point in his speech : that we have large tracts of Maori land lying idle. But what is the cause of it ? Is it the fault of the Maoris? Certainly not. We only want the House to assist us to pass legislation enabling Maoris in a more satisfatory way to lease their lands. We have laid down a foundation by passing the Act of last year. Of course, there are members of this House, and there are Euro- peans outside the House, who will never be satisfied unless the Government bring down legislation doing away with all restrictions im- posed upon the alienation of Maori land. We have individual members here whose sole object is entirely directed in that way-to remove restrictions, and to allow every individual to negotiate with the Maoris, with the view of acquiring by purchase their land ; but I believe that in the heart of hearts of every member of this House it is really the general VOL. CXIX .- 17. should take place. What we desire is this: If we can satisfy Europeans who wish to become settlers by leasing our land, that can be done ; and at the same time we can provide for the future of the Maori people, and avoid the Na- tives becoming a burden on the charitable aid or the Pension Fund of the colony. There are provisions in the Act of last year which we think ought to be amended, and the Bill before. us is an attempt to bring that about. I firmly believe, if the House passes the amendments brought down by the Government, it will tend towards bringing about the results I have indi- cated-that is, that the wants of the Europeans with respect to leasing Maori lands will be satisfied, and the measure will also satisfy the Natives to a great extent ; but, above all, no more alienation by sale. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- I trust that this small digression has not taken the House away from the consideration of the provisions of this Bill. This is a Bill simply to do an act of justice. It is within my own knowledge that the Maoris have been deprived of their just rights for a great number of years, and I trust that any slight digression on the subject of Native land legislation will not take honour- able members away from the consideration of the Bill. I hope this House will never consent to free-trade in Maori land. In my opinion, not one single acre more of Native land should either be purchased by the Crown or by any private individual. I speak as a New-Zea- lander, and I say we ought to stop that at once. The sole object of the pakeha-Maori is to ex- ploit the Natives. They have lived and fattened out of the Maoris for many years, and their sole object in wishing for free-trade in Maori land is simply that they can still further exploit the Maoris. I hope that the time has come when the whole of the dealings in Native lands, so far as the sale is concerned to either the Crown or to any private individual, will cease, except- ing in the case of negotiations now pending. which should be completed as speedily as possible. I say it is a standing disgrace to this colony and to every member of Parliament to have a landless Native in the colony. It is one of the greatest disgraces that could possibly happen to this country that there should be a landless Native. I say, if we are to have free-trade in Native land, we shall have a large number of Natives depending upon charitable aid. I do not blame the Natives for the standstill that has taken place in connection with Native-land settlement. It is not altogether the fault of tho Natives. The Government have been pull- ing one way and the pakeha-Maori another, and the Maoris have suffered in consequence. The pakeha-Maoris have done their best to prevent the lands being dealt with, so that in the near future they would hope to get strong enough to pull the strings sufficiently to have free-trade in Native lands brought about. I trust that will never happen. I hope the House will pass this Bill, which is only carrying out an act of justice that should have been given effect to years ago. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- I hope at 