at the same time we have to consider that the cost is not a defined quantity. I cannot go into that phase of the question now ; but I say, in respect to the original contract and its terms, conditions, and uncertainties, that the colony would act wisely in avoiding a leap in the dark, for that is what is meant if the Manawatu line is taken under the old agreement. I do not want to depreciate or inflate the value of the pro- perty ; I only want to impress on members that there are good reasons which weigh with the Government, and which has caused Ministers to bring down the Bill; were it otherwise I would never have had my name associated with it, or have brought it down at this late period of the session. I must ask members to take for granted that there are good reasons for passing it. If the House likes to take the responsibility of postponing it for six months, then we wash our hands of all responsibility in respect to it. Mr. W. FRASER .- Is any date fixed in the agreement with the directors within which this offer must be closed ? Mr. SEDDON .- My intention was to fix a date early next year within which the trans- action must be concluded. Mr. W. FRASER .- There is no date fixed just now ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. W. FRASER .- Has the company con- firmed the offer at present ? Mr. SEDDON .- It has been intimated to the Government by the Chairman of directors that it is his opinion, and he has reasons to support it, that a majority of the shareholders https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 in value are prepared to take the offer. It is on the strength of that the Government have brought in the Bill. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - As a matter of personal explanation, I would like to ask what the Premier meant when he charged me, in the course of his speech, with aspersing the Government, and uttering what he regards as insinuations ? I made no such insinuation, and I want to know what he means ? Mr. SEDDON .- Well, you said that we had a statement here of the assets dated the 17th August, and that for some purpose or other-you did not know what-the Government had kept it back. There was a suggestion there that we had kept it back to the last moment for the purpose of taking the House by surprise, and so rushing it through. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- You only meant the reference to be a political one ? Mr. SEDDON .- That is all. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Not that I intended a personal reflection on the Minister ? Mr. SEDDON .- That is so. It is true we had some information before I prepared that reference in the Financial Statement, but they wanted 35s. a share ; I indicated that the Go- vernment would not offer more than 30s., and then they intimated that they would take 32s. 6d. I wanted to show that we had not deliberately kept it back, but there was no use in attempt- ing to deal with it when we were not prepared to purchase at the price mentioned by the directors. Mr. Seddon the word ' now ' be retained." AYES, 38. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Mills Palmer Arnold Hogg Atkinson Hornsby Parata Rhodes Buddo Houston Seddon Carroll Hutcheson Collins Kaihau Steward Lang Colvin Tanner Laurenson Duncan Thompson, R. Ell Ward Lawry Witheford. Fowlds Lethbridge McGowan Fraser, W. Tellers. Mckenzie, R. Gilfedder Barclay Meredith Fraser, A. L. D. Hall NOES, 7. Tellers. Herries Russell, G. W. Allen, J. Millar Russell, W. R. Monk Massey. Majority for, 31. Amendment negatived, and Bill read a second time. ## IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2. - " The Governor is hereby em- powered, in the name and on behalf of His Majesty, to enter into an agreement with the Wellington and Manawatu Railway Company (Limited), (hereinafter called ' the company '). for the purchase of the railway and other assets of the company mentioned in the Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as 'the said railway ') as a going concern, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add, after the words " His Majesty," the words " not later than the first day of May, one thousand nine hundred and two." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. PUBLIC WORKS BILL. A message was received from His Exceliency the Governor, transmitting the draft of a Bill to amend the Public Works Act, and recom- mending the House to make provision accord- ingly. The message was referred to the Committee of the Whole, and the resolution was agreed to, reported to the House and agreed to, and the Bill read a first time. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved the second reading of the Bili. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said he would like to point out to the House that this Bill did not afford any real relief at al. It merely shifted the disability from the ini- vidual to the local governing body. He was Is anxious to see relief given in these cases de anybody, but this Bill did not do so. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) said the offee- tion to the present law was that it would cause houses in the streets to have the appearance of the teeth of a saw-there would be no uus formity in the frontage of the houses. Thx clause would not alter that one bit. The indi. vidual who was compelled to go back would be compensated by the local body, but the aspect 