any member of the Council should object to such a request simply because there happened to be a well-managed Board within his own knowledge. There were many well - managed domains and badly-managed domains through- out the country, but there was no domain likely to be better managed than by a Board which had to come under the review of the electors occasionally. If the revenue for this reserve had not been sufficient up to the present, how was it likely to be sufficient in future ? This recreation-ground was for the benefit of the public, and the municipality would out of its rates pay a sufficient sum to keep it in decent order, and the town would have a recreation- ground that would be more creditable to it than it was now. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY would like to give an instance where trustees had managed a recreation-ground to the great advantage of the public. That was the case in Taranaki. The trustees had not any revenue, and not enough money to convert the waste land into a pleasant public resort ; but they set to work energeti- cally, and raised by public subscription, by bazaars, and sports, sufficient money, year after year, to enable them to make a beautiful and most enjoyable ground for public recrea- tion. This reserve had first been offered to the Borough Council. He had been a member of the Provincial Council which got the recreation- ground set aside, and the Borough Council de- clined to undertake the management of it, and the Provincial Government had been compelled https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to appoint a separate body of men as a Board, and they had been most successful in making If the the recreation-ground a beauty spot. trustees in the present case had not fulfilled the functions for which they were created, and the Borough was willing to take over the reserve and improve it, that would be the best course to pursue in the public interest. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK wished to say, as briefly as possible, that there were loose reserves all over the colony. In some cases reserves had had trustees assigned to them, but those . trustees were dead, and there was no one to look after them. Fortunately, in the case of Invercargill the reserves were all under the control of the Borough Council. He did not think honourable members could have read the preamble to this Bill. Had they done so they would have found that the land was to be vested in the Mavor, Councillors, and Burgesses of the Borough of Masterton for the purposes of and to be used as a public park and recreation- ground, and in the operative clauses they would find that the trust was for the purposes of pub- lic recreation. All sorts of herrings had been drawn across the scent, but he did not see why his sins-in regard to the application of the closure on Monday night- should be visited on the people concerned in this Bill. If the Bill were placed on the statute-book, he had no doubt the Borough of Masterton would prove a faithful guardian and attend to the pleasure and the welfare of the people of the district. Bill read the second and the third time. Hon. Mr, Twomey The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said the preamble of this Bill set forth what was required. The whole of the powers to deal with the reserves was vested in the Mayor and Councillors of Palmerston North. Under the Act of last year power had been given to the Palmerston North Reserves Board to let the reserves mentioned in the First Schedule without a compensation clause. It was now proposed to give power to let these reserves with compensation clauses. With regard to the gravel pit dealt with in the Bill, those who passed through Palmerston North must admit that it was an eyesore. It had been worked out, and the borough wished to be able to dispose of it to any person who was willing to improve it by filling it up. He would move the second reading. Bill read the second and the third time. # WESLEYAN CHURCH RESERVE VESTING BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved the second reading of this Bill. He knew the whole circumstances of the case. The Wesleyan body had been in possession of this site for the last forty years, and although in the oringinal vest- ing of it there were certain restrictions as to the use of the land, he thought it was only right, after forty years of occupation, that this section should be given to the Church. Bill read the second and the third time. KAIRANGA COUNTY BILL. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said this Bill merely gave power to establish a county in the Oroua district, where the Counties Act had been suspended. Two out of the three of the Road Boards that now conducted business had signi- fied that it was the wish of the people in the district that this should be done. All the local bodies in the adjoining districts had also signi- fied their approval. He moved the second read- ing of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. # LOCAL BILLS. On the question, That the Borough of Ma- taura Loan Validation Bill be read the third time, The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said,-Sir, before you read that Bill the third time-I do not wish to make any objection to it, but I do wish to say, before these Bills are read the third time, that a large number of them have gone through the Committee stage and were inquired into previously, as far as time would allow, by the Local Bills Committee, but not in a very satis- factory manner-indeed, in a very unsatisfac- tory manner. Neither the Local Bills Commit- tee nor the Committee just closed has had the time or opportunity to make those inquiries which it would be our duty to make if we did our work properly. That is owing to the late period of the session in which these Bills have come down. Sir, it will be found, I venture to say, that in many of these Bills mistakes have been made, and that pro- visions have been left out that ought to have 