side to the colony as far as the administration and the policy of the Government go. He has been unfair to the colony and unjust to the Government when he puts forth the fact that we have an increase of $221,000 without stating a set-off or giving the causes of any sort or kind. Take the railways as a case in point : There we have an increase of £92.000 in our expenditure ; but what about the increase of its revenue ? was only a day or two ago since I stated the fact that the increase of revenue for the last six months alone, by comparison with the cor- responding period of last year, was #87,000, and that the last four weeks was nearly £14,000 better than the corresponding period of last year. Mr. R. MCKENZIE. - Due mostly to the Roval visit. Sir J. G. WARD .- If the honourable mem- ber would go into the figures since the Royal visitors left-take those of the last month, which is regarded as about the worst month for the year, when there were no Royalty here at all-he would find that the figures show nearly €14,000 more than for the same month of the year before. The increase in the Postal Department is due entirely to growth of busi- ness, and the same applies to the Agricultural Department. I pass on for one moment to refer to the statement of the honourable member for Riccarton regarding the item £24,000, deposit of balance due to Fourth and Fifth Contingents. The honourable member said that from the 10th July to the 30th Sep- tember there was only £269 paid to these men, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and he wanted an explanation why this was the case. Very well, I can give the desired explanation. The members of the contingents have been paid off as rapidly as possible. The Under-Secretary for Defence and the other officers paid off the men as fast as they could. They could not do so blindfold. The members of the contingents have been paid as rapidly as possible. The Under-Secretary for Defence and other officers paid off the men, and the accounts of the payments they have made during the September quarter-that is, during the month of September, the money only having been re- ceived in September-will be charged during the September quarter, after the accounts have been duly audited. The whole amount requires to and will be charged to the succeeding quarter to that to which the honourable member refers. If he looks at the December quarter he will find that the total amount will have been paid : and they could not pay it before, because the officers had not the full accounts in some cases, and duplications of the accounts were required from South Africa, so there is nothing in the point made by the honourable member. Now, I think it is necessary for me to refer to the honourable member's statement regarding the €120,000 of Treasury bills that were issued in excess of the amount for the same period last year. This is an item in connection with the finances of the colony that necessarily fluctuates, owing to the particular conditions of the moment. The honourable member knows Sir J. G. Ward every-day finance in the issue of Treasury bills an increase gives no indication whatever that the Treasury is out of joint financially-it is what I may term the bread-and-butter side of carrying on the finances of the colony ; and it is necessary, just as a tradesman has a till for silver and gold to enable the daily cash trans- actions of his business to be carried out. The fact that his gold or silver was less at the end It of the day than at the beginning would not imply he was worse off, as in all probability he had taken cheques in exchange, or had even purchased something with his bread-and-butter cash from the till ; and so with Treasury bills. There is, therefore, no point in referring to them. Now, I pass on from that to another statement made by the honourable member. He referred to the abnormal expenditure in connection with the Defence Department of the colony. The Right Hon. the Minister of De. fence will deal with this matter, doubtless. if there is time at his disposal, much more fully than I can. But I could not listen to the honourable gentleman's statement of the ex- penditure of $213,000 on the consolidated esti- mates and £180,000 on the Public Works Fund estimates, making a total of $393,000, without realising how misleading such a statement was. First, it is abnormal in many respects ; and. second, it includes a large balance from the previous year. He also referred to the mili- tary spirit which is being created in this colony. The honourable member knows per- fectly well, in regard to the defence expendi- ture, there have been unusual conditions, and that a very large proportion of that amount is abnormal and is non-recurrent ; and the hopour- able member himself took very good care. before concluding his remarks, to put in a good word or two for the Volunteer system of the colony. Well, there are about eighteen thousand Voiun- teers in New Zealand. No one has called upon us to reduce, but rather to increase, the Volun- teer corps of the colony, and so long as you hed the representatives of the people, and the people behind them, are urging that there should be an increase of the Volunteer corps, and that the Volunteer system has now reached a strength ? eighteen thousand, which is larger than in any of the adjacent colonies, we can accept that as an indication that the defence expenditure had to be increased in that direction ; and that in .- crease, so long as it is not of an extravagant character, must be faced if the people want a thoroughly efficient Volunteer system. New. the honourable member referred to this it- crease, and said the people would insist on that large vote being reduced. Why. the Gin vernment themselves will insist on every lange vote being reduced in connection with the de- fences of the colony where they can legitimately do it. We mean to reduce the amount, and very considerably too. But the people here have a great and valuable trust in their poss's. sion, and the day may come when it may be ad object for attack ; it is idle for the most peace- fully disposed amongst us to deny that. Pespe beyond our shores have an eye upon us now, 