the part of one or two of the Boards ? Why, if you are going to carry that reasoning out, and if we were to attempt to repeal the conciliation and arbitration laws, I venture to affirm that even the most prejudiced employers, who have felt at times when friction had taken place that the system was not being carried out in a way that was satisfactory to them, would not for a moment countenance the repealing of those laws. I venture to say, in fact, that if any one in authority talked seriously of repealing the conciliation and arbitration laws of the country and that we should revert to the less satisfactory system of strikes that formerly prevailed, he would find that the employers themselves would rise in alarm and ask that it should not be done. Numbers of these em- ployers felt that they were not safe before the Conciliation Board and Arbitration Court were set up. There has since then, at all events, been a general prosperity amongst the com- mercial, industrial, and agricultural worlds, and I think very few people in New Zealand will gainsay the fact that it is only right the employés should participate in the prosperity which has been going on in the time to which I have referred. If times of severe depression arose, the workers would for certain feel it, and are they to be deprived of their fair and just share of the good times ? I say no fair man could honestly advocate anything of the kind. Then, the honourable member again raised the ques- tion of the agriculturists, and that appears to be a string which some members in the House are anxious to play opon, in the belief that they are going to hoodwink a very large section of the community in connection with the labour laws of the country. Now if the matter is looked at from a common-sense standpoint, it is only reasonable that every section of the community should take such action as they believe to be best and most conducive to the progress and welfare of their individual interests ; and it is very gratifying, therefore, to see that the farmers of the country are com- bining with a view to the preservation of their own interests, and seeing to the welfare of the highly important industry in which they are engaged. No one can blame them for that ; on the contrary, they are to be commended for it. They should have done it long ago. But when we have it from the honourable gentle- man that, because one or two members on this side of the House have expressed themselves to the effect that friction has existed in the administration of the conciliation and arbitra- tion laws, we are not going to sit here and accept that sort of statement as implying that something unfair or improper has been done by the Government as regards a very large section of the community, namely, the agriculturists. We have not done anything of the kind. It was originally believed that the Workers' Com- pensation for Accidents Act did not affect the portion of the community engaged in agricultural and pastoral pursuits, because the Premier has given expression to that opinion on more than one occasion. We are not, Sir J. G. Ward on this side of the House are in alarm at the action or the working of the Conciliation Boards and Arbitration Court, or that some particular law has worked against that section of the community. If there are any grievances to bo redressed for the agricultural portion of the community, and doubtless there are, then the members on this side of the House are prepared to find out their difficulties, and remove them if they exist; but we are not going to be de- terred from what we believe to be essential legislation in the interests of the workers of the country by any such statement as that thrown across the floor of the House. I say we have to do what is fair and right to all classes, and I, for one, am prepared to do so. I believe the House, in a state of frenzy, has gone too far in some directions in its amendment of the Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act, though I recognise that majorities must rule. Sir, I had no intention of speaking, but I rose merely for the purpose of doing that which the honourable member invited the Government to do-namely, to show reasons why in the past the State employés have not been brought under the operation of the Act. Personally, I believe they are better off than they would be if they were brought under the Act. The State, and the State alone, is their employer, and there is no other person in the colony who can compare or compete with the State. There is no comparison which they can make as between the State and private in- dividuals to extend the rates of wages or sala- ries ; there is no comparison whatever between the State and the individual employer, and I presume it will ever be the duty of the State to do what is fair towards its servants ; and the Government that did not do what was fair and right would soon find that they could no longer hold office, and another Administration would be put in their place that would do so. At this very late hour I do not wish to say anything more. Personally, I should have preferred to have seen the third reading of the Bill passed without debate, but in view of the part taken up by the honourable gentleman in making an un- called-for attack upon the Government in con- nection with the Act, I could not do other than rise in my place and put on record, as briefly as I could, my views on the matter. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I hardly 3.30. think the Minister for Railways has treated the member for the Bay of Plenty with his usual fairness. The member for the Bay of Plenty did not imply that the employés of the Government were aged, infirm, or unfit. The honourable member's argument was that one of the drawbacks of the legislation in con- nection with conciliation and arbitration was that it had a tendency to drive out of the ranks of the employés the aged, the unfit, and the infirm. The member for the Bay of Plenty was asking where these men would find employment if they could not find it in the ordinary ranks of industry, except from the Government of the colony ; but to say that by thisargument he in- tended to imply that the men in Government employment were infirm, aged, and untit was 