bentures-a form of borrowing money which 1, at any rate, think it is not at all desirable for the colony to enter into. Having expressed that general difference with the manner in which this Bill is proposed, I wish now to go to the form in which the Schedule provides that this money shall be appropriated, and I say that it is most objectionable that the whole sum for railways, namely, £600,000, should be put down without being allocated in any way to the respective lines for which it is voted. I cannot understand how the other branch of the Legislature, having the control of the public purse, has allowed any Government to be in the position of having to expend as it likes any portions of these moneys over any one line in the Schedule, because that is what it means. In my opinion, we are making de- partures, - important departures - from the practices of the past in most important par- ticulars. I think that, even in this Chamber, in proposing this Bill my honourable friend should have given us some information with regard to that very large item -- £400,000-for additional rolling-stock. My honourable friend should have told us how much of this money it was contemplated should be spent in the colony. We have during the last year sent away enormous sums for the purchase of rolling-stock. I do not blame the Government for having done so, because I think the pressure of our railway traffic required that rolling-stock should be pro- vided quickly ; and those of us who have taken https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 any trouble to inquire into those purchases by the colony have found out that some of the purchases-particularly the American carriages which have been brought here-were not at all satisfactory to the colony-that we have im- ported them at prices very much higher than the prices at which they could have been pro- duced here. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- It is like the horses. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- What I said about the horses was perfectly right, and what I am saying now is perfectly correct. My honour- able friend may not know so much about it as I do. But, as I have said, I do not blame the Government ; but I do say it is a matter for regret that they should have had to send away for these carriages, because they have cost hundreds of pounds each, more than they could have been purchased in the colony for. The honourable member may think it right to jeer at me when I say that, but I am telling him that which is correct, although he may not know it, but he ought to know it. But, Sir, what I do say, and what I began with, is that the . honourable gentleman might, in my opinion, have given us information. We are entitled to know something about how this $400,000 is going to be spent, and whether or not a large proportion of it is this year proposed to be spent in the colony, and in that way give employ- ment to our people. Surely we are entitled to such information. Sir, with regard to the other items again, the Bill deals with lump sums. I have nothing further to say. I only rose to tion should be contained in this Bill as to the manner in which the money is proposed to be raised, and the objects to which it is proposed to be applied. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, it is very curious that this question as to the form of the Bill is brought up to-night, because, except as regards the total amounts, the Bill of last year and the Acts of previous years have always been in exactly the same shape. The Hon. Mr. Ormond seems to think that it is a very great matter for regret that the railways should be lumped all together and a total sum of £600,000 should be placed as against so many railways. But that is exactly the same form as that in which these Bills have always come down. I doubt not if we could find time to look back we should find probably that this was an invention of the honourable gentleman's own when he was Minister for Public Works. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- No, no. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Oh, I think so. I believe he is responsible for a great deal, and that we have inherited it from him. That shows that there is nothing like putting an old poacher on to protect the game, because he knows all about it. But I can assure the Council that this Schedule is exactly on the same lines-as far as I know, precisely the same lines-that these Bills have always come down to us. It may be regrettable that the Hon. Mr. Ormond cannot have the opportunity of ex- pressing his opinion as to the particular rail- ways, and as to how the money is to be spent on them ; and I can quite sympathize with my honourable friend Mr. Jenkinson when he can- not find anything in this Schedule to show that there is anything being done towards straightening the line to the Hutt or softening the grades on the Rimutaka. But we cannot help these things. We have to pay for the sins of our fathers ; and the fathers of this Council, and the men who made the colony, no doubt, made mistakes. One of the big mistakes mado was the mistake of the Father of Wellington insisting on taking the railway over the Rimu- taka. That is a mistake we have to suffer from. But why this generation should pay for correcting it is another question. The Govern- ment would be only too glad to attend to these things, if it were possible, at the present moment ; but we have to provide additional rolling-stock to the extent of $400,000. Is it reasonable to suppose that for a mere com- parative luxury we can straighten a track like that ? The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- It is a neces- sity. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- No, it is not. I admit it is a very rough track, but still I do not say it is a necessity ; and we have got to put up with it, because every day, with an in- creasing traffic, we have to provide additional rolling-stock. Now, as regards the charge that the Hon. Mr. Ormond made against the Govern- ment of providing American cars, which he said have got to be converted at very large cost after they come to the colony, I have already said 