make bold to say that if the steamers had been coming to Wellington there would not have been so much opposition to a renewal of the contract by the Wellington members. The remarks made by the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher) about the Auckland people dreaming of the service, and waking up in a nightmare about it, are merely a figment of his diseased imagination. Then, the honour- able gentleman said that with the large ship- ping of this port, they had no time to think of it. Auckland is in a still better position. As pointed out by the Minister of Justice, the tonnage of the shipping at Auckland is larger than that in the Empire Port of Wellington, so that the matter of a mail-steamer more or less going to the port is not a matter to affect them to any extent. But it has been conclusively shown that a mail- service by this route is superior to anything we have ever had or anything we can have, because it is the shortest you can get. There is another reason : that you have the mails carried by rail for a longer distance by the San Francisco route than by any other, except the Vancouver, which takes a couple of days longer by sea, and until you get ships that can travel as quick on the sea as the train can upon land you can- not take mails as quickly by any route as you can by taking them through America. Now, I do not want to repeat what has been said, but I want to emphasize again that the return which is to be found on page xx. of the Postal Report clearly establishes this fact : that the differ- ence of time in favour of the Fr'isco service as against the Federal service, carried by the Peninsular and Oriental and Orient boats, is on an average about eight days, taking all the ports of the colony. It was contended by the mem- ber for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) that the Federal service could be shortened by having more direct connection with Australia. Now, I want to point out that the comparison which has been made in this table is between the times taken by the San Francisco boats in the year up to the 31st March last, and that it embraces about eight months when the old steamers were travelling; also that the con- tract time was then nineteen days, as against sixteen or seventeen under the new system. It also includes the first three or four months' running of the new boats, when the machinery, as we know, broke down, and some of the trips took a very long time. It is not possible by any system of connection with Australia to reduce the Federal service as given in that table to the same extent as the San Francisco service will be in the future-provided that the contention which is made, and which, I believe, is justifiable, that the boats are now in good running-order and able to keep to time-table date. It has been argued by several speakers that the question of time is not an element of any great importance in a mail-service. That is to me a new and most extraordinary proposi- tion. If that is correct, what is the use of our bothering at all about any mail-service? Let us pay the postal rate of 28. a pound on our mails, and let them come along either this Mr. Fowlds But surely the eight days between the thirty- four and twenty-six must be of more importance <!-- PageHeader="1" --> than the three or four days between the forty, the average time of the Federal mail-service, and the forty-five that we could get from a Direct service. If time is not an important element, let us take the cheapest mail-service we can get. Let us take sailing-vessels or anything that we can get most cheaply. and pay for the mails at so much per ton. It is a most ridiculous pro- position to make that every day in the trans- mission of mails between this country and Europe is not of the utmost importance. It means a saving in many respects-saving in the cost of exchanges, which are regulated to a considerable extent by the time taken in the transaction. Now take the question of cost. The figures submitted to us by the Post- master-General show conclusively that the Fr'isco mail is the cheapest service we can get. It is $3.000, at any rate, cheaper than the Federal service, even supposing we can get that on a population basis ; but, if we have to pay the rates we are paying at the present time, it would be more like £30,000 cheaper, while the Vancouver service, assuming it to be secured, would cost £5,000 more than the present service. Now, what is there to counterbalance these advantages of the San Francisco service being eight days quicker than the Federal, which is one of the alternatives, and five days less than any possible Vancouver service can be even if we get as fast boats on it as those that run to San Francisco? What are the disadvantages that are to be set against these advantages of shortness of time and less cost on the San Francisco service ? A good deal has been said about the American goods coming here, and I think the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) said something about this being the nation that was our bitterest oppo- nent. That was because Americans are coming into this country. Now, I never realised before that exchanges between nations made them bitter enemies. It seems to me that the more trade we have exchanging between two coun- tries the more friendly those two countries ought to be, and on that basis our relation- ship with the United States is considerably more favourable than it is to the Dominion of Canada. But, then, what we are seeking 1 is a mail-service, and, as I pointed out, there is no possible competitor, either in point of time or in cheapness, to the San Francisco ser- vice. The honourable member for Dunedin City also tried to make as much as possible of this question of Imperialism and patriotism, and tried to arouse a feeling against the people of the United States by referring to that cable the other day with reference to what was being 1 done in the Philippines. He tried to say it was the same that we were doing with the Boers in South Africa. This cable was to the effect that the cable concession to an English company had been terminated. Now, this was entirely different from what was done by the British to the Boers in South Africa, but it was identical with what was done by the British to the 