time to time as circumstances arise ; and when you bring in a scheme like that, that is broad, self-contained, and comprehensive, you will have no difficulty in meeting minor con. ditions and difficulties as they arise. Under such a scheme the first thing that 9.30. should be done would be to provide the means by which there would be a definite, direct, and immediate settlement of every in- terest in connection with Maori lands. All existing negotiations should be closed up within a fixed period, and only a certain time should be given for the completion of transactions as yet uncompleted. When that was done we could start with a clean sheet, and the Board which I have suggested would have a free hand in dealing with these matters. There is only one other point to which I wish to refer. A good deal of complaint has been made by the Maoris in connection with the prices paid by the Govern- ment for their land, and with this complaint I have every sympathy. I do not think for one moment that we as a race should, first of all, say that the Government should be the only buyer of Maori lands, and then buy it at prices that are ridiculously under the true value. At the same time it is absolutely necessary that there should be some profit. in connection with the handling of these lands to enable the Govern- ment to pay the expenses of administration ; and it should not be forgotten by the Maoris that these lands are not subject to taxation in the same way that European lands are. I think at the same time it would be right that some tribunal should be set up to which the Government would be amenable-just as Euro- peans buying land from Maoris are, as to price, amenable to the Land Court-which would arbitrate between the Maori owners and the Government Commissioner as to the price which was to be given. Some means surely can be adopted by the Government of this colony which will prove to the Maoris that, while making reasonable profit out of these lands, the Government does not desire to be unjust. An Hon. MEMBER .- Valuation. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It might be possible, as suggested by the honourable member, that the basis of purchase should be by valuation. It is with some diffidence I have ventured to place these remarks before the House on this subject, but my excuse has been the complaint that has been brought against South Island members not taking any interest in connection with Native affairs. I trust that from this time forward we of the South Island will take as keen an interest in this problem as our brethren from the North, and that the Maoris will be able to feel that when legislation affect- ing them comes on to the floor of the House it will not be left altogether in the hands of the northern members, but that the Parliament of New Zealand will devote its whole and united intellect for the purpose of doing justice to them, and helping what I believe is their destiny - namely, that they shall not be a diminishing race, but that they shall grow to be a power in New Zealand, rising higher Mr. G. W. Russell they stand on a level with their European brethren in every way. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - I only wish to make a very few remarks on this Bill, and I think it is necessary to do so in order to in- dicate my feeling in regard to what I believe is a very important measure indeed. My concep- tions in favour of the Bill are nil. I do not believe in it. I believe it will bring no good, but harm, to the Natives. In continuation of the statements which on previous occasions I have made on the floor of this House, I believe it will be the worst of the bad Native legislation that we have had from time to time in this House, and it will have the effect of placing the Natives in a worse position than they ever were. I do not agree with the honourable member who said that the Native legislation of this Chamber had been at the instance of members themselves. I believe that it has taken place almost entirely at the instance of the Govern- ment, moved perhaps to some extent by outside influence, and that influence has not always been of a disinterested character. Now, I was very much impressed at several of the speeches already made on this Bill, as showing how necessary it is that one should have an in- timate knowledge of a subject like this, or, rather, the knowledge of lengthened experience. and I shall confine my remarks on this subject to views of which I have personal knowledge. Now, the honourable member who sits behind me, the member for Clutha-a gentleman on whose judgment I have always felt reliance -- made a speech this afternoon, and, so far as 1 know, he never made a bad speech until this afternoon. I think, as perhaps do also those who know most about the subject, that he was somewhat astray simply because of his want of practical knowledge of the subject. In legis- lating for the Natives it is necessary to know all about their character, just the same as when legislating for ourselves regard must be had to the idiosyncracies of our race. What would be a gospel of help for the ryots of India or the fellarheen of Egypt would be altogether un- suitable for the British people, and in legis- lating for the Natives we are legislating for a people with a strong sense of possession and its rights. They have a great love of property. though they may be careless of it when they get it; but they have as strong desires for possession and acquisition as ourselves. And are you going to keep a race such as this for ever in the position of minors ? I know that one honourable member, Mr. Heke, the mem- ber for the Northern Maori District, who sits behind me, and who knows a great deal about the Maoris, seems to have large ideas of the benefits that will arise from this Bill ; but I would like to have him alone and catechise him and ask how far on the average you can trust & Maori in the manipulation of money and in the administration of positions of trust. Should the honourable member himself be trusted in the administration of a Maori Lands Bill by Natives? Is not my experience, and has not the experience of the honourable member him- 