pool to show the distance between the two places. Mr. HERRIES .- That only shows that the argument about distance does not affect the question at all. It is a question of the way the mails are taken, and very often in comparing two places the distance may be less ; but if the mails are not carried between these two points what is the use of counting the distance be- tween the two places? It seems to me that if last year 10s. 5d. was considered a reasonable . sum to give the Oceanic Steamship Company, we are treating them rather scurvily in only giving them 7s. 6d. now. It is true the Post- master-General said in his introductory remarks that, as business-men, we should only offer as little as we can; but when we know that com- pany has already refused £15,000, it seems to me it is grinding them down to the last ounce of flesh to offer them the same sum that they have already refused. And we know perfectly well they have refused 7s. 6d. too. Whether, on second thoughts, Mr. Spreckels will accept it if carried by the House remains to be seen, but I say the Government, by their offering a sum that has been already refused, have signified their intention practically of doing away with the San Francisco service. Mr. WILFORD .- All they get over £5,000 is profit. Mr. HERRIES .- The honourable gentleman may know all about the running of a steamship company. I dare say he has been well posted up, and we know where he has got his informa- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tion from, and we discount the value of his speeches to that extent-we take it with a grain of salt. But I think on this occasion that the spectacle will be seen of Government and Oppo- sition going into the same lobby, and I call the attention of honourable members to that, be- cause it shows what a proper thing it must be for the country if you find the leading men of the Government and of the Opposition going into the same lobby together. Therefore, when both sides of the House agree as to the good- mess of the San Francisco service, I think it does not come well from honourable members who sit on the cross benches to oppose it. It seems to me to have been proved conclu- sively that, at the present moment, the cheapest and best service from a mail point of view is the Fr'isco service. Of course, it has been said that we do not want fast services-that the cable obviates the necessity for fast mail- services ; but it has always been contended by business people and others that we should have a fast mail-service, and you get such a service by the Fr'isco route. The tables laid on the table of the House by the Postmaster- General show conclusively that the Fr'isco service is the fastest to any part of this colony. It has also been proved by official figures that the Fr'isco service is the cheapest service. Why, then, should we seek any other route? Of course, we have had the argument that the Fr'isco route is an American route. It seems to me that, instead of discouraging foreign steamships coming here, we should rather encourage them. We all know that the the Navigation Laws. Those are the same old laws which were abolished in England in the middle of the last century. Those laws, which we owe to Cromwell, created our mercantile marine and our navy, and I think it was a bad day for England when they were abolished. I think the Americans are doing the proper thing in retaining those laws. There is one question I would like to ask the Government, and that is why they put in sub- section (c), namely : "That in lieu of the fore- going payments a fixed annual subsidy of £20,000 be paid, provided that one British- owned steamer registered in New Zealand be employed in the service." It seems to me that that provision might have been struck out. I do not know what can have been the object in putting it in, because the Government knew perfectly well that it was impossible for Messrs. Spreckels or any one else to agree to it, and it seems to me that that provision is mere sur- plusage. The only reason that I can see for in- cluding it was to show that the Government had made a magnificent offer which they knew could not possibly be accepted. That is rather a characteristic trait of the Government. It seems to me that that subsection might just as well have been left out, unless the proviso was also struck out. If the proviso were struck out I should have been very glad to have supported the subsection. Now, we come to the Vancouver service, and I will ask what is the good of offering anything in respect of a Vancouver service ? The Government must know that that is an impossibility, be- cause the present Vancouver line, which is running under a contract with the Queensland Government, has still eighteen months of that contract to run. We know, on the other hand, that the arrangement with Messrs. Spreckels will expire next month. We shall want some- thing to take up the running directly the arrangement with Messrs. Spreckels finishes next month. What is the use, therefore, of putting in a clause in reference to the Van- couver service ? You cannot have a Vancouver service for eighteen months, and therefore there would be a year and a half during which we would have no mails by that route. The Post- master-General spoke about the connection between Fiji and Pango-Pango from Auckland. I would like to know if it is intended to enter into a contract with the Vancouver line by which we could only have a subsidiary steamer running from Auckland to Fiji ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I did not suggest any- thing of the kind. Mr. HERRIES .- That is the only way the Vancouver service could be made available if they are tied to Queensland for eighteen I must have misunderstood the months. honourable gentleman : but I understood him to say that a steamer would be sent from Auckland to make a connection with the Van. couver service at Fiji; and I say any service of that sort would be a retrograde step, because that would only mean that, instead of Auck- land being the port of call for mail-steamers, 