tion to terms I used-terms I often use-and terms that, I am glad to say, are used by others in this colony when mention is made of the grand old flag. Well, I was taught to respect it from my boyhood. I do respect that dear old flag. Sir, I will do my best, and I have always done my best, to uphold that grand old flag ; and because I apply that term to it the honourable member, in the refined language for which he is so noted, says it is a display of flunkeyism. He takes exception to my loyalty and terms of endearment. He says that my references to the dear old Mother-land and to our grand old flag are evidence of flunkeyism ; and that, perforce, I would point out, comes . from the honourable gentleman who a few minutes before had been boasting of his loyalty. Sir, the honourable member also told us about this criticism of the expenditure. The honour- able member's speech was a carefully prepared speech, and went far apart and away from finance ; and during that speech, as well as during the debate, what subject was brought up? That we refunded to His Excellency the Governor £300 remission of Customs duties paid by His Excellency-upon what ? Mr. HORNSBY .- I never referred to that. Mr. SEDDON .- It was referred to during the debate. Now, I say that when that vote was before the House, and the money was passed, was the proper time to say anything for or against it. Why should it be raked up now, and during the debate on the second reading of this Bill, unless for the purpose of discrediting His Excellency's advisers, and His Excellency https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Governor, the King's representative in this colony ? The refund, principally, was upon articles which, I believe, were articles of silver, belonging to His Excellency. They were to be used during his term of office in this colony, and it is not unusual that silver that is to be used for the service of this colony should be allowed to come in duty free. We allow the Admiral, and the captains of His Majesty's warships that come to these shores, to import similar articles duty free. In such cases the Customs duties are not collectable ; in other words, these officers take anything they like out of bond without paying duties at all, and it was not at that time, and in respect to the goods upon which duty had been paid, unreason- able to put His Excellency the Governor on the same footing. I say, Sir, that there was no justification at all for raking that matter up on this measure. Then, again, the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), or some other member-I probably had better not mention names-referred to the question of a vote of £1,000, another vote taken, they stated, in con- nection with His Excellency. But what was that for ? That was for furnishing the additions and alterations to the Government Houses at Auck- land and Wellington. It had nothing whatever to do with His Excellency : and yet that was dragged into the debate. And then the $2,000, the $300, and the $1,000 were added to the $7,000 of salary, and the member for Wairarapa stands up here in the House and says, "There Mr. Seddon going to pass this money." I say that the increased salary given to His Excellency the Governor was not passed last year because we knew there would be extra expense in connec- tion with the Royal visit. Why should that be brought up now ? The Governor's Salary and Allowances Act was passed because we con- sidered that the expense now entailed upon the King's representative is greater than it was in years gone by, and because the country can better pay it now than it could at the time when Sir Harry Atkinson reduced the salary from £7,000 to £5,000. We are only restoring it to what it stood at before. Again, I ask the question of those loyal subjects of His Majesty who are brimming over with loyalty to-night, Why do they bring that up now, and why do they object to a refund of the £2,250 reimburse- ments and expenses to the King's representa- tive? There is no answer to it. Now, 1 must have a little chaff with my friend the member for Wairarapa. I think he is taking things a little too serious. The honourable gentleman the other night, when I made the statement that he has criticized-that the views held by him were not in accordance with those of the good people of Wairarapa -- he questioned my statement, and he challenged me to go up to the Wairarapa. I said I would oblige him. I have always had a hearty reception from the good folks of the Wairarapa, and I undertake to say, whenever I go there-whether it is to meet the honourable gentleman or on any other occasion - I shall receive a hearty and cordial welcome, even from those who differ from me. They are always glad to see me and give me a welcome. Now, the honourable gentleman has challenged me again. He has challenged me to go on the platform with him. Sir, I have to be careful of the company I keep, and with whom I go upon the platform. We have been on the platform before together. Now, Sir, it takes two to make a quarrel. The honourable member was very much excited the other night, and he has not yet settled down to his normal condition. When he has assumed a normal condition, if he then invites me to go to the Wairarapa, I will consider it. Members might have noticed that I almost turned pale when he said that if I went up there and the result was that the meeting decided that the honourable member was in error, he would tender his resignation. Mr. HORNSBY .- The very next day. Mr. SEDDON .- Is that not a very good reason why I should not go ? Mr. Buchanan's friends would attend and pack the meeting, and there would, of course, be some of my friends who would like to see the Liberal leader upheld in his position, and that com- bination would carry a resolution to the effect that the honourable member's views were not in accordance with those of the people of the Wairarapa. He would tender his resignation, and then, of course, we should have Mr. Buchanan coming back into the House. Well, I am not going to do anything to promote Mr. Buchanan's coming back. I had quite enough of him when he was here ; 