lack of information from New Zealand. One witness-Mr. Nash-for instance, says, " I have no data as to the value of New Zealand pro- perty which would be transferred, and I have taken it roughly at nearly $2,500,000." The return would not be an expensive one, and it had been ordered by the House two years ago. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, At the time the honourable member moved for this return there was probably existing a better feeling than existed to-day, and that, whatever possi- bilities there might have been previously, the action of the Commonwealth as far as this colony was concerned was calculated to widen the gap, and render impossible what might have been conceivable at a reasonable time. At all events, the returns were all in now except the one from the Defence Department, and as soon as he got that return he would lay it on the table, as ordered by the House. . Mr. HERRIES .- This session ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. # MORRIS TUBES. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence, If the Government will provide Morris tubes equipment for Volunteers in order to encourage shooting during winter months ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the Commandant stated that he could not re- commend that the Government should provide https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 these for issue to corps free of cost, but that he was of opinion that they might with ad- vantage be purchased out of corps funds, and that the Government should import some. / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero They had now on order for sale to Volunteer corps 250 tubes for .303 rifles, 50 tubes for carbines (.303), and 250,000 rounds of ammuni- tion for them. RIFLES FOR RIFLE CLUBS. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Defence, If he has any objection to inform the House,-(1) What is the price charged to members of rifle clubs for Martini-Henry and Martini - Enfield rifles respectively ; and (2) whether arrangements will be made in the im- mediate future to replace the Martini-Henry rifles with up to date weapons on the differ- ence betwixt the value of the old and the cost of the new weapons being paid by the member of the club receiving the same? He had been requested to speak about this mat- ter, because the rifle clubs of the colony, who regarded themselves as perhaps the most important part of the defence preparations of the colony, thought they should be en- abled to practise with the very best wea- pons. They thought it unreasonable that they should be practising with a weapon that would be useless in the case of actual warfare, and they claimed that they ought to be practising with the actual weapon which they would have to use in the event of their having to fight. With regard to the second part of the question, Mr. Herries know whether the Government would facilitate them in changing for the best weapons by the means indicated in the question. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said that no Martini-Henry rifles were sold to rifle clubs. The price of the Martini-Enfield rifles sold to rifle clubs, complete with bayonets and scab- bards, was £2 5s. 9d. There were not any Martini-Henry rifles to replace. Mr. MONK asked if he was to understand that no Martini- Henrys were being supplied, but that they were Martini-Enfields only. Mr. SEDDON said, That was so. # FOREST PLANTING. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, Whether they will, in order to en- courage the planting of useful timbers, exempt from taxation lands so used? He recognised that the Government were spending a great deal of money for the purpose of reforesting a large portion of this colony, and in 1871 and 1872 the Forest Encouragements Act was passed for the encouragement of planting private pro- perties. That gave two acres for one ; but the weakness of it was that the planted land was not always continued as a forest. It seemed to him that if there was country that was no use for any other purpose, and the people devoted it for the planting of real good forest-trees, the Government might favourably consider the propriety of freeing such land from taxation. This idea had emanated from a miner in that intellectual district called Waihemo, and, judging from the remarks the Premier had made this afternoon about miners, he was sure that this suggestion would commend itself to him. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, As the honour- able member was aware, the Forest Act passed during the Vogel Ministry made provision in this direction. We were doing very little, and were injuring posterity and their prospects by denuding our forests of timber, and not plant- ing. It was one of the most serious mistakes they could make, and there ought to be more trec-planting. Vast tracts of country were fit for very little else, and if planted now would in years to come meet requirements. He thought they should set apart lands for the purpose, and have a well-organized department to deal with the question. As to private enterprise stepping in, there was, he thought, not much to be done in that respect. In the past where assistance had been given to private enterprise the money had been wasted. If this were applied to Cen- tral Otago there would be self-preservation, as owing to climatic and other conditions there was a necessity for planting. He did not know whether exemption from taxation would be a sufficient inducement, but it was worth looking into, if for the sake of the land-tax people could be induced to plant trees. The planting of trees would be more valuable than the amount of the tax. He would consider the matter favourably. 