merry as a marriage bell. An Hon. MEMBER .- Bring down a Bill to do that. Mr. SEDDON .- Once you have a Bill you will have a big job. It is not so easy as it looks at the outset. The amount involved is trivial, even supposing there is no alteration in the law at all. It may cost a little more; but the amount involved is so trivial and the benefit is so great, to think that every man can work with the satisfaction of feeling that, in carrying out his occupation, if anything happens he is not going to be thrown on the storekeeper, or if he meets with a fatal accident his wife and family will not be cast on charity. Take the benefits compared with the cost and it is much better for matters to remain as they are. Coming back to the Bill, I may say I take this opportunity of saying that the Labour Bills Committee are entitled to the best thanks of the members for the work they did in connec- tion with the measure. I also say, although the Bill came down, there were two points in- volved which created considerable alarm, and yet in respect to one or two of those points when the Bill left the Labour Bills Committee, there were contradictory clauses. One clause carried out what I am quite sure now the Labour Bills Committee never intended-that is, in respect to holidays. That, I believe, was a pure inadvertence. Then, in respect to taking out the words "women " or "youth " and putting in the word "person," that was a material alteration which I felt grieved about, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 because it was done without authority, and it created a feeling which at one time jeopardized the measure. There were one or two other alterations introduced in the Bill, but we must take it that the Law Draftsman, having a legally trained mind, did not consider those alterations quite so serious as they may have appeared to us. However, the Bill as it now stands is one which I think will redound to our credit as a Parliament, and to the credit of our colony. We have here, practically for the first time, passed an Eight Hours Bill. We say now, in this Bill, that forty-eight hours shall be a week's work for all workers under the measure, and they constitute three-fourths of the workers of the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- It does not include the Government workers. Mr. SEDDON .- It is practically fixed in ro- gard to them. At all events, we have here fixed the forty-eight hours a week, or eight hours a day, and in that I think we are in advance of any other Legislature, except as applied to mines ; because in one of the other colonies there is legislation extending the same advantages to miners. But the same might be said to apply to our mines. However, there is something better still than that, and it is that we have gone back, so far as women and children are concerned, to the forty-five hours a week. We have gone back to the Act of 1894, and, I am sorry to say, some of the manufacturers, some of those connected with the industries, are still protesting and demanding that women and Mr. Seddon same as men. Sir, it must be admitted that the principle of lengthened hours for women and children was a mistake. It was done inad- vertently, and had the effect of the clause been seen at the time it never would have been passed. However, I hope we shall stand by what we have passed now, and that the result will be most beneficial. Now, we have been told that our factory laws and labour laws have detri- mentally affected the manufactures of the coun- try and the industries of the country. I em- phatically say that the statistics and other information in the possession of the Govern- ment prove quite the contrary. First of all, you have in five years the number of factory hands increased from twenty-five thousand to over fifty thousand. That is an increase of 100 per cent. That does not look very much like labour legislation being against the best interests of the industries of the colony. Then, I am told to look at the imports and the Customs returns. Well, I go to my Customs, and what do I find ? I find, com- paring the year 1900 with 1901, in spirits there has been an increase of £23,000 ; in cigars, an increase of £5,000 ; cigarettes, an increase of £4,000; tobacco, an increase of £15,000; sugar, an increase of £4,000; and in parcels-post, an increase of £4,000 : a total in- crease of £49,000. An Hon. MEMBER. - How is the balance made up ? Mr. SEDDON .- Under the ad valorem. Now, I come to the tariff raised under ad valorem, and I find that the principal in- creases are on the luxuries. The lower-priced goods which are used by workers, boots which are used by workers and their wives and child- ren-there is but little increase on them ; but when I come to the French and American-to the finer boots-there I find a large increase, showing me clearly that we are not falling back, but that owing to the spending power of the people being materially increased, and to the general prosperity, the principal increase has been upon the higher ad valorem dutiable goods of the better class. Under these circumstances, it cannot reasonably be contended that by the increased volume of these imports there I say is a falling off in our industries. that advisedly to the members of the House. Look at the position of the employers to-day ; look at the capital they have at the present time invested in these industries. Take most of these factories at the time there was no labour legislation-a few years ago-and find out the mortgages that then existed and the mortgages that exist to-day. In fact, they are non-existent. Whilst we admit that the con- dition of the workers is materially improved, contrast that improvement with that of the employers, and I say it is in favour of the em- ployers and capitalists. That, Sir, is the posi- tion. I look further, and I say that one of the grandest, one of the best, and one of the noblest works we can be engaged upon is to improve the condition of all. Take the settlers ten years ago. I could go to the very district 