portunity of asking it sooner. He might state that in December last he visited the Deaf and Dumb Institution at Sumner, situated about eight miles from Christchurch. He found the buildings were old and unsuited for the accom- modation of the forty-eight deaf and dumb children who resided in that institution ; one building, known as Beach Glen, containing twenty-six boys, whose ages ran from eight to sixteen. These boys, with one exception, slept on the upper story of the house. On inquiry he ascertained that one female attendant slept on the upper story, also Mr. and Mrs. Buttle. The boys occupied several rooms, and as many as from three to six of these lads were in each room. He wrote to the Minister of Education early in this year, pointing out to him that in the event of a fire breaking out in that building it would be utterly impossible to save the lives of these children. The result of his representa- tions to the Minister was that some additional fire-escapes were provided. He again visited the institution on the 29th June, just before he came up to Wellington to attend the session. He now desired to impress the fact on the Minister, and also on the House, that he was of opinion that, in the event of a fire originating in the building known as Beach Glen-a build- ing which had been erected for about thirty vears-it would be utterly impossible, even if men were residing on the premises, to rescue these boys; and even if there were half a dozen men sleeping in the upper story on the place, and if they were to discover the fire imme- diately after it commenced, even then it would be utterly impossible to rescue the whole of these lads, as they could neither hear nor speak, and each lad would have to be aroused and carried out of the building. They all knew that when a fire broke out in a wooden building it was only a matter of five or six minutes until the building was gutted. He had had ex- perience in that matter a month or two before he came up to Parliament, and therefore he could speak with some knowledge of the circum- stances : and if ordinary persons, in the posses- sion of all their faculties, found it difficult, in the event of a fire, to escape from a wooden building, he thought it was utterly impossible for these children to escape under the circum- stances. The girls, to the number of about twenty-two, were kept in another building other than Beach Glen. They slept on the ground floor. There should not be much difficulty in enabling them to escape in case of fire. Still, there would be a difficulty, as it was a very old building. As the question of erecting a new fireproof building had been under the notice of the Minister for some time, his object was to urge that steps should be taken by the Govern- ment at once to provide a suitable building for the accommodation of the children. Last ses- sion $2,000 was put on the estimates to enlarge the site, and €1,500 was placed on the estimates for a new building; but when he visited the place on the 29th of June last he found an addition of ten acres to the site had been pur- Mr. Meredith building was that two stakes had been driven by the Inspector-General, marking the site for a new building, when the Inspector of Schools visited the institution nine months ago. He had no fault to find with Mr. Van Asch and his as- sistants ; he was a most efficient and competent officer, and his assistants were doing good work, and Mr. and Mrs. Buttle were well qualified for their position. This was a public institution containing some forty - eight deaf and dumb children ; and he hoped the Minister would be able to give him a favourable reply. He might remind the Minister, if the honourable gentle- man were not already in possession of the facts, that some twelve years ago Mr. Van Asch was called on by the Government to report on the suitability or otherwise of the present site for new buildings, and he reported against the erection of a new and permanent building on that site, recommending that the institution should be brought nearer to Christchurch, so that the boys might have the advantage of technical training, and of learning trades by means of which they might earn an honest livelihood for themselves. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, Dealing with the latter part of the honourable gentleman's question as to this re- commendation from Mr. Van Asch, he had no hesitation in saying that that recommendation could never have been adopted, and any one who knew the site recommended by that gentle- man would recognise that it was altogether un- suitable for the purposes of such an institution. There were many advantages in favour of the site at Sumner. Now, the honourable member, if he was there recently, must have noticed that great improvements had taken place as regarded the means of escape in case of fire. Previously the building was rented, but since it had been purchased by the colony great im- provements had been made to provide means of escape in case of fire, and there had been but little cause for complaint. In regard to the girls' quarters, the rooms were all on the ground floor, and though formerly the windows were fixed windows, and there were no means of escape except by the doorway, now all these windows were made to open, and all a child would have to do in case of fire was to step out through the window on to the ground outside. Then, in the boys' quarters there were no less than four escapes through different parts of the building, all independent and apart from each other. Then, there was this important fact : that each attendant, both in the case of boys and girls, had only at most three children to look after in the case of a fire. One of the matters which had been carefully attended to at this institution was to provide that each attendant would know what children he had to look after, and the best means of exit, so that the danger was reduced to a minimum. He admitted that some parts of this building were old, but it was only recently that the site had been purchased, and the cost of that site had come to a fairly large sum. Last 