they will remove some existing difficulties. When one accepts amendments in a proper spirit, and with a desire to perfect our legis- lation, it is too bad for the honourable member to use the terms and language complained of. That will force me almost, when I am in the chair again, to ask the honourable member whether he is serious in requesting me to accept amendments, or if, after I have ac- cepted his amendment, he then tells me that had he been in my place he would have done nothing of the kind. Probably the honourable member thought to place it on record, so that if hereafter, in the working of the Act, some of these amendments should cause confusion, he has safeguarded himself by saying that he told the Premier on the third reading what the result of accepting these amendments would be. Now, Sir, as the Bill was passing through Com- mittee there was a difference of opinion as to the applicability of the law-as to whether it applied to those engaged in agricultural and pastoral pursuits. My own view of the wording of the Act of last session was that those engaged in working on farms did not come within the definition of "worker in any industry." I did not think that it either was intended to or did apply to them. Well, that is the opinion I hold. I have been reminded this evening of what I said before, and, so far as I can gather, I was of the same opinion then as I am now. But I then said, and I say again, if the Court gives a liberal interpretation, it is not for me to find fault with that interpretation. I am satis- fied myself that in the working of it, and sup- posing that it does apply, those employing servants -the farmers or those connected with the industrial disputes - would meet them http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero equally fairly and liberally as other employers have met their servants. But there are dif- ficulties in the way, in my opinion, in respect to both the agricultural and pastoral industries that do not exist in respect to those engaged in the other industries of the colony. At all events, we have made it clear now, and, after what has taken place in striking out the words "in any industry," we have made the Bill apply gene- rally. I think we have widened its operation by what we have done to-night. I shall watch with interest the result, and I trust the result may be for the good of both employers and employed, and I hope I shall not be later on reviled because, after carefully considering and listening to the debate that took place to-night, I came to the conclusion not to limit, but if possible to widen, the application. That is why I accepted the amendment proposed by the member for Christchurch City (Mr. G. J. Smith). Then, with regard to the amend- ment carried on the motion of the member for Wanganui, (Mr. Willis), I am afraid, Sir, that on reflection there will be a change of opinion in the minds of honourable gentlemen. I do not think that, because it has been alleged the working of one Conciliation Board has been unsatisfactory, we should have endeavoured to wipe out practically the Conciliation Boards of the colony. Mr. PIRANI .- That will not be the effect. Mr. Seddon Mr. SEDDON .- I am afraid that will be the effect of Mr. Willis's amendment, and, if so, I shall regret it, because it will mean that the industrial unions, who elect a mem- ber of the Conciliation Board in each case, will believe the employers flout them by taking cases beyond the Conciliation Board to the Court. In the first instance. it is bound to cause a feeling of friction, in my opinion, with the workers. The result of it will be, I fear, that their interest will wane as regards con- ciliation, because you must carry with you as you go along the moral support of those in- terested-the workers-you must carry them with you, and get them to recognise they have had fair play, and that in what has been done they have been consulted, and that justice has been done to them. If, on the contrary, they take the bit in their teeth and say they have not been treated fairly, but have been taken at once to the Court, and have not first had the opportunity of conference with their employers, and consequently of an ex- planation before the Conciliation Board-which was the tribunal set up for that purpose-and that they have been forced to the Court, in my opinion, it will create a feeling of resentment, and that moral force which must be behind, and which is essential to and of paramount importance to the working of the Act will be interfered with by what has been done. I still think it would have been wiser, if there was to be a change at all, that both parties should consent before any dispute could be taken beyond the Conciliation Board to the Arbitra- tion Court, because if they ignored the Con- ciliation Board, and take the cases to the Arbitration Court, it will cause a revulsion of feeling that will be against the good working of the law. I shall hope that that may not be the case. It would be better, in my opinion, to do away with the Boards altogether than to take the course the majority of the Committee thought fit to take this evening. However, there is still time for that to be considered. I fear the fault is more with the administra- tion of the Act by some of the Boards than with the system. I wish, in conclusion, to say this: It is with regret I notice that a number of people in the colony, the moment when one has the courage to point out a defect, or call attention to a condition of things which is unsatisfactory-Parliament having done its work well, and the law working well with the exception of one or two cases, where there was a necessity for plain speaking - such people spread misleading statements. I re- peat, I have never stated the labour laws passed were injurious. I have never seen the Act used against the employers for the benefit of the employés; nor have I seen it used to the de- triment of the workers. There have been mistakes made in its administration, and immediately they have been pointed out com. munications have been sent away from the colony, north, south, east, and west, by those who are eager to grasp anything that would cast a reflection upon our legislation affecting labour, and it has been distorted and 