law in existence, and that the mere inclusion of woollen-mills in it did not alter what was the existing law. That was the sole desire he had in asking to be present on the Conference. He thought, from what he had learned privately, that the Bill would have a very poor chance of passing, and he was therefore glad to see that the Managers appointed had succeeded in over- coming any difficulty, and he heartily congra- tulated them on the fact that as a result of their labours there was a very substantial benefit achieved, and an improvement made on the present law. The Hon. Mr. BOLT thought the Council would generally agree that the report was a satisfactory one, and that the Managers had been able to settle what was a very knotty question on a basis which he believed would meet the wishes of both parties. He rose at the present time merely to state that when the Bill was in Committee he received a telegram from the Workers' Union in Kaiapoi, stating that four hundred workers were in favour of the forty-five hours per week. From information he had received, which he believed to be from a reliable source, he made a statement to the effect that there were only a hundred and fifty workers in the mill which would be affected by the forty-five hours' clause, and that, conse- quently, the telegram was to some extent mis- leading ; but he had since learned that that statement was incorrect. He found, by com- municating with the mills, that there were actually 265 persons affected by this clause. He thought, however, that the Kaiapoi people, as well as those connected with the other woollen-mills in the colony, would be fully satis- fied with the result arrived at by the Managers of the Conference. The Hon. Mr. LEE SMITH said the only thing he regretted about the Bill was that the Council had given way on the question that woollen-mills alone should be affected by this clause. As he had observed before, there were a number of industries in exactly the same position as the woollen-mills, and he did not see why the same consideration should not be given to them as in the case of the woollen- mills. The Hon. Mr. JONES wished to say a few words in order to explain exactly how matters stood now in regard to one or two clauses. The woollen-mills clause, as it was introduced into the Council, applied to boys and women who worked forty-eight hours a week. As the clause was now amended a concession had been made so that only women over eighteen and boys over sixteen could work the forty-eight hours ; boys under sixteen and women under eighteen could work only the forty-five hours. That seemed to him to be a very fair concession, and the advantage of the measure was that in all other factories where young people were engaged, forty-five hours a week only would be worked by them. In all other important re- spects the measure was left as it passed the Council, and he thought that they might con- gratulate themselves that the measure was passing as it stood now, after having had such a stormy passage through the Legislature. He felt that it would be a benefit to all concerned, both employers and workers. Report agreed to. TIMBER EXPORT BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I hope the Council will not look upon this Bill as in any shape or form a Bill which we have brought in by way of reprisal against the Com- monwealth. It is quite unnecessary for us to go in for reprisals, because I think we can stand on our own bottom as well as the Commonwealth. But at the same time we have to protect our own industries, and we do not want timber which has got a world-wide value for certain purposes to be taken from our shores for the propping-up of the sawmilling industry on the other side when we would very much prefer that that timber should go away from us in the condition of sawn timber. ' That is all we want, and we do not ask the Council to pass this Bill through in a form which means that it has absolutely to come into force to-mor- row. All we ask is that power shall be given to the Governor in Council, if necessary, to give effect to this Bill, after we have seen what the Commonwealth Parliament do in re- gard to their tariff, in order to protect our saw- millers. We are perfectly willing to sell them our timber, but we say, "If you want our timber for butter-boxes you must allow us to saw it, and to pay our own men for the work, and you can get it in the shape of butter-box planks, otherwise we shall put this tariff on to it." That is the whole aim and object of the Bill. We do not want any one to look upon it in any shape or form as in the manner of a reprisal. It is simply for our own protection and the protection of our own sawmillers that we ask that Parliament shall allow this duty to be imposed, if necessary, because we do not know yet what the Commonwealth Parliament will do in reference to these duties. All we want is power to put the duty on timber in order to protect our sawmillers, and I therefore beg to move the second reading of this Bill. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I think this Bill is rather peculiar in its mode of drafting, con- sidering it is a Tariff Bill ; still, I recognise the difficulty the Government is in, and, under the circumstances, I consider they are fully justified in bringing in legislation in this direction-in putting an export duty on log timber. With regard to native raw material being taxed in this direction, I might say it is done all over the world where any country has a practical monopoly of any natural product, and an ex- port duty is levied in order to get a revenue from it, which the consumers of the raw mate- rial pay. This has been done with regard to nitrate of soda, which is a monopoly of Chili ; and also an export duty is put on guano, which is a special product of certain South American States. With regard to this timber duty, it is justifiable in this sense : that we have got the only timber that I know of that is admittedly the best for manufacturing butter-boxes, be- 