Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). On the subject of the Fr'isco service, I wish to say that the whole -question, as far as I am concerned, does not interest me as some people might think it would, because it is not of interest to my district to any extent at all. I want to look at the matter not from a local point of view, but from a ·colonial point of view. I do not want to say anything injudicious, and I hope I shall not. Now, regarding the question from a colonial point of view, there are two points that stand out to me, and I think they should weigh with the House if members leave out all the local feeling and ask for what is best in the interests of the colony. It appears to me this Fr'isco line is cheaper, and that it is shorter, which are two points that we require in a mail-ser- vice, and to induce tourists to come to the colony. There was an objection raised, and it appears to me it is the principal objection that has been brought forward, and that is that the San Francisco service is a foreign service. No one regrets that more than I do. But, Sir, when that foreign service was assisted by one of the Union boats the objection was not raised ; and, as it was not raised in the past, I do not see why it should be raised now simply because the Union boat is not in the running. I regret very much that the Union boat is not in the running, and it seems to me that if that boat had not been excluded the objection would not have been brought forward. That is my feeling on the matter. The objection, however, is that we have not one of our https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 own boats in the line. Now, when it comes to the Vancouver service, what is the position? The Vancouver service will have to be run by an Australian company, and I would sooner http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero have an American than an Australian company. I think the Americans will be better friends to us than the Australians, judging from the way the Australians have been behaving to us lately. What did they do ? They said, " We are going in for Federation and you will be made to join us, and if you do not you are our enemies." They would not allow us a free decision ; and because we did not do what they wanted they have become hostile to us, and they have put on a tariff-not a commercial tariff, but a tariff excluding us from having anything to do with them. Is it likely that I should be more anxious to have a Federal company than to have an American company ? If we are going to have a service, I hope it will be with the Union Company or some other New Zealand com- pany, not with the A. U.S.N. Company, the Huddart-Parker Company, or any of them, but that it will be with our own companies. Then, with regard to the objection about foreigners, I hardly look upon the Americans as foreigners. But let us look at what other countries are doing. Take Australia, where we are going to send our mails if we do not get this service. What does Australia do? It sends its mails by German routes-by foreign German vessels, the German Lloyds, with a subvention from the German Government. It also sends them by the Mes- sageries line-French vessels, which are also Mr. Palmer ment. What are they doing in that? They are practically paying money to maintain foreign cruisers. I fail to see the difference between paying a subsidy and encouraging foreign boats to come here to Australasia and paying them for cargo-using German boats to bring German goods here to compete against the British because they are cheaper. There- fore I fail to see the force of the argument when it is applied to the San Francisco service, because we shall have foreign companies coming here as long as this is allowed. Now let us look at one more phase of this question. In sending mails by the Federal route-that is, by the P. and O. Company and the Orient Company-what are we doing? Why, the P. and O. Company are a company that I would call " sweaters." They have been for years and years the enemies of the British seamen. They have Lascar crews, and the British seamen have been fighting the company for years and years and years. And that is the company they ask us, a New Zealand Parliament, who boast of our labour legislation and our labour mem- bers, to give subsidies to help this company that has done its utmost to run down the British sailor. You may laugh, but if you had been in Sydney, as I have been, you would have seen the sailors down at Circular Quay trying to get work on these boats; and when these British sailors applied they were not good enough, they could not be taken because there were Lascar crews in the boats. The Lascars were taken because they were cheap. And we are asked to support Lascar crews. Now, I will never do that. If you are going to send away from New Zealand the San Francisco ser- vice what will be the result? I cannot see how any one who is a conscientious labour representative can be in favour of a company that will do away with British labour in favour of Asiatic. And yet, because it is said we might have our mails carried for 2s. a pound, we are to encourage the employment of Lascars. It is true that lately the Australian Governments have seen the iniquity of this, and there has been a resolution passed that they will not send their mails with steamers that employ Lascar crews. But what security have we, if \- we do away with the San Francisco service and hand ourselves over to the Australian Government-to the tender mercies of those who are against us-what security have we that they will not go back to the old system of having Lascar crews, and of doing that which is opposed to all Liberal legislation-encouraging a company which has ground down the British Sir, I have my feelings. I have seaman ? been over there, and I have seen the Lascars there, and the British seamen out of employ- ment. Of course, that was some years ago, and the conditions may have altered since then ; but I have told you what I have seen, and I regret it extremely. And I cannot possibly have the feeling for this Federal line that I would have perhaps had if I had not been aware of these things. I hope to be consistent in whatever I do, and it would not be consistent 