amendment he had promised in the Act, would be given effect to this session. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the matter was under consideration, but it was a difficult thing to deal with. There were Crown tenants of different grades, and the conditions were so varied that it was very difficult to frame a measure that would be fair to all concerned. Some of the Crown tenants were paying 5 per cent. and some were paying only 24 per cent. Mr. SYMES asked, Were they mixed in Canterbury ? Mr. DUNCAN said, Yes, they were mixed in Canterbury and everywhere. The Crown tenants under some clauses of the Land Act paid as rent at the rate of 5 per cent. on the valuation ; the tenants under other clauses only paid 2} per cent. For the small grazing-runs the rent was only 2} per cent. Generally tho Crown lessee in the large runs had to pay 2} per cent. on the valuation, and considered they were dear enough at that. Under the Land for Settlements Act it was 5 per cent. Mr. SYMES said it was all the same in his district. Mr. DUNCAN said, That was so. They did not understand their work, or did not perform it satisfactorily. However, it was not easy to get an Act that would work fairly all round, and, if any defects were now being complained of, no doubt an attempt would be made to put them right this session. STATE NURSERY FOR FOREST-TREES. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Govern- ment, Whether it is proposed to establish State nursery for forest-trees in this part of the colony ; and, if so, why the season for commencing operations has been allowed to pass without any steps being taken? He anticipated an affirmative reply to the first part of the question. He believed it was the intention and the wish of the Government to establish a State nursery for forest trees in the Wellington District, but apparently very little progress had been made. If he was correctly informed, the Trentham Estate, in the neigh- bourhood of the Upper Hutt, had been acquired by the Defence Department. Now, on that estate there was sufficient land, apart from the portion that was required for defence purposes, to provide for a State nursery. A considerable time ago the land was examined, and, he believed, was pronounced in every way suitable, being a nice level flat convenient to the railway, handy to the City of Welling- ton, where suitable labour could be secured, and in every way eligible for the purpose. But, notwithstanding the efforts of the Agri- cultural Department to secure some twenty or thirty acres of the estate for this desir- able purpose, it appeared that they had been bailled up to the present time. It was the case, apparently, of one department of the Govern- ment obstructing another extremely useful de- partment. The reason he put the question was that during the season he had had inquiries from settlers in his district for forest-trees, He thought, for such a purpose as that, the State should not have allowed the season to pass away without acquiring land of a suitable character for the nursery. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) would be able to satisfy the honourable gentleman that they had done their best to get this nursery commenced, and he might tell him that he thought they had now come to a point which warranted him in saying it would be done im- mediately, and that they would still be in time for the season to start this nursery. MAURICEVILLE LIME-WORKS. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether his department has been offered certain valuable lime-works at Maurice- ville ; and, if so, what steps are proposed to be taken to give the farmers and graziers of the North Island the same facilities as are now provided in the South Island for obtaining lime for agricultural purposes on advantageous or reasonable terms? This was also a question of considerable importance to our farmers. He understood the State had a lime-kiln in opera- tion in the South Island, and he would like to see a similar institution for the special benefit of our farmers in the North Island, particularly in the district that he represented. Representa- tions had been made by other members that there were deposits of valuable lime in the Forty- mile Bush ; but there was no need for prospect- ing. There were quarries at Mauriceville that had been in operation for many years, and were .not likely to be exhausted during the next cen- tury. The lime had been tested and found to be of first-class quality for agricultural pur- poses ; but, unfortunately, the owner of the principal quarry was a man well up in years, and hardly in a position to carry on a business of the kind, as he was suffering from want of capital, and, so far as the State was concerned, instead of receiving the slightest assistance he met with rebuffs on every hand. The limestone quarry was within a chain or two of the rail- way, and the owner had applied repeatedly to get a siding put in by the Railway Department; but he was told unless he could pay down £250 cash for this siding the Railway Depart- ment would not undertake the work. He was willing to pay down £60, and the rest within ten years, with interest added, but the Railway Department refused these terms, and the result was that, although his lime- kilns were almost alongside the railway, the lime received several handlings, and had to be packed in bags before it could be put on the railway-trucks to be taken away. If iron trucks were provided, as in the South Island, and if the farmers had the same facilities for getting lime as they had down south, it could be supplied from the Mauriceville quarries at from 25 to 33} per cent. under existing rates. He was assured that the State would be able to reduce it from 23s. per ton to about 14s. per ton. He thought, seeing the Railway Department could not see its way to assist this industry by furnishing appli- ances that would help our farmers to get lime 