he was sorry that the honourable gentleman should feel that any discourtesy had been shown to him in connection with the opening of this line. He could assure the honourable gentle- man that his visit to Whangarei was an exceed- ingly pleasant one. It was an excellent dis- trict. and the development of the railway traffic there would contribute towards the prosperity of that part of the colony ; and by-and-by, when the line was continued at the Kawakawa end, the honourable gentleman and his friends in that part of the district would be able to per- suade him that the extension of the line would he a good thing, and would be in the interests of the country as a whole. He regretted that the honourable member should have been left out of the ceremony, the arrangements for which he might say he did not control in any way whatever. It would have been better if the honourable member had been present. He might say in reference to the other part of the question, that the Cabinet went into the matter and brought that broad intelligence to bear upon it which members of the Ministry were so capable of doing, and they came to the con- clusion that the decision they arrived at would be the best thing in the interests of the country as a whole, and they then gave effect to their decision, and he believed it was a right one. # SOUTHBROOK GOODS-SHED. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will favourably consider the erection of a goods-shed at Southbrook, in order https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to provide shelter for the large and increasing quantity of produce railed from that station, when wagons are not available ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the traffic from Southbrook was insufficient to justify the expenditure suggested. There were many other stations in the colony which were not provided with shed accommodation. SAN FRANCISCO MAIL-SERVICE. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Postmaster-General,-(1.) Whether any offer has been made, "subject to ratification by Parliament," for the continuance of the San Francisco mail-service? (2.) If the answer is in the affirmative, what was the nature of the offer? (3.) Has the offer, if made, been accepted or otherwise ; and what is the position ? He only wished to say that he-and, he was sure, all the members of the House-only desired that that should be done which would be in the true interests of the colony. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) might say that Messrs. Spreckels submitted proposals for a five-years contract at the rate of £26,562 per annum. That offer had been considered by the Cabinet, and the Government considered that it exceeded what the colony could afford to pay. The offer was declined ; but the Govern- ment finally offered, subject to the approval of the House, $15,000 a year as a lump sum per annum for three years. The agents desired that a lump sum should be offered for a period of Messrs. Spreckels, through their agent in New Zealand, cabled refusing to entertain that offer, and that was the position of the matter. The Government would, in due course, formulate proposals and submit the whole matter to the House for its consideration. RAILWAY-SERVICE REGULATIONS. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he is satisfied with the existing regulations for the engagement of per- sons entering the Railway service ; and, if not, when it is proposed to have the regulations amended ? A great many very eligible appli- cants for positions in the Railway service con- sisted of young men, but, owing to the extra- ordinary regulations as to age, the department was unable to take advantage of their services. He thought some change should be made in the regulations. The existing restrictions 5.0. seemed to operate not only against the youth of the colony, but against the efficiency of the Railway service itself. He had heard from time to time that there was an intention of relaxing these regulations, and he would like to know from the Minister whether there was any prospect of an alteration being made. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that, should they amend the Classification Act, the matters referred to could then be considered, but unless that Classification Bill came down he would not be able to amend the regulations in the direction suggested. # BALLAST-TRAIN HANDS. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will take into consideration the heavy work of ballast-train hands, and also the amount of lost time entailed by bad weather, and increase the pay of the men to 1s. per hour. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that the ballast-train hands were paid 7s. per day. They did not lose a great deal of time through bad weather ; and that the wages paid were fair was evidenced by the fact that there were always numerous applicants for this work. ## CHRISTCHURCH-LYTTELTON RAILWAY RATES. Mr. G. J. SMITH asked the Minister for Railways, Whether it is the intention of the Government to abolish the penal rate at pre- sent charged on account of the tunnel traffic between Christchurch and Lyttelton, seeing that in the Railways Statement the "abolition of the charge as for an additional five miles on all traffic passing over the Rimutaka incline" is promised ? The Minister was no doubt quite familiar with the promise made in his Railways Statement, and he would remind him that for years traffic on the railway from Lyttelton to Christchurch had been penalised on account of the tunnel between Lyttelton and Christchurch, the rates charged there being greater per mile than on the railway between Port Chalmers and Dunedin, or Onehunga and Auckland, or Bluff and Invercargill. Now, the cost of the tunnel had been paid for over and over again, 