McGuire Rhodes Thomson, J. W. McNab Russell, G. W. Ward Mills Seddon Willis. Napier Smith, G. J. Tellers. O'Meara Fraser, A. L. D. Stevens Palmer Steward Witheford. NOES, 22. Arnold Monk Hanan Pirani Hardy Atkinson Hutcheson Barclay Symes Bollard Lang Tanner. Ell Laurenson Fisher Tellers. Massey Gilfedder Mckenzie, R. Hornsby Graham Millar Meredith. PAIRS. For. Against. Carncross Mackenzie, T. Fraser, W. Haselden. Majority for, 16. Bill read a second time. The House adjourned at twenty minutes . past twelve o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 3rd October, 1901. First Reading-School Attendance Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 FIRST READING. Money-lenders Bill. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero SCHOOL ATTENDANCE BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That this Bill be recommitted for the purpose of con. sidering certain amendments. He wished to make the Bill as full and as satisfactory as possible. Motion agreed to, and Bill recommitted. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 7 .- Proceedings for penalties. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved to add, at the end of the clause, "but any case may, with the consent of the parent, be heard with closed doors." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be added be so added." AYES, 23. Reeves Johnston Ark wright Scotland Barnicoat Kelly, W. Smith, A. L. Kenny Bowen Smith, W. C. Feldwick Louisson McLean Taiaroa Gourley Montgomery Twomey Harris Walker, W. C. Ormond Jenkinson Pitt Jennings NOES, 6. Bolt Kelly, T. Rigg Pinkerton Swanson. Jones Majority for, 17. Words added, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported. The Council adjourned at a quarter past four o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 3rd October, 1901. Allendale and Kaitangata Coal-mines-Gaming and Lottery Permits - Rotorua Medical Officer - Captured Guns-Gaol Warders-Allendale Coal- mine-Interest and Sinking Fund-Special Settle- ments-New Zealand Contingents : Casualties- Bank-note Stamp Duty-Wellington Government Offices rented-Burgess rolls-Oats for South Africa - Cash Land-values in Waimate and Hawera-Bullion, &c., in Banks-Public Debt- Trawling in Hauraki Gulf-Land Settlement- Burning Fallen Bush-Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act-State Nursery for Forest-trees- Mauriceville Lime-works - Treath ent of Stock Diseases-Reserves Disposal and Exchange Bill -Stud Horse for Western District of southland -Riverton-Howell's Point Road - Workmen's Homes at Invercargill - Payment of Road- labourer -- Taieri Maori Village Report of the Department of Agriculture - Duties in Cook Islands-Advances to Settlers Valuation-fees- Advances to Settlers Act-Land Valuation Act- Balclutha-Owaka Railway - Whangarei-Kawa- kawa Railway -Southbrook Goods-shed - San Francisco Mail-service- Railway Se vice Regu- lations-Ballast-train Hands-Christchurch-Lyt- telton Railway Rates-Railway Servants Super- annuation Bill - Municipal Corporations Act- Municipalisation of Public Services-Little River and Lincoln Railway-Industria' Home- Captain Jackson Barry's Book-Deaf and dumb Institu- tion, Sumner-Canterbury College and Canter- bury Agricultural College Act Regulations- Public Works Act Amendment Bill-Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. ALLENDALE AND KAITANGATA COAL- MINES. On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), it was ordered, That the evidence given by In- spector Green before the Royal Commission on the Coal-mines of the Colony in respect to the Allendale and Kaitangata Coal-mines be laid before this House. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing all the evidence given before the Royal Commission on the Coal-mines of the Colony in respect to the Allendale and Kaitangata Coal-mines. GAMING AND LOTTERY PERMITS. On the motion of Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The number of permits granted by the Colonial Secretary, under "The Gaming and Lotteries Act, 1881," to persons connected with religious denomina- tions ; (2) the names of the religious denomina- tions such permits were granted to; (3) the names of cities, towns, or districts where per- mits so granted were exercised ; (4) the number 