the public works estimates or the supplementary estimates-that was, that he did not intend to allocate it. Now, the House would be wanting in its duty if it allowed the Premier to have a large sum like a quarter of a million of money without allocating it on the estimates. It was said there was no one who would be satisfied with the allocation, so far as roads were con- cerned, unless the allocation was increased on the supplementary estimates by the sum of £50,000 out of the new quarter of a million, which the Bill passed last night alluded to. He could not understand how the Colonial Treasurer could spend money unless it went into the the Appropriation Bill and through the Committee of Ways and Means by means of the estimates. He trusted some explanation would be given of what was to be done with this quarter of a million. The Minister for Rail- ways wanted £100,000 for rolling-stock, but if the money was not going through the estimates that could not be spent, unless, indeed, it could be practically spent by drawing against it after the 31st March. It seemed to him wrong in principle for the House to permit the Premier to borrow to the extent of a quarter of a million, and yet not to allocate it by the ordinary pro- cess of Ways and Means, and through an Appropriation Bill. No Government ought to have power to borrow unless the House dis- tinctly allocated in what way it was to be spent. He trusted the Premier would give some information as to how this extra quarter of a million was to be spent. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Motion agreed to, and the House resolved itself into Committee of Ways and Means. On the question that the resolutions be agreed to, Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said there was one point in connection with the First Schedule of the Bill to which he desired to direct the attention of the Committee. It was a small sum that was down for Land for Settle- ments Account : only £1.000. Now, in connec- ton with this he desired to refer to two purchases which had been made by the Land for Settle- ments Department within the last few months in the district he had the honour to represent. They were called Kapuatohe and Kahimahi, and were bought for the purposes of workmen's hamlets near Christchurch. One of these settle- ments had been bought by the Government from Sir Westby Perceval, and was situated on the Harewood Road, about a mile and a half from Papanui Township. He believed on this block there was one of the finest crops of Californian thistle to be found in the whole Province of Canterbury ; and why the Government should buy land in this condition for workmen's homes he could not understand. The other settlement was not very far from the Belfast district, and lay to the north-east quar- ter of Christchurch. He held in his hand a newspaper which contained the result of the opening of these blocks to settlement. In the Kapuatohe Hamlet only one section was taken up ; in Kahimahi Hamlet one-half the sections only were taken up. Now, he submitted that | case had occurred on the boundaries of his Mr. Herries of this description, the member of the House for the district ought to be entitled to be con- sulted, not with regard to the amount of the purchase, but as to whether the land that was proposed to be purchased was likely to be taken up, and whether there was any de- mand for land in that locality. As a matter of fact, in both these localities there was a large quantity of land available for purchase in the ordinary course, and he submitted, after the failure of these two settlements and of the one which was bought at the foot of the Port Hills, for which the Government paid $90 an acre to Mr. Freeman, it was quite time there was a change in the purchase of land that was going on. It was quite clear the department, which was run by the Premier, was not com- petent to ascertain whether the lands that were offered them were suitable; and how the Government could recommend the purchase of land at $90 an acre in a place right away from the railway service of the colony was what he could not understand. He asked the reason of these two purchases he had indicated. and he wished his constituents to understand that he had had nothing whatever to do with either of them. The Government must take the whole responsibility upon themselves. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the purchases were made on the recommendation of the Land Purchase Inspector, and it was on his advice. and on the evidence adduced by him, that the Land Purchase Board recommended it. Of course, if their advice was not conducive to settlement, and if the land was taken at too high a price, or in localities where it should not be taken, the responsibility must fall on the right shoulders. It was for the Govern- ment to follow the advice of its officers, as the Legislature had clearly laid it down that the Government had no option in the matter, and had nothing whatever to do with it. They took the land as recommended, and these pur- chases were made on the recommendation of the proper officers. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said, It was all very well for the Premier to attempt to lay down the dictum that the Government took no responsi- bility in regard to these purchases. Only the other day, after the Assessment Court decide! the Government should pay so-much for cer- tain lands acquired under the Land for Settle- ments Act, the Government asked the owner whether they would take the land back, and ve: they were now told by the Government that. :: regard to a voluntary purchase - not a com- pulsory one-they must take the advice of thek responsible officers. If the Government woul: not take the advice of a Court, presided over !: a Supreme Court Judge, that the land was of. certain value, but attempted to back out of th. bargain which was made - and he did not s. they were not right in that attempt-if they would do that, surely, in regard to this voluntar. purchase, there ought to be a little more atten- tion paid to the merits of the contract under which the land was being purchased. A 