talk at the finish about consulting the Law Officers and making any amendments subse- quently found necessary. Well, the Law Draftsman has had twelve months to look into it, and this original clause is to be re- enacted in the original form in which it passed last session, with every botch untouched, with every single imperfection on its head. I am reading now from clause 4 of the Bill now before us :- shall not be alienated " Maori land by way of lease, either to the Crown or to any other person, except with the consent of the Council first obtained." This is a verbatim repetition of section 22 of the principal Act, which, according to the Pre- mier's version of the Deputy Governor's mes- sage, should now read :- "Maori land shall not be alienated . either to the Crown or to any other person except by way of lease with the consent of the Council." Now, I ask the Minister in charge of the Bill - who was not in charge of the Bill last year- to look into the matter and give effect to the undertaking then given. But, of course, the point is one of much more importance than the mere effect of the clause as it stands. The point is that the House was entirely misled into passing the clause by having the Deputy Go- vernor's message misread to it. Thus a clause was put on the statute-book in a form which we had unanimously decided to reject. And now we are asked, twelve months afterwards, de- liberately to repeat an error that was then de- liberately made, not by the House but by the Premier. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .- At this late hour of the night-or rather of the morn- ing-I shall not attempt to follow the many arguments that have been adduced by honour- able members in discussing this Bill. It is strange that, among so many who have spoken condemnatory of our Native policy, no two can agree on an alternative. Some desire free- trade in Native lands. Others profess that there is no other way but to set apart for the Maoris inalienable reserves, and allow the re- sidue of the land to be treated by the owners in any way they liked. Some think that there should only be leasing allowed, and others say that the Government should take over all the Maori lands and administer for them. It is singular that, where they are all together in con- demnation, they are not together in any definite policy to take the place of the one they condemn. Now, the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty said there were only two ways of dealing with the question, according to his idea, and that was individualisation of title, or else the whole of the Native lands to be put into one big trust. Sir, taking the trust theory, as many speakers have referred to it, it panned out very well with re- gard to the West Coast reserves, but in regard to other lands the difficulty will be to get the Natives to acquiesce. We were able to do it with the West Coast lands, because the land was in the hands of the Crown, and not of the Mr. Atkinson are dealing with lands which are in the hands of the Natives. They will not agree to join in one large trust similar to that which affects the West Coast settlement reserves. With re- gard to individualisation of title, that is possible at any time, whether under last year's Act or whether under previous Acts. Individualisa- tion has been going on all the time during the many years the Native Land Court has been in existence. This Bill does not stop that. Any Native can, and always could, apply to have his share individualised. There is nothing to prevent them doing that except the question of expense. That being so, I think every one is in agreement that in- dividualisation, where the quality of the land will permit it being done with any profit to the owner, is the right thing. Sir, this Bill is no bar in the road, but will offer every facility. . The question before us is not one 2.30. merely of devising a scheme by which the best advantages should accrue to the individual, but one in which we must consider how it affects the wider interests of the people, of the tribe, and the country. In- volved in that consideration is not only the question of individualisation, but a host of others-the encouragement to be given to the Maoris to farm their lands, the settle- ment of their waste lands by putting Euro- pean settlers upon them, and the great ques- tion of rendering productive and profitable as soon as possible all the waste Native lands throughout the colony. Now, how can you deal with their waste lands in order to get them settled ? You cannot deal with them by the slow process of individualisation. You cannot wait for years while you compel every Maori to individualise before his land can be settled upon. In the first place, such a system would cost the country hundreds of thousands of pounds. Mr. HERRIES .- Why not do it ? Mr. CARROLL .- I say you cannot, owing to the expense. Mr. HERRIES .- It would be well worth it. Mr. CARROLL .- You would have to wait until every acre was individualised before you could put people on to the large areas at present lying idle. What principle did we adopt in the Act of last year ? We said the waste lands of the Natives should be immediately put into use ; and how ? By offering facilities for people to go upon them, not by locking them up as you would do if you insisted on nothing being done until the interest of every Native was made a separate holding, but by giving the Natives a system of Land Boards to administer their large areas on lines akin to the system upon which the waste lands of the Crown are dealt with. At the present time we administer the waste lands of the Crown through the Crown Land Boards, and surely if the principle is good in regard to the waste lands of the Crown, it should be as good with respect to the waste lands of the Natives. Mr. PIRANI .- The principle of Land Boards is not good. 