well and good. Now, he assured the House that this was done by the men voluntarily, and was not insisted upon so far as the New Zealand Government was concerned at all. There was this fact, that the Imperial autho- rities had defrayed their passages ; if they came on by any other steamer the charge fell upon our own colony; and to obviate this the officer in charge said, "Well, you can go if you undertake to pay your own pas- sages," and the men accordingly signed an agreement, and gave an order on the shipping companies for the payment of their passages. Naturally, when these orders came to hand from the shipping companies, the amount of the passages was deducted from the men's pay. He challenged the honourable member to show a single case where they had deducted the amount of the passage where the man had not given an order for it. The men could not complain who gave orders for their passages on the shipping companies, and, of course, the shipping com- panies sent these orders on to the Government ; and he would like to know what the Govern- ment could do except to recognise the orders. The money was due, and had to be paid. The men should not have stopped behind. They ought to have gone by the " Harlech Castle," but they positively refused- Mr. MASSEY said the " Harlech Castle " was in dock. Mr. SEDDON said the "Harlech Castle " went to Melbourne, and the men left her in Melbourne and went overland to Sydney. The https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 initial trouble arose through the men leaving the boat. They wanted, of course, to take part in the Melbourne demonstrations. They were permitted to do it. He could only say, with respect to this matter, that it was like many others : if he was to blame at all, he was to blame solely in being liberal-in allowing the men to have their own way, and going over- land to their companions in New 8.0. South Wales. When he agreed that they should go overland it was understood that they should join the "Harlech Castle " there ; but when they got to Sydney it was too close to the celebrations, and they were not inclined to come. Mr. MASSEY said he was speaking of the twenty-seven who came over here. Mr. SEDDON said, First of all, there were parties who wanted to stay behind, and the officers on behalf of the men asked that they should be allowed to stay behind, and because of that unanimous wish he had agreed to their staying. Those who wanted to come home had either to wait for the ship or make other arrangements. They decided to make their own arrangements outside the Government altogether. These men could only come over at their own expense, otherwise it would have meant double cost, as their passages had been paid right through by the Imperial authori- ties. Mr. MASSEY said the "Harlech Castle " did not come to New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON said, No; but the men had Mr. Seddon ment were not saving this money. If these orders had not come from the shipping com- pany, but had come in the ordinary way, he would not have troubled about it ; but as the orders came to hand he could do nothing else but pay them. He was glad the honour- able member had brought the matter up, but he wanted it to be known that the men had made the arrangements outside the Government alto- gether. The only thing to be done was to take a vote of the House as to whether they were to be refunded the money they had expended. Mr. MASSEY asked if the Premier would put an amount on the estimates ? Mr. SEDDON said he thought the House should be consulted, and perhaps this would please the honourable member. The amount involved was not large, but he might tell him that these young men had had a very narrow escape. Bill read a second time. On the motion, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) said he wished to say a word or two in reference to the point raised by the honourable member for Franklin. He could speak with a certain amount of authority as far as this subject was concerned, as applying to the Provincial Dis. trict of Wellington. A committee was set up in the district, composed of Lieutenant-Colonel Newall, and Lieutenant-Colonel Collins, Major Owen, and himself, and at the subsequent election of a chairman of that committee the question was discussed as to the qualifications of the men who were to form the Wellington section of the Fourth Contingent. He had the honour cast on him, as chairman of that selec- tion committee of the Fourth Contingent, to examine the whole of the men who came up for selection ; and when he told honourable members that there were something like five hundred men to choose fifty from, it would be understood that the task was not a light one. The committee divided the men into three classes-excellent, very good, and good-and then went through the various questions which they decided should be asked of each of the individuals applying to go to South Africa, and after deciding that a certain number should be put in the class of excellent, they then came to discuss the question of distinguishing or choosing one excellent man against another ; and, in finally deciding the number of men who had to go as the Wellington section of the Fourth Contingent, they took those, all things being equal, who could provide a horse. Mr. SEDDON .- Being classified as " Excel- lent." Mr. WILFORD said, No, not at all. If they had one hundred men classed as excellent, and fifty of those men were able to find a horse, they gave the fifty who could find a horse, and who were classed as excellent, the preference over the fifty who could find no horse and who were classed as excellent. He said he was backed up by the rest of the committee, and the whole of those men who were so chosen 