importance to be attended to. Mr. SEDDON .- I did not wish to have a prolonged debate, and therefore simply moved the motion without saying a word. In most matters I like to, and, in fact, do-pay re- spect to the Controller and Auditor-General. I do not know how I could pay that respect unless by referring a matter of this kind to the Committee. I could have moved merely that this paper be laid on the table and be printed. And, if this sort of thing is to go on, I do not see why we should waste time, or why the time of the Committee should be taken up with it, but will simply move that it be laid on the table of the House. The Controller and Auditor-General has said, once his decision is given- Mr. PIRANI .- I rise to a point of order. The Premier is referring to evidence given at the last meeting of the Committee on a matter on which they have not yet reported. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- If the 3.30. honourable gentleman is doing so he is .out of order. Mr. SEDDON .- I am referring to what has been said by the Controller and Auditor- General on a matter that has been reported to the House. He said that if a case had been dealt with by him he would not consider him- self bound by the Governor's warrant, and that he would not take it as a guide, but would take the course and give the decision he thought was proper. Mr. PIRANI .- That was the last case. Mr. SEDDON .- He said it in the last case and in the previous case. He said it pre- viously-it is no use beating about the bush- and he repeated it the other day ; but that is not what I am referring to. Now, I concur with honourable members who say it is a shame that the time of the House should be wasted with these matters. What is the position to-day? The Controller and Auditor- General raises certain objections, and holds the opinion that his decision is equal to a decision of the Supreme Court. But he is not like the Supreme Court in this respect : that the Appeal Court decision sets aside his decision, for he says he ignores it. The Appeal Court in his case is, of course, the Governor and the Crown Solicitor. At all events, the appeal is to His Excellency the Governor, and if the Crown Solicitor advises His Excellency that the Controller and Auditor-General is wrong in his decision, then that decision is upset, and the Controller and Auditor-General has to do under the hand of the Governor what is said to be the law by the Solicitor-General. I am pleased to see that there is an anxiety to-day among members to get on with other business. I am as anxious as any one else to see that matter dealt with this session, as a matter of courtesy to the people who are mostly inter- ested ; but it is no fault of the Government that that matter has not been dealt with. We have had the report of the Commission before us for some time. Then, I was advised by the member for Bruce that we ought to have Mr. Pirani is the law of the honourable gentleman him- self. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Why ? Mr. SEDDON .- Because when dealing with the cases now reported on -- that the balance of the interest should have been paid to the Trea- sury-the member for Bruce asked, What were we going to do with the interest in the future? In the meantime the Audit had passed it; but, on that point being raised by the member for Bruce, the Auditor-General recon- sidered it, and came to the conclusion that he must raise the objection now in order to be consistent with what he had done before. And he has so raised the objection, yet the decision, however, although apparently that of the Auditor-General, was really that of the member for Bruce; that will be proved by reading the evidence on the table. It is simply a question of tweedledum and tweedledee. The Auditor- General says the money must be paid into this pocket-the Public Account ; the Treasury says the money must be paid into that pocket-the Treasury ; the Public Trustee says, once put into the pocket of the Public Accounts, it will be taken out of this pocket and put into that. He wants to have this formula gone through before the money reaches its ultimate destina- tion-the Treasury. That is all there is in it. But there is no authority. We shall have to vote every year the interest, and it would be debited against us every year. Otherwise it would have been passed by the Audit Office. The Treasury says to the Public Trustee, " Give it to me to pay the interest." The Auditor- General says you must not do it ; you must pay it into the Public Account, get an authority from Parliament, write a cheque for it, and then you can pay. The Act says it is a matter between the Treasury and the Bank of New Zealand. It will come before the Public Accounts Committee ; they will report to the House. It will come back to the House, and there will be something said, and there it will end. As regards my action at the Public Accounts Committee, I think every member will realise that, where there is a matter concerning the finances of the colony before the Committee, it is the duty of the Colonial Treasurer to stop. I am acting within the law. That is my posi- tion, and I had to examine at some length the Controller and Auditor-General and other officers. It was to elucidate facts, and it saved time, because, being acquainted with the facts. I am in a better position to deal with the matter. If members look at the reports of the Committee they will find that very few questions were asked by other members. Why? Because the facts have been elucidated by the Treasurer. That is the position. I was only there in the performance of my duty. The statement made by the member for Palmerston as to occupy ing the time of the Committee on any occasion for a full sitting I give a most unqualified denial to. I know what he was referring to, but that question has not yet been reported on. But the honourable member had to get out of your clutches, Sir, and he did so by a slight equivoca- 