defence of their lives, and who held their lives on the precarious tenure of being able to defend it at an instant's notice against the foe- man who might strive to snatch it from them. In estimating the prices that were paid to the Natives in the early purchases thought must be given to the conditions existing then and now. It is the scientific discoveries which have made the products of New Zealand available for Old. World markets, and raised the value of land. Does he forget that only twenty years ago the lands of New Zealand had so receded in value as to be a drug. I could mention hun- dreds of cases in his own district where the land was utterly unsaleable, because it seemed as if we had reached that point at which the products of New Zealand were going to be un- saleable-that is, what we had in excess of our own consumption. But there is a change to- day, and the right way to deal with the Natives is to recognise their right to the higher values now going, and to deal with them as minors, but only to this extent : that I would set aside certain blocks of land which should be called papakainga-inalienable and exempt from taxa- tion ; and I would not have them too large. We do not want to make settlement-obstructive landlords of the Natives, or cultivate in them a spirit of laziness. Leave them in idleness, and with no incentive to industrious effort, and it would be their decline morally and physically. I know Natives who have little or no land who are the most industrious, and are the finest among their race. But I do not wish to see them landless. I would dedicate to them land sufficient to live on, and capable of producing enough for their subsistence. They can do https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 what they like with the remainder : cut it up into small pieces and individualise it, lease or sell it to one another or to Europeans; but they should be restricted, so that the area which they dispose of to any European shall be subject to the limits which now apply to Crown lands. This would prevent the aggregation of large estates. I would not allow any European within thirty years, or as long as the House chooses, to possess more than one subdivision of Native land ; this would effectually prevent the aggregation of large estates, which some say would result from the Natives having free- trade in their lands. Then, as an inducement, I should treat the Natives as I know they desire to be treated - as being capable of appreciating the self-reliance that will be accorded to them. They will not be treated as incapables, but will have control of all the land not included in rapakainga; but at the expiration of three years it shall pay the same taxes and be subject to the same conditions as now apply to Euro- pean lands. This will at once stimulate the Maoris, and I want to stimulate them. Does the honourable member tell me they are not to administer their lands ? Will he tell me that the member for the Western District has not shown capacity for dealing with his own land ? And if we can only tell the Natives they would be responsible for the careful use of their land, and that they would have to make the best of Mr. Monk they deserved, I say it would at once give them an incentive they would not overlook, and if they failed to take advantage of their oppor- tunities, or prove thriftless or worthless in the management of their sections, there would be their papakainga for them to go on, and they could cultivate enough to live on ; they will not get pauperised, they will be forced to seek employment like Europeans, and will be in a better position than seven-tenths of our Euro- pean citizens are in to day. Is not this equi- table ? I want to be fair to the Natives, but if the process proposed in this Bill is followed it will be the decline of the Natives. If I wished to involve the Natives in trouble-if I wished to submerge them in expense, and insidiously alienate them by undermining liability-it would be by doing as the honourable member suggests, by a system under which a vote would be taken out of the Treasury in order to be spent on Native lands, to build up a class of Native landlords : that each of them would receive a sum of money out of the Treasury to enable them to cultivate their land, as proposed by Mr. Heke. Why, the Natives already know how to cultivate their land. I know Natives who are very high in the art of cultivation. Their only fault is their laziness and disinclination to persistent in- dustry, and the fact that they have not individualised their land. Their communism is the strong detrimental influence under which they suffer-that is, those who want to improve their circumstances-for, if they want to save money or to put away money, all their relatives feel that they have a right, so to speak, to share in it; and the Native sense of the rites of hospi- tality is so strong in the Maori that he cannot readily refuse the assiduous applications of his relatives to divide with them. I want to break down that aboriginal quality. I know many Natives feel that it is a detriment to their wel- fare, but they feel a difficulty in breaking through their ancient usages, and make up their minds to put up with conditions under which they are pressed down by their Native relatives. and, while living in communism, they feel it is no use struggling against the downward pres- sure. That is the crux, and the Native Minis- ter knows it just as well as I do, and that more than anything else has kept down the Natives from rising. I want to cut that away from them. That will be done by individualising their land. Mr. CARROLL .- This will do it. Mr. MONK. - It will not do it. It is helping to do too much. The native land will increase in value. They will sell on the borders of settlement, and, as it advances, the price gradually rises, and they will be able to dispose of it. Will the honourable member tell me that the value of the native land in its wild condition is anything like the large value which it will have when they will be able to demand the expenditure of public money on it, by which means they will make it specially valuable? Are you going to spend money for the purpose of making these Natives landlords ? 