it would be a good thing to acquire the rail- way at 30s. per share, though there is no need for us to break our necks to get it. We can do without it very well. On the other hand, if the colony should elect to allow the railway to remain in the hands of the company, you have the people of the North Island, who have been clamouring all along to have the line handed over to the State. While the Government have been negotiating with the view of acquiring the railway we have not been able hitherto to say that we were satisfied that any offer was one we could submit to Parliament as a fair proposal ; and now, when we have what we believe to be, and are satisfied is, a fair basis upon which to accept it, the honourable gentleman says the matter should be allowed to stand over. Captain RUSSELL .- I said we ought to have had more time to consider it. Sir J. G. WARD .- We have never been in a position to submit anything definite until to- day. It is only to-day that the chairman of directors has put us in the position of being able to introduce this Bill. The clause which we have prepared, and which is printed in the Bill, was in the Budget until the very day the Budget was introduced, and it was only with- drawn at the last moment before the Budget was submitted to the House, as we could not get the chairman to affirm the proposal ; other- wise honourable members would have had ample time to debate it to their heart's con- tent. The matter is an important one to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 colony, and, now that we have an opportunity of acquiring it, the Government consider it their duty, even at this late hour of the session, to place the matter fully and fairly before the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero House. I have briefly stated the position. I, of course, know the difficulties in the way of going into all the details at short notice, but it has been quite unavoidable. I hope honour- able members will, after due consideration, make up their minds either to pass the mea- sure or to negative it, and by their action decide whether the line is to become part of the State system or not. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I quite agree, Sir, with the Hon. the Minister for Railways that it is necessary that the colony should purchase this railway; but what one objects to is that a Bill of this nature should be brought down when the House is about to break up in five or six hours. It is quite impossible for any man at a moment's notice to discover from the clauses of this Bill whether the proposed arrangement is a fair one or not, or whether the arrangement provided for under the Act of 1881 is a better one. I cannot say, and I defy any one except the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, who has gone carefully into the Act of 1881, to say which is the better arrangement with only an hour's notice. I submit it is better for us at this late stage to postpone the Bill to next year in order to have time to justify us in taking on our own shoulders our own responsibilities, for it is a responsibility to every member of this House. We should know what we are doing in | close on a million of money. The Minister for Railways has said that the proposals in the Act of 1881 would not be as favourable as these. He may be right-I do not say he is not-but certainly his speech is wrong, for he led the House to believe that the cost of the railway, as assessed under the Act of 1881, was the cost of construction without any depreciation. That was wrong. Sir J. G. WARD .- I did not say so. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable gentleman did not say it in words, but his speech was so plain that every honourable member could see he meant it. He estimated the cost of the. railway at £950,000. Captain RUSSELL .- And he did not allude. to the interest-charges. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is so. The honour- able gentleman alluded to the cost of the rail- way at £950,000, and added 10 per cent. to that, and said the railway would cost over a million under the Act of 1881. Sir J. G. WARD .- So it would. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Nonsense. Sir J. G. WARD .- I can show you the whole thing worked out by responsible officers. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not care how it is worked out. The Act of 1881 specifically pro- vides for depreciation. In clause 117 of "The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881." it says, "The arbitrators shall also take into consideration the depreciation in the perma- nent-way, plant, and rolling-stock, buildings, and other works of the railway." One can get at the value of the railway, less depreciation, in the schedule to the Bill, and it comes to $761,000. Now, add 10 per cent. to that. Sir J. G. WARD .- You are quite wrong. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I cannot say whether I am right or wrong. I can only take the facts as they appear in the schedule, which purports to be the assets of the Manawatu Railway, according to their own estimation, and they have got a value of £761,000. Ten per cent. on that is another £76,000, and the value, accord- ing to that estimation, is £830,000, and we are proposing to give £951,000. Sir J. G. WARD. - You are entirely wrong. Mr. SEDDON. - There is #100,000 for land. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Does the Bill include the land ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. J. ALI.EN .- I do not see it; and I say that we ought to have time to consider, in an important Bill like this, whether it does in- clude the land or not. I do not know whether the Bill includes and takes over the other assets, such as railway stores, and sundry debtors and cash balances. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, everything, you will find on the paper. Mr. J. ALLEN .- All I can say is, it does not provide for anything so far as I can sec. Mr. BARCLAY .- What about the reserve of £76,000? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes; but it is not here in the schedule, which purports to be a statement of the assets of the company. There is another 