of Tauhoa, situated in Block III., Tauhoa Sur- vey District, Land District of Auckland, con- taining by admeasurement one hundred and twenty-one acres or thereabouts, under the Homestead Regulations of .The Auckland Waste Lands Act, 1874,' which, among other things, provide that selectors must erect a dwellinghouse and must reside personally on the land selected by them for five years from the date of selection : And whereas the per- sons hereinbefore mentioned resided with their parents on lands contiguous to that selected by them, and have not therefore erected a dwellinghouse or resided on the said land ; but, as the conditions of the selection have been otherwise complied with, it is desirable to waive the conditions as to residence and the erection Be it there- of a dwellinghouse on the land : fore enacted as follows :- "The Governor may grant to Mary Ellen Boler, Eliza Ann Boler, Edward Theophilus Boler, and Alfred Storey Boler, or their legal representatives, in fee-simple, section num- bered 92 of the Parish of Tauhoa, situate in Block III., Tauhoa Survey District, Land Dis- trict of Auckland, containing by admeasure- ment one hundred and twenty-one acres or thereabouts." Clause read a second time, and added to the Bill. Mr. TANNER (Avon) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "The lands set apart as a recreation-ground for the inhabitants of the Borough of Lyttelton and the Road District of Heathcote, as de- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 cribed in the Schedule to 'The Lyttelton and Heathcote Recreation-ground Act, 1877,' are hereby brought under the operation of ' The Public Domains Act, 1881,' and the provisions of that Act shall apply accordingly." Clause read a second time, and added to the Bill. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) moved the addition of the following new clause : - " Whereas the Auckland Grammar School Board, under section ten of 'The Public Bodies' Powers Act, 1887,' reduced the rent payable by the lessee of the Exchange Hotel in Parnell, and the period of reduction has expired : And whereas it is expedient that such reduction should continue : Be it there- fore enacted as follows :- " (1.) The said Board is hereby empowered to reduce or increase the rent of the said hotel from the expiry of the reduction-period as it thinks fit to arrange with the lessee. " (2.) The said Board is also empowered out of its general funds to pay to its members their reasonable travelling- expenses in attending the meetings of the Board, the expenses to be paid according to a scale to be approved by the Governor." Clause read a second time, and added to the Bill. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) moved the fol- lowing new clause :-- Mr. Monk hereto is hereby constituted a road district under ' The Road Boards Act. 1882,' by the name of the 'Croiselles Road District.' and there shall be a Road Board for such district, to consist of six members. "(1.) The Governor shall appoint the day for the first election of the members of the Board, and the day of the first meeting of the Board, and may make all necessary appointments for the preparation of rolls and otherwise for carry- ing out such election. "(2.) For the first election the Governor shall appoint some fit person to prepare a rali of all persons who, being resident on the land described in the said Schedule, are entitled to vote at any election for a member of the House of Representatives; and any person appearing on such roll shall be deemed to be an elector for the purposes of such first election, and to be eligible for election as a member of the Board. " (3.) The person appointed to prepare the roll shall be the Returning Officer at such first election, and he shall be paid by the Board such remuneration for his services as the Gu- vernor shall determine. " (4.) The members elected at such first election shall come into office on their election : but, for the purposes of section thirty-one of 'The Road Boards Act, 1882,' and of section three of ' The Road Boards Act 1882 Amend- ment Act, 1883,' the time of their election shall count as from the first week in May, one thousand nine hundred and two." Motion for second reading of new clause negatived. Bill reported, and read a third time. # MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY. INTERRUPTED DEBATE. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- For the purpose of getting the evidence and report printed. I beg to move, That notice of motion No. 4, as follows, be considered :- "That the report of the Public Accounts Committee on the New Zealand Midland Rsil- way Company do lie upon the table, and bo referred to the Government ; and the amend. ment proposed thereto, To omit all the words after the word ' Railway,' and insert the works ' be referred back to the Committee for recon- sideration." " Mr. FISHER .- Is any Bill to be founded on the report ? Mr. SEDDON .- It is too late this session. Mr. FISHER .- Then, we may as well pu the report in the fire. Mr. SEDDON .- I desire to say that. after the work of the Royal Commission, and after the report of the Public Accounts Committe. we should lay the report upon the table : ard it is only just to Mr. Coates and those ass- ciated with him, who have been condueneg the case on behalf of the debenture-hellers. Although the resolution probably may not be entirely satisfactory, I think it will be admitted as far as he and they could promote the in- terests of the debenture-holders that has boys done. Mr. Dalston, on behalf of the share 