agreeing, I can with great confidence ask honourable members to assent to this scheme, and to assist to place it on the statute-book. By so doing they will, in my opinion, be doing that which is alike beneficial to the railway employés as a whole and also to the colony, as a contented and self-respecting service, recog. nising that the State is treating it fairly, must give better results to our country. In con- clusion, I say that in this colony we have a splendid Railway service - a service con- taining men in all branches who do the colony a great deal of credit. I may say that in travelling in different parts of the world, and keeping one's eyes open - and without saying anything to derogate from the ability of the men whom I have seen discharging railway duties in other parts of the world-I say that the intelligence of the railway em- ployés of this colony is second to none ; and what I propose in this Bill will now and for some years hence confer upon them many ad- vantages that do not exist in other countries, and it embodies, I think, a fair rate of pay in the different branches of the Railway service. I have much pleasure in moving the second reading of the Bill. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - I wish to make some suggestions to the Minister, and I may say that I do not rise in a spirit of hostile criticism, but rather with the idea of putting something before the honourable gentle- man from the standpoint of a number of the railway employés in the district I represent. I want first to congratulate the Minister upon the introduction of this Bill, because I am sure it is a step in the right direction, and I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 am quite sure that many classes of the railway service will be benefited by the alterations in the Schedule; but there are certain other alterations which I think are necessary in the interests of the workers. In the first place, I wish it to be clearly understood that I do not propose to devote myself to the First Division at all. I propose to deal with the workers-that is to say, those who are in the Maintenance, Locomotive, and Traffic branches, apart from the clerical staff. . As far as the clerical divi- sion is concerned, I do not intend to deal with them, because they are quite able to take care of themselves. Those who have to be looked after are the working-men in the different branches of the service. I want to point out to the Minister what the workmen in my electorate consider would be a reasonable amendment to make in clause 2 of the Bill. Honourable members will understand that the only officers which this Bill refers to are the permanent members of the Railway Service. The definition of "permanently employed in the service of the department " is not capable of two interpretations. It means simply per- manently employed in the department. I have on other occasions condemned the system of employing what are termed permanent casuals in this and other branches of the service. I know of men who have been twenty years in the railway workshops, and they are still 3rd Sir J. G. Ward which they can rise to a higher grade. For instance, the labourers in the railway work- shops are graded now into certain classes-into second and third classes. To my mind the present arrangement is absurd. It is absurd to have a third-class labourer who does the same work as a second-class labourer ; and, as a matter of fact, those men who are not first- class labourers under the present conditions are no class at all, so far as labourers are concerned. The Minister has swept away third-class tradesmen, and surely third-class labourers should be swept away also, because this class is an anomaly, is not required. and to my mind is meaningless. I would suggest that the following amendment be made in the interpretation : "permanently employed in the service of the department, or any person who has been employed continuously in the work of the department for three years." Of course, it may be ruled that such an amend- ment cannot be moved by a private member because it will increase the amount of expen- diture by the Government. My opinion is that something should be done to put the officers who are termed permanent casuals on a proper footing. I may state to honourable members how far the present system goes. There is one department in the railway workshops at Petone in which twenty-four or twenty-five men are engaged, and they are presided over by one officer, and I can assure members that the only permanent hand in that department is the foreman. All the rest are casuals. The prin- ciple upon which the Government act in regard to this matter is this: That when a permanez: hand is dismissed or dies, his place is filled up by the appointment of a casual hand, and the result will be, if this system is continued much longer, that the whole of the men employed in a department will be casuais. We have got now a permanent head, and the only permanent man is the leading hand, wb.' has to show the new men how to get to work. and to instruct them in their work. He hs. been fifteen years in that position, and 15 qualified to act as a carpenter, for which be would receive 10s. 6d. a day instead of os. to. But the foreman of the whole branch maker him the leading hand, and the foreman has ar objection to his leaving that position. He says "You have been sixteen years in that positicr. and you are perfect in this particular branch. and I cannot replace you." And this man ha: stood years and years in exactly the same class. I know he has had a promise from one Minis. ter-I believe before the present Ministry came into office-that he would get a rise, but notbier has been done. I have brought this matter before the Hon. the Minister and the Gener .. Manager of Railways, but the answer. which is a perfectly legitimate one, has been tha :. graded as they are, there is no possibility of classing this man otherwise. Then. the leading hands in the workshops are leadni hands in name only. They may do work for various men under them, and, although they do leading tradesman's work, they are classed 