sooner by this than by any other route-I deny that the little time gained outweighs all other considerations; and honourable members will have to use very strong arguments to prove to me that it does. I do not think I am prejudiced in this matter. I have no wish to add to what has already been said with regard to the desir- ability or the propriety of establishing an all-red line; I have no desire whatever to deal with this question from a sentimental standpoint, because I regard it purely from a business stand- point, and from the standpoint of general in- terest. It does appear to me that if we want to find new markets and open up new avenues for our trade, when we are subsidising bottoms to carry produce to other markets, should not this be made an opportunity for carrying both our produce and our letters at the same time ? Cannot something be done in this direction ? Captain RUSSELL .- No. Mr. COLLINS .- It may be that it cannot, but up to the present we have had no proof that it cannot. We have simply the assertion that it cannot, and assertion is not argument. I am not saying that it can; but, when we asked last year that information should be obtained, when we were promised last year that inquiries would be made from the Australian Governments, from the Canadian Government, and from South Africa as to the possibilities in this direction, it appeared to me that there was no reason why our letters could not be carried by subsidised boats via South Africa, and then we might have a service https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 almost as quick, if not equally as quick, as the San Francisco service ; and then, at any rate, while our letters were carried, we might find avenues for our own produce, instead of finding avenues for American products and manufactures; and that is the chief point I wish to make. Sir, I have no desire to detain the House longer. There are other matters to which I should have liked to address myself, and to which I shall probably refer when these resolutions are in Committee ; but I do think in discussing this question members should not lose sight of the great advantages which are accruing to America from the main- tenance of this route, and from our sub- sidising this route, while we ourselves are reaping no corresponding advantage so far as trade and commerce are concerned, and that should be something even to the City of Auck- land. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waibemo) .- Sir, this question. I think, requires very careful con- sideration, and it is my intention to go into these matters, not from any antagonistic posi- tion as against America, but rather from our own New Zealand point of view. There are one or two points which the honourable gentle- man who has just sat down was a little incor- rect in dealing with. One - as the question of distribution of mails. I do not think that the distribution would be any quicker from Wel- lington than if a steamer came down the coast- nial distribution. Mr. I'. MACKENZIE .-- The steamer coming do n from Honolulu would skirt the coast all the way from Auckland. And I do not think there would be much advantage, in coming But I direct to Wellington, in distribution. think there was a good deal in what the honourable gentleman said in regard to the possibilities of a Direct service. We have con- cluded erroneously that it is impossible to esta- blish a Direct mail-service, because the Shaw- Savill and New Zealand Shipping Company's mode of conducting the work was unprofitable, and the reason that it was unprofitable was because they had the wrong class of steamers on the route. A great number of the New Zealand Shipping Company's steamers were wrongly constructed from the first, and had no adequate carrying capacity; and the cost of travelling and cargo in these boats was out of all proportion to what it ought to have been, and for carrying cargoes they ought to have been constructed differently. I think it is quite possible to have a Direct service, and if more modernised boats were constructed the service could be carried out in under forty days. I think what we should consider in connection with the service is not only the mat- ter of speed, but we should also consider it from a trade point of view - the regular conveyance of our most delicate produce to market ; and I do not encourage the idea or remarks that have been made regarding any antagonistic national stand that we should make against America. I wish to approach the matter as a purely com- mercial one. As long as we continue on the present lines America is not likely to extend any trade concessions to us, and I believe that if the whole of Australasia were to withdraw from subsidising these boats the American Govern- ment would then realise that something must be done, but as long as we continue to subsidise the line the American people will say, "Why should we bother? They are taking the mails and subsidising us to carry on trade, and it is time enough for us to alter our trade relations with Australasia when they are showing they are conscious they will not be fooled any longer." America has already extended trade concessions to Canada and the Argentine that she is not extending to us, and I venture to say that if we object to this subsidy now and endea- vour to get the whole of Australasia to do that we may get some trade concession with America. And that is the basis from which I propose to approach the question. Speaking of the matter of speed, I concede at once that the Fr'isco service is the speedier; but the time has arrived now when the matter of speed is not the only essential-trade considerations should have great weight as well. It has been men- tioned by honourable members that what is of great importance is the cheapening of the cable rates. All trade now is carried on by cable messages. The Postmaster - General, a few minutes ago, was asked why he did not reduce the cable rates. The Postmaster-General is . doing the very best he can in that direction, 