the then Government was another scandal. But let us leave that. We are trying to-day to settle the matter. All I can say, with regard to the motion to-day, is that honourable members will believe that I at least am not actuated by any feeling in favour of the railway scheme, or in favour of the Canterbury, Nelson, and West- land combination, because I have always been opposed to the line from the start, believing that it was an undertaking that ought not to be assisted by the colony in any way at all. One thing I did object to in the Right Hon. the Premier's remarks was this : that by a 4.30. colouring given by the promoters of the scheme certain people in the Old Country were wrongly influenced to enter into the scheme, and that colouring was of force owing to the fact that those using it were duly accredited by the colony. I do not know who he was alluding to-perhaps he was alluding to the Canterbury Committee. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Well, they were not accre- dited by the colony at all. Therefore, to say that that colouring was given by representa- tives accredited by the colony was not making a fair statement of the case. Then, with re- spect to the right honourable gentleman's re- marks on the possibility of the debenture- holders being misled as to the security they possessed under the Act of 1884, I would ask honourable members to review Mr. Bell's sum- ming-up of the whole case before the Public Accounts Committee last year, where the matter is clearly stated, and the want of know- ledge of the nature of the security on the part of the debenture-holders is placed on the right shoulders. Before expressing my own opinion I want to allude to an argument used by the honourable member for Riccarton : he says this line must be completed by the colony. I hope he did not use this as an argument in favour of the Bill, for, in my opinion, it is about as strong an argument against the colony doing anything as could be used. If we are to be compelled by political pressure or any other means to complete this railway, there is no doubt we shall have to make a very heavy loss over it; and if this heavy loss is to be cast upon the shoulders of the colony, then it would be better that we should retain the money we now propose to give the debenture-holders and shareholders to recoup ourselves for this loss. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I did not use it as an argument in connection with the proposal before the House. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not see how you can separate the two. One of the great difficulties before us is that, owing to political pressure, we may have to go on with this work, and in doing so incur a very heavy loss. In regard to the Chairman of the Committee, he made this state- ment, which ought not to go on record without denial : that the Legislature would not have considered this petition except for the fact that there were some important names attached to it -names of titled people in the Old Country. The honourable gentleman may say as he likes ; are concerned, I wish to give that a most emphatic denial. And if there was one thing more than another that might have led indi- vidual members to hesitate about recommending anything at all it was the fact that titled per- sons' names were attached to the petition, who had attempted to use their influence to the detriment of the colony. If they had been all poor people there would have been no hesitation on the part of the Committee to recommend the amount. I do not think that it ought to go forth to the world or to the House that the Public Accounts Committee were influenced by the fact that certain names are attached to the petition ; nor do I think the Legislature is likely to be influenced by that fact. We have to deal with this question not from a political point of view, but from an equitable and a just point of view. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- And a generous point of view. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, even from a generous point of view ; it is generous treatment they are getting. But we have to consider our own position and the honour of the colony. The honourable member for Riccarton has stated that £5,000 a year is the earnings of the rail- way; but the earnings of the railway do not amount to that during the course of time the railway has been in working existence. On the contrary, taking the full value of the earnings for the five years' working, we find an average of about £3,900 a year. What we are offering them will be 3-per-cent. debentures, which will almost exactly realise this £3,900; so from that point of view we are dealing very fairly with them and receiving no profit ourselves. I should like, in a few words, to give my opinion about this question. I have been opposed to the rail- way right through ; I have no sympathy with the debenture-holders and very little with the shareholders. They entered into the soheme- or they ought to have entered into it-with their eyes open, and if they did not it was their own fault. But we have to consider the position of the colony. The colony has in its possession a line which it would cost £674,000 to construct. We have given a portion of our landed estate, which realised £313,000. I do not know whether it would have done that but for the railway, but giving the full value of the land it realised £313,000 ; and then there was another £38,000 paid by the colony: making £351,000 alto- gether, of which the debenture-holders have paid back to us £50,000, leaving the net amount provided by the colony in land and money about £300,000. We propose now to give them £130,000, making £430,000 for a property which would cost £674,000. It is a property we do not want, that we might have built partly ourselves, but certainly not the whole, and which will be a costly one to us in the future ; therefore we could not in justice to ourselves give anything like the difference between #674,000 and £300,000. The value of the railway as a going concern has been assessed by the Commis- sion at £192,000, of which they allotted £126,000 to the debenture-holders. The Committee came 