" not exceeding £50." The fine referred to in this case was $500. Mr. SEDDON said that proved his case. They could not possibly pay over to the Library Fund any fine that was over £50. They had had that out before. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, they had. How was it that the money had got to be paid to the Consolidated Fund? It was done because Mr. Speaker said it had to be paid there ; and, what was more, the Controller and Auditor- General, who was a higher controlling authority than Mr. Speaker, also said it had to be paid there. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) would like to point out that the Premier was quite wrong in his contention so far as Standing Order No. 435 was concerned, inasmuch as that Standing Order applied to members only. And Standing Order 436 had nothing to do with Standing Order 435, because it said "all fines," from whatever source they may come, whether from private individuals or from members, were to be paid to the Library Fund. There could be nothing clearer than that; and, if the English language meant anything, then Standing Order No. 436 meant that this $500 must go to the Library Fund. Mr. SEDDON said, Well, it had been inter- preted differently by Mr. Speaker and officers of the House. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) did not see that this discussion served any useful purpose. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The Premier had made up his mind, and it was nonsense to further discuss the matter ; it was mere beating of the air. If the honourable gentleman said " Yes," the Library Committee would get the money. If he said "No," the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Library Committee would not get the money. That was an end of the matter. Mr. SEDDON had said they had already had it. Mr. FISHER said, If the honourable gentle- man insisted that the Library Committee had had it, that was enough. The Library Com- mittee had not already had it. The right honourable gentleman having got hold of £500, which was in reality the property of the Library Committee, he merely said now that he in- tended to retain it in spite of Standing Order No. 436. which said, without qualification of any kind whatsoever, that all fines were to be ap- plied to the Library Fund. Here was a fine of $500 which clearly, according to that Standing Order, ought to have gone to the Library Fund ; but the honourable gentleman plainly said, " I have possession of the money ; I intend to keep possession ; and the Library Committee shall not have it." There was an end of the matter. Motion agreed to. SUPPLY. CLASS VI .- CUSTOMS AND MARINE DEPART- MENTS. Customs offices and services, £35,176. 3.0. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked why the Collector of Customs at Auckland re- lectors at the other large centres ? Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) said Mr. Rose, the Collector at Auckland, was the oldest officer in the service. He was formerly in receipt of £600 a year, but at the time of the reductions some years ago his salary was re- duced to £550. It was thought that Mr. Rose was entitled to this increase as he was pro- bably the only officer who had not had his salary reinstated since the 10-per-cent. reductions were made. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked if Mr. Rose would be entitled to a pension in the event of his retiring. Mr. MILLS said he would. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) did not be- lieve in the system of granting increases of salary to officers just on the eve of their re- tiring, as the amount of the pension was com- puted on the amount of the salary received at the date of retirement. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) knew of similar cases where officers had had their salaries increased for two or three years before their retirement, so that the pension was estimated on the salary received at the time of their retirement. He thought it was unfair to the taxpayers of the colony that this should be permitted. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked why the cadet at New Plymouth had been reduced in salary . from £105 to $95? Mr. MILLS said the Collector at Auckland was not now receiving as high a salary as was paid him years ago before the general reduction was made. The valuation of the pension was made on the average of the last three years' service. In reply to the honourable member for Egmont, he might state that the cadet mentioned was a new one, the other cadet having been promoted to be Clerk. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) entirely objected to this question of pensions. It seemed to him that an officer who was paid $575 per annum did very well, and if an officer was paid a good salary while in the service he did not see why the country should be burdened with pen- sions afterwards. Civil servants ought to be in precisely the same position as servants em- ployed by private people. It seemed to him, also, that many pensions went by favour in this colony. He believed nearly all the officers of the Customs Department retired on comfortable pensions, while in other departments only a favoured few got a pension. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) did not see that there was any good in finding fault with the law. That there were more in the Customs than in any other departments entitled to a pension arose from the fact that the Customs had always been under the central authority, whilst the officers in the various departments of the provinces were not entitled to pensions. If a Civil servant was entitled to a pension, he got it by law, and could claim it as a right. The Government could not give nor take away & pension. In respect to this increase, he might say that Mr. Rose was one of the best officers in 