disputes arise as to their positions and pro- motions and transfers, where an injustice might unintentionally or otherwise be done, to seek redress, that the casual hands, many of whom are really permanent hands, should have an opportunity, after a certain term of employ- ment, of having their cases also tried before the Appeal Board. There is nothing upon this head contained in the Bill, but it is necessary to have regulations, and I propose in the regulations to give these casual employés who have been in the department four years the same right- An Hon. MEMBER .- Make it three. Sir J. G. WARD .- No, I cannot. I propose to do something better in another direction- to go to the Appeal Board as permanent hands. It is, I think, right that there should be a pro- portion of permanent hands definitely stated, so that we may know where we are in this matter, and I have informed the representa- tives of both divisions that I am quite pre- pared to fix definitely, by regulations, the proportion of permanent hands to the propor- tion of casual hands, and give the remaining casual hands in the service for four years and upwards the right to go to the Appeal Board. I say that is a great step forward, to fix definitely the number of permanent hands, and also to give the casuals the benefit of going to the Appeal Board, and I am sure it will give universal satisfaction throughout the Railway service of the colony. Now, in connection with another matter, I might say that this Bill removes the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 old system of age restriction, both as re- gards cleaners and porters. That has been & source of very great dissatisfaction and almost universal complaint amongst those concerned in the Railway Department. Under the former system, having the age restriction, it was possible, and actually happened, that a young fellow who went on as a cleaner might have attained to eighteen years of age, and have been in the service a couple of years. But, owing to the age-limit, he might find some one who was appointed after him and who was two months older, and because of these two months difference in age the one appointed perhaps two years earlier would find himself placed junior to the new man, although, as I say, he had been in the service two years before him. That was most unjust, and I had no power to alter it. Members will find the same occurred with porters. An Hon. MEMBER. - It is the same with machinists. Sir J. G. WARD .- I have removed all that under this Bill, so as not to allow the age- limit to interfere in any way with the years of service. There ought not to be that restriction, which in practice has worked very unsatisfac- torily, has given a very great deal of trouble to every one concerned, and has caused many heartburnings and injustices to be perpetrated. Under the former system young fellows who had been one, two, and three years in the service often found themselves superseded by some one Sir J. G. Ward them, simply because of the age restriction. This Bill entirely removes that, and I have no hesitation in saying it will inspire the young men in the service with a great deal of hope, and will give satisfaction throughout the colony. Then, again, under the former system the method of transfers from the No. 2 to No. 1 Division was very unsatisfactory. I propose, in connection with the railway employés of the colony, that a member of the No. 2 Division can obtain a transfer to the Clerical Division after he has been in the service for six years. There must be a period of years fixed, otherwise we would have much confusion. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is not in the Bill. Sir J. G. WARD .-- No; I do not propose to put that clause in the Bill. The working of the Railways Act to a very large extent will re- quire to be carried out by regulations. These regulations, in the usual way, when prepared. will be gazetted for general information ; and so also the information in regard to the Appeal Board and to the casual employés, and relative to the transfer from the Second to the Clerical Division, will require to be done in the way I have indicated. There is no other practical way to do it. What we propose in this Bill is that a boy who enters as cleaner or porter, or any other capacity . at all in the many avenues of employment in the Railway Department, should have an opportunity, and will have an oppor- tunity, of becoming the General Manager of the Railways if he has the capacity and ability so to do. It is only right to give the railway employés -the juniors-encouragement, and to inspire them with hope ; and I say that if we get boys of ability-brainy boys, coming on, it matters not from however humble a walk of life-it is only right that they should have an oppor- tunity of attaining to the highest position in the Railway service of the colony. That is now made possible under the Bill. It was not pos- sible before. Our boys, therefore, by good be- haviour, industry, and ability, and by exercis- ing their abilities assiduously, have the highest positions in the service open to them. Their future depends upon themselves. There is one matter in the Schedule, on pages 3 and 4, to which I wish to briefly refer. It has been brought under my notice that, in proposing to have three grades in Class 2 of both the Loco motive and Maintenance Departments, an in- justice might be done to outside workers by fix ing a third grade. In deference to the represen- tations made on this point I propose to delete from the two classes to which I have referred the third grade, and that will remove an ob- jection which was entertained by some mem- bers, and which was brought under my notice by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) in the first instance, and further brought before me by the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs and the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) and other members. It was put in in the first instance so as to insure, if possible, in the future that the work of the Railway service of the colony might be somewhat graded in these particular classes. 