should be done. A fair price should be paid by the Government for articles of value which have been collected. It will be quite easy to deal equi- tally with those who have devoted to the col- lection of these treasures the best part of their lives : and it might be necessary to get a price fixed by arbitration, or in some other way, for such collections. But I do not think that a general policy measure of this kind, necessary in the interests of knowledge and of posterity, should be in any way fettered. I contend that at this late period in the history of the colony, when it is almost like shutting the stable- door after the steed has been stolen, half- measures will not be effective; but whatever effort we make now should be such as is likely to be attended with success. It would be of no use to leave such a wide-open door as the Bill proposes to leave, because, if we were to do so, I am satisfied that some of the greatest treasures would be lost to the colony. I will dal with the matter plainly and frankly. It will happen that Governors of the colony will in future, as they have done in the past, visit the Maori people, and the Maori people, in the exuberance of their generosity -- for they are one of the most generous peoples on the face of the earth-will bring forward their ancestral relics, their household gods, things that have been treasured for generations, and will present them to visiting Governors. Now, I say that we ought to set our faces against any Governor carrying away such presents, because he repre- sents us for the time being. He goes to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Natives in our name, and he receives these things as the representative of the people and of the sovereign, and not as an individual. He speaks to the Maori people in an official capa- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero city, and any presents which he receives ought to be given to the national museum, and ought to be retained by the colony. Now, no Ministry could resist the influence by a Governor, supposing he had many valuable presents in the nature of Maori relics, and we ought to take it out of the power of Ministers to grant permission even to the Governor of the colony to remove beyond the jurisdiction of the colony priceless relics of that kind. Then, Sir, there are many valuable articles of virtu from New Zealand in New South Wales, and also in the British Museum, and I should like to see the Government make an effort by way of exchange or in some other way to get back to the colony some of those things which the ri-ing generation of New-Zealanders have no opportunity of seeing at the present time. Our children have to go beyond their own country in order to get an adequate knowledge of the ancient Maori carvings and the artistic treasures of the noble race with which we are now living in peace in New Zealand. With regard to what has been suggested by an honourable member as to fresh discoveries of ancient relics, and posible injustice which might be done to people who made such discoveries in the future, I submit that such articles ought to be placed in the same category as treasure trove-they ought to belong to the State. The discoverer of any VOL. CXIX .- 16. rights in them ; and, while some compensation should be made for his labour and the trouble involved, I do not think anybody should be allowed to keep them as his private property. In ancient countries now the policy of the Go- vernments-even semi-civilised Governments- is to debar any articles associated with the ancient history of their peoples leaving their native soil ; and we ought to take a similar step, -and let it be a decisive one,-now, and if we do so we shall preserve for all time the artistic treasures of this ancient people. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- I intend to 10.30. support the Bill, and desire to con- gratulate the honourable member who moved the second reading on at last facing this im- portant question. It is three years since I first brought the matter before the House, in con- sequence of the discovery of one of those very rare birds, the Notornis mantelli, in the South Island. On that occasion I asked the Govern- ment - " Whether they will introduce legislation to prevent the continuous removal from the colony of rare and valuable specimens of Native art or workmanship, or unique objects of scientific interest peculiar to this colony, the result of which removal is to leave the colony unpro- vided, or not adequately provided, with speci- mens." While I think he has gone a great length in bringing this Bill before the House, I think when he comes to put it into practice he will find it will have to be modified in some im- portant particulars. In the first place, this should not be a measure to prevent objects of this class leaving the colony. The object of the Bill, the House ought to remember, is the establishment of a State museum complete in all respects ; and you only want restrictive legislation to enable you to get for that insti- tution the required objects. Outside of what may be required for that institution, every en- couragement should be given to collectors and Natives to gather together such objects as are not found in other parts of the world. The Hon. the Minister will find the best way in which to approach the subject is that now followed in Egypt. Whenever any one leaves that country for a foreign port he is re- quired to make a declaration that he does not take away with him any objects relat- ing to the very early history of Egypt. This Bill appears to put a limitation on the export of specimens of Native carving. I do not know of any other Legislature that seeks to go as far as that. It is only objects in connection with ancient history that we want to collect. But we can get over the point in this way: Power should be given to the Governor to make a regulation under which any Native carver can obtain a license to sell his carvings to any buyer, irrespective of the Government. You would by that means put no restriction upon the manufacture of objects of Native art or workmanship at the present time ; but all the while it would be the duty of the Custom- house officers in the colony to take care that 