allowance made for instructing pupil-teachers. According to the new scale, teachers will have to give instruction to pupil-teachers to prepare them for their examinations without receiving any remuneration whatever ; so that the new scale, under the name of being a more liberal measure than has been hitherto in operation, appears to me to amount to this : that many of our teachers will be injuriously affected by it. However, I sincerely hope the alteration in our education system will be productive of the best results. Members of this House will keep their eye on the Minister of Education, and upon the Secretary of the Education Depart- ment in Wellington, and if the scheme is not a success we must alter the scale ; our education is not going to collapse. Those who bring about a change which is not beneficial must go, while the education system will last. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- For fifteen years, Sir, I have had in circulation a Public Schools Bill, which has been printed and reprinted, and circulated in every education district in the colony. That Bill has been discussed in many Parliaments. It has been discussed and approved by nearly all the edu- cational institutes in the colony, and teachers' meetings have passed resolutions in regard to the desirability of putting that Bill into law. The Bill, amongst other matters, proposed the introduction of a colonial scheme of salaries. There were many other changes, which were regarded as being of a revolutionary character. This, which was at that day considered an in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 novation of a revolutionary character, I am happy to say has now become the law of the land. I have frequently said, in introducing that Bill to Parliament, that I hoped to live to see these changes become law. This is the first of those changes. I do not under- take to say how far the provisions of the Bill I prepared have been availed of, either by the Commission recently appointed or by the Government, or by any other educational body in the country; but there are a great many provisions of that Bill which will be embodied in any future education scheme which is to become the law of this country. I take this to be only the first step to- wards a great radical and, as it may be termed, a revolutionary change, and I am confident in the belief that, as the scheme has met with the entire approval of nearly all the teaching body throughout the colony, this first of the changes which was to be brought about by the passing of that Bill will be followed by other changes beneficial to the colony as a whole. congratulate the House on passing this Bill, and I congratulate the Government in taking this step, which I regard as the first of many necessary changes. Whether it will strengthen the hands of the Government, or even the system, it remains to be seen. I believe it will ; I believe it must be beneficial. Other changes will follow, and I hope that in future the Edu- cation Boards, instead of regarding this change as an encroachment on their functions, will assist the Bill in its operation in every way Mr. Meredith in its way. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the funds ? Mr. FISHER .- The country will provide the funds. There always was the dread that changes of this character would necessarily lead to the centralisation of the system. There is no ground-no reasonable ground-for any apprehension of the kind. I am sure that with central control, even only in the direction of the payment of teachers' salaries, and a classified colonial scale, benefit will result to the education system itself, and will give much greater satisfaction to the teachers as a body. There remain other changes foreshadowed in that Bill which I said just now are yet to come. I stand here to-night confident in the belief that, as a beginning has been made in this necessary and essential change, other neces- sary changes will follow in due time. Sir, I have lived to see one of my great educational changes passed into law. I trust I may live to see many more taken up by the Government, - by any Government-and then I shall feel that I have not laboured in vain. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) .- The experience of the honourable member clearly shows that everything comes to those who wait. He has long waited to see a great reform effected. I recollect perfectly well the honourable mem- ber, as Minister of Education, many years ago advocating and urging the views he has just given expression to in the House, and I am sure it must be gratifying to him to find, after so many years, that some of the ideas he then expressed are now about to become law, as embodied in the Bill now passing the House. But, Sir, I rose for the purpose of stating that probably since the passing of the Old-age Pen- sions Act no more important measure has been put through the House than the present Public- school Teachers' Salaries Bill ; and, while some honourable members may take exception to details as to the scale embodied in this Bill, it is something very pleasing and something to be proud of that this is the first Parliament in the world which has adopted by Act a scale of teachers' salaries applicable to the whole country. And if in the working, under some of the proposals in the Bill, there should be found to be anomalies, it must be remembered that this is to some extent an experiment, and I venture to express the opinion that in the future working of the Public-school Teachers' Act, if there should be found to be anomalies, as there have been in connection with the early working of other important measures placed on I the statute-book, the good-sense of the repre- sentatives of the people can be trusted to do what is right, and after some experience of the working of the Act itself they will be quite pre- pared to consider such improvements as will And give satisfaction to those concerned. though in the first instance it may, as some honourable members predict, for a time cause a little friction in the adjustment of some of the salaries, I believe the school-teachers generally throughout the country will be gratified to find themselves placed in a better position than 