any way be said to be official documents. An official document is, I think, a document con- nected with the Government of the country, or a document that has passed between officers of the Government and Ministers, or between one officer and another. This is a document belonging to a Board constituted by Parlia- ment, but which Board is in no way connected with the Government of the country. There- fore I hold that no breach of privilege has been committed. Mr. SEDDON .- May I be permitted to say a few words in explanation ? Mr. FISHER .- I rise to a point of order. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- What is the point of order? Mr. FISHER .- Ask the honourable gentle- man to sit down. Mr. SEDDON .- This is the second time to- day in which the honourable gentleman has spoken discourteously to me. I must ask the Chair to protect me, or else I shall have to protect myself. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- It is out of order for one member to dictate to another member as to what he should do. The proper course is for him to address the Chair on the point in dispute. I am quite prepared to hear the honourable member on the point of order as to why the Premier should not make a personal explanation. Mr. FISHER .- My point of order is that the Standing Orders distinctly lay down-and it is well known to members of this House- that the Speaker's ruling is final. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - That is quite correct, and I shall not allow my ruling to be questioned ; but the Premier has asked leave to make a personal explanation, and I presume it http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero is in reference to what the honourable member for Wellington City has said. Mr. SEDDON .- In the first place I never had any document in reference to the Assets Board, but I hold in my hand the statement I quoted from, and I am prepared to give it to the honourable gentleman or to lay it on the table of the House. I cannot do anything or say anything fairer than that. With your per- mission, Sir, I shall read the document. It is a document with a tag upon it and my speech notes. It is as follows :- "Mr. Forster, the General Manager of the Assets Realisation Board, informs me re Mr. Meredith's offer for part of Glentui Estate, that, on the 19th October, 1897, Mr. Meredith wrote suggesting the cutting up of Glentui, there being good demand and fair values ruling ; also urging the risks of decline in values. "8th April, 1898 -- Mr. Meredith asked me to quote for 500 to 1,500 acres of Glentui, part pastoral and part agricultural, adding, 'I am aware that at the close of last session of Parliament you signified your intention of having the property cut up and offered for sale by November of the present year. I there- fore anticipate your subdivision by approaching your Board at the present time.' We replied, Mr. Deputy-Speaker quotation for. "12th May, 1898 .- Mr. Meredith describes the land, which comprised pretty well the pick of Glentui. "19th May, 1898 .- Board advises a prefer- ence for offering for public competition. "28th May, 1898 .- Mr. Meredith, without any request from us, makes a definite offer of the Government valuation, plus 5 per cent .. the Government valuation being at rate of £2 4s. per acre for this portion of the estate. "3rd June, 1898 .- We declined, thanking Mr Meredith, and saying the Board was not unmindful of his desire to offer to the public, and had so decided." At the first sale by auction, the land applied for by Mr. Meredith realised an average of $6 per acre, and had it been held till the following year and offered at the second auction, it is be- lieved it would have realised considerably more. Members will see that these are notes which I have made myself from Mr. Forster's report in reference to this matter ; and the member for Wakatipu practically repeated what I said to-day in reference to this question when it came up in the House once before, as to the price, and as to the position and the circum- stances under which the offer was made. The honourable member said the land was wanted by settlers, and then was the first to apply for the pick of the land at half its value. Con- sequently, he did not dispute the question at that time, and there is no question now ; but I am quite prepared to make a precedent in this matter, so that members' notes which they may make for their own guidance in making a speech should be laid on the table. I have no objection to make a start, and I shall do so now if the House consents. Will honourable mem- bers allow me to lay these notes on the table of the House ? Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I rise to a point of order. The Premier last night challenged me to allow the whole of my private correspondence with the Assets Board to be laid on the table. I said, " Certainly, I am willing." The document just read by the Premier is simply a document drawn up by the Assets Board, and does not in- clude my correspondence. I am quite prepared to allow the whole of the correspondence to be laid on the table, but I am not prepared to have an ex parte statement laid on the table, such as the Premier proposes to do, in order to justify his wrong-doing in making a personal attack on me. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- As to whether that paper should be laid on the table, that is a question for me to consider ; and I think it is not in order for any member to lay on the table his summary of or statement of the contents of original documents. The ori- ginal documents themselves are the best evidence of what they contain, and not that which has been summarised, either by the honourable member or by any one for him. Therefore I rule that the paper cannot be laid on the table. Mr. SEDDON .- I shall now resume my per- sonal explanation. The member for Wellington 