interest on the moneys borrowed ; so, of course, these payments will go to the Rail- way Department, and that applies in the same way as the moneys received now from the Westport and the Grey coal-mine owners. I do not know there is anything more I can add. We shall probably have ridicule cast on the proposals. Great losses may be put before honourable members as being likely to happen, and those who are weak may hesitate and fear we are going to do something desperate. My own opinion is that it will never be noticed at all. We shall establish a coal-mine, we shall supply our own requirements, we shall supply those requirements at less than we are doing at the present time, and we shall give the opportunity to other coal-mine owners to sup- ply markets . which at present they have to refuse. I know that a great many orders have been refused. ¿ Application has been made for thousands of tons of coal in this colony that the present coal-mine owners cannot supply. It will be in the interests of our colony, with the vast deposits of coal we have, that we should obtain coal for ourselves, and so leave the coal-mine owners to supply the demands that come to them. Under all these circumstances, and as private enterprise now has not met the requirements, I say it is a wise and prudent thing for us to step in and do this. I say, in conclusion, we must settle this question once and for ever, as the fact of this scheme being mentioned for the last few years has prevented private people investing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 money in coal-mines. If we are going to do it, let us do it at once. If we are not going to do it, let us say so definitely, and let private enter- prise do what is needed. My advice is to pro- ceed with the scheme. In the case of other new departures which we have made there have been warnings of loss and peril that have not been met with, and I believe it will be the same in respect to the State coal-mine. I have very great pleasure in now moving the second reading of the Bill. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- I am very pleased indeed that the Premier has had the courage of his opinions by bringing down a Bill of this character. It may be, perhaps, there are those in this House who are opposed to anything in the nature of a new scheme of this kind. My own opinion is that this attempt to carry out a State coal-mine has as good a chance of being & success as any scheme that has been carried out by this colony. Whenever anything new has been attempted there has always been a certain section of the community who are ready to decry it and to say it is dangerous ; that State influence in some way or other will be brought to bear, and that from various reasons it is utterly impossible that such a thing can be a success. Now, my own opinion is that 9.30. there is no matter of more conse- quence to us as a people than the getting our coal at a fair and reasonable rate. Not only is it necessary that the State should have a plentiful supply for its own purposes, but there is so much dependent on coal for our ! VOL. OXIX .- 45. the large number of the poor people of this' colony, who are entirely dependent upon the supply of coal for warmth, comfort, and cook- ing, so essential to life. The reason I par- ticularly would like to see an attempt made to work a State coal-mine is that I am per- fectly satisfied in my own mind that a monoply is existing at the present time in regard to these mines. The Premier stated that he knew a case in Auckland where a merchant was tied down to charge a certain price, or have his supply of coal stopped. I can corroborate the words of the Premier, and I can state-I have the list of prices at the present time in my hand -- that some of the merchants are com- pelled to sell at a price agreed to by the mine- owners, and in the event of their not selling at those prices they will no longer get supplied with coal. Mr. SEDDON .- Will you repeat that ? Mr. WILLIS .- I have this from one of the coal merchants themselves, and he supplied me with these facts, and he said he was com- pelled to come in, for if he did not come in and sell his coal at this tariff he would no longer be supplied with coal. The tariff is £2 2s. a ton, but it is also sold by the hundredweight ; but in that case it comes particularly hard on the poorer class of people, because they are not allowed to sell coal at less than £2 10s. per ton -that is, by the hundredweight-which I con- sider is an altogether unreasonably high price. Nor do I think it is in the interest of the people generally that monopolies of this kind should be allowed to exist. Not only are we threatened with these monopolies in coal, but there is one article even more important- namely, flour-in connection with which we have a trust in this colony. I have already given the circumstance of what has occurred with the flour trust within my own knowledge, in which a man was actually threatened that if he did not sell at the price laid down by the trust they would bring down the price of flour in his district and undersell him by £1 a ton. An Hon. MEMBER .- Was the price exor- bitant ? Mr. WILLIS .- I do not know ; but if it was not, why should they take objection to a miller in Wanganui selling at the price he did; and why should they endeavour to compel him not only to take shares in the trust, but also to bring the price of flour up to the price they chose to dictate to him? I say that this state of affairs should not exist, and that if New Zealand is to institute this state of trusts in the most important of the necessaries of life it is about time the State interfered to stop it. Sir, I mentioned a case some time ago in this House, of which, unfortunately, I have a very keen recollection. About six months ago, when the members of our Har- bour Board found that we had more money than we actually required for immediate needs, and. we had a surplus -- I am proud to say our Harbour Board is in an excellent financial position ; we found we had £1,000 annually to the good -- a committee was set up to decide 