life had been reached. Mr. PIRANI .- If we burnt down ours, you would rebuild it in brick. Sir J. G. WARD said that would be done ; but he felt sure the people of Palmerston did not contemplate such a thing. However, he would visit Palmerston North during the recess and look into this and other matters, and if the condition of the Post-office there was such as represented, it would be the duty of the colony to make the necessary provision for replacing the present structure by a new one. Mr. PIRANI said the honourable gentleman would get a very good reception when he did visit the district. # RAILWAY EXPENDITURE. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether the sum of #325,031, being expenditure under vote for " Additions to open lines " for twelve months ending the 31st March, 1901, is included in the sum of £17,207,328, which is given as the total cost of construction of open lines ? He noticed in return No. 6 of the Railway Depart- ment the total cost of construction of open lines was given as £17,207,328, and in return No. 7 there was a sum of $325,031 given as having been on additions to open lines ; and he wanted to know whether the former sum included the latter, because there was also a a sum of £1,022,729 given as the cost of un- opened lines, and, so far as he could see, there was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 a sum of £30,000-namely, the increase for the year of stock additions to open lines stores, which was included in the $325,031 added to the cost of unopened lines-£1,022,729-and not, as it should be, to the cost of opened lines. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that the whole of the sum of £325,031, expendi- ture for additions to open lines for the year ended 31st March, 1901, was included in the amount £17,207,328, the total cost of construc- tion of open lines. RAILWAYS GOVERNMENT DEPART- MENT CLASSIFICATION BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting a draft of this Bill, and recommending the House to make provi- sion accordingly. The House went into Committee of the Whole to consider His Excellency's message. # IN COMMITTEE. Sir J. G. WARD desired to move to strike out order of the day No. 3 - that was, the Rail- ways Classification Bill which had already been circulated. He had, since introducing the Bill, made some important alterations in the mea- sure, and it would be more convenient to sub- stitute this Bill for it. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would 5.30. like to say that statements had been made that there would likely be considerable opposition in the House to the scheme as that this was an amendment of the scheme at the request of certain officers of the department. He might say the improvement of the scheme was welcomed in the Honse by those members he was associated with, and there never was a suggestion from members on his side of the House that the scheme as brought down by the Minister would be opposed, much as the revised Bill was desired. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that no representation of the kind had been made to him. The reason of the alteration of the Bill was, as he stated originally-namely, that an opportunity would be given to the officers of the Railway Department of giving their views on a matter that vitally concerned them. Since the Bill had been circulated there had been a meeting in Wellington of representatives of the first division throughout the country, and they had intimated to him that they were favour- able to the proposals in the Bill. The repre- sentatives of the second division-what he might term the workers of the department-had also had a long conference with him in Wellington, and had reviewed the Bill, and they had had a second interview with him; and, after full and careful investigation of their representations, he had agreed to certain recommendations, and these were contained in this Bill, which he now wished to substitute for the first Bill. The alterations went to improve the conditions of the No. 2 division of workers throughout the colony. Since this amending Bill had been agreed on, he had had a further conference with the representatives of both divisions, and they had accepted it as a reasonable and fair measure, and one generally beneficial to the service, and they were entirely in agreement with the pro- posals of the Bill. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said he understood that the storekeepers in the Railway Department were often required to work after ordinary hours without extra pay, in order that stores might be got ready for the workshops. He would like the Minister to look into the question, and either give them over- time or a higher wage. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) said he had met with the representatives of the workshops in his district, and at the meeting there were also representatives of other parts of the colony, and they were in accord with the main provisions of the new Bill. There were two important amendments that would have to be moved, but generally the Bill was approved. Some points with regard to the "permanent casuals " would have to be discussed by the House. He could assure the Minister, and he thought he was voicing the opinions of other members representing districts in which rail- way workshops were situated, that the Bill would have an casy passage through the House if the Minister accepted his suggestion, and that, in his opinion, there was no necessity for delaying the introduction of the Bill. Resolution agreed to. Bill read a first time. 