REPRESENTATIVES. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether he will have a regulation made under " The Execution of Criminals Act, 1883," which will prevent Sheriffs from barring the representatives of public newspapers from attending the execution of criminals? Hitherto in the colony it had been the custom when a criminal was being executed to give permission to representatives of the local papers to attend. An execution took place lately in Lyttelton, but no representative of either of the morning papers was admitted. He thought it was wise that when the last penalty of the law was being carried out the representatives of the papers should be present to see that matters were properly managed. It was a great mistake to leave it to a Sheriff's whim to say whether or not Press represen- tatives should be admitted to an execution. There should be a definite regulation saying whether the representatives of papers should have access or not. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the section of the Act dealing with the ques- tion read as follows :- "The Sheriff, the Gaoler, any of the officers of the prison whose attendance the Sheriff may require, and a medical practitioner shall be pre- sent at every such execution, together with any Justices of the Peace and ministers of religion who may desire to attend, and such military and police guard, and also such other male adult spectators not exceeding ten unless under permission from the Governor, as the Sheriff may think fit to admit, but no other persons whatsoever." It appeared from that clause that the Go- vernor had power to authorise persons to be present at an execution ; but the practice had been to leave the matter in the hands of the Sheriff, who was responsible for the conduct of the execution. It was clear the Governor had power to grant permission to any one desirous of witnessing an execution, but as no applica- tion had been made the matter had been left en- tirely to the Sheriff. As far as his own views were concerned, he thought representatives of the Press should be admitted to an execution. He did not say that all representatives of the Press should be admitted, because it was the practice with some newspapers to give descriptions of executions that were no credit to the newspapers in which they appeared. That did not apply, however, to the Press of New Zealand ; and, as far as our own newspapers were concerned, he thought it would be quite right and proper that certain of their representatives should be ad- mitted. Hedid not think the evil-if it was an evil-called for such a remedy as the honourable gentleman suggested. At any rate, he did not think it was necessary to make any alteration in the law. So far he considered that sufficient publicity had been given to the executions that had taken place in the colony. If a newspaper thought it was absolutely necessary that it should be represented at an execution, so that an account might be given of the proceedings, tative could obtain access-namely, by making application to the Governor. CROWN TENANTS' RENT REBATE ACT. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he will this ses- sion introduce an amendment to " The Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act, 1900," so as to in- clude those Crown tenants who lease small grazing-runs within the operation of the pro- visions of the said Act, and thereby give them the benefit of the 10-per-cent. rebate in their rent for prompt payment ? He was afraid that on a former occasion, when he asked a similar question, he did not make himself sufficiently clear. Since that question was put and an- swered in the House he had received two letters from two small-grazing-run tenants. One said this :- "I noticed that in replying to your question re rebate to small grazing-runs the Hon. Mr. Duncan misled you, just in the same manner as he did the Hon. Major Steward on a former occasion. According to the newspaper report the honourable gentleman said that grazing- runs generally paid 22 per cent. on capital value. That is true so far as it goes, but it is a statement calculated to deliberately mislead the House as to the position. While grazing-runs which have never been alienated from the Crown pay 2} per cent., those grazing-runs created under and held under the Land for Settlements Act pay 5 per cent., just exactly the same as those who hold land under the lease-in-perpetuity system. Then, why not bring this second class of grazing-runs under the Rebate Act ? We of the grazing-runs have decidedly the worst of it. We have a twenty-one years' lease only, against the 999 years of other tenures. At the end of twenty-one years we are liable to revaluation, or subdivision if the Government of the day think fit. For obvious reasons the revaluation is not likely to be less. Any advantage we had through not being rated on our improvements we have lost by the carrying of an unimproved- value poll in this county. To crown all, we are refused the rebate given to holders of other tenures, and pay 5 per cent. rent, while those holders of other tenures who pay up within one month pay 4} per cent. Naturally we are not pleased at the Government making fish of one and flesh of another. You are perfectly at liberty to show this to the Hon. Mr. Duncan, or to make any use of it you may think fit. He will probably tell you what clause in such- and-such an Act excludes us from the loaves and fishes ; but I venture to say that he can- not tell you just why two men who pay exactly the same proportion of rent to capital value should not both receive a rebate of rent, if one or other receive it. When I say that £58 ster- ling is the amount of rebate I would and should receive, you will see that it matters a good deal. My own opinion is that Seddon is so hard up that he intends to repeal the Act and get that 10 per cent. which he gave away last year." The other letter said :- "I have to thank you for asking the question 