in the House re the Rebate to Crown Tenants Act and the lessees of small grazing-runs. The answer you received from the Minister of Lands was not correct-at least, as far as I myself and my neighbours are concerned. I pay 5 per cent. 'on the upset value of the section I hold, and the lease is for twenty-one years, with the right of renewal for another such term at a valuation." These letters were from persons who had to live under the provisions of the Act, and, of course, they were in a better position to explain their situation than he could be. He hoped the honourable gentleman would understand from these letters what these men meant. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said it was only latterly that any small grazing-run leaseholders had come under this category, and there were not many of them. These men were evidently men who had taken up land that had been bought under the Land for Settlements Act. Mr. FISHER said, Yes ; Waikakahi. Mr. DUNCAN said that if the honourable member, in putting the question in the first instance, had stated that it was land for settle- ment he would have known how to answer it. His answer was right, as far as it went, because it referred to small grazing-runs that paid 2} per cent. generally. He did not state land for settlement. These land - for - settlement runs paid 5 per cent. He thought it had been a mis- take in not including them under the Rebate Act, but he supposed they had been overlooked and not included because there were so few of them. He would read a letter he had got, per- haps from the same man as had written to the honourable member. He says :- " Waikakahi, 5th September, 1901. " Hon. Mr. Duncan. " DEAR SIR, -- Why do you persist in making lying statements to the House in order to mislead them over the grazing-runs and the Rebate Act? You have done so twice this session. I am done with you, and I will not hesitate to denounce you every chance I get. I have written to Fisher explaining the true state of affairs, so you may probably hear more yet about it. If you do not hear any more from him I shall take steps to explain the position, and also your position, through the Press in Wellington. - I am, &c., "C. D. FLEMING." This was a brother-in-law of the man who opposed him for Oamaru at the last general election, and he had written to the member whom he believed to be the most able to denounce him (Mr. Duncan) in the strongest language possible and to uphold this opinion of his. The bulk of the question was never pro- perly put before, for the most of the runs were only paying 2} per cent. ; and he defied Mr. Fleming, or any one else, to prove what he said to be incorrect. It was not to be wondered at that small grazing-runs were not included, as they were so few in number. Mr. FISHER asked if thi mistake could be rectified. Mr. Fisher Mr. DUNCAN said that it could, by legisla- tion. He thought it was only fair that this should be rectified, because there was no reason why, if a farmer paying 5 per cent. got a rebate, a small-grazing-run leaseholder paying 5 per cent. should not also get a rebate. That ought to be remedied, and he thought the Premier would be justified in bringing in legislation to do so. # RABBIT-POISONING. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he has yet decided the date when rabbit-poisoning operations shall temporarily cease, as promised last session, and the duration of such cessation of poisoning ? He knew the Minister took a very great interest in this question. Many well qualified to ex- press an opinion thought that there should be a period during which there should be a suspen- sion of poisoning, so that there might be no chance of anything going out of the country that could not be well guaranteed. In his opinion, if poisoning were suspended for a time, at its close there should be a concurrent syste- matic and vigorous trapping and hunting down, and destruction by every possible means. It was well known that by the vigorous trapping that had occurred in many parts the pest had been enormously decreased. The rabbit pest had never been so vigorously attacked in the South as when the price of rabbits justified numbers of children and grown-up people trapping rab- bits when they could make wages out of them. They had it on the authority of the Premier and others that rabbits had been sent out of the colony in a state they never ought to have left it in. The Agent-General at Home was attacking these rumours, and replying to them. But there were those who said it openly to de- stroy the export trade. He thought it a pity anything should arise to damage the export trade if they could secure by these means a better diminution of the pest. He would be the very last man to suggest any means that would not be efficient in the destruction of rab- bits. He had been in communication with many men well qualified to express an opinion, and who said they believed in a vigorous system of trapping; others, on the other hand, especially those with large properties, said that trapping was not a success, and was not the best method. The Minister of Lands had apparently met the House last session in a fair spirit, but his pro- mises remained unfulfilled. Last year he had replied to a question put by him (Mr. Mac- kenzie) as follows :- "He thought four months would be rather long to grant. He fancied three to three and a half months was all that could fairly be allowed." Then, on the 7th September the honourable gentleman dealt with the question, referring to the friction between landowners and Inspec- tors, when an honourable gentleman inter- jected, " Will you allow trapping on Crown lands ? " He said,- "Yes ; anywhere during the trapping season. I will give them at least two months, or pos- 