pulsion in it, an Act which had worked bene- ticially and had prevented a great many dis- putes from coming to the point of a strike in that country. Many other members of this Council besides myself thought that it would be advisable to adopt, as a first tentative measure, the Act which had worked reasonably well in America. But it was decided by a majority that we should act otherwise ; and now what do we find ? We find-I think there is a general consensus of opinion on this point -that more or less the Conciliation Boards have broken down-that they are not a success ; that business is harassed ; that both employers and employed are dragged at all times of the year from one tribunal to the other ; that they are obliged to dance attendance for months together upon them ; that they are made parties to disputes in which they have no interest, and are worried by interference which can be of no advantage to either party to the original quarrel. I cannot see why we should per- petuate 'a system of this sort, and I think it is only a reasonable proposal in the present Bill to give either party to a dispute the option of at once bringing the case before the Court, which has finally to de- termine it. I cannot help taking this oppor- tunity of expressing a strong feeling of regret at the appointment of a Judge of the Supreme Court as Judge of the Arbitration Court. It is a very dangerous departure from the principle that a Judge of the higher Court should not be employed on other business. I do not mean that this innovation threatens danger to the Arbitration Court; but I do mean that it is calculated to affect the dignity and the posi- tion of the Supreme Court of the country. The reason the Supreme Court is held in such high repute amongst English-speaking people is because the Judges are adminis- trators of the law, and of the law only ; they are chosen for their knowledge of law as well as for their high character. One Judge may not be as competent as another ; but there is an appeal from the individual Judge to the Judges collectively. This is why the country has the utmost confidence in the Supreme Court. The Judge lays down the law with scien- tific coolness and impartiality, and the juries help him as to matters of fact ; his judg. ment is liable to supervision and revision by his colleagues, and that gives a gene- ral sense of security and confidence. But you may put any man in the world into the posi- tion of arbitrator, and you will find that he will never hold the position in the public esti- mation that is held by a Judge of the Supreme Court. However well he may do his work he will be subject to the comments always made on the results of arbitration, which so often amount to a splitting of the difference. It is not right to place a Judge of the Supreme Court in such a position. The lowering of his status in the eyes of the country is a loss to the people and a danger to our liberties. I made this protest at the time such appointments were proposed, and I make it again now-after we have had an system. I believe, myself, that this is a very important matter-far more important than it appears on the surface. We are on the wrong track when we ask a Judge of the Supreme Court to do work which is outside his proper duties. I should not be at all averse to selecting a man of the very highest standing we can tind for this work ; let him bo a lawyer, and, so far as salary goes, let him be placed as high as a Supreme Court Judge : but let him be an Arbitration Court Judge altogether independent of the Supreme Court, and without any voice or seat therein. This question is so urgent as to be worthy of immediate considera- tion, although it does not, perhaps, come within the scope of this Bill. I am very glad to notice, in the discussion that has taken place here, a general desire all round the Council to discuss the question without prejudice, and with an endeavour to seek what is best both for the employer and the employed and for the in- terests of the country. The interests of the country are indeed involved in the smooth working of our factories and industries, for if they do not prosper we shall be overwhelmed with foreign competition ; there will be no room for our own enterprise and no work for our rising population. The only honourable member who seems disinclined to give way at all is our irreconcilable friend opposite, the Hon. Mr. Rigg. He tells us frankly, in that deliberate and decided way in which he speaks -there is no mistaking his views-he tells us that he looks forward to the time when the country will be divided into two camps -employers and employed who will alter- nately rule the roost. What a time it will be! Perhaps I am not doing him justice, for his view apparently is that the employés should always rule, and that the em- ployers should have no voice at all. Is that to be the outlook? I have always understood that it was not well for any country that any interest should be predominant, but that every interest should have its proportionate voice in the government of the State. I should have scarcely thought the honourable gentleman was in earnest if I had not noticed that he generally lets us know what his views are. The honourable gentleman objected to clause 11 and to the amendment proposed therein, and said it would lead to constant revision of what might be done by the Court. Well, Sir, awards must be revised from time to time to a certain extent. Under a system of industrial concilia- tion and arbitration there must be periodical consideration of the changing circumstances in different parts of the country at different times. If disputes are to be managed in the way pro- posed by this legislation, we must provide for consideration not only of the circumstances that arise perhaps from year to year through- out the colony, but of the different circum- stances that may exist at the same time, say, at Auckland and Southland. So that I do not think the honourable gentleman's objection to the clause reasonable. I must just say one word about the return that 