own sole use and benefit, to be rendered abso- lutely inalienable, so that there shall be no chance of their becoming paupers. Provision was made in the Act of 1900 that it should be the first duty of the Native Councils to attend to this matter, and to see that each individual Maori was provided with a certificate that suffi- cient land had been set apart for him. Clause 21 in the Act is the one which I refer to, and is as follows :-- " With respect to all Maori lands within the district of the Council the following special provisions shall apply :- "(1.) The Council shall with all convenient speed proceed to ascertain and deter- mine what land each Maori man, woman, or child has suitable for his, her, or its occupation and support, and to determine how much thereof and what portion is necessary to be a papakainga for each such Maori for his or her maintenance and support and to grow food upon, and shall issue & papakainga certificate declaring that such land is a papakainga for such Maori, and notice of such allo- cation shall be given by the Council to such Maori preparatory to the issue of a certificate therefor. " (2.) Such land shall be absolutely inalien- able. " (3.) Papakainga certificates shall be pre- pared on parchment, in triplicate, and shall set forth a plan and descrip- tion of the land, and the name of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 holder thereof." And in clause 23 of the Act it provides,- "No Maori shall alienate any Maori land, either to the Crown or to any other person, unless and until he has had issued to him a papakainga certificate as hereinbefore pro- vided, or he is able to produce the notice of the Council that lands have been allocated to him preparatory to the issue of a papakainga certifi- cate therefor, as provided in section twenty- one hereof." Now, in this amending Bill this clause is amended by inserting at the end of the section the words "or a certificate of a Judge of the Native Land Court that he is satisfied, after due inquiry, that the Maori alienating has sufficient other lands for his maintenance and support, or for the purposes of a papakainga." Now, I maintain that by this amendment the papa- kainga question goes by the board. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- No. The Hon. Mr. WILLIAMS. - Well, that is my opinion, because it is very easy for a Judge of the Native Land Court - and I must say that I have not the same veneration for the judgment of some of the Judges of the Native Land Court as some people have-it is then easy for a Judge of the Native Land Court to cer- tify that a Maori has lands in another block- it may be miles away from his home, and not even allocated-sufficient for his maintenance. The question at issue is, that each individual shall first have allocated to him a piece of land Bon. Mr. Williams prove, knowing that those improvements are his own. At present they have no inducement to improve their lands, because no one knows what is his individual property. He may fence in a paddock, but immediately another Native may jump his claim and put in his cattle, and say that the land is as much his as it is the other's. There is no individualisation of land. The question at issue is the individualising of the Maori title. When they have sufficient land individualised, so that each one has his own farm and home, then the question of the sur- plus land becomes a very easy matter. As to the machinery of the Act, I have no objection to the machinery dealing with the waste Maori estate, provided that first and foremost the individualising or the supplying of each Native with a papakainga be carried out, and that the intentions cf the Act of 1900 should ce given effect to. These are my objections to the Bill, and I thought it as well to place them on record before the Bill went into Committee. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I fully agree with what my honourable friend who has just sa: down has said with regard to the securing of land for Natives to live on, and that they should get a title for it. Well, I think the Bill pro- vides for that ; it is supposed to be provided by the Maoris themselves. The difficulty hitherto has been that the Natives themselves would not agree with regard to dealing with their own land, and would not allow the Go- vernment to deal with it. The attempt made last year was to settle the question by a mixed tribunal, called the " Maori Council." Ta? President, together with two Europeans and one Maori to be appointed by the Governor. and not exceeding three Maoris elected by the Maoris of the district-the persons so appointed and elected form the Native Council. Now. the first process that is necessary to start this is that the title to the land proposed to be dealt with should be investigated by a Judge of the Native Land Court, and be issues certificates to the Natives entitled to land showing their respective interests in the block dealt with. That is the first pro- cess. That certificate has to be given by the Judge of the Native Land Court. Ba: before each person can get on his own lar.d. which has been awarded him by the Court. there must be a survey, and that will thise time. Where there is a large number of smak interests in a large block of land it will taxe s considerable time to enable the Maori Council to give the parchment certificates, with a pit. attached, to the individual Natives show.r .: where their land is. The intention of the Bri is that each individual Native shall get a parct- ment certificate of his land, to be secured to him from the Council after the survey has been made. That is the intention of the Bill. And this will be carried out by the Council itself with the Land Court certificate as a check. Now, I myself was very much concerned with regard to this Council. As the Bill provides. the Council will receive the lands belonging to individual Natives in trust, to be dealt with by 