a mistake. Mr. SEDDON .- I never do. Mr. ATKINSON .- Of course not ; yet if he did not make a mistake in placing that vote on the estimates, he has made a mistake now in asking us to take it off. There is no escape from that dilemma. I see the honourable mem- ber for the Suburbs is frank enough to admit that. There is really no great harm in the Premier making a mistake of this kind. He is not a Law Officer, and he cannot be expected to examine every legal detail of the work he is engaged upon, and therefore it could not be for a moment supposed that any reflection was cast upon him personally if this were acknow. ledged to be a mistake. On the contrary, I think it would have been to his credit if he had frankly said, " We have made this mistake, we ask the House to rectify it, and to proceed in another fashion." But, of course, he has not done that. He gave us as one reason for the step he is taking that we should avoid acri- monious debate upon the vote. But the debate upon this measure will give us much wider opportunities of debate than we should have had if the vote had remained on the estimates. He has given us this opportunity now, and we shall still have an opportunity of speaking on the estimates when they come along. We shall also have all the stages of the Bill now being introduced, instead of a single stage on the estimates. Then, the honourable gentle- man said the lawyers would differ with regard to the effect of these words in the Royal Instruc- tions. The honourable member for the Suburbs was so guarded that I do not think he gave us an opinion upon the application of that clause of the Royal Instructions which he read to the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero matter now before us, and I do not think we had an expression of opinion from the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) either ; and the silence on the part of two such loyal supporters of the Government may, I think, be taken as an indication that they " did not consider the point was quite free from doubt," to use a favourite phrase of the Soli- citor-General's. Now, as to the opinion of the Solicitor-General, it was very unkindly said, in regard to a case before our Court of Appeal, in which five Judges sat and four of them decided one way and the minority of one the other way -I shall not mention the names, but it was re- marked by a member of our profession that all the lawyers on the Bench had decided one way and, let me say, Mr. Justice Jones the other. It was very hard on Mr. Justice Jones ; and it would be equally hard on the Solicitor-Gene- ral if I were to say, in regard to the alleged difference of legal opinion as to the effects of this clause, that all the lawyers of the colony would be on the one side and the Soli- citor-General on the other. It would be rather hard, and I will not, therefore, commit myself to the remark. But the honourable member for Napier has made the best lawyer's speech on behalf of-I do not know that I ought to say on behalf of-not on behalf of the course the Right Hon. the Premier is taking, because Mr. Atkinson surdity of the course the Premier is taking. The points upon which the member for Napier laid stress were that the words of the Instruc- tions were- "The Governor shall not, except in the cases hereunder mentioned, assent in our name to any Bill of any of the following clauses :- "(2.) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gra- tuity, may be made to himself"- and that in the estimates the words " reim- bursement of expenses" were used in lieu of "grant " or " donation." He made the most of that, and cited a dictionary in support of his argument. I have no exception to take to his definition of the words, but I wish to ask the House this simple question : Who is liable, if we do not pass the Bill or if we do not pass this vote ? And the answer to that is, His Excellency the Governor. If we are liable, no Bill is needed ; if the Bill is needed it is only because His Excellency the Governor is liable. There is a dilemma again, from which I can see no escape. And therefore if in the absence of this Bill His Excellency the Governor is liable, though he may have a moral claim for reim- bursement, that would be still in law a dona- tion, and therefore comes within the clause of the Royal Instructions that has been referred to. Supposing I give £10 to the Royal Reception Fund, I am £10 out of pocket, and supposing & month later my constituents or some benevo- lent committee decide they will reimburse me the £10 which I have paid on behalf of the country to the Royal Reception Fund, well, that £10 will merely reimburse me for the money I have already spent; but, so far as the relation between the Committee and my- self is concerned, it is nothing but a donation from them to me, and there is no escape from that unless I was their legally authorised agent. If I was their agent my action was their action, and therefore it was their gift and not mine, and no resolution of indemnity or anything else was required for my reimbursement. So it ap- pears to me perfectly plain that this procedure that the Premier has asked us to take is the proper one. Otherwise the Appropriation Bill must have been reserved for His Majesty's 1 ------- assent, because the Instructions would have prohibited His Excellency from assenting to a 1 Bill from which he would have derived a per- sonal advantage. Now, I agree with the mem- ber for the Suburbs in holding that the question of the merits of this grant, reimbursement, or donation is a question that is properly reserved for the second reading, and I shall not now ex- press my opinion one way or the other. But I see the learned honourable member for Napier, Mr. Fraser, is now in his place, and as he has got his dictionary with him, it would not take him long to find out that there is a distinction be- tween a moral and a legal obligation ; and gene- rally in litigation and in common life one insists on the moral quality of a claim when there is no legal basis on which to rest it. I cannot meet his arguments on that subject further than by saying that His Excellency 1 1 