with the Native race were of supreme importance to the colony, and should have the assistance of all members. He said it was not a credit- able thing that the Government should have to force these measures through. There was no reason why this measure should not have been brought down at an early part of the session, when we had practically nothing to do, and have been calmly and dispassionately discussed for two or three nights. The time would not have been wasted at all on one of the most im- portant aspects of this colony's affairs. Minis- ters ought to recognise it was the endeavour of every member to amend the Bill so as to make it workable, and not to accuse members of stonewalling tactics when any one tried honestly to improve the law. He believed the Bill was an advance in a certain way on the legislation of last session, and he believed the Native Minister would agree that some good amendments were put in last night. But the system of Councils was a faulty one, and he was afraid the principle of the Act would only end in disaster to the Europeans and Natives connected with it. The preamble of the Act of last session, which read almost as a satire on what had happened during the past twelve months, set forth,- " Whereas the chiefs and other leading Maoris of New Zealand, by petition to Her Majesty and to the Parliament of New Zealand, urged that the residue (about five million acres) of the Maori land now remaining in possession of the Maori owners should be reserved for their use and benefit in such wise as to protect them from the risk of being landless : And whereas it is ex- pedient, in the interests of both the Maoris and Europeans of the colony, that provision should be made for the better settlement and utilisa- tion of large areas of Maori land at present lying unoccupied and unproductive, and for the en- couragement and protection of the Maoris in efforts of industry and self-help : And whereas it is necessary also to make provision for the pre- vention, by the better administration of Maori lands of useless and expensive dissensions and litigation, in manner hereinafter set forth." These were fine words, and if the Act and this Bill did half of what was expressed here, he should be only too pleased to support them ; but it did nothing of the kind. Now, what would this Bill bring forth but expensive and dissentious litigation ? Even the keenest lawyers in the colony could not say what clause 22 of the old Bill or clause 4 of this Bill meant. No one could say exactly what the powers of the Council, or of the Maoris who returned them, meant under the Act or its amend- ment of this year, or what power any one had to purchase land or lease it. Then, there was nothing in the Act or Bill to encourage the Maoris in methods of industry and self-help. Nor was there anything in the Act or Bill that prevented the Maoris from selling their land. In fact, he considered it opened the door wider to the sale of Native land. Clause 22, which was the crux of last session's Act, and clause 4 of this Bill, were read by the free-trade party as supporting their own views. Mr. HEKE .- Clause 29 closes the door to alienation by sale. Mr. HERRIES .- Not necessarily ; and clause 22 actually opened it. He differed from the honourable gentleman, and it only showed how difficult it was for any two parties to agree as to what the Bill did or did not. He con- sidered the Act extended the power of purchas- ing lands, and for that reason he had supported it, because nothing could be worse than the present system. Any change must be for the better. Now the lands were lying idle, and the Maoris were altogether dissatisfied, and the pakeha were dissatisfied because the Act, which was supposed to be the panacea of everything, would not work. He did hope this amending Bill would oil the wheels somewhat, and that these Councils would be found to be a good thing and would carry out the preamble of the Act of last session ; but he very much doubted it. He would impress upon the Minister that it was of the utmost importance to choose the best men to carry out the Act, and he hoped the honourable gentleman had already fixed on the men. He regretted there was no alteration made in the salaries, because he did not think they could get really good men at the low salary being offered. The very best men ob- tainable ought to be got to fill the positions. What he was afraid of was that the salary would be too small, and that probably many undesir- able people would be put into these billets. He hoped the Minister would not be influenced by political feelings in filling up the billets. He earnestly trusted that all party feeling would be removed from this question. He trusted that the amendments made by this Bill would be found to do that which the Minister ex- pected it would do, and, if so, no one would be better pleased to see the Councils have a fair trial than himself. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said, Al- though he differed very widely from the last speaker on certain important cardinal points in Native land policy, he was in entire agreement with him in his last remarks as to the necessity of getting the best men available for the positions to be filled under this Act, and as to the need on the part of the Minister for caution against anything like introducing or giving way to He thought that all political influence. things, taken together, really pointed to this : that a billet on a Maori Council was almost an ideal post for favouritism and jobbery. He had had brought under his notice a most extra- ordinary example of how, even in the highest stations in the department of the Native Minis- ter, there was favouritism -and perhaps some- thing worse-of a very marked character. The Government purchased either whole or part of the Tamaki Block some time ago, and there fell due recently a sum of £500 to Mrs. Karaitiana in respect of a survey lien. The chief officer of the Native Land Purchase Department, Mr. Sheridan, was consulted on the matter, and he stated that he had the money in hand, and that the only reason he could not 