works under the heading of " Police Stations " have been in hand during the year, the principal items being as follows : New stations at Hamil- ton West, Gisborne, Feilding, Westport, Arrow- town, and Invercargill; new quarters at New Plymouth, Nelson, Queenstown, and Bluff ; purchase of land at Kaiapoi ; and additions or extensive renovations at Ngaruawahia, Gis- borne, Spit, Inglewood, Manaia, Waverley, Marton, Lower Hutt, Blenheim, Lyell, Grey- mouth, Rangiora, Christchurch, Timaru, and Winton. The principal works provided for this year are new cells, watchhouse, and quarters at Auckland ; additions at Mount Cook, Welling- ton ; new stations at Onehunga, Tolago Bay, Ormondville, Patea, Taihape, Akaroa, Waikou- aiti, Dunedin (King Street), Outram, and Rox- burgh ; new quarters at Waipawa, Denniston, Timaru, and Oamaru ; and additions or exten- sive renovations at Aratapu, Kawhia, Clive, Waitara, Stratford, Opunake, Hawera, Wanga- nui, Kimbolton, Hokitika, Cheviot, Southbridge, Lyttelton, Ashburton, Glenavy, St. Bathans, Cromwell, Ophir, and Lawrence. # Post and Telegraph. New post-offices were erected at Karanga- hake, Hamilton, Wereroa, Eketahuna, Master- ton, Petone, Wellington (Newtown), Takaka, Sumner, Naseby, and Bluff ; land and buildings were purchased at Ponsonby and Papanui; a new site at Inglewood ; custodian's quarters built at Auckland ; and extensive alterations or https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 additions at Auckland, Otahuhu, Rotorua, Wairoa, New Plymouth, Christchurch (tele- phone exchange), Clyde, Cromwell, Alexandra, and Roxburgh ; and contributions towards new offices in railway-stations were made at Clinton and Morven. In the vote for the current year provision is made for a commencement with the new Pacific cable station at Doubtless Bay ; for new post-offices at Dargaville, Aratapu, Pa- paroa, Onehunga, Mercer, Kawhia, Tolago Bay, Gisborne, Spit, Weber, New Plymouth, Toko, Inglewood, Opunake, Wanganui, Rae- tihi, Hunterville, Bulls, Feilding, Levin, Po- ngaroa, Alfredton, Carterton, Motueka, Dennis- ton, Brunnerton, Hanmer Springs, Ashburton, Temuka, Caversham, and Gore; for new quarters at Tarawera, Kaikoura, and Tapanui ; and for additions, alterations, or extensive renovations at Auckland, Dannevirke, Wood- ville, Hawera, Foxton, Picton, Blenheim, Renwicktown, Nelson, Collingwood, Westport, Greymouth, Hokitika, Christchurch, Lyttel- ton, Timaru, Oamaru, Dunedin (both telegraph- and post-offices), South Dunedin, and Invercar- gill ; and for compensation that will be payable for the land taken for the enlargement of the General Post Office. # Customhouses. Only £875 was expended under this head last year, principally in connection with additions to the Wanganui Customhouse. This year pro- vision is made for completing this work, and also for new sites and buildings at Wellington and Timaru. The expenditure on new works was slightly in excess of the previous year's figures. The principal expenditure was again in connection with the Porirua Asylum, which absorbed 910,587. An expenditure of over £3,000 also took place on additions to the Auckland Asylum, and smaller amounts were spent at Wellington (Mount View), Nelson, Seacliff, &c. For the current year provision is made for completing the Porirua building; for completing the addi- tions now in hand at Auckland and Nelson ; for some necessary enlargements and the com- pletion of the electric - light installation at Seacliff ; and for minor works at Wellington, Hokitika, and Sunnyside. ## Schools. The amount voted for school-buildings last year was £90,655, namely: #25,000 under the Consolidated Fund, and £65,655 under the Public Works Fund. The expenditure amounted to £58,681, namely : £25,000 under the former and £33,681 under the latter fund. As in former years, the bulk of this money was intrusted to the Education Boards for ex- penditure, the. only works directly controlled by the Government being the industrial and Native schools, and School for Deaf-mutes, &c. Native schools were erected last year, or are now in course of erection, at Oro- mahoe, Omarumutu, Whareponga, Parawera, Kerepehi, Whakarewarewa, Tapuacharuru, Taumaranui, and Te Haroto, and additions or repairs have been effected at Te Ahuahu, Poroti, Kaikohe, and Koroniti. This year we ask for a total vote of £85,000, namely : $25,000 under the Consolidated Fund, and $60,000 under the Public Works Fund. Provision is made for a commencement with the new school for deaf-mutes, also a home for weak-minded and epileptic children, and for the following works under the head of " Industrial Schools," namely : Completion of the altera- tions at Mount Albert (Auckland) ; clearing, draining, fencing, &c., on the new site at Levin, and for a commencement with the new build- ing ; additions, alterations, and furnishings at Te Oranga Home (Christchurch) ; additional buildings, &c., at Burnham; and sundry fur- nishings at Caversham. # Miscellaneous. Provision is also made under the "Public 1 Buildings " vote for erections required by the Agricultural Department at Hunterville, Pal- merston North, Carterton, Palmerston South, Roxburgh, and Invercargill, in addition to the new laboratories in Wellington already referred to ; also for the following works under the head "Hospitals and other charitable institutions," Grants-in-aid to the Waihi, Wairoa, Napier, Picton, and Greymouth Hospitals ; for a cottage hospital at Kaikoura ; for special wards for the treatment of delirium tremens cases at the four 1 principal centres of population ; and for a com- mencement with the proposed sanatorium for consumptives. 