mendations of the Commission. In some cases the necessary notice had been given with a view of allowing the claims to come in. Re- garding the amount spent on "Contingencies," the items were as follows :- s. d. £ Auctioncer's fees, sale of sections, 2 12 Millerton . . · Bullion assay 2 2 Building dam, Cardiff Mine fire 30 12 .. Cleaning offices, fuel, &c. 1 10 Cleaning typewriter 1 11 Furniture 9 4 15 Foreign postages . . 1 Lodging allowances 14 11 Miners' lamps 1 11 .. Miscellaneous 2 16 Stationery, books, &c. 0 19 . . Telephone subscriptions 34 19 Kumara Water-race Inquiry 29 3 . Wages, office-cleaners, &c. 16 8 .. Preparation of plans . 8 8 Total £189 11 3 As to the question of the honourable member for Bruce, he would inform him that, of those who composed the Coal-mines Commission, Mr. Proud held an English certificate. Mr. Lomas, he believed, held a certificate, and he was certainly a skilled miner, and well titted for the position. The time spent on the inspec- tion of the Shag Point Mine was three-quarters of an hour. The mining experts inspected the mine, and Mr. Haselden, the Magistrate, took https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the evidence while they were inspecting the mine. The Commission spent two hours and a half in inspecting the Allendale Mine, and about an hour and a half was then spent in taking evidence. The Commissioners left Dun- edin early in the morning, and returned in the evening, having inspected those two mines during the day. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said the Commission had reported upon a mine that he was largely interested in. They now heard that the Com- mission had spent two hours and a half in in- specting the mine. His information was that they had spent two hours. They were also told the Commission spent three-quarters of an hour inspecting an equally large mine. The duty of the Coal-mines Inspectors was to visit and inspect these mines during the course of the year, and complaints had been made that an Inspector could not satisfy himself as to the safety of a mine with the visits now paid. Those visits occupied a much longer time than the members of the Commission gave. Now, they had a Commission set up to review the Inspectors, and if the Inspectors required re viewing it could not be very satisfactory. The Commission, however, found that three-quarters of an hour was sufficient time to examine one mine; and, in another, two hours and a half was sufficient. The shortest road through that mine was one mile, and the Commission re- ported they had found it dangerous, and that the men were afraid to report the danger to the mine-manager, because, if they did, the Mr. McGowan presumed the members of the Royal Commis- sion know the law upon the subject, and the law laid down that it was the duty of a miner to report any danger or any want of ventilation to the mine-manager. If a miner failed to do this he was not complying with the rules under which he worked. It was the duty of a miner 0 instantly to report anything of the sort to the 0 mine-manager. Was it not the interest of the 4 miner, and also the manager, to have such 0 things reported at once ? And yet it was said 4 that the men would be dismissed for reporting 0 danger. What would the Conciliation and Ar- 6 bitration Court say to the dismissal of a man 8 for complying with the rules under which he 0 was bound to work. He (Mr. Allen) denied 0 absolutely that any mine manager in the colony 8 would be such a fool as to dismiss a man he- 2 cause he reported danger. The Commission 7 ought to have known that this was the rule. If 0 they did not, they had no right to make the re- 0 port they had made. And if they did know it, then the report amounted to this: that the Commission reported the men were breaking the rules that were laid down for them. With regard to the mine he was interested in he had endeavoured to get from the men an expression of opinion whether this report was correct or not, but they would give him no expression of opinion at all. This Commission reported that in this particular mine the air- way was dangerous, and that the pillars had been taken out. He was able to say that on one side of the airway not a single pillar had been touched till this day. On the other side the pillars were left in to an extent that was, without any question, sufficient to retain the airway. Since the report was made they had removed some of the pillars. And yet this report stated that some of the pillars were taken out and thereby rendered the airway unsafe ! The Commission also reported that the air in the mine was bad. He admitted that they were altering their air-course, and had been for a fortnight so doing, with a double shift of men, before the Commission visited the mine. Under those circumstances, it was unavoidable that for a day, perhaps, or for several days, when the external air was not suitable, the ventilation underground was some- times bad. It was so when the Commission visited this mine. Altogether the Commission's report was one that ought to be reviewed by somebody else. They were four hours in the district investigating two " dangerous" mines, and yet very few accidents had occurred in these mines. Of his own knowledge he only knew of one death that had occurred, and yet one of the mines had been working for twelve years and the other for thirty years. There were less accidents there than occurred in the English and the New Zealand mines generally, and yet the Commission reported that one of these mines was in a dangerous state. Mem- bers did not know how the Commission took their evidence, or what the value of the evi- dence was ; but, at any rate, it was impossible for them at the time at their disposal to either 