any honourable member to say that, in order to attend to my business, I have absented myself from sessional Committee meetings or sittings of the House. I defy any honourable member to say I have been absent from the House ex- cept on one day through sickness. Then, it costs me more in house-rent than I would have to pay if I were not in Parliament. I can tell honourable members, too, that the £20 honora- rium is altogether insufficient for the ordinary wants of my family, and, abstemious and thrifty as one may be, it is imperative that some addition be made to that from other sources in order to keep out of debt. All this is perfectly à propos to the proposition that we should ask our employers for an increase of wages, and I am willing to do so; but I feel I have no right to increase my wages on my own motion. I con- tend that, while Parliament has the right to deal with the whole of the finances of the colony, and while members have the right to deal with the wages of every one in the colony, they have no right to deal with their own. We have been entrusted to do that, and I do not see that any discretionery power has been put into our hands. Now, as I have already said, if I am going to raise my own wages I will be generous, and I will not take less than £500 or £600. That may be con- sidered the reductio ad absurdum, but that is how I feel on the matter. It seems to me, however, it would be within the functions of Parliament to assist honourable members to minimise their expenses by adopting a pro- position such as has been suggested to-night by some honourable members. It might fairly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 meet the election expenses of honourable members up to a certain sum. That is to say, the candidate, on establishing proof of certain legitimate expenses, which, of course, would have to be clearly defined, might have up to a certain maximum sum paid by the Govern- ment. An Hon. MEMBER .- Would you give the de- feated candidate something, too ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- All who poll a certain percentage of votes should receive something, but it should be fixed at such an amount as would discourage the undue accession of candi- dates. I would say that unless a candidate polled a very decent proportion of the votes his expenses should not be paid. That would be necessary. Generally these expenses swallow up the first year's honorarium, especially of a member who has a large country district to represent. I am willing to admit the reason- ableness of the honourable member for Wai- hemo in regard to what he says about his electorate. There are others-the Patea electo- rate for instance-covering a very large area of difficult country. A seat like that can only be won by a man who is in a position to expend a considerable sum of money, and who is very ener- geticand physically fit. In that case, Parliament might legitimately meet these expenses, and do it in such a way as to remove all unpleasant- ness from the present situation. I do not take up this position for the purpose of playing the Mr. Hutcheson too highly the goodwill and good feeling of my fellow-members and fellow-men to do anything of the sort. It is not my nature to be cantan- kerous in spirit, but I cannot see that I have a right to alter my own emoluments without reference to those who placed me here. As the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) said to-night, at the last election each member of this House solicited from the people the pri- vilege of being here, well knowing at that time that the period of his service would in all pro- bability be three years, and that the amount of his emoluments would be at the rate of £240 per annum while he remained here. Now, that appears to me to be a clear and common-sense issue, and no amount of sophistry and special pleading can get over the principle involved in that. I cannot listen to the wiles of the Hon. the Premier : he has a too seductive manner. But I have no doubt that this proposal would never have been made to Parliament if Parlia- ment, first of all, had not increased his salary and the salaries of his colleagues. Now. some may think that I grudge the Premier his salary. I say honestly and fairly I would not begrudge a salary of £4,000 or £5,000 a year to a Premier of this colony such as we have-an in- defatigable man, who in this and every other country is known for his ubiquity and pro digious capacity for work. A great deal of it is unnecessary, I believe ; but, from his point of view, attention to detail is needed, and he does that work in a most exhaustive and untiring manner. I would not begrudge him €5,000 $ year, providing I knew there were no perquisites nor privileges of office outside of that £5,000-tc put it not offensively, if there were no pickings outside of that, I would not begrudge him salary of £5,000 a year. A great deal has been said of the privileges of members of other re- presentative Chambers, and the railway and coach facilities of the members of the New South Wales Legislature. Well, that degene- rated into a scandal long ago. We know per- fectly well that the cousins, the sisters, and the aunts of these members ride free on the coache and railways fifty and sixty miles from up- country, in order to go town to town to get a sixpence worth of ribbon. I have perused the New South Wales and Australian papers. and, although it may not be a burning ques tion in this colony, still only in recent days there were all sorts of scandals in the public Press and in the Parliaments of those colonia over the way in which these privileges were abused. The privilege of franking letters and telegrams also has been abused. Hitherto this House has confined itself to a life of simplicity. and I say, with some knowledge of what I speak, that the Legislature of New Zealand has been freer from all sorts of self-seeking, jobbery, and corruption than any other Parliament in Aus- tralasia. That is admitted generally. I think the seeking for these privileges is the beginning of the road to political debauchery, and the less of these pickings we seek for ourselves the better it will be for those who come after us. Now, as regards the question of the working-man. 