expunged from the work altogether the book would be more accurate. Sir George Grey had himself informed him that he considered it purely & creation of recent date. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) said the monument erected by the Government in 1872 over the grave of the late Wiremu Patuone, at Devonport, had fallen into disrepair and was not at present a credit to the country. This chief was one of the most sincere friends of the Europeans in the early days. He had been given a State funeral, and he thought some steps should be taken to make the tomb more worthy of his memory. Mr. CARROLL, in reply to the honourable member for Christchurch City, said it was the intention of the Government that the compila- tion of the Maori history, and the Maori art work which was being brought out by Mr. Hamilton, should, to some extent, be asso- ciated. He had already given notice of a Bill in connection with Maori relics, and when that came before the House he would discuss with members the question of preserving Maori art. A week ago he had had a long conversation with Mr. Hamilton, who quite agreed with the intention of the Government in connection with this matter. He admitted that the only thing that could be done by legislation this year was to pass a Bill restricting the exporta- tion of Maori relics and giving the Government the first right of purchase. During the recess it was his intention to have a conference with Mr. Hamilton, and other prominent men who were leading men in scientific bodies, with a view of drawing up plans for the establishment of a national museum in Wellington, in which to treasure up all Maori relics and works of art. Mr. MONK .- Do you intend to place them in a wooden building ? Mr. CARROLL would like to see them in a special building, say, on the piece of ground attached to the Parliamentary Buildings which was now used as a tennis court. With regard to the matter brought forward by the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), the Native Department would see that every- thing necessary was done in connection with the monument erected in memory of the late Wiremu Patuone. With regard to the Urewera question, the department had not yet been suc- cessful in the settlement of the titles to that vast area known as the Crewera country. Many things had happened to bar their pro gress. This year had been a remarkable one, inasmuch as there had been the visit of their Royal Highnesses and other things which had prevented them going on with the prosecu- tion of the work of ascertaining these titles. Mr. Percy Smith, who from the inception of this Act had been a Commissioner, had occasion to leave, and they had not a suitable person on hand and had to wait until Major Scannell was disengaged ; he was appointed late in the season. This summer he intended that the Commission should start their work at the . earliest possible moment, and to keep them at it until the cold of winter drove them out. Mr. Monk good men, and he had every hope that this summer they would very nearly complete what was required of them in that country. The Lands Department and the Native Department were turning their attention to the matter mentioned by Mr. Ell. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) directed attention to the necessity of the Commissioners starting their work at the Ruatoke Block. Mr. CARROLL said he would submit that to the Commissioners. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) said, For travelling-allowances and expenses last year $200 was voted, whilst the expenditure was £384, and this year he observed that $350 was asked for. He would like to know why this large increase should appear on the estimates. Mr. McGOWAN said that the travelling- allowances and expenses of two Secretaries were included in the amount. The " Contin- gencies " were as follows :- £ s. d. Annual certificates as barristers, 12 12 0 &c., issued to Crown Law Officers Ballot - boxes, District Court, Ku- 3 5 0 mara . Clocks, and repairs to clocks 7 0 1 . 2 10 0 Copying-press . Counsel for defence in murder cases 2 42 0 Draping Courthouses, &c., Queen's funeral 7 4 0 Despatch-bags for Stipendiary Ma- 10 7 0 gistrates, &c. .. Expenses of Magistrate holding in- quiry re hauling down of Austrian 710 flag . . Freight and insurance on Patents 6 15 0 specifications . . .. 9 0 Legal expenses .. 11 . . Overcoat for messenger, cartage of stationery, &c., and sundry items 0 40 18 under £1 Postages on foreign correspondence 1 16 (Patent Office) 0 .. 30 0 0 Railway pass Refreshments to jurors, District 0 Courts 3 00 Refund of stamps accidentally de- stroyed by Clerk of Court, Te 0 Awamutu, before being used 15 0 .. 3 17 0 Removing telephones, &c. Salary of night-watchman, Coro- mandel 6 0 0 Salary of W. Jolliffe, Acting Law- 7 0 Draftsman 123 Share of expenses administering licensing laws paid to certain local bodies 25 ... 2 0 .. Shrubs for Court-grounds, &c. 10 0 0 Typewriters. mimeographs, cyclo- styles, and supplies 139 9 0 .. .. £507 18 0 Less amounts credited to vote for copies of inquest proceed- 0 2 11 ings £505 7 0 