vote with the "Noes," as this was a policy measure, and he did not think it was the duty of the Chairman to affirm an alteration in the Bill by his casting-vote. New clause negatived. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "The exporter of any timber declared duti- able under this Act, or his agent, shall, im- mediately upon the entry thereof by him, pay any duties which may be payable thereon to the Collector or other proper officer authorised to receive the same." New clause negatived. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "This Act shall be deemed to be repealed on the expiration of three months after the com- mencement of the next session of Parliament." The Committee divided on the question, " That the new clause be read a second time." AYES, 21. Rhodes Allen, J. Guinness Russell, G. W. Herries Atkinson Russell, W. R. Hutcheson Collins Thompson, R. Ell Lang Fisher Lethbridge Tellers. Buddo Meredith Fowlds Fraser, W. Monk Massey. Graham NOES, 28. Palmer Allen, E. G. Heke Arnold Hogg Symes Hornsby Tanner Carncross Kaihau Ward Carroll Laurenson Colvin Willis Witheford. Lawry Duncan Fraser, A. L. D. McGowan Millar Gilfedder Tellers. Mills Flatman Hall Mckenzie, R. Hall-Jones O'Meara Majority against, 7. Motion for second reading negatived. Schedule. Or such higher superficial feet superficial feet \- 3s. per 100 duty, not exceed- Logs, round ing 5s. per 100 Logs, squared with superficial feet, as 1 axe or saw the Governor by Half-logs Order in Council . . determines. Flitches of any par- ticular kind, or 3s. per 100 Or such lesser duty pieces, of such size as the Go- as the Governor by Order in Coun- vernor by Order cil determines. in Council from \- time to time de- termines Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) moved to strike out the words " Or such higher duty, not exceeding 5s. per 100 superficial feet, as the Governor by Order in Council deter- mines," and to insert " Or such lesser duty as the Governor by Order in Council determines." Motion agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) brought up the following report of the Conference on this Bill :- "The Managers appointed by the House of Representatives to conduct the Conference upon the Factories Bill have the honour to report that they have met the Managers appointed by the Legislative Council, and they have come to the following agreement, namely :- " In new clause 194, line 3, after ' women' to insert ' over the age of eighteen years.' "In clause 20, subclause (3), to restore the first proviso. " In clause 2, to amend the last paragraph so as to read as follows : 'Boy ' means every male under the age of sixteen years. "The other amendments made by the Coun- cil are accepted." On the question, That the report be agreed to, Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said, So far as he could learn, if the House adopted the recom- mendation of their Managers, the principal point had been more or less conceded by the Managers for the House. The principal point at issue between the House and another place was the question of the employment of women and youths for more than forty-five hours per week in woollen-factories. That had been the law previous to 1894 in all factories, when exemption was made of woollen-mills. Since then woollen-mills could employ women and young persons for forty-eight hours. This re. solution would affect a case filed and decision given by the Conciliation Court in Canterbury District, and now appeal had been made to the Arbitration Court. In this appeal the question 1 of hours of labour per week came up, and this Bill would to some extent prejudice any ap- plication to the Arbitration Court for a re- duction of hours of labour. He would be sorry to believe that this Factories Bill could detrimentally affect the woollen in- dustry, which was in a flourishing condition. He was opposed to differentiating between an employé in a clothing factory and those in a woollen-mill, and he believed that the woollen factory worker deserved equal consideration in the Factories Act. He admitted that the Arbi- tration Court could supersede this legislation if sufficient cause was shown. He was not pre- pared to vote against the Bill, as it contained some excellent provisions ; but he could not help thinking that this Bill left all questions of a principle in labour legislation aside, when it proposed to discriminate in the hours of labour of employés engaged in different industries of similar class of employment. Motion agreed to. Subsequently, A message was received from the Legisla- tive Council intimating that the report of the Conference on this Bill had been agreed to. NELSON HARBOUR BOARD BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- Short Title. Amendment by Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson), to 