bow to the inevitable. But, as the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) remarked, clause 21 will only be put in operation for one year. The public will have the advantage of judging of the effect of this clause upon the admi- nistration of the labour laws. If it proves satisfactory, then the Legislature-and in par- ticular the member for Wanganui-will be entitled to all the credit derivable from that result. If it is not satisfactory, we, as labour members-the members for Dunedin, Christ- church, Wellington, and Auckland-the city members-will see that the Conciliation Boards are reinstituted. I group them as the labour members. We are here to say, as to the result of one year's working of clause 21, if its ope- ration is not satisfactory to those concerned- employers and employed-it shall be altered. We are a solid phalanx. It does not matter on which side of the House we sit, for I give those sitting on the opposite side in politics as much credit as I claim for myself in the endeavour to perfect this legislation ; and if this clause is not an improvement on the existing law, then we will change it. Let us, then, accept the result as it is, agree to the amendments, and come down next year and say whether any change is necessary. The aim of the Legislature, I feel convinced, Sir, from my knowledge of the members of both sides of the House, is to con- oiliate. That is the desire of every member of the House, whether he be a labour mem- ber or not. We desire to set up a tribunal which will do away with all friction between employer and employed; and that is only https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 possible by wisely yielding, one side to the other. You want to deal not with the extremists of either side : you want to deal with the wise heads-the wise men-of both http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero sides. People of extreme ideas are not the people to determine large and important ques- tions such as this. It is the men who dissect, who sift, who weigh, as we in this House have to dissect, to sift, to weigh, who are best fitted to decide these questions. I admit the diffi- culty-we must all admit the difficulty-but I do not admit that there is any possibility of the settlement of that difficulty by the adoption of the sinuous and tortuous course taken by the Premier in this matter. If the Premier had boldly submitted one definite plan and said, " I think this best for the industrial classes of the community "-I would not care what it was -I would have followed him. I would not care what course he chose, provided it was one straight-out plan, having the re- commendation that it was the outcome of a bona fide and honest desire to settle the difficulty. Then the honourable gentleman could not have failed ; but I never knew success to follow any attempt to pursue three different courses at one and the same time. I hope the workers of this city will understand that. am here to represent their interests to the best of my ability. If the Premier disagrees with the introduction of clause 21, the clause of the honourable member for Wanganui, he could have stopped the progress of the Bill at the Mr. Fisher. do report progress. But, on the contrary, when the amendments made in Committee were reported to the House, including clause 21, he said,- "I am very pleased with our night's work, and if all our Bills and legislation were dealt with as we have dealt with the conciliation and arbitration question to-night, it would be to the credit of the House, the representatives of the people, and, I believe, in the best interests of the great majority of the people of the colony." Will the honourable gentleman explain bis conduct ? I cannot understand it. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, one thing that has struck me in listening to the debate that has proceeded this evening is the fact that some honourable members, like the last honourable gentleman who has spoken, while professing their anxiety to see the main- tenance of Conciliation Boards, immediately commenced by finding fault with the course taken by the Right Hon. the Premier. It would appear to me as though there were almost concerted action on the part of certain honourable members, who are endeavouring to score off what they are pleased to say is the double course followed by the Hon. the Pre- mier, in view of his having given expression to concern at the administration of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act some time ago and the action he has taken in opposing clause 21 as amended by the motion of the honourable member for Wanganui, Mr. Willis. Now, I think it is very unfair, very unjust, and not proper political warfare to try to place a false position before the House or before the country in connection with the action of the Right Hon. the Premier in this matter. I deprecate very strongly what several mem- bers of the House, and certainly the last speaker, have done. I will endeavour to show honourable members that one should not give too much weight to criticism which, if de- livered impartially, would be entitled to very considerable weight. These remarks apply to several of the speeches and to much of the criticism this evening. Now, as to the speech delivered by the Premier, from which the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) quoted earlier in the evening to show that he was inconsistent in this matter, I say that the honourable member ought to have quoted the Premier's remarks in full, and particularly he should have read his remarks in Hansard concerning clause 21. I will do so. The Pre- mier said,- "Then, with regard to the amendment carried on the motion of the member for Wanganui, Mr. Willis, I am afraid, Sir, that on reflection there will be a change of opinion in the minds of honourable gentlemen. I do not think that, because it has been alleged the I working of one Conciliation Board has been unsatisfactory, we should have endeavoured to wipe out practically the Conciliation Boards of the colony. "Mr. PIRANI .-- That will not be the effect. 