And that item, with studious forethought, was inserted in the estimates in such a manner that the House was prevented from dealing with it separately. But the Government, notwith- standing their great care, have found it neces- sary to change their position, and have taken the £2,250 out of the £50,000 asked for to cover in part the general expenses incurred in connec- tion with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, and now propose to put it before us in the form of a Bill - a separate and special Bill. Of course, instantly upon 3.30. looking at the Royal Instructions, one sees that the Government have placed them. selves in a dilemma. Mr SEDDON .- Oh, no. Mr. FISHER .- We are accustomed to the honourable gentleman's ingenious manner of wriggling out of a difficulty. If the Govern- ment did not find themselves involved in diffi- culty, why change the whole position of the vote ? Why place it before us as an item of the estimates one day, and in the form of a separate Bill on another day? The reason is clear. Primarily, the honourable gentleman acted in ignorance of the provisions of the Constitution Act. Subsequently, the Royal In- structions were evidently brought under his notice by some person, it does not matter by whom. The Royal Instructions (1892) sav,- "VI. The Governor shall not, except in the cases hereunder mentioned, assent in our name to any Bill of any of the following clases :-- "(2.) Any Bill whereby any grant of land or https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself." Mr. SEDDON .- " To himself." Mr. FISHER .- I will devote some little http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero attention to those words "made to himself." In the estimates we were asked to vote a sum of $2,250 as a "Grant to His Excellency the Governor in reimbursement of expenses in- curred by him. ' Who authorised the Governor to disburse ? Where is the authority ? There is no authority. He disbursed, if he disbursed, of his own free will. He asks to be "re- imbursed." Then, if he is " reimbursed," the " reimbursement " distinctly is a "donation . made to himself." The or gratuity colony entertained the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall. and right royally were they enter- tained. The Parliament of the country gave authority to the Government to meet all ex- penditure connected with that entertainment, and the Parliament now has before it a bill for expenses amounting to $70,060. This item, then, of $2,250, for which there is no vestige of authority, cannot otherwise be regarded than as a "donation or gratuity " to his Excellency the Governor. These are the words of the Royal Instructions If the honourable gentle- man succeeds in inducing the House to believe that this is not a "donation or gratuity " to His Excellency the Governor, then language has lost its use and meaning. First, why are we asked to vote $2,250 as a grant to His Excellency the Governor, in reimbursement of expenses incurred by him in connection with Mr. Fisher wall and York? Why are we asked to pass & grant for such a purpose ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- A grant for reim- bursement. Mr. SEDDON .- On our account. Mr. FISHER .- The honourable gentleman says it is reimbursement of money spent on our account. My answer to that statement is this : The House has before it items of expendi- ture amounting to $70,000, which are intended to cover all expenditure connected with the Royal reception. The Governor is not, and was not, invested with any authority to spend money "on our account." Where is there such autho- rity? Produce it. And if as is the fact, the people of the colony are asked to pay a sum of $70,000 for expenses connected with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, why should they be asked in addition to make a special grant to His Excellency the Governor ? And I ask, with added force, Why should there be a special grant to the Governor now in the face of the Act we passed last year, to which I willingly assented, in accordance with which the salary of the Governor was increased by the sum of $2,000. This is the clause of the Act :-- " It is hereby enacted that from and after the coming into operation of this Act there \-- shall be payable to the Governor every year out of the Consolidated Fund the sum of one thou- sand five hundred pounds as an allowance for the salaries and expenses of his establishment ; and also the sum of five hundred pounds as an allowance for the travelling-expenses of himself. his family, officers, and servants." Clearly this Act was intended to cover all expenses connected with the travelling of His Excellency the Governor. There, it will be seen, is a special allowance of $500 "for the travelling - expenses of himself, his family, officers, and servants." And that extra allow- ance was granted only last year. So he is re- ceiving two travelling-allowances for travelling over the same ground. But, to be Irish, he can- not travel t ice at once, vet he is to receive two In discussing special travelling - allowances. such a subject we are limited in the expres- sions we use in speaking of His Excellency the Governor, because it is expected of us that we shall all speak with the very greatest respect of the representative of the King. But while we speak with the greatest respect of the King and of his representative, it must be remembered that we are sent here by the electors of the country to narrowly guard the public expenditure. If that is not our function, then we have no func- tion. It is, of course, the duty of His Excel- leney's Ministers to explain and defend on \-- - the floor of this House every act of His Ex- cellency : they are his responsible advisers. We readily understand the position of Minis- ters as the constitutional representatives of His Excellency in this House. On the other hand we are here to advocate and safeguard the \--- interests of the taxpayers of the country ; and I say that the Parliament of the country, having provided for all expenditure connected with the 