marry Europeans and their descendants, there will go on a steady distribution of the Maori lands, and the two races will become fused in one, and thus the Maoris will be finally absorbed. It must be admitted, I think. that the legislation of this colony in connection with Maori mat- ters has been halting, changeable, and ineffec- tive. What is our position now ? There is a Bill before this House at the present time called the Native Land Claims Adjustment and Laws Amendment Bill. I am not going to refer to the proposals in that Bill. I merely cite it as one of the results of our legislation in this respect. That Bill contains proposals to upset decisions of various Courts of the colony by giving legal effect to recommendations of the Native Affairs Committee and in cer- tain other ways ; and, I ask, what can be the position of Maori matters in the colony when the result of all our legislation has been that in the year 1901 we are dealing with a Bill altering the decisions of various tribunals that have been set up by the colony for the purpose of dealing with these Maori lands ? No greater proof can be given of the statement I make that our legislation on these matters has been halting, weak, and ineffective. Mr. HOUSTON .- The Government do the same with regard to Europeans. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- No ; there is no such Bill with regard to Europeans. I deny the honourable gentleman's assertion. Mr. HOUSTON. . The " washing-up " Bill. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It does not deal with such cases as there are in the Bill I have referred to. Mr. HOUSTON .- It is on a par with it. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- No, it is not on a par with it. It is quite a different thing, be- cause what we call the European " washing-up" Bill generally deals with small matters relating to reserves, local bodies, and so on, but does not undo the decisions of legal tribunals that have been set up for the purpose of deciding questions at law. There is another matter I should like to refer to. It has been said throughout the debate-it was mentioned by the honourable member for the Waikato -that there should be the same law for the Natives as for the Europeans. Now, Sir, that is right with regard to laws in general ; but can the honourable gentleman point to any similar case where there are numbers of Europeans situated in exactly the same way as the Maoris are situated in connection with these lands ? It is quite right that what I call a general law should apply equally to both Maori and Euro- pean. That I am entirely in favour of with all matters that are applicable to the two races. But, to give force to the honourable gentle. man's argument, it is necessary he should prove there are large numbers of Euro- peans holding blocks of land communally, having interests in many cases that have not been separated ; that these lands are not settled upon, and are blocking the progress of the colony ; and that there was a parity of in- terests, so far as the Europeans were concerned, similar to the case of the Maoris themselves. Mr. G. W. Russell That position, however, cannot be maintained or proved. We are dealing now with a special set of circumstances, which require special treatment at the hands of Parliament and the country. Still, I am prepared to admit, what we all know, that there are individual cases of Maoris who are as astute and clever as any European ; but these are isolated cases, and do not represent the general body of the Maoris, who in many cases live in the back part of the colony, and have not had that experience of business that is necessary to enable them to meet the exceedingly keen-witted gentlemen who represent those classes of investors who want to become owners or lessors of Maori lands. There is, however, a party springing up in New Zealand which I am glad to see- namely, what is now known as the " Young Maori party." I believe that a party like that will tend to draw to itself the ablest of the rising generation of the Maoris, who will combine with a patriotic love of their own race that intellectual training which our universities and colleges are able to give them. By that means we shall draw into public life, in its various phases, the ablest of the young men of the Maori race. Now, Sir, with regard to the Bill of last year, let me briefly summarise the principal provisions of that Act. There was, first of all, the election of Councils, on which the colony and the Maoris owning land in the dis- tricts were to be represented. Secondly, there was the transference of the powers of the Native Land Courts to those Councils, as to the ascer- tainment of ownership, partition, succession, the definition of relative interest, and the appointment of trustees for Native owners. Thirdly, there was the maintenance of the Chief Judge of the Native Land Court and the Appel- late Court as a tribunal of appeal from the deci- sions of the Councils themselves. And fourthly, in the absence of an appeal, there was a recording order by the Council as an order for dealing with the Native lands interested. Then, again, subsidiary to these Councils, which dealt with the larger interests in Maori lands, there were the Papatupu Block Committees, having power to deal with land the title to which has not been investigated and determined. These committees were also to be elected from persons claiming to be the owners. Now, here I come to this point : In connection with both the Councils and the committees the principle of election was maintained, and who can deny the excellent results that would follow from intro- ducing this principle of election amongst the Maoris themselves. First of all, it gave them a direct interest, a personal interest, in connec- tion with the management of their land: secondly, it would develop amongst them the spirit of self-government ; and, thirdly, I believe it would have the effect of bringing the ablest Maoris to the front in connection with the management of their own affairs; and that, I believe, is one very important part of the whole thing. And now, what do we find ? Before the Act containing those im- portant provisions has had a chance to get on its legs, before the Government has had 