ment of the Cook Islands have already adopted | mitted for the final decision of the High Court the criminal law of New Zealand as a guide for the High Court, and have passed certain statutes suitable for the requirements of this small community, we ask that such of these statutes as shall be found in accordance with the spirit of English law shall be respected, and that the general laws of New Zealand shall only be introduced as required and adopted by the Council of Arikis." Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. Captain RUSSELL. -- The Premier says " hear, hear," but, to my reading, that is an absolutely different principle from the principle laid down in clause 3 of the Bill. We can, if we choose, enforce on them the whole of the laws of New Zealand; but, in their petition, they demand no law shall be introduced into their Islands unless the Council of Arikis decide that such shall be the case. Then, I look further, and I find that, under clause 6 of the Bill,- "The Governor, by Order in Council, may from time to time establish a tribunal or appoint an officer or officers, with such powers and functions as he thinks fit, in order to ascertain and determine the title to land within the said Islands, distinguishing titles acquired by native customs and usage from titles otherwise lawfully acquired; and may provide for the issue of instruments of title, and generally make such provision in the pre- mises as he thinks fit." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 There are other clauses in the Bill, which I need not read to the House, which provide for reserves for military and other Government purposes, entirely at variance with the provi- sions of the petition of the Natives, which, as I say, unfortunately for the House, was not read before we decided without any consideration to annex or incorporate the Group last year. Mr. SEDDON. - How did it get into Hansard if it was not read ? Captain RUSSELL .- By special permission of the House, which was granted most im- properly, because the Premier urged that the petition which was read by the Clerk should be incorporated in Hansard, and, unfortunately, the House agreed, as it always does agree, to any demands made by the Premier. Mr. SEDDON .-- The House knew quite well what it was doing. Captain RUSSELL .- Probably the House was as empty as it is now-only a certain num- ber of members interested in the debate were listening to what was being said : but a con- siderable number were not in their places. Even if they had heard it read, the principle of digesting a petition which is simply read, and deciding the policy of the country on it at the moment, is one that should not be countenanced. However, in clause 6 it is the Governor in Council who is to decide as to the ownership of the land in the Cook Group. Now, listen to the provisions of the petition :- "(2.) That the land rights of the people of these Islands shall not be vitiated by annexa- tion, and, if any question shall arise hereafter as to those rights, such question shall be sub- of the Cook Islands." Mr. NAPIER. - Colonel Gudgeon prepared that petition. It is his own idea. Captain RUSSELL. - I have not the least idea who sketched out the petition. I see it was signed by Makea, Karika, Ngamaru, Tino- mana, Pa, and Kainuku, and that it was trans- lated by Frederick Goodwin, Government In- terpreter. But we have no record on our Journals that it was not the petition of those people who signed it, and that it was the petition of the Government's representative. If it is the petition of the Government's representa- tive, are we to be told that on the petition of a salaried officer of the colony we are to annex the Cook Islands, and that the petition is fraudulent, and is not what it represents to be ? That is the argument of the honourable gentle- man, and I am sure he is the last who would seriously say such a thing as that. Then, also, as an illustration of the views of these people with regard to annexation, I find this in the petition : "And whereas the administration of the Cook Islands has hitherto been carried on with the utmost economy, all official appoint- ments to the public service of the Cook Islands hereafter to be made shall be sub- ject to the approval of the Island Council, and no public officer shall be dispensed with without the same approval." That is entirely different from the intention of the Act now before us, which takes the power out of the hands of the Island Coun- cils and places it in the hands of the Governor in Council. We must guard against this. I hope and trust we shall not have a hostile popu- lation in those islands ; but it is quite possible if we endeavour to enforce the New Zealand laws more quickly on those people than they can assimilate them, we may easily have a disaf- fected one. Sir, I shall vote against the Bill on the same principle that I did last year. I pre- dicted then that it would be necessary for us to have gunboats to protect our trade, or, at any rate, to prevent smuggling. We have not got into that position exactly, but I notice that in the Bill there are ports fixed as the sole ports of entry in the Group, and we have steamers that run backwards and forwards between New Zealand and the Islands, and these vessels, I have no doubt, will yet be armed with Maxim and other guns to pro- tect our trade, for as sure as there is profit to be made by disreputable traders there will be smuggling from the Cook Islands in the most extensive fashion. I presume that vessels cleared from the Cook Group will not be searched on arrival in New Zealand, and, as the Islands have no means of protecting their trade against smuggling, I am bound to say the traders could load up their vessels at the Cook Islands in a way that would lead to any amount of illicit trade. On the whole, I think it would 4.30. be better that we should defer this Bill until next year, or until some scheme is thought out for the proper administration of the Cook Islands. That they should be administered by 