plied to many others whose land does not go above the exemption ; but it would not do to say they are not taxable. They are taxable, and liable to be taxed; but we cannot tax them if they have not more than the exemption ; so that that feeling which seems to be present that leaseholders in perpetuity are not taxable under the land-tax is a mistake. The fee- simple, which is held by the Crown, of course is not taxable; but, under the lease in per- petuity, if a lessee's value is £1,000 he would be liable to pay on £500. Now, that is the law. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - How are you going to assess his value ? Mr. SEDDON .- How do we assess anybody's value ? I say his interest is taxable. I say it speaks well for those who have been arguing and contending for close settlement, that it so happens that the interests of the lessees in perpetuity and their holdings naturally are so small that they do not come under the land- tax. But they should be no more found fault with than others who in the same way occupy land and do not pay any land-tax. If that is wanted-and I should have thought the mem- ber for Riccarton about the last man in the House who would contend for it-you should bring down the land-tax so as to apply to every farmer and every settler in the country. I be- lieve that with the burdens that are upon the farming classes and the struggling settlers of this country we must give them some relief. And, as compared with what they have to pay https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 with others, I do not think it would be wise to reduce the exemption. That is the opinion I hold. The next charge laid at my door was in respect to the mortgage-tax. I have said-and http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero I admit now on the floor of the House, as I would to the country at any time-that the mortgage-tax, whilst fair in its incidence, is more than should be collected ; that it is too high compared with either the income-tax or the land-tax. Mr. GRAHAM .- Five times as much. Mr. SEDDON .- It is not as much as that,- but it is a very high imposition. Well, I was accused of breaking faith. Now, Sir, what I said last session in my Budget was read, I think, by the member for Franklin. I said, in reply to this-there was no need of disguising the situation -- in my Budget this year,- "In my last Budget I stated that ' for some considerable time the interest on mortgages has steadily decreased. During the past ten years interest on mortgages has fallen about one- fourth; this makes the penny in the pound on capital value a very heavy tax.' I have not altered my opinion, and still consider that the mortgage-tax is too high, and that some relief should be given, provided the finances of the colony permit. Whilst desiring to keep good faith with Parliament, to do so this session would be imprudent, unless the loss of revenue occasioned thereby is recouped." An Hon. MEMBER .- And that exonerates you from your promise ? Mr. SEDDON .- Most decidedly. If I find that the condition of my finance is such, I think it does so. Of course, if I could have seen my way to have carried out what I stated, I should have done so. I held out hopes, and I stated that I should do so this year ; but the circumstances must also be taken into con- sideration. When I found the heavy abnor- mal expenditure thrown upon the revenue this year, and that it was not safe to make the. reductions, I then stated that I could not do so unless the revenue was recouped. I did the next best thing: I commenced to ascertain whether I could get the revenue recouped with- out bringing down an amendment with respect to the mortgage-tax. No, Sir ; my friends oppo- site would not have an increase in the graduated tax, and I found there would be a deadlock, and probably a stonewall set up, and that it was. almost next to impossible to attempt to increase the graduated land-tax. An Hon. MEMBER .- How do you know ? Mr. SEDDON .- I know a good many things ; and I know generally where I am, and I knew what I had to face. If my friend the honour able member for Nelson City, and the honour- able member for Wakatipu, will guarantee me a recoupment if I pass an Act reducing the mort- gage-tax and increasing the graduated land- tax, I shall be most happy to do so still. The moment you touch your taxation you are met with interests which are affected in some way or other. I find that the taxpayers are only human, and I find that most of the taxpayers are represented in the House, and I am satis- fied myself that there is no chance this year of interfering with the land- and income-tax. The next question I come to is this : Does the land- and income-tax bear a fair proportion to the indirect taxation of the country? I answer that at once, and I say, No. I say, take your Customs duties, and you must come to the conclusion that the amount of direct taxation is not fair compared with that which we impose now in the shape of Customs duties upon the people. If we are to go into the question of taxation we practically want a session for that. purpose, and, rather than simply have one small phase of the question dealt with, I think it is better to allow the whole matter to stand over, and so it stands over accordingly. That is the reply to what has been stated. I do not think anything more need be said. The two main points raised were : (1.) Were leases in perpetuity taxable ? I say they are. (2.) The question, Why not reduce the mortgage-tax? The an- swer to that is: without being recouped it is impossible to do that ; and when members see the supplementary estimates they will realise the fact that, as Colonial Treasurer, I just keep within ways and means. I cannot promise such a reduction, because I want the money. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. I understood the Premier to say he thought I would have- been the last to propose to sweep away exemp- tions. I never made any remark to support that contention ; I have never been in favour of sweeping away exemptions; I never said anything in the House that could justify that. remark. 