cruel and unreasonable, after the House had been sitting for something like twenty hours, to make anything in the way of a long speech, and he did not intend doing so. Like the pre- vious speaker, the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), he thought it was regrettable that Bills dealing with Native matters should invariably be brought down at the end of the session, when the House was wearied out with long sittings, and when members were ex- hausted in mind and body and not in a posi- tion, physically or mentally, to do justice to the subject. In the present instance he did not think it mattered very much, because, while, like the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, Mr. Herries, he hoped for the best, he wished to say he considered the Bill was a slight improvement on the existing law. Still, he believed the measure was based on wrong prin- ciples. They could not build a safe and sound edifice on an unsafe and unsound foundation, and that was really what the House was doing in connection with Native - land legislation. They were patching and tinkering with the Native - land laws as they had patched and tinkered with them for years past, and the result would be the same-unsatisfactory to the Europeans and degrading and demoralising to the Natives. While the subject had been under discussion he had been very much amused at thinking of the passage in the Go- vernor's Speech on the first day of the session, in which the country was informed that the Native - land laws, and particularly the Act of last year, were working satisfactorily. What was the actual position ? Here was a Bill that actually provided for somewhere between twenty and thirty amendments in last year's Act ; and, as a matter of fact, not a single acre of Native land had been brought under that Act, and not a single Maori Council was in operation under it. That was what was called & satisfactory state of things. He scarcely knew what "unsatisfactory work " would mean. The Native-land legislation of the pre- sent Government, for some reason or other, had been a complete and absolute failure from first to last. He had been asked what would put it on proper lines. His reply was that the titles should be individualised. The great trouble was that for years past the com- munal system had been perpetuated, while individualisation had not been encouraged. The individualisation of titles would, no doubt, cost money, but it had to be taken in band. Mr. CARROLL .- Compulsorily ? Mr. MASSEY said, Yes, but given a reason- able time ; it could not be done all at once. Every Maori should have his own piece of land, and a sufficient portion of it should be made inalienable, on which he and his family could live, and from which he should be able to make a living. If the Maoris were to be ele- vated they must be made to understand that, while they had all the rights, and privileges, and advantages of British citizenship, they must also accept certain responsibilities. He did not think we could look forward to any instead of thinking of Native-land matters, we should probably be thinking of the elections. and the reception we were likely to receive from the electors. His hope was that the electors, and the North Island electors, to whom the matter was brought home, particu- larly, would take the matter in hand and elect men competent to deal with Native questions, and who would endeavour to settle them in a businesslike manner that would be satisfac- tory to both Natives and Europeans. Mr. LANG (Waikato) wished to indorse the remarks of the honourable member for Napier in reference to the desirability of bringing the two races together by legislation, instead of widening the breach. His only reason for rising at this time was to explain an error into which the honourable member for Riccar- ton fell in regard to some remarks he made in reference to having one law for European and Maori when speaking on the second reading of the Bill. He had handed the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton his uncorrected Hansard proof, which showed clearly that he had said that he regretted that the system of placing Natives under the same law as Europeans had not been started eight or ten years ago : and he went on to say, if this system had been adopted, in all probability the Natives would by this time be in a position to be treated like other British subjects. He looked upon the Native legislation of the present Government as exceedingly unsatisfactory. They had had to amend the Bill of last session, and next session they would have to amend the Bill of last night, and he did again protest against the manner in which this legislation was forced through the House, and he hoped that next year the matter would be dealt with at av earlier period of the session. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) desired to show that this measure had received the support of the majority of the Maori people of this Island. The people represented by Mahuta, of whom Kaihau was the mouthpiece in the House. and also the Native tribes in the Western Maori District, supported the Act of last year. Kaiban himself supported the Bill of last year ; and be would draw the attention of honourable mem- bers to page 175 of Hansard, 1900, Volume 115, where the honourable member made a short speech expressing satisfaction at the Bill. The honourable member also expressed his opinion that his people wanted the Bill. In reference to the Waikato people as a whole, there was a petition presented last year by Henare Kaihat, and signed by Taingakawa and another. In regard to the Natives of the Eastern electorate. a large majority of the tribes had expressed their wish for the Bill being passed into law: and they also accepted the Act of last session. The tribes in the Northern Maori electorate did the same thing. In the Act of last session and in this Bill efforts had been made to as far as possible satisfy that section of the country which desired free-trade in Native lands, and any Native or number of Natives could deal with their lands by sale, lease, or mortgage if 