statistics for yourselves-including the earnings of the Otago Central-and, after careful com- parison, we feel sure that your sympathies will be at once enlisted in favour of reversing the position regarding the expenditure on these two lines. And, lastly, we desire that you should not allow the session to close without having an Act passed authorising the construc- tion of the North Auckland Railway, which at present is only authorised to Kaipara Flats." Now, if there is any truth in this statement -and I.know it to be correct-I say it is abso- lutely culpable and a reflection on the impartial distribution of public money. Only let the Minister reflect on the amount contributed by the population north of Auckland, and the at- tention they are receiving in the way of railway expenditure is altogether inadequate, and also to the discredit of the Government. Besides, the Waitemata share in this Loan Bill is over £20,000. Further, I would add that this line for which I am now pleading is one of the lines mentioned in the original scheme when Sir Julius Vogel first introduced his railway policy ; yet this is the treatment that it has received up to the present time. And, as I before mentioned, the Auckland members support the Government, and you cannot plead that this is done on my account, because I am not a sufficiently warm I have a right supporter of the Government. to my difference of opinion, for which I can give an intelligent reason. I believe in helping the Government in all that is right. At the same time I claim that the Government are receiving unvarying warm support indeed from the members north of Auckland, and from the members representing the City of Auckland, and the neglect which they are inflicting upon that line- An Hon. MEMBER .- And from the member for Waitemata ? Mr. MONK .-- " And from the member for Waitemata " in all that is right. The neglect inflicted is a very poor recognition of the sup- port given by the North as a whole. I say the Government ought to play fair in the appor- tionment of public money ; and they have given me more than an ordinary reason for calling their attention to the manner in which they have treated these works north of Auckland. I have in these votes that which must form a very strong indictment against the Govern- ment. I hold that the Ministry of the day ought at least to distribute the money for ex- penditure upon public works with some recog- nition of the amount they receive from the population in the districts concerned-unless, indeed, it can be claimed that it is not a desir- able work. But for a work for the want of which a district is being kept back, as in this case, there can be no reasonable excuse for the manner in which it has been treated. We have only a little under five miles of the work accomplished upon this line as against six miles which has been prosecuted in the same period on an absolutely new work, so that the Hon. the Minister is entirely without excuse in this matter. I will appeal Mr. Monk assume, has consideration for the colony as a whole, whether it is not right and reason- able that we should expect to have equal and equitable consideration from him in proportion to our population and in proportion to the amount we contribute to the revenue which the Government is deriving, and also in proportion to the liability we are incurring along with the rest of the colony for the public debt which has been increased upon the colony. What return are we getting for our share of the liability in regard to the public debt ? What consideration are we receiving in return for the interest we are called upon to pay ? Comparatively nothing. And I feel it would hardly be desir- able for me to use the language in which I could express myself, and in which, perhaps, I ought to express myself, with regard to the scanty attention this line is receiving. The Minister promised last summer to come up and investigate for himself the claims of the district. It does not pass through any barren country, as in the Otago Central. He has been informed by the petition which has been sent down that the country is settled all over, and that there is that kind of struggling settlement which the Minister, above all others, should be anxious to help. The population for years has been waiting for this railway to be brought to its midst. The people there settled in that district with the expectation that this railway would be prosecuted with reasonable speed, and they found year by year, as it appeared with deliberate purpose and intent, this Government have determined to retard as much as possible the prosecution of this work. I say there was no reasonable excuse. It may be said there was a semblance of excuse a few years ago for the tardiness of the Government, in the great difficulty there was in getting through the tunnel to the south of the Makarau. But that has passed away. The only work now ahead of them is without any serious difficulty. The country is open. Mr. HALL-JONES .- We have a tunnel in hand there now. Mr. MONK .- Most certainly you have ; but it is a work easily done; and there is the country ahead of it, which is comparatively easy and level. And how much is to be done out of this $9,000, which the Government have to spend up to the 31st March next? I hope that the remarks which I have made will lead the Government to reflect on the equities of the claims I am advancing, and that they will prosecute this work with a little more energy than they have done in the past. I had a tele- gram to-day from the people in the north of the present terminal point of the work, urging the necessity for the prosecution of this line. and they say there is a feeling of exasperation at the small amount voted for it on the esti- mates ; and I am sure that the Minister cannot give any reason for such a small sum, as con- trasted with the large amounts set down for other works. While I do not wish the Otago Central Railway to go on at a slower pace than at the present time, still, if the Kaipara line is 