direct.' " New clause added. Mr. WILLIS moved the addition of the fol- lowing new clause :- " The provisions of sections thirty - six to thirty - eight, and forty to fifty-one, of the principal Act are hereby repealed, and the following enacted in lieu thereof : " (1.) The members to be elected under section thirty-five of the principal Act shall have jurisdiction to try such industrial disputes as may be referred to them by the Governor. " (2.) The Governor may make regulations providing, on the filing of the dispute, for the election of the members of the Board, such members to be elected by the unions of employers and of workers affected by the industrial dispute." Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "Section fifty of the principal Act is hereby amended by striking out all the words after the word . Conciliators,' in the fourth line, and sub- stituting the words 'shall, on the application of either party to the dispute, and in the pre- scribed manner, be constituted from time to time to meet any case of industrial dispute.' ' New clause read a second time, and added to the Bill. Mr. SEDDON moved the addition of the following new clause :- " 94. Proceedings for the enforcement of any https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 industrial agreement or award or order of the Court shall be taken by the Inspector of Fac- tories of the district, and it shall not be neces- sary for a union or association to pass any resolution or take any ballot authorising such proceedings." New clause added. Mr. SEDDON moved the addition of the fol- lowing new clause :- " 9B. Subsection six of section ninety-four of the principal Act, relating to the enforcement of awards, is hereby amended by inserting the words 'a trade-union or' next after the words ' in the case of,' and also by inserting the words . a trade-union or' next after the words ' if the judgment debtor is.'" New clause added. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " No person in the employ of the Govern- ment shall be allowed to appear or be heard before a Board or Court, or be elected a mem- ber of a Board or of the Court." The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 19. Herries Symes Atkinson Thomson, J. W. Lethbridge Bennet Bollard Willis. Massey Mackenzie, T. Fowlds Tellers. Rhodes Fraser, W. Russell, G. W. Hutcheson Hardy Smith, G. J. Pirani. Heke Allen, E. G. Flatman McNab Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Arnold Mills Barclay Guinness Hall Palmer Buddo Seddon Carncross Hall-Jones Hornsby Carroll Stevens Collins Kaihau Tanner Colvin Laurenson Ward. Duncan Lawry Tellers. Ell O'Meara McGowan Field Mckenzie, R. Wilford. Majority against, 13. New clause negatived. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) moved the follow- ing new clause :- " Either party to an industrial dispute which has been referred to a Board of Conciliation may file with the Clerk an application in writ- ing requiring the dispute to be referred to the Court of Arbitration, and that Court shall have jurisdiction to settle and determine such dis- pute in the same manner as if such dispute had been referred to the Court under the provisions of section fifty-eight of the principal Act." The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 30. Allen, E. G. O'Meara Hardy Pirani Atkinson Heke Herries Rhodes Bollard Russell, G. W. Buddo Hornsby Smith, G. J. Colvin Hutcheson Kaihau Flatman Symes Wilford. Lethbridge Fowlds Fraser, A. L. D. Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Mckenzie, R. Fraser, W. Massey Willis. McNab Guinness Hall NOES, 18. Laurenson Barclay Stevens Carroll Lawry Tanner McGowan Collins Ward. Millar Tellers. Duncan Mills Arnold Ell Field Seddon Carncross. Hall-Jones Majority for, 12. Motion agreed to, and new clause added. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) explained that he had voted in error with the " Noes." Bill reported. Amendments agreed to. On the question, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said, I un- derstood while the Bill was in Committee that the Premier had given a promise that the third reading should not be taken to-night ; also, that the consideration of the amendments should be postponed till the Bill had been printed again. This is an important point, and I understood the Premier agreed to it. I am sure honourable members, when they see the amendments in cold blood, will see that they want some further amendments, and I am satisfied the amend- 