trust the amending Bill will have the effect the Native Minister says it will, because I should like to see anything tried which will benefit the Maoris. I only trust that the Ministers, when they are appointing those persons to the Coun- cils, whose appointments are in their hands, will select the best possible men they can get. That is the crux of the question. I trust they will appoint men who are upright and honourable, and not men who will be self-seeking and who will try to get the better of the Maoris. There are such upright men in the colony, I believe, and I trust the Government will find them out in the appointing. They must do that if they want the Bill to be made a success. I only hope it will be a success, but I am sorry to say I have my doubts about it. Any assistance that I can render, or that any other member can render, in the House I am sure will be given. We do not want to kill the Bill with criticism, but only to amend it so as to improve it in every . possible way; but I must say I think it is resting on a bad foundation, and that the policy is foredoomed to failure from the start. I only wish some one would rise up and take up this Maori question, sweeping away the present Acts, and passing something new in a straightforward and honourable way. I say distinctly that this blending of old and new ideas is bound to end in failure. As the Maori Minister stated, the cruz of the question will be the appointment of men to conduct the Council, and I only hope that those men will bs appointed soon and in a satisfactory way. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- I do not pretend, Sir, to know a great deal about this Native question. I have never lived in a Native district, but I have always taken an interest in http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero the Natives and I am sorry to see them coming to Wellington every year in great numbers strolling about the streets and looking very dissatisfied. No doubt the subject that is causing them so much concern is their land. This Bill refers to the disposal of their land, and I am not going to criticize the points on which this Bill differs from the present law, because I am scarcely in a position to say what is best to be done; but there is one thing that is very evident to every person, and that is the way the lands are slipping away from the Natives. When the public works policy was initiated, now fully thirty years ago, the sum of $200.000 was put upon the estimates for the purchase of Native lands, and every session since that time there has been a large sum of money put upon the estimates for the same purpose. Even this session, I think, the sum of $30,000 is placed on the estimates for the purchase of Native lands. These lands have been passing away during the thirty years that have elapsed since the initiation of the public From the beginning of this works policy. policy up to the 31st March, 1900, the area of land that has slipped out of the hands of the Natives is no less than 7,582,000 acres, and for this the Natives have received just about two millions sterling. It follows from this that the Natives have during these twenty years been living to VOL. CXIX .- 62. their capital, and they are now poorer to the extent of 7,500,000 acres. Assuming that half the Native population have been interested in the land that has already been sold, it means that every man, woman, and child has received about £100, and what have they done with that? Why, it has gone largely to keep them in food and clothing. They have not been earning their own keep during the last thirty years. They have been living to a certain ex- tent upon the sale of their lands. Now, what is the area that is still in the hands of the Natives? The area still in the hands of the Natives is about five million acres-that is, a little less than one-sixth the area of this island. Assuming that these lands will continue to slip out of their fingers at the same rate as they have done during the last thirty years, in twenty years more the land will be all disposed of, and the Natives will be what is called "landless Natives." We have a return presented to us this session in which some 3,700 Natives are put down as landless. I do not agree with the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty with regard to landless Natives. He does not seem to have sufficient sympathy with Natives in that posi- tion. He says they might devote their atten- tion to art ; but art, such as painting, does not seem, at least for a Maori, a very good way of making a living. Mr. HERRIES. - Carpentering. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- Yes, they make good enough mechanics when they set their minds to it, but I think the best way of doing for a Native is to have a piece of land. The Natives have been brought up on land. They are children of the soil, and I should like to see every one of them living on his own piece of land, and he might do other things to augment his income. I think it is a dreary prospect that the Natives have before them-that in twenty years, as things are going at present, they will be landless. What is best to be done to keep these people on the soil ? I think the first thing is to make large reserves for them. I should say that would come to a considerable area. As- suming that half the Native people is interested in the unsold Native lands, and allowing fifty acres to each individual, which would be about two hundred acres on the average to each family, this would be about a million acres, leaving four million acres to be disposed of, and the lands should be disposed of in the interests of the Natives. Let a trust be formed, and let the revenue accruing from these four million acres be devoted to the Natives. We have our Minister of Lands here (Mr. Duncan), who is a farming man, and who knows all about land. Let him take this matter in hand. Let him enter on it with zeal ; and in a few years this Native question would be a thing of the past. We should then be able to dispense with the Native Land Court, which costs us from £11,000 to $12,000 every year. I do not know what the gentlemen of the Native Land Court get to do, but, at any rate, they are well paid for apparently doing nothing. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - They are underpaid. 