form. All these were vital and essential addi- tions to the Bill, accepted by the Minister and the House upon their merits. and it was there- fore ungenerous of the Minister to speak as he had done. The definition in clause 3 as amended would run : "'Money-lender' includes any person who lends money for interest at a rate, including any payments or deductions by way of premium, nne, or foregift, exceeding ten per centum per annum." The intention was good, but would it be carried out? 'the wording was very loose, not to say ungram- matical. The rate was to "include " deduc- tions - that is, to include what was excluded. It was impossible to say off-hand what meaning, if any, a Court would give to the definition as amended. Mr. HALL-JONES said the honourable member had asked to make a personal explana- tion in regard to his statement that Mr. Atkin- son had tried to count out the House and kill the Bill, and he had hoped that he was going to explain his action in so doing, but he had not done so. If the first amendment the honourable gentleman had suggested in the 2nd clause, and on which two hours were wasted, had been accepted, the Bill would not have been worth the paper it was printed upon. Mr. ATKINSON desired to say, in regard to his not assisting to keep a House after a certain stage of the Bill, that he had done his best until they were through the first three clauses to make the Bill a workable one. He thought that clause 3 as finally amended by the House in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Committee was absolutely disastrous, and that after that the sooner the Bill was buried the better, and therefore he did not think it his duty any longer to assist in keeping a House http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero for such a Bill. Motion agreed to. # OCEAN MAIL-SERVICES. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- Would it be in order to reconsider the matter of the reporting in Committee of this debate. I know you have ruled on the point, Sir, but I would point out respectfully that anything in the shape of a re- port in Committee would only be a duplication of the debate, and I should like to add that it is rather unfair to the Hansard staff, who are, I understand, under-manned to the extent of two men. I would ask the indulgence of the House through you, Sir, if it is possible to arrange that the debate in Committee should not be re- ported. Mr. SEDDON .- It has not yet been made an order of the House that it should be reported. Mr. HORNSBY .- But the Deputy Speaker has ruled, and that is the reason I ask the question. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I was not in the House when you gave the direction on the point ; but do I understand you to say, Sir, that the direction you gave was in accordance with precedent ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Yes ; according to the last precedent. Mr. Atkinson that the statement as to precedent is erroneous. These are the facts: On previous occasions when the ocean mail-service was discussed, if discussed in the House it was fully reported, as it is being reported now. When reported fully in the House it was not. afterwards fully re- ported in Committee. When the motion was moved in the House in a merely formal way the discussion in Committee was then fully reported. The report was not duplicated in either case. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - This is the third time this matter has been brought up. When I was asked I gave my ruling, and I adhere to it. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- On the 11th October, 1900. I spoke in reference to the proposals for subsidising the Oceanic Steam- ship Company. and, after discussing the pro- posals at some length, I concluded in the follo \*- ing words : - "I shall support the proposal to grant a sub- sidy, regretting it is necessary to take such a step, but believing, as I do, that it is the only course open at the present time, and that it is the . best worst ' thing we can do at this june- ture." I therefore think it is necessary to premise my speech on this series of proposals by point- ing out that, . on the last occasion when the matter was under discussion I voted with the Government in connection with the subsidy to Messrs. Spreckels, but since then I have seen fit to change my opinion. I intend to the best of my ability to oppose any future subside being granted to Messrs. Spreckels. I propose in any divisions that may take place on the question now before the House, and later in Committee, to do what I can to negative the proposals of the Postmaster-General as set out in the leaflet put before honourable members. Before discussing the various routes which are open to this colony for the carriage of mails and passengers, I wish to refer very shortly to the attitude which has been adopted in this House by the Auckland members in their endeavour to get the " backs up " of members residing south of Auckland. 1 An Hon. MEMBER .- Some of them. Mr. WILFORD .- Perhaps I should say one of them. Honourable members will be aware that columns and columns in the Auckland Star and the Auckland He ala have been de- voted exclusively to pointing out to the rest of New Zealand the advisability of bolstering up this " grab-all " service carried on b. Messrs. Spreckels. Those two journals, by the tone of their leading articles, have succeeded in raising intense opposition to their cause. I do not object to Auckland being the port of call for steamers from America. I consider that Auckland is geo- graphically the proper port of call, but I shall in no way support any proposal which will subsidise a company that has treated New Zealand as the Oceanic Company has done. The Hon. the Postmaster General, in dealing with the matter, thought fit to adopt what was, to my mind, a light touc. Now, I wish to say 