ber that they were speaking to the Premier of the colony, and they ought to respect both him and the position. They should not do any- thing to bring that position into discredit with the outside world. He might mention that the photographer who had taken these photographs was one of the most efficient photographers in the colony, and the honourable member ought not to speak as he had done as it was calculated to do him an injury. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) wished to assure the Premier that in bringing this matter forward he was actuated by no personal animus whatever. What he objected to was the using of the taxpayers' money in the print- ing of these things, which were neither of edu- cative nor colonial importance. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) did not think there was a single member in the House that begrudged the trip of the right honourable gentleman to restore his health, but he did not think the Government was justified in using the taxpayers' money to take these photographs. He thought it was about time to cry " Halt" in regard to expenditure of this kind. He hoped the Premier would believe that there was nothing personal whatever in any of the remarks he had made on the subject. Mr. SEDDON said the money was spent last year, and there was no vote for it at all this year : and when it was now moved to strike it out, and when the question was brought up over and over again, he could not help feeling that there was some personal animus on the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 matter. Amendment negatived. Vote, $79,148, agreed to. Progress reported. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero The House adjourned at twenty minutes to three o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 27th September, 1901. Death of the Hon. M. Holmes-Imprest Supply Bill (No. 4). The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. DEATH OF THE HON. M. HOLMES. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I am sorry I am obliged to have to again move the Council to express its regret at another one of our body being taken away from us. Every member, I am sure, was exceedingly mournful when he heard that the late Mr. Mathew Holmes had died this morning. Of course, he has been with us for the past few years in a very precarious state of health, and so it is not such a shock as it might otherwise have been ; but it is only fitting to his memory and to our- selves that we should place on record our ex- pression of regret at the termination of a very long and useful life. The honourable gentle- man was appointed to this Council in 1866. He served longest in the Council, and, if he should have been selected so long ago as a fitting per- son to be nominated to this Chamber, it shows what his contemporaries thought of him so long ago as the time he was appointed. He was well known in those days as one of the most energetic and progressive farmers in his own district. I believe, considering the opportu- nities there then were for scientific farming, and the improving of farming stock of every kind, no man did more for his country than the late Mr. Holmes did, and therefore the colony owes him a great debt of gratitude. As regards his services in this Council, unfortunately my length of service will not go back long enough to recall the times when he was an active member of this Council. I have only known him as one who was fading away, and waiting for the last word, but every communication I ever had with that gentleman was always of the most pleasant and agreeable nature. I can assure his relatives of my sincere sympathy with them in their bereavement, and I am only giving expression to the feelings of the Council generally in speaking in their name. We are all sorry the time has come to pass a resolution of this kind. I therefore beg to move, Sir, That this Council do now adjourn until eight o'clock this evening, as a mark of respect to the memory of the late Hon. Mathew Holmes, M.L.C. I may just state that there is an Imprest Supply Bill coming down this even- ing, and therefore I am obliged to call the Council together again to-night. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- In supporting the resolution of my honourable friend I may say that myself and one or two others were present in the Council when that late honourable gentleman first took his seat here in 1866, and those gentlemen who were present at that time, and who followed his political career for many years, are aware of the active part the honour- able gentleman took in the proceedings of this Council. Always clear-headed and never speak- ing at random, what he did say was well con- sidered and listened to with respect by other members of the Council. With respect to his family, we are well acquainted with many of them throughout the colony, and I am sure when I express my own sympathy for the re- latives of the late honourable gentleman that I am speaking on behalf of every honourable member of this Council who regrets his loss. It is only within the last few years that failing health has precluded him from taking an active part in the proceedings of the Council, but his memory will always cause him to be regarded as one who did good work for the colony. Motion agreed to. The Hon. the SPEAKER left the chair at twenty minutes to three, and resumed at ten minutes past nine. IMPREST SUPPLY BILL (No. 4). This Bill was read the first, the second, and the third time. The Council adjourned at a quarter past nine o'clock p.m. 