of the medical profession ? In the two branches of the Legislature we had almost all interests represented with the exception of medical men. An Hon. MEMBER .- There is Dr. Grace. Mr. ARNOLD .- Dr. Grace certainly was a member of the Upper House ; but, as members knew, he was a local doctor, and he was very seldom come-at-able. He had not been present this session, and he did not think last session either. There were many questions that came before the House that dealt with subjects upon which the knowledge of a medical man would be of great help to the members of both Houses. It was impossible, of course, to appoint medical men to the House of Representatives, but there was no reason why medical men should not be called to the Upper House ; and he was sure there were many in New Zealand who would give the time required during the session of Parliament. In some of the other colonies that had been done. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member had not been as candid as he ought to have been. He ought to have told him and the House which of the Dunedin doctors he wanted appointed. They had already in the Council Dr. Grace, who was Surgeon-General of the forces. His answer would be this: He thought that, relative to the population of New Zealand, the medical men were well represented in Par- hament. He might tell the House that the Government had come to the conclusion that what was wanted in the Council was the repre- sentation of the small-farmer class. If some https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 members would change their present occupation and go farming there would be a chance for them. # MANAWATU RAILWAY. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Premier, If there is any likelihood of the Government pur- chasing the Manawatu Railway, and whether there are any insurmountable difficulties in the way of the said railway being at an early date acquired by the colony ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the difficulties were not insurmountable at all. Whenever the company intimated to the Government that they had agreed to waive the £21,000 difference the Government would be prepared to consider the question. The Government had come to the conclusion that they had offered a very fair amount. It was equal to nearly 5 per cent. interest on coupons from the time the first investment took place up to the present time. It was a slightly less amount than the assets as valued and submitted by the company, and it was equal to $1 10s. per share upon 170,000 shares : and he thought, all round, the Govern- ment had been prepared to act fairly liberal. That was the view he took of the matter, and knowing the large number of these shares pur- chased at 16s. and £1, up to £1 5s. per share, it gave a very fair return to those who had in- rester in them. At the same time it should not, of course, be forgotten that the Govern- ment gave to the company the land, and they have partially completed works, and they were buying back from the company the land and VOL. CXIX .- 14. works and paying for that which the Govern- ment gave to the company for nothing. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is not a fair way of looking at the matter. Mr. SEDDON said the land was given, and the works were given. That must be borne in mind. Of course, it was now the property of the company. Again, and in addition to this, and which was weighing with the Government, was that they had to take the responsibility of £680,000 of debentures, and they had seven or eight years to run. The Government could not buy them, and would have to ray 5 per cent. interest for the term of their currency. And in accordance with the policy of the country they had to cut down the returns from the railways to 3 per cent. They would then be paying 2 per cent extra, equal to a loss of 2 per cent. on the £680,000 for seven years. It made a difference, as his colleague the Minister for Railways said, of over £50,000. At all events, the promoters of the railway and those who in- vested were, he thought, entitled to be treated fairly liberally, because they had done good work, for the railway had been an immense benefit to the colony as a whole. The Govern- ment had come to what they thought to be a fair conclusion, and it was now for the com- pany to consider whether they would agree to those terms. As previously stated he had been prepared to put a paragraph in the Financial Statement with reference to this matter, and to ask that the arrangement for purchase be sanctioned. But he had not been able to do that, because the local directors did not see their way to agree to what the Government were prepared to give. The directors had fixed the amount at £1 12s. 6d. per share ; whereas the Government did not see their way to go beyond £1 10s. 2s. 6d. per share upon 170,000, or about £21,250 - that was the difficulty in the way at the present time. It was for the directors to remove that difficulty ; and, if they did that, he would be prepared to give Par- liament-as by law he was entitled to do- the opportunity of deciding the question, even though by so doing he, later on, should be accused of increasing the indebtedness of the colony by another million of money ; but his shoulders were broad, and the Government were quite prepared to accept the position, be cause they knew there would be commensurate advantages. He thought that all and every railway in the colony ought to belong to the State. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he would like, in the most courteous manner possible, to suggest that the honourable member for Otaki should not bring on this subject again. It only gave the Premier an opportunity of putting the company in a worse position every time. BOROUGH COUNCIL OFFICERS' RETIRING-ALLOWANCES. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, Whether the Government will this session introduce legislation to enable Borough Councils to pay out of the rates any retiring- allowances to officers of such Councils ? Last 