great disparity between the salaries of male and female teachers, and (2) their general ap- proval of the proposed colonial scale of staffs and salaries, which metes cut juster treatment to female teachers. I trust the information will be of use to you in furthering our interests by urging the immediate adoption of the scale. -I have, &c., "MARY J. MCILHONE. "J. H. Witheford, Esq., M.H.R., Wellington." I am not going to detain the House. I shall support the Bill, and in Committee I trust that several necessary amendments will be made. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) .- Like the honour- able gentleman who has just sat down, I will only keep the House a few minutes with my remarks. I must say, with reference to this Bill, although it is not, perhaps, a perfect Bill, yet I think it is as near perfect as we can pos- sibly expect the Bill to come down to us. It would be impossible to get a perfect Bill all at once. I think the Bill will be a good one, and the only fault I have to find with it is that not sufficient provision is made for the schools esta- blished in the back blocks. Probably at another time that difficulty will be got over. Some honourable members have spoken with refer- ence to the districts I refer to. The honour- able member for Riccarton thought there was a chance that this would greatly increase the small schools ; but that has not been the case in the past, although the conditions were more https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 favourable. I would remind the House that it is these people-the farmers, squatters, and miners -who to a great extent have brought about the prosperity of the colony by going away into these far-back districts and developing them, and I think on that account greater consideration might be given to them. Still, that may be done later on. The honourable member for Riccarton thought it would increase our educa- tion expenditure enormously if this were to be done. But I might point out that these schools increase very slowly, and I think a great deal more consideration might justly be given them -equal pay for equal work. I was on a Com- mittee of which the member for Ashley is Chairman. I think seven or eight lady wit- nesses were examined while I was there, and they all gave their evidence in a most intelli- gent way, and, with the exception of one, they were all opposed to equal pay for equal work. They stated they did intend to make a life- study of teaching, and those who expected to get married and have a home did not want equal pay for equal work ; so that their evidence showed clearly they did not disapprove of the Bill. There was one lady there who seemed to be very talkative, and in her qualifications she seemed to me to be more fitted for the legal pro- fession. If some of the legal gentlemen in this House had to deal with her I am sure they would have to take a back seat. At any rate, the evidence of these witnesses showed clearly to me they were satisfied. My own opinion, on speaking privately to them, was that they were under the impression it was to be equal pay for Mr. Witheford chance of getting married to a teacher would she take equal pay for equal work. She did not think so; neither did I. In most cases the men will be the bread-winners. The honour- able member for Lyttelton made some com- parison between the North and the South Islands as to the salaries that would be paid, and he said the salaries now were much higher in Otago than in other parts of the colony. Probably that is because in the North Island there are a greater number of small schools, and of course that would affect the percentage. As far as I understand it, the scale of payments is in accordance with the number of scholars, and the scale in the North Island and in the South Island is the same; but in the North Island the average is the smaller because of the larger proportion of small schools. I 11.30. think, taking the Bill as a whole, it will be a great improvement on what we have. If it cuts some salaries down it brings others up and makes them more equal. I hope that some time these outlying districts will get more consideration, but under the present circum- stances the Bill is as near perfect as we can get one. I think the members of the Commission deserve credit for the amount of trouble they have taken over this matter. The member for Ashley thinks that teachers of a higher grade might have been appointed to the Commission, but I think that with them the Commission might not have been very much better off. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I have only a few words to say in regard to this Bill. I attach no importance to the objection raised by some honourable members who sit on my right in regard to the allowance of £1 a day paid to the Commissioners to pay all their expenses except their travelling-expenses ; but I do object to the setting-up of the Commission, on the ground that it is an abrogation-a renun- ciation-of the functions of the Government, who ought themselves to have decided upon a scale of payment without setting up a Commis- sion. Clearly the Government themselves at first conceived it to be their duty to prepare a colonial scale of salaries, for they submitted a proposal to the Education Boards of the country which the Education Boards unanimously re- jected, with the result that the Government was forced to set up a Commission. I attribute that to a want of strength in the administra- tion of the Education Department. I have frequently commented on this point. The department, as it at present exists, is merely drifting : it has no direction. Its adminis- tration is as feeble and uncertain as water poured on a level surface. I say nothing now as to the increasing cost of the system, for this is not the time to do so, although the cost is increasing in a very appreciable degree. But the subject of cost was referred to by the honourable member for Riccarton, who put the view that the education system was be- coming costly because it had to follow the settler into the back blocks-to follow people who went into distant and sometimes inacces- sible parts of the country in order to secure 