singling him out very conspicuously from the honourable members who surround him ; and I must make an exception in this respect of the honourable member for Wakatipu also. I want for the moment to refer to the returns alluded to by the honourable member for Bruce, who says that the Government have not furnished the returns asked for by the House. I do not know if the honourable gentleman is aware how many returns have been asked for from the Government this session. Mr. ALLEN .- Forty-five not supplied. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member is wrong. The number of returns asked for is ninety-two, and the number that has actually been supplied is sixty-two. Of the returns mentioned in the question on the Order Paper given notice of by the honourable member for Bruce there are not less than seventeen that have since been supplied. I wish to say this also ; that there has been no attempt what- ever on the part of the Government to stop any single return asked for by honourable members. We have not given the slightest indication to any officer to hold back or to delay any return, but, on the contrary, our desire has been that all the returns should be furnished to the House. I cannot, however, do other than carry my mind back to about a fortnight ago, when I received a written memorandum sent to me by the head of a department under my control, stating that it would take twelve months or more to prepare one return that was asked for by the honourable member for Bruce, and it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 would involve between two and three solid months of typewriting before it could be fur- nished to the House. An Hon. MEMBER. - Which return was that ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I think it is a return re- lative to the divisional cost of laying sleepers, rails, and other matters connected with the Railways. I merely refer to what responsible officers have advised me; and when depart- ments are going at high pressure, as they are during the session, and such a tremendous amount of information is sought for, it is im- possible, with the ordinary work of the depart- ments, for it to be supplied at short notice ; but I believe myself the departments in every instance do their best to furnish information. But the fact that every return is not furnished with railroad speed is not to be put as a sin of omission to the door of the Ministry, for there is not the slightest desire on the part of Minis- ters to withhold information. Wherever it has been possible for us to give information we have given it very readily. In looking at the work that has been carried out during the session by the House, I am not far out in stating that a vast amount of work has been done in the direction I have re- ferred to. The returns which have been put on record themselves disclose the fact that an immense amount of work of a detail character has been done by the various departments, and I say that the honourable member for Bruce and others should be reasonable. When I look Sir J. G. Ward to Ministers, and when I consider the fact that. apart from House work, we have had to ad- minister our departments, and the long hours that have been worked, notwithstanding that at the early part of the session early-rising hours were observed, I cannot get over the fact, nor can any fair critic, that a tremendous amount of work has been put in by Ministers. I am satisfied that the financial position of the colony is reassuring, and that there is nothing whatever to warrant fear in the way that is predicted by those most strongly opposing the policy of the Government. I recognise that care is as necessary to-day as it ever was, and it need not be assumed by any one that Ministers are not fully alive to their great re- sponsibilities. We will do our best to steer the colony in the right and sure course. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- Without reflecting upon you at all, Sir, in your discharge of the duties of the chair, I desire to express the hope that Sir Maurice O'Rorke will be able to come back next session restored to health. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- My reply on the third reading of the Appropriation Bill will be brief and to the point. I must say that, as regards the remarks on the third reading, there is nothing I can reasonably take ex- ception to. Honourable members will differ from each other on matters in general, and there is no question, I think, on which we have differed or will differ so much as the one of finance. I will at once say that the member for Bruce takes a very pessimistic view of the situation, but I think he must admit this : that, taking the figures he has given us 35 being correct, and with the abnormal expend .. ture during the first six months of the year with the succeeding six months, which are the best revenue-producing six months-taking the debit balance mentioned by the honourable member, that will be more than wiped off during the next five months, and leave us with a credit balance of over a quarter of a million. I do not myself take and never have taken an optimistic view in respect to our finance, and 1 have erred, I think, on the side of caution : but I will say this to the honourable member : that last year, in reduction of railway charges, in direct taxation, and otherwise, we gave relief to the er- tent of a quarter of a million of money-very nearly $300,000; and then this year we hive the abnormal expenditure of over a quarter of a million. You have therefore a difference ci half a million of money. We have thus, with the abnormal expenditure, and what we have given away, over half a million ; yet with that our accounts have balanced, and we have some thing to the good. Mr. J. ALLEN. - Your railway revende b more. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, but still we have givea away concessions. If we had retained er Customs and our railway charges as they were we would have had $300,000 more money. . come now to the question of the returns it? honourable member complained of. One them is the B .- 1 paper-the Public Accetta 