nitely better if the speech had never been de- livered. That was No. 1 of the converted members. Then we come to No. 2, who, I regret to say, is an Otago member. I do not often refer to Hansard, but I want the House to hear what the honourable gentleman said in connection with the question last year. I am quoting from Hansard for 1900, Volume 115, page 118, and Mr. W. Fraser's speech :- "I do not like to give a silent vote on an important subject such as this is, yet I shall not occupy the time of the House for more than a few minutes. The honourable gentleman who has just sat down said he hoped that provin- cialism and provincial jealousy would not be allowed to influence the minds of members. Well, Sir, I do not think that charge can be brought against me, especially in regard to this question, because ever since I have been in the House I have invariably given my vote for the Fr'isco mail-service. But to-night we are deal- ing with the question from a totally different aspect. In the past, although the steamers that ran across to Fr'isco were not wholly owned by any firm in this colony, there was always one or two vessels belonging to a New Zealand firm. It was very different then from the proposal now before us. Now, I wish to distinctly state what my position is. I do not sympathize with the whole of the amendments moved by the honourable member for Waihemo. It is only the last clause in his amendments which I desire to see carried. But I know very well this amendment will not be carried. I know it will be lost, and lost by a very large majo- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 rity, and, having been so lost, that last clause cannot be put again. The last clause is intended as a direction to the Government, and proposes that which I am positive a majority of the members of this House desire to see done. It is this : that during the recess the Government, without binding the colony to anything, should obtain all the necessary information, and endea- vour to bring down before the House next ses- sion some proposals to resuscitate the Vancouver service. That is what I want to see done ; and, therefore, I am thus bound to vote for these amendments simply because they contain one principle that I heartily approve of. They, I know, will be lost. Then, when the motion which has been moved by the Postmaster-Gene- ral has to be decided on I shall certainly not record my vote against it. I am prepared to admit that during the next twelve months the arrangement that is suggested to the House is probably the best that can be made ; but I do not desire it to be charged against me hereafter that I neglected an opportunity of expressing my dislike to the continuance of any such ser- vice as we are now bound to accept temporarily. It is possible, though I am afraid it is not pro- bable, that the conditions imposed upon the Government that none but American-owned vessels shall be allowed to carry on this trade, may be changed. I do not think they will be, but if they were changed so as to allow even one British-owned vessel to take part in the contract I should always be found voting to maintain the | VOL. CXIX .- 36. vote for the continuance of a service that is owned solely by American vessels. I feel bound to vote for the amendment moved by the honour- able member for Waihemo in so far as it con- tains a principle that I approve of. I refer to the last clause of it down to the word ' Van- couver.' It reads as follows :- "'(5.) That this House therefore recommends the Government to open negotiations with the Governments of Australia, Canada, and Great Britain with a view to establishing an all- British mail - service to England vid Van- couver.' "If this could be moved by itself I would not vote for the amendment of the honourable member for Waihemo, but I fear it cannot be done. " Hon. MEMBERS .- It can be moved. "The CHAIRMAN .- I do not wish honourable members to be voting under a misapprehension. It will be quite in order, after the amendment is disposed of, for any honourable member to move that any of the words embodied in the amendment shall be added to the motion. "Mr. FRASER .- I am very glad to learn that, and I shall now, therefore, vote against the amendment of the honourable member for Waihemo, reserving to myself the right of fur- ther action later on." Mr. W. FRASER .- Will you allow me to say & word ? Mr. McNAB .- After I have done. Now, I come to the honourable member for Bruce, who was in the same position as the others. I see the member for Franklin is now in his place. I may tell him that during his absence a great deal of credit was given to him for the conversion of three votes, and that it is under- stood to him is given the credit of winning for the City of Auckland the San Francisco service. I was also pointing out to these honourable members that he had won over, that their speeches had been prepared previous to their conversion, and that after their conversion they fired off a portion of the speech that had been previously prepared without remembering that afterwards a good supplement had been added to it in the lines of support of the San Francisco service. One honourable member so far forgot the position that he gave his speech against the service, while on a previous occasion he spoke in favour of it. The member for Bruce (Mr. Allen) did not fall into that mistake. He had a speech prepared in which he criticized the Postmaster- General, and, although the first part of it was admirable, he could not resume his seat without firing off to the House that portion of it that had been prepared against the Postmaster-General. He has resur- rected a matter that really had nothing to do with the main portion of his speech. He also raised a very important question in connection with the San Francisco service, and I shall say a word or two about it. I may say I do not see eye to eye with him in regard to the federation of the English-speaking races. I look on that as a thing that will never happen. I do not be- lieve the federation of England, or the British 