were housed in bad, rotten tents; and, second, that there was no covering for the cooking- place. As far as the latter drawback was con- cerned, it appeared to be a case of inability to put the covering up when the weather was wet, and when the weather turned fine it was con- sidered that no covering was required. Some of the officers who had charge of New Zealand's sons in the dangers of war actually proved on this occasion that they did not know how to feed the men in the Empire City of the colony, where they were actually right in the middle of plenty. He thought that if he had been a Volunteer he would have got something better than uncooked food to eat, and something better than foul water to drink, and he would have been justified in so doing, seeing that others were getting quite a different class of food. He would like to get an expression of opinion from the Minister in charge as to whether he did not think it would be fair to pay to the citizens of Wellington the money which it could be clearly shown would have to be ex- pended before Newtown Park could be put into a proper state of repair again. He would also like to know how much money had been paid to the Commissioner in the vote of £12,153. Sir J. G. WARD said a sum of £467 had been paid as the salaries and expenses of the Com- missioners. Mr. HUTCHESON would like to know the particular amounts paid to each Commissioner. Sir J. G. WARD said the salary was £100 & month for about three months and a half. As to the question referred to by the member for Waitemata, the honourable member had said the expenditure in connection with the Royal visit should have been kept down. Well, he http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero did not believe that, judged by what had taken place in other countries, the expenditure in New Zealand was heavy. In Capetown there was an expenditure of £100,000 on the occasion of the Royal visit. That information had reached New Zealand by letter only that day, and that colony, it had to be remembered, was at pre- sent in a disturbed state. In New Zealand, unlike anywhere else, the Royal party had been entertained at five different places, and, no matter how economical one might wish to be, when the expenditure had to be divided over five places it would be seen that by com- parison with the expenditure of other colonies, and at Capetown, the expenditure in New Zea- land had not been excessive. An Hon. MEMBER said, Look at what you got from the citizens. Sir J. G. WARD said, Yes, of course, some- thing handsome was contributed by the citizens in connection with the respective towns, and in Australia it was the same. He was informed the Governor-General in Australia had received a contribution of £8,000 from the State. The details of the item of £20,000 he (Mr. Ward) could not give exactly, because in a matter of the sort there would necessarily be some fluctuations : some of the accounts were in dis- pute and others had yet to be gone into. How- ever, approximately, the expenditure was : (1) VOL. OXIX .- 4. Cost of conveyance by sea and land, other than Government railways, $7,000: (2) Rations, £5,900 ; (3) Pay, net, after the deduction of rations, $7,900. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said that the military display at Christchurch was in every way worthy of the colony and worthy of the occasion. The member for Waitemata made some remarks about the great cost of this display to the colony-namely, $20,000. If the honourable member would only bear in mind that there were ten thousand troops there, he must recognise that the expense was not extra- ordinary, and that the display was worthy of the occasion. Visitors from England had ex- pressed themselves highly delighted with it. He did not want to deal with the Newtown Park scandal-there would be another occasion for doing so-but a great deal of that trouble might have been avoided if the officers had known their duty and looked after their men. If the officers in command had looked after the thing properly, after the first meal they would have seen that satisfactory arrangements were made. The member for Egmont made some remarks about the men coming down in the train not being attended to in regard to meals as they should have been. He (Mr. G. J. Smith) thought, if that was so, it was the fault of the officers of the various companies, who ought to have ordered their men to parade with knapsacks containing a meal. As to the vote of £20,000, he thought the colony ought to. congratulate itself that the amount was not £40,000. From what he saw at Christchurch he would have been quite prepared to hear that the cost was £40,000. He hoped that this item would be passed. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the honour- able member for Egmont had referred to the treatment of Volunteers during the time they were travelling on the railway. He (Mr. Pirani) thought it nothing short of a scandal that men should be asked to travel between New Plymouth and Wellington by train with- out any arrangements being made for their obtaining refreshments on the journey. He would give honourable members an idea of what Ministers thought to be proper provision for gentlemen travelling between New Plymouth and Wellington. He referred to those people who had attended the functions at Rotorua- public men, Pressmen, and others. They had dinner at half-past six in the evening before they started from New Plymouth ; at eleven pm. they reached Hawera, and there was dinner ready for them there; at half-past ono they reached Aramoho, and there was dinner ready there ; at four a.m they reached Palmers- ton North, and there was a meal ready there. Let members compare that with the treatment of the Volunteers, who had to travel the whole of the distance without any provision being made for meals. He thought this was a matter which deserved some consideration at the hands of Ministers. He moved, That the item, £20,000, be reduced by £5, to indicate the disapproval of the House of the arrangements made by the Government and their officers in connection 