clear. from the statement that has been made by the Government, that some part, at any rate, of this expenditure has been for goods which still remain the property of the colony, and that were essential for the comfort of the Roval party while they were staying in New Zealand. It is, of course, necessary that those goods, which are paid for by the colony, should not be left as assets in the hands of His Ex- cellency the Governor. Now, I draw a dis- tinction in a matter of this kind, as I have said, between a vote of money which is to be spent and the payment of a debt which has been incurred in good faith, and presumably by His Excellency the Governor on the advice of his Ministers. Whatever may be said as to the constitutional posi- tion. as stated by the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) and the member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher), it appears to me that, whether or not the Government have allowed His Excellency to overstep the strict line of responsibility which divides their respective duties and their responsibilities, we are bound to recognise that in this case what has been d'ne has been done in each case by His Excel- loney with the tacit consent of his Responsible Advisers. That being the case, I do not see how the colony can now honestly say to the Governor. " You have spent this money; and you can pay the cost." That would be 9.30. an act which, throughout the whole of British speaking communities, would stamp the Parliament and the country as a place which was prepared to boil over with enthu- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 siasm and loyalty when the Royal visitors were here, but, when they had turned their backs, was prepared to throw the proper responsibility of the colony on the high officer who happened to have ordered the expense. To carry out the argument of the honourable member for Motucka, let us suppose that the Governor had not expended this money. What would have ien the position of the colony? Either the Government must have expended exactly the same amount of money for the purpose of entertaining the Royal party, or the reception of the Royal party would have been of an in: perfect and fragmentary character. It would have been left largely to the Mayors of the cities, and to those who took private responsi- bility. I say the Government must have ac- cepted the responsibility if the Governor bad not done so. Now I come to another point, and this is where I feel inclined to blame the Government. This matter should never have been brought before the House, because the Governor should never have been placed in the position of spending the money. Instead of there being Commissioners like Mr. Holmes and others, who incurred responsibilities and set up liabilities ; instead of there being officers itke Mr. Donne, who made arrangements and contracts which in some cases had to be broken ; one Minister should have been set apart specially to act as the representative of the Government and to arrange the whole of the functions, and all the accounts should have been made out to the Government direct through that Minister. Then such a debate as we have had this evening would not have occurred. Something has been said in connec- tion with the personal element in regard to the reception of the Royal party and some of the festivities given by the Governor. To some ex- tent I agree with the remarks that have been made. If you compare some of the very exclu- sive functions that took place at some of the Government residences-where a privileged few belonging to, shall I say, the alleged more select section of society were invited to meet Royalty -with the large and broad functions given by the Mayors, the comparison is largely against those given by His Excellency. It is not, of course, for us to dictate who His Excellency is to invite. It was impossible, for instance, when residing in Christchurch, for him to invite a thousand people to meet Royalty. An unfortunate remark was made by the honourable member for Wairarapa - which spoilt a very excellent speech -in connection with the dinners given at Government House. I think it is a great pity that a matter of that kind was introduced into this discussion, be- cause it might be implied that he intended it to be conveyed that those dinners were given with the vie v of securing the passage of a particular Act. I think the honourable gentleman will admit that more of those dinners were given after that Act was passed than before. The understanding I had in connection with that matter was this : that an alphabetical list was made out of members of the House, and the invited guests started with the A's and finished with the W's. I, being amongst the R's, came near the end, and I know that that was the case with other members. I think it is a great pity that any such question as that should be raised, because it tends to take away from the dignity of the discussion of a broad question, and I am prepared to believe that those who oppose this Bill do so as a matter of principle, and not as a matter of personal feeling ; and it is therefore to be regretted that personal feeling should have been introduced. I do not know what the intention of the House may be in con- nection with this matter, but I think, had the Government found some method by which they could have taken the House more fully into their confidence regarding the details of this expenditure, it would perhaps have facili- tated the passage of the Bill. I do not mean that the details of the expenditure should have been laid before the House and given the fullest possible publicity, but I do think that if the Premier had laid this fully before the Public Accounts Committee, and taken it into his confidence by giving them all the details, he would probably have secured the imprima- tur of that Committee, which would probably have reported that, having made the necessary inquiry, it was satisfied that this money was spent for public purposes. As I previously said, I merely rose for the purpose of explain- ing the position I take up. Had this been the occasion for initiating this expenditure I should oppose it ; but, as the money has been spent, and as the Ministry, as the Re- 