Mr. SEDDON (Premier), for Sir J. G. Ward (Colonial Treasurer) laid on the table a letter in reference to the compilation of the Patea electoral roll. He moved, That the paper do lie on the table and be printed. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said the House had had experience of the laying of these papers on the table by leave-papers that were not signed by an official. Mr. SEDDON .- That is signed all right. Mr. J. ALLEN said he did not care whether it was signed or not. Papers were laid on the table either by order of His Excellency the Go- vernor, or by leave of the House, or by order of the House. The practice was becoming pre- valent-and it was a very bad practice-for a Minister to come to the House with a document, or with an extract from a newspaper, and lay it on the table, whether it was correct or in- correct, as long as it suited his purpose. He submitted that the proper thing to do was to ask the leave of the House, first of all, whether or not the paper should be laid on the table. He did not know what the contents of this paper was, and he thought the House ought to have some knowledge as to the contents of papers pro- posed to be laid on the table, otherwise they would have any documents, whether authorita- tive or absolutely incorrect, laid on the table at the'sweet will of the Minister. What he objected to was the method of procedure, and he thought the House ought to be protected. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the Standing Orders provided that the papers which might https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ba laid on the table were papers by order of His Excellency the Governor, papers by order of the House, and papers by leave of the House. The practice was that, in order to obtain leave of the House, the member presenting the paper moved that it do lie on the table. It was not necessary to move two motions. Mr. J. ALLEN asked, As this was an import- ant point, if Mr. Speaker would take time to consider his ruling. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he could as- sure the honourable member he had taken time. The universal practice was as he had stated. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) thought it was usually understood that when a Minister laid a paper on the table the contents of that paper were in accordance with the Standing Orders, and that it did not contain reflections either on any member of the House or refer to a pre- vious debate in the House. This paper was a criticism upon a debate in the House, and surely it was not in order for the Minister to bring up a letter from a person outside the House containing a criticism upon a debate in the House, and ask that that letter should be laid on the table. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the point of order raised by the member for Palmerston was that this paper was a criticism on a member. He (Mr. Seddon) said it was not a criticism on a member. An Hon. MEMBER .- No; but a criticism on a debate. a debate either. What it was was this : A statement was made in the House that five hundred names had been added to the Patea electoral roll on the day before the writ was issued. A public officer-the Registrar of Elec- tors for the district-had sent a letter to the Government stating that that statement was not founded on fact. He stated that on the supplementary roll the total number of names was 312, and that on the 1st July he only re- ceived eighty-five names, 2nd July fifty-eight names, 3rd July sixty-six, and 4th July twenty- three. So that on the day before the election he only received twenty-three names, and not five hundred. Mr. PIRANI asked if the honourable gentle- man was in order. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) thought the Pre- mier had made it quite clear that the position was simply this : that Mr. Haselden made a statement during the debate in the House, which statement had been criticized by the Registrar of Electors at Patea. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he could not allow the debate to proceed any further. He had read the document, and it was, to his mind, a gross reflection upon a member who had spoken in that House in debate. He had no hesitation in ruling that the paper could not be laid on the table. # NORTH ISLAND MAIN TRUNK RAILWAY. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) asked leave to lay on the table a tele- gram from a public officer giving a denial to a statement made by the member for Palmerston, to the effect that a quantity of railway-iron had been spoilt, buried, and hidden away at Mako- hine or Mangaweka. The officer in question gave a specific denial to that statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER thought this docu- ment was open to the same objection as was taken to the last document proposed to be laid on the table. Mr. SEDDON called attention to a Standing Order which laid it down that where a public document was read by a Minister it must be laid on the table of the House. As this was a public document - a communication from a public officer-which had been read by a Minis- ter, he asked Mr. Deputy-Speaker to rule whether it must not be laid on the table. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER was sure that rule must be interpreted to mean documents that in no way infringed the rules of debate in that House by making statements or charges against any member of the House. Otherwise it would be open from time to time for officers of the Government or outsiders to make reflections on members of the House through Ministers or other members. Mr. HALL - JONES asked Mr. Speaker to mention the portion he considered objection- able. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, If this officer had merely made the statement of fact con- tained in the telegram, without the preface, he 