have the greatest pleasure in recommending him for the position of corner-man without his even blacking his face. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, In making a personal explanation the honourable member must see that those words should not be applied, and he would ask him to withdraw them. Mr. WILFORD withdrew the words that " he would make a good corner-man without blacking his face." Mr. FRASER said this was not a withdrawal. What the honourable member had said was really an insult to the Chair. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able member had unreservedly withdrawn the objectionable remark. Mr. WILFORD said he unreservedly withdrew the remark that the honourable member would make a corner-man without blacking his face. Mr. HUTCHESON had very sharp ears, and the honourable member did not take his cue from his leader. He said, "He could not." That was the disingenuousness-that " he could not make a corner-man "; and these were the ethics of Parliament, as shown by the leader of the House. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member was doing him a great injustice. Mr. HUTCHESON had heard it. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member could not hear it, because he (Mr. Seddon) never said that at all. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said it appeared to him that on this question Ministers were https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 setting up the position that the proper method for members of Parliament to make representa- tions to Ministers was not on the floor of the House, but by deputation. Now, that sort of backstairs influence Sir J. G. WARD asked for leave to explain. It was not a deputation. What was said was that a number of members of Parliament wished to interview him on the matter. Mr. PIRANI said that what he wanted to point out was that one of the reasons the Minister urged for objecting to the motion being brought forward was that a deputation of members was to wait on him last night. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. PIRANI said the Minister urged as a reason against the moving of this matter that a deputation of members was to wait on him in reference to the matter. Now, he said the Minister ought to discourage as much as pos- sible private deputations of members, and to encourage the open expression in this House of members' opinions on any question. On the 2nd July last a very full expression of opinion was given by Ministers in the Go- vernor's Speech as to the necessity for a super annuation scheme and an amendment of the railway classification. That was about three months ago. Could any one tell him why, when the end of the session was approaching, there was no scheme available, except to cer- tain members of the House who used back- stairs influence ? Mr. Wilford his Bill. Mr. PIRANI said the Minister had had it ready all along, because the member for the Suburbs said he had seen it. Mr. WILFORD .- No; discussed it. Mr. PIRANI said the honourable member did not exactly say he had seen it, but he said he had evidence to prove its existence. But they knew that the Minister had a scheme prepared for months past, and that the Minister himself was fully prepared to do jus- tice between those railway servants who were suffering most under the present classification, especially Stationmasters and other officers, and they were quite prepared to take the Minister's assurance that he himself fully in- tended dealing with the matter. But there was a question of finance involved, and they knew that, however much the Minister for Railways might desire to do justice to a cer- tain section of the railway employés, it was impossible for him to do that unless the Colonial Treasurer also was as anxious as the Minister for Railways ; and he might be permitted to express his doubts as to the exist- ence of any agreement on this point. There- fore it was a proper thing, especially at that late period of the session, that this matter should be brought before the House, and that members should show the Ministry as a whole that they were as fully prepared to support such a scheme as was the Minister for Railways himself. If that was the case, he did not see that there should be the objection that there was to members of the House voicing their views on this question in as public a manner as possible. It was a pity that schemes of this sort were always brought on at the end of the session. They had trouble in connection with the postal classification and the original rail- way classification because of this dilatoriness, and they were apparently going to have the same trouble now ; that was, that if members were not prepared to swallow holus-bolus the scheme brought down by the Minister it would be withdrawn. Consequently, very much that was objectionable was supported, and members were blamed with having voted against amendments in the Bill, while their votes had been cast in that way not because they did not think those amendments were just, but because the Minister had said that if any amendment was made in the Bill he would drop the Bill altogether. That was an unfair position for members to be put in. The most paying department in the public service of the colony was undoubtedly the Railway Depart- ment. Very large and very liberal concessions were annually given to the people who used the railways, and it was not a right thing that year after year they should have this postpone- ment of justice to the railway officers who suffer most under the existing classifica- tion scheme. Undoubtedly a very large proportion of the railway servants were very fairly dealt with under the classification scheme, but that only the more accentuated 