were five stars in the Southern Cross, and not four, as shown in the flag, and the Cross, whether composed of four or five stars, was not in the right position. He did not want to meddle in the matter ; it was sufficient for him to have called the Premier's attention to it, and, having done that, he was satisfied. He would say, in conclusion, that the Southern Cross, according to his reading and according to his observations of the heavens, was correctly re- presented by the five stars on the cover of the last issue of the Review of Reviews. The five stars of the Cross were there placed in the proper position ; but the map hanging up in the library, and which was also hung in the public schools for the education of the children attend- ing those schools, was a stellar abortion. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said there was only one point he wished to call the atten- tion of the Premier and the attention of the House to. He gathered from the newspaper reports that the right of the Commonwealth to have its own flag had been recognised by the Imperial authorities. Now, New Zealand was an independent State, and whatever right was conceded to the Australian Commonwealth should be conceded to New Zealand, which stood on equal terms with respect to the Empire. Therefore he hoped the Premier would give the House the assurance that in dealing with this matter he would not neglect the claim of New Zealand to stand equal with the Australian Commonwealth, and that, what- ever rights were admitted to the Common- wealth so far as their flag was concerned, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 would be conceded to New Zealand. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said this Bill was brought down last session, and he did not think the Premier had explained why the / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Bill had now to be reintroduced. If members would look at the despatches sent Home to the Secretary of State for the Colonies they \- would see the reason why the Bill which was The passed last session did not eventuate. right honourable gentleman was advised by the Administrator of the Government, the Chief Justice-the Governor was away at the time- that he ought to put in a certain clause, but the Premier steadfastly refused to do so. The Administrator of the Government warned him that if he did not put in the clause in the way he suggested the Colonial Office would oppose it, and the Bill would be disallowed. It was natural enough that the Premier should neglect that warning, thinking that he knew better than anybody else what should be done. The Bill was sent Home, and, as Sir Robert Stout pro- phesied, Her Majesty's assent was not given to it, because the clause in question was not drawn up in accordance with the suggestion of the Colonial Office. Through the obstinacy of the Premier the Ensign Bill was lost to the colony, and now the honourable member had intro- duced another Bill. He had not had time to look through it, as Bills had been going through the House to-night like meat through a sausage-machine; but unless the clause was drawn up in some way that would accord issued to Governors it would meet with a like fate when it reached the Colonial Office again. He trusted the Premier had taken advantage of the warning which was given by Sir Robert Stout. There was a very voluminous corre- spondence on this matter, which was also very interesting. He did not know whether honour- able members had read this correspondence. Mr. MASSEY. - Between the Premier and Sir Robert Stout ? Mr. HERRIES said, Yes, between the Pre- mier and Sir Robert Stout. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where is it ? Mr. HERRIES said the honourable mem- ber would find it in A .- 1, page 18. It was not necessary to read the whole correspondence. Mr. SEDDON .- Read the last paragraphs of the Secretary of State's letter on the question you have just now raised. Mr. HERRIES said, Perhaps the Premier, in his reply, would read it, and they would check it to see if he was right. Mr. SEDDON had thought the honourable gentleman had read it. i Mr. HERRIES said he may have read it. He had read all the despatches, but he could not put his hand on it just at the present moment. But here was the last memorandum of Sir Robert Stout to the Premier :- " Memorandum for the Right Hon. the Pre- mier. "THE Deputy Governor begs to acknowledge the Premier's memorandum (No. 134) of the 18th instant referring to the New Zealand En- sign Bill. "2. He will transmit the Bill to the Right Hon. the Secretary of State for the Colonies for sub- mission to Her Majesty. He will forward the memoranda that have passed concerning the Bill. "3. He much regrets that the suggestions he made have not been accepted. "4. If the clause he suggested, which was in the form that the circular despatch from the Right Hon. the Secretary of State for the Colo- nies requested should be followed in the case of Bills to be reserved, is 'precisely to the same effect as the clause to which exception has been taken,' he is at a loss to conceive why his sus- gestion should not have been accepted. He cannot understand how any 'great constitu- tional principle can be involved' when both clauses have ' precisely the same effect.' "5. He has made his objection and his suggestion for three reasons : (a.) He con- sidered, though he thought it had been done inadvertently, that in the Governor's absence the prerogative and functions of the Governor were being interfered with. (b.) He thought the request in the circular despatch referred to, which was agreed to by all the colonies (New Zealand included) in 1884, might have been acceded to. It seems to him but scant courtesy to extend to the Imperial authorities that this small and admittedly formal request should be denied, and that a new practice should, sixteen years after the colony had agreed to the request, be set up, and that 