information as to what was being done by these vessels, and who had free trips on them. He believed charges were made in some cases and not in others, and he would like to know why. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said a comparison of the expenditure of this year and last year was very interesting. This year the "Tutane- kai " cost nearly £2,000 more than last year, which seemed a very extraordinary thing ; be- cause, under any circumstances, the vessel had to be maintained all the year round. He admitted that the trip to the South Sea Islands last year was exceptional, but it could hardly involve an extra expenditure of $2,000. The "Hinemoa " also showed a large increase. He would also like the Minister, as he had given details of expenditure, to explain what the receipts were. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said, in regard to the trip to the South Sea Islands, which nobody begrudged to the Premier, there was a current report that between thirty and forty persons not in any way connected with the Govern- ment of the country were on board on that trip. Mr. HALL-JONES .- No, that was incorrect. Mr. MEREDITH said he would like the Minister to rise in his place and contradict that statement. He would also like to see the items of expenditure for that trip, and the item of the income derived from these passengers, given to the House. He thought the House was entitled to that information, in order to correct reports that had been circulated inside and outside https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Chamber. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) hoped the Minister would give some information in regard to the cost of this trip to the South Sea Islands. According to the correspondence with the Auditor-General it cost the sum of £1,151, of which £379 was for wages and the rest for provisions. Mr. HALL-JONES said, If the honourable gentleman had got the Auditor General's state- ment he could reckon that he had an account of every penny the trip cost. He would point out to the honourable gentleman who had spoken just now that in the estimates this year there was a larger sum put down for alterations to the " Hinemoa," which had been allowed to run down somewhat, because it was considered that the whole of the Government work could be done by the "Tutanekai." However, it had been shown conclusively that the work could not be done by the "Tutanekai," and, gradually doing a little each year, he had been making improvements in the "Hinemoa." Provision was made in the estimates for a new stern-shaft and a new deck for her, and he did not know but that provision would be made for steam steering- gear. Instead of carrying out all these altera- tions in one year, he had been spreading them over a number of years. He said, emphatically, they could not dispense with that steamer, or a similar boat at great cost, for attending to lighthouses. Periodically each lighthouse must be visited, and they must have one boat Southern Islands to see if there were any casta- ways, and that the provision depots were in good order. All this meant a year's work fer any one boat, and they could not send the "Tutanekai " on this work, because she must be somewhat near at hand for cable-repairing. He said the "Hinemoa " well earned her money, and more than earned it, and the "Tutanekai" also earned her money. If they took the cost of cable-laying now and compared it with the cost before the "Tutanekai " was acquired, then they would see there was a large profit now. For the balance of the time she was utilised to the best possible advantage for Government work. With regard to the trip to the Macquarie Islands, he took the responsibility of that, and at any time while he was Minister, if he found people in danger of losing their lives, he would send a boat to them. At that time the "Hinemoa " was on her island trip, and was halfway to the Macquarie, and the cost of the trip was not any- thing like the sum mentioned by the honour- able member for Wellington City. He had had a similar case at the East Cape lately, where a passing vessel was signalled that a doctor was urgently wanted. There was only one way to get a doctor, and that was to send him from Gisborne, and he had done so ; and he did not think there were half a dozen members in the House who, in like circumstances, would not have done as he did in each case. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) wished to 9.0. know definitely the conditions on which members of the House could travel on the Government steamers. Could the Premier or any other member of the Ministry, or any member of the House, use the "Tutanekai" without payment, or were they required to pay? He would also like to know if a mem- ber of the Ministry could take his friends with him without payment. Mr. HALL-JONES said that when Ministers were engaged on the work of the colony they were entitled to use the boat, and they very properly did so. Mr. J. ALLEN asked, Without cost ? Mr. HALL-JONES said, Yes, without cost. When members travelled there was a scale of charges-7s. 6d. per day. For out-of-the-way trips the charge for private persons was 10s. a day, and for trips on the coast the usual coastal rates. For Civil servants the cost was 7s. 6d. a day. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said there was a slight inaccuracy in the Minister's state- ment, in that there was no question of life in- volved in the last trip of the " Hinemoa" to the South Seas. He agreed with the Minister that the two steamers were absolutely necessary for the work of the colony. The " Hinemoa " had her special work, and if she did no other work than visit the lighthouses of the colony she would amply repay all her expense. She was almost exclusively employed on that work, and, that being so, there was plenty of other work for the "Tutanekai." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the present 