mind, that he says there is a desire on the part of some unions to contract themselves out of the law. Now, what would be the effect of that? They are actually seeking to do that which they, in the first instance, when the law was passed, denounced as cruel brutality-to bring about strikes. I say, if we are not going to be thorough in this matter let us wipe out the law altogether. If we are not going to in- clude every one under its principles, let us tear the law from our statutes and go back to the days of barbarism, for that is what it means. Of course, I admit that the labour laws were passed at the instigation of the workers. That is not at all singu- lar, because anything which affects their interests affects them very seriously indeed. Anything which affected their pockets affected their bread fund, and they felt the pinch so severely that they were obliged to take action of some sort. We know very well from ex- perience that the pinch is not so severely felt by employers; they can manage somehow or other to get along, although money may not always be coming in readily. But in the case of the workers, if their wages do not come in regularly, and they are through competition reduced to a very low standard of wages, their position is a very bitter one indeed when serious industrial war is precipitated. I say that I think the farmers are wrong in their idea that it will injure them to be included under the provisions of the law. Even the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 journalists in Christchurch are anticipating registering under it, because they believe it will be to their advantage to do so. There is no- thing, as some people seem to think, humili- ating about this ; it is a perfectly honourable and straightforward thing to do. It is merely doing what is done in our Courts of law every day-taking difficulties to be settled by means of those who are capable and who are trusted to settle them. I can imagine circum- stances in which the shearers, for instance, might demand a higher rate of pay than would be justified by the price which was being realised for wool. Well, Sir, if that were the case, the pastoralists, if they felt that they had to pay a price which would affect them all very seriously, if not ruin some of them, would be quite within their rights to have the option, instead of being placed in the difficulty of having to face a strike, of going to the Conciliation Board or the Arbitration Court and having the matter settled in that way. Therefore I say that it would be a fair thing, as the Hon. Mr. McLean con- tended, to have the farmers included in this measure, so that everybody might be made to toe the mark if necessary. Sir, there is nothing hurtful about our conciliation and arbi- tration law. It is one of the most beneficent laws that was ever passed in any country in the world. As Mr. Lloyd says, in speaking of this law, " It is the compulsion of our Civil Courts, who guard us with lawsuits instead of suits of armour." And he speaks feelingly on this subject, because recently in America there has been a very disastrous strike. Now, sup- tration law had existed in America when the Steel Trust workers went out, it is probable that the whole difficulty might have been settled, and instead of the employers losing two millions of money and the workers five millions, as has been estimated, the whole trouble might have been averted without any damage whatever to anybody concerned, and to the public benefit. I think the day is past when people should hold to the fallacious theory that to benefit one portion of the community means to do injury to another. If when we are seeking to confer a benefit on a section of the people we take care that no one suffers in any respect, then we promote the advantage of the whole community. It was little thought, I suppose, that it might be possible for a dis- ease to emanate in the far East, amongst the squalor of the Arabs, and that it should reach to remote New Zealand and the uttermost parts of the world. It was little thought that we should be subjected to the annual visit of la grippe, which is said to have taken its rise and to have been caused by Eastern wretched- ness and misery and filth. I merely point this out to show that it may be necessary to pro- mote the welfare of peoples who are far distant from us in order to protect ourselves ; and, if this be so, how much more necessary it is to attend to our own domestic affairs, and to watch the interests of those of our own people who may suffer from any disability or from want of the necessaries of life lest their troubles should bring disaster upon ourselves. The Hon. Mr. GOURLEY .- Sir, I may say this Bill, so far as I understand, has been the subject of very severe criticism in the Labour Bills Committee in the other House, and I believe it is admitted by the members of the other place that this is a wonderfully good Bill, and I may say I am quite prepared to support it in its present form. I particularly like clause 21, wherein it says that either of the two parties to a dispute shall have the right to decide whether they shall go direct to the Arbitration Court or not. Now, for the information of those who are supporting this Bill I propose to quote certain figures which are taken from the book of awards. In Dunedin there were fifty- two cases brought before the Conciliation Board, and there were twenty of them settled by that Board. And I may say that I have every ' respect for the Dunedin Board. It is presided over by a highly respected solicitor, and his predecessor, Mr. Sim, was a solicitor also; and these two men have given entire satisfaction to the whole community. As I say, they had fifty-two cases submitted to them and they settled twenty ; consequently there were thirty-two referred to the Abritration Court. Now, it took the Board something like thirty- eight days to decide these fifty-two cases. Then, in the case of the Wellington Board, forty-five cases came before them, and they managed to settle four. It took them a hun- dred and fifty days to settle these four cases. The Christchurch Board have had sixty-two cases before them, and they settled nine cases. 