anything I have said, I beg your pardon and that of the members of the Council. The Hou. the SPEAKER .- I am glad the honourable gentleman has seen fit to make the statement he has, and I am quite sure that every member of the Council will also be very glad. Had the honourable gentleman given himself time for one moment's reflection I am qui'e sure that his good sense would have pointed out that when the ruling of the Chair had been given the question is no longer what word had or had not been used, or what griev- ance had or had not been given, but the simple question whether the ruling of the Chair should be obey.d. I trust in future the honourable gentl. man, if such a thing were to occur again. would not be so hasty, but would give himself time to reflect. Of course he knows perfectly well that the business of the Council could not be conducted unless this rule were observed. For my own part, and I think I may say the same on the part of the Council as a whole, the incident will be banished from my mind. Hon. Mr. JONES .- May I be allowed to say a word or two? The Hon. the SPEAKER .- If it is to a point of order. The Hon Mr. JONES .- Then, by what right has the honourable gentleman made this ex- planation ? To put myself in order, I will move the adjournment of the Council. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- The honourable member must be aware that course cannot be taken with the Council. If he wishes to rake up this Question afresh he must give notice. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - I feel sure the Council will agree with me when I proceed with what I have to say. The honourable gentleman has done, so far as he has gone, the thing that is right; but he has not gone far enough. The reason why the honourable gentle- man was called to order The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I regret that I He must interrupt the honourable gentleman. is not in order. The Hon. Mr. Shrimski has made a statement which, I think, the Council will all approve of, and it is not competent for any other member now to get up and make a remark on that statement. If he wishes to have the question opened up he must give notice. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE. - The Hon. Mr. Shrimski having apologized to you and the Council for his conduct yesterday, and seeing that this is the first offence of the kind that has been recorded on the Journals of this House during my experience of forty years, I would ask the Minister of Education to move that the record be expunged from the Journals of the Council. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Oh, no, no. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I think I should like to take a little time for reflection before taking such a course. Without in any wav desiring to make the unfortunate occur- rence of yesterday a matter of unpleasantness to any one, it appears that the Hon. Mr. Shrimski still declines to retract the words spoken. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- At the same time I regret very much the attitude taken by the Hon. Mr. Jones, who I consider ought to be generous. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Where does gene- rosity come in when I am so persistently maligned ? ## CORNWALL PARK DUTIES EXEMPTION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This sub- ject has already been referred to, Sir. in the Council this session when a certain Bill was before us, in which it was proposed to exempt certain charitable beguests and benefactions. The question was then raised as to whether this very handsome donation on the part of Dr. Logan Campbell would be covered by that Bill. Since then we have been advised that it would not, because it was a past transaction ; but the Government were so persuaded of the desirable- ness and equity of the colony recognising the handsome donation made by Dr. Logan Camp- bell in this matter of Cornwall Park that it was decided to bring in a Bill to relieve that donation from any stamp duties. This Bill carries out the terms of that decision. I begto move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. OPIUM PROHIBITION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, this is a matter which I trust the Council will con- sider important enough to require the legisla- tion contained in this Bill. We all know that opium is one of the most seductive and in- sidious forms of narcotic, and it is only a reasonable proposition that in this community opium should not be placed in the way of the people for the purpose of smoking. It is quite true that in this there is a certain amount of menace to the Chinese, but I do not think we should tolerate the habit even among the Chinese in the community, because it is pretty well known that from the Chinese the opium- smoking habit becomes diffused, and contami- nates European populations, more especially the young people. I do not think any one can say that opium-smoking is not a bad habit. It is said, of course, that opium taken in certain climates is almost a necessary of life; but I have never heard any one, from a scientific point of view, who was able to defend opium- smoking It destroys the health, it destroys the morals, and it is, perhaps, one of the most seductive habits that can possibly be acquired ; and I think we are perfectly justified in making it as impossible as it can be made. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. ### CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS RATING BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said-This is a Bill which gives power to local authorities to remit rates in the case of any charitable in- stitution (not being an institution within the 