position. I deny that there is any section of the people of this country who wish to do any injustice to the Native owners of land. Their only desire is to see the Natives put in a better position, and to encourage them to become practical settlers. If we could only do so, and break up the communistic system that obtains amongst them, so that each Native owner could go and live on his own land and cultivate it, or go in for raising sheep and cattle, they would be one of the most comfortable races in existence; but the trouble is to get them to do that. At any rate, to set up a class of Native landlords to live in idleness is the very worst thing that could be done for the Natives them- selves. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- The honourable member for Marsden has stated that Natives are worse off to-day than they were thirty years ago. I am beginning to wonder whether that is the fault of our legislation or the adminis- tration of our legislation. The following facts- I believe them to be facts-were placed before me a few days ago. I wish the Minister to deny them or to explain them. I am told that a private offer was made for some Native land at £30 an acre. There were restrictions, how- ever, upon it. The Government refused to re- move those restrictions, and that private offer consequently could not be accepted. But a little later on the Government purchased that same land for $7 or £9 an acre; and if this be the case-it is but one instance, and from in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 qui ies I have made I understand this is not a solitary instance, but one that has occurred many times-I say, if that is so, if that is the result of our legislation and administration, I do not wonder, under such circumstances, that the Natives are worse off to-day than they were thirty years ago. I believe what I have stated is correct, and southern members should demand an explanation from the Administra- tion whether these things are true or not. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- I am sorry the discussion has taken such a turn as this, be- cause the Bill brought down was certainly not intended to evoke a debate of this kind. We shall have a discussion later on when the Na- tive Lands Administration Act comes before this House ; but certain statements have been made with regard to the Natives which I can- not allow to pass unchallenged. The honour- able member for Marsden, for instance, said that the Natives are utterly unfitted for farm- ing. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- I did not say so. I said they did not do it. Mr. WILLIS .- It is not correct ; because I can state that near my own district there are a large number of Native farmers, and very good farmers too, and they have some excellent farms there. I consider that a large number of those who have spoken with regard to this measure, when they speak of the Natives being worse off now than they were fifteen years ago, hardly realise what would be the position of the Na- tives if these restrictions had not been brought Mr. R. Thompson slightest chance of getting hold of Native lands, when agents were going round with unlimited money to induce the Natives to sign deeds and get rid of their land for the benefit of speculators. And, Sir, the consequence was that we find very large blocks of land came into the hands of very few people as the success of those rings, the result being that large blocks of land are held for speculative purposes. Had it not been for the restrictions placed on the land the Natives to-day would have been almost landless ; and the measure which is being brought down, I am satisfied, is an honest attempt on the part of the Government to deal honestly with the Natives for their benefit. I might say that the first one to interfere in this direction, and who took a very keen in- terest in restricting the lands of the Natives, was the late Hon. John Ballance, as he fully realised how the lands of the Natives were passing from them under free-trade in their lands. I am quite satisfied that if we deal honestly with the Natives, and make the best use we possibly can by means of leasing the lands for their benefit, their position will be very much improved. And why should they not be allowed to lease their lands in the way contemplated by the Acts, and get the benefits, in the same manner as Europeans are allowed to do ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Will the honour- able gentleman show me what this subject bas got to do with the Pariroa Native Reserve Bill ? Mr. WILLIS .-- Perhaps not directly, but in- directly. I consider I am in order, because other members of the House have been making statements of a similar nature. Of course, if in the first instance you had ruled others out of order who spoke on the same subjects, it- would have been quite wrong of me to have spoken a little wide of the mark. But many members of this House would only be too glad to see free-trade in Native lands. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must speak to the Bill, or resume his seat. Mr. WILLIS .- I bow to your ruling in this matter; but I would like to say that the Govern- ment is making an honest endeavour to do their best to deal with these Native lands, and when the other Bill is before the House I admit it will be the right time for the discussion. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .- I am sorry indeed at the discussion on this Bill to have taken such a wide circuit, and involved the whole Native policy of the Government. One must regard the honourable member for Napier as having distinguished himself this evening in two ways especially. First of all, in the manner in which he intercepted the motion for the committal of order of the day No. 1. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think that can be referred to. Mr. CARROLL .- In making this reference, Sir, I only wish to remark that the honourable 