made from outside, and there appeared to be a general wish that the Trustees, or those who had charge of the management of our hospitals, should be elected by those who had to bear the cost of these institutions. At the present time the members were elected by the members of County Councils and Borough Councils, and the proposal in the Bill was that, instead of the Boards being elected by the representatives upon those bodies, they should be elected by the general body of electors. For this purpose the rolls for the Councils and boroughs would be used, and those who were entitled to elect the members of County or Borough Councils would under this Bill elect the members of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards. That had been done with a view to minimising any difficulties that might occur. If a separate roll were compiled that would increase the expense; and they could not take the parliamentary roll, because the boundaries were not the same. By taking the roll for the counties and the boroughs they had in the simplest and most economical form arrived at a means of electing the Boards by the people of the several districts. That is the simple explanation of the Bill. The present members would continue in office until the new members were elected under the provisions of this Bill; and it is proposed to hold the elections on the same day as that on which the members for the county or borough are elected, so as to entail practically no addi- tional expense and yet obtain representation by the local electors. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said he would like to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ask the Minister a question, and he regretted that the Right Hon. the Premier was not pre- sent, because the question had been put to the Premier early in the session. He wished to ask whether the Cabinet had really considered the representations made to them by the Otago and Southland members in respect to the Medical School in Otago and the Dunedin Hospital. He did not know whether the Minister for Public Works was present on that occasion, but it was pointed out that the Dunedin Hospital was in a peculiar position in respect to the Medical School. The question of the represen- tation of the Medical School on the Board of Trustees, and how they were to be selected, was put to the Ministry, and it was suggested at that time that four members should be appointed to the Board by the University Council. In this Bill there was no reason why an amend- ment should not be inserted to give effect to this. What was required was that the Medical School should be represented on the Board, and for this reason : they were interested in the hospital, because the students had to attend the hospital for their teaching. At present the staff of the Medical School could only be selected for the honorary medical staff of the hospital by the existing Board of Trustees, and they would not of necessity select those medical men who were teachers at the Medical School. They had, as a matter of fact, elected them of late years, but instances had occurred where they refused to take the recommendation of Mr. Hall-Jones leave the teachers off the staff of the hos- pital. The deputation asked the Hon. the Premier-and he thought the Hon. Mr. Walker and Sir Joseph Ward were also present-that some amendment of the law should be brought down to provide for the representation, for four members to be elected by the Univer- sity Council. He thought the amendment might well be placed in this Bill, and he hoped the Minister would assent to a clause for this purpose. The Medical School of Otago was in the interests of the colony as a whole, and not of Dunedin alone, and something should be done to place it on a better footing. He admitted there were certain difficulties in connection with the matter, but they were there to over- come difficulties and do such things as would be in the best interests of these young men, who were being trained for a great work. He hoped the Minister would consult with his colleagues, who had had this question before them, and have a clause drafted to place in this Bill. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) said he believed this Bill to be a great improvement on the present mode of election, but he would like some more information. The Minister had not given them sufficient information in introducing the Bill. The local bodies who elected members to the Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards now did not all go out of office at the same time. For instance, the members of County Councils held office for three years. As for the members of Road Boards where the Counties Act was sus- pended, a certain portion of them retired at the end of the first year, and another portion re- tired at the end of the second year, and at the end of the third year there was a general elec- tion. What he wanted to know was whether, in districts where Road Boards elected mem- bers of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards, the members elected under this Bill would hold office for three years. He thought they should hold office for three years, for very often mem- bers who were just beginning to understand and get into the run of the work which it took them the first year to do-were thrown out in an election, and new members took their place; while if they were elected for three years and, he thought, a portion of them only should retire, say half, at the by-election, there would be still a chance of new members being elected, and the system would be of much greater advantage than the present one. As he read the Bill there was no provision in it as to whether a certain number should retire at the end of the first or the end of the second year, or whether they should hold office for three years. He would like the Minister to give them some explanation on that point. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said, Although this was a very small Bill it brought about what would practically be a revolution in the system of election of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards. He did not think the Minister had given them a satisfactory reason for the necessity of this revolution. The old Act had worked very well. In the Waikato district, in which he lived, he had heard of no complaints 