yond the English Act." There is just one word in subsection (2) of clause 4, and the provision alludes to "quarrying, mining," and so on, " and other hazardous employments." It has been contended that the words " hazard- ous employments " would apply to persons engaged in bushfelling and in attending to dangerous machinery. I have been again advised on that point, and the advice is that the words " mining, quarrying, and other hazardous employments" - that the words " other hazardous employments " are governed by the preceding words-that they are the " hazardous employments " alluded to. In subsection (2), as I stated, " In mining, quarry- ing, engineering, building, or other hazardous work carried on on behalf of an employer, whether as part of his trade or business or not." Very well, the other section alluded to "any industrial, commercial, or manufac- turing work carried on on behalf of an employer as part of his trade or business." Both refer to trade or business. The one is industrial-it is to mining, engineering, building. It would be a stretch, I think, and a big stretch, if it was interpreted that this applied to persons engaged in agriculture, except you read that " hazard- ous employment " was to be read and construed outside the other employment mentioned. At all events, suppose it did. It would go to the Supreme Court, and from the Supreme Court to the Privy Council, and, as I said earlier in the session, the thing is to make the law clear and so there can be no doubt about it. Very well, of course I knew that I did not propose for a single moment to go back upon the existing legislation. I am not going back upon it. I be- lieve, myself, that the workers in our city-the workers whose engagement in dangerous em- ployments is covered by the present law-should not be interfered with. I think it is a most humane Act. There are other reasons which have been the cause of trouble in the country districts ; but now, to show that I am right in my contention, I find this proviso in clause 2 of the English Act :-- " Provided that where a contractor provides and uses machinery driven by mechanical power for the purpose of threshing, ploughing, or other agricultural work, he, and he alone, shall be liable under this Act to pay compensation to any workmen employed by him on such work." Now, farmers have asked, if a threshing- machine comes to their farm to thresh there, they shall not be liable to have their farms taken away if an accident happens. There is reason in what they ask, and there is the English law which says that the man who brings the machine, and who is the employer of the men working the machinery in ploughing, threshing, or other work -- that he, and he alone, shall be responsible as the employer, and not the farmer. I say, that being the case, and that being the English law, and as there is a doubt about our law, why not put in that provision in our Act ? I say it is reasonable and just to everybody-absolutely just. Now, that is what my Bill is going to do. far as the English Act, and include agricultural labourers ? Mr. SEDDON .- I am not going to enact the English Act, but I am going to make clear in this case that the English law shall apply. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- You are not going to stand to your promise of a year ago. Mr. SEDDON .- I have been .quite consistent in all I have done and said ; but where you have this constant friction and doubt as to the interpretation of the law, rather than have our money frittered away in Courts of law, it is surely better to get the doubt cleared away; and that is what the Bill is for. I am not going to depart from its principle. I now introduce the Bill. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, I have listened very carefully to the speech of the Premier, and cannot for the life of me understand what the proposals of the Bill are. Mr. HERRIES .- He might alter it now be- fore it is printed. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I think probably he will after he has heard what I have to say. Last year, when the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Bill was going through Com- mittee, I moved that the word "agricultural " be inserted in order to bring in the agricul- tural labourers. The Premier opposed the in- clusion of the word, and the voting was 26 to 20. The agricultural labourers were thus not included. In his speech on the third reading of the Bill he said,- "I invited the Committee to take the same course as was followed in Great Britain, where, when the Bill was first passed, it did not apply to agricultural labourers. I also told the Com- mittee that a Bill was before the Imperial Par- liament, and that it required a large number of clauses to make the Bill apply to agricultural labourers with safety, because it would appear to me that unless we had the Bill carefully safeguarded the result would have been some. what dangerous." Then, a little further down in the same speech the Premier says, " I had nothing what- ever against the agricultural labourers being included," but he would not include them. He continues : - " We had to take what we could get for the time being, and I promised the House that, if that was not sufficient, we would follow in the footsteps of the Imperial Parliament- that we would pass it as it is now, the same as they passed their Act originally ; and later on I will take the opportunity of going into the question, with the advantage of having the Imperial Act before us, in respect to agricul- tural labourers, and then place it before the House in such a way that there will be a prospect of its being passed." Now, I hold in my hands the Imperial Act which the Premier referred to. It was passed by the Imperial Parliament on the 30th July, 1900. As a matter of fact, at the time the Premier made the speech I have quoted the Act had been passed, though it had not reached the colony. The honourable gentleman pro- 