England have been to-day were it not for her islands and outlying places? Froude, in his " English in the West Indies," answers the question. He says :-- " Here is the answer to the question so often asked, What is the use of the colonies to us ? The colonies are a hundredfold multiplication of the area of our own limited islands. taking possession of so large a portion of the globe, we have enabled ourselves to spread and increase and carry ourselves, our language and our liberties, into all climates and continents. We overflow at home ; there are too many of us here already ; and if no lands belonged to us but Great Britain and Ireland we should be- come a small insignificant Power beside the mighty nations which are forming around us. There is space for hundreds of millions of us in the territories of which we and our fathers have possessed ourselves." The Right Hon. the Premier has to look to the future. As the head of the Government he is in a large measure responsible for guid- ing the destinies of this country. I believe the time will come when New Zealand will have a teeming population, and when it will be possible to have a considerable settle- ment of white colonists in these islands. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay said he did not think the white population would ever increase in the Islands. I believe the white population will increase in those Islands with the introduction of capital. There has been no organized attempt to introduce capital ; but when capital is systematically introduced, and with it modern methods of agriculture, as far as Rarotonga is concerned I believe that a large proportion of the tropical and sub-tropical products we now import into New Zealand will be produced there; and if an energetic company, culti- vating the soil according to modern methods, is established there, if systematic cultivation is gone on with, I believe the white population must necessarily increase. As I have said, the Bill is a mere transitional expedient, and on that ground I do not object to it, though it offends my convictions in several respects ; but next year I hope the whole problem will be tho- roughly dealt with : that it will be thought out during the recess, and that we shall have as the result a simple yet comprehensive Bill, by which such of our laws as are inapplicable to that por- tion of New Zealand will be inoperative there, while the major portion will be brought into force. I doubt whether you can constitutionally set up a different form of government for a particular portion of the territory of New Zealand. It may be that, under certain circumstances, we have the power to alter our laws, or suspend our laws, so far as a particular section of the com- munity is concerned. For instance, we may suspend the Habeas Corpus Act in a certain district, or we may pass laws affecting a par- ticular portion of our population-as the Native race. But I doubt whether constitutionally there is a power in this subordinate Parliament- Mr. Napier operation over a certain portion of our territory, and that over the remaining portion of our territory they shall not have operation, but that a personal and arbitrary form of government shall be set up. I do not think there are any insuperable obstacles in the way of drafting simple measure to meet the circum- a In stances. For instance, take the Great Barrier Island, off the northern coast : why should not our laws, so far as the white population are concerned, apply to the white population in the Cook Group as they do to the white people at the Great Barrier, or the Chatham Islands ? The Native problem can be met as the Native problem in New Zealand has been met. But to go so far as to say that New Zealand laws shall not operate over a particular portion of New Zealand territory because it happens to be a few more miles away from the mainland than, say, the Great Barrier, is to me a constitutional position which I do not think is tenable. The vesting in the Resident Commissioner, by sec- tion 5, of such powers as may be decided by the Governor in Council, is, I think, preferable to allowing the Resident Commissioner to exercise. the functions which were performed by the Resident Agent before the incorporation of the islands with New Zealand, because I think that, under the change proposed, we shall have an opportunity of criticizing and reviewing the acts of the Resident Commissioner. Some of the laws passed by the Resident have affected the fruit trade in Auckland. I do not wish to go into details now, but some of them. to my mind, are irksome and unnecessary. I hope that, until we have an opportunity next year of reviewing the whole position, the Resident Commissioner will proceed slowly, and with as little interference as possible with the white population, or with the traders in the fruit industry. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- Sir, the announcement of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that he was going to divide the House upon this Bill put me in a somewhat doubtful position, and on that account I think it necessary to say a few words to the House to explain my attitude on the Bill. The honour- able member who last spoke (Mr. Napier) told us that all these Councils in the Islands were really a fiction ; that the various Island Coun- cils were Colonel Gudgeon, and that the Arikis were Colonel Gudgeon ; and, I presume, the Federal Council we are talking about now will also be Colonel Gudgeon. The honourable gentleman said that the islanders are a very simple people, and that the whole question of government, so far as this group is concerned, is a fiction. I have no doubt there is a good deal of truth in what the honourable gentleman says ; and I think it is possible that the peti- tion on which the House acted last year was, as he suggests, somewhat of a fiction too. But I believe that no fiction on that side of the water would possibly surpass the absolutely fictitious character of the movement on this side of the water. The supposed enthu- 