sincere expressions of congratulation to the Hon. the Native Minister who has introduced the Bill as being almost his first effort, as I feel that it is superior to mere mercenary considera- tions, and is a step in a direction on which I can cordially and sincerely compliment him. I only wish that it had been done, as some honourable member has said, many years ago, so that some of the Maori antiquities which have disappeared from this country should be still in our midst, and, in fact, be a national possession. There is one phrase of his introductory speech too, on which 11.30. can compliment him. I know I that it is possible for him to very strongly impress the Natives that they should make the proposed museum the storehouse of the heirlooms and treasured articles which, though in diminished numbers, are still in their pos: session, and make the museum the repository of weapons, robes, specimens of ancient Maori art and historic objects that mingle with the themes of Maori lore, and he will have achieved much if he can induce them to voluntarily store them in a national museum such as we propose. And, along with these Maori antiquities, their story and history should be carefully prepared and laid side by side with the objects to which they refer. Now, with regard to the Bill, the ob- jection which I have to it is that it is altogether too wide in its scope, and, unlike some honour- able gentlemen who have spoken upon it, I say it is not sufficiently precise-it does more than that which we wish to attain. For instance, we do not desire to control any collection of merely reproductions of Maori skill which have now become a prominent feature of private enterprise. There are a number of Natives who have become particularly expert in repro- ducing the forms of ancient Maori art, and have with their improved tools adroitly turned out some work really more creditable in mani- pulation, though not in design, than that which their ancestors could possibly accomplish with the rude instruments they then possessed. For instance, the honourable member showed me to-day a little greenstone chisel that was once a valuable tool of the ancient Maori, and at one end of it there was a hole bored through ; and he and I knew at once that hole was bored by Natives long before they came into possession of our improved tools. There was something irregular about the edges of the hole-a wobble of the drill-that was a proof of its antiquity : just the sort of thing the antiquarian would delight in, and which gave to it a special value. Now, we do not need to get these modern articles unless it is some special production, something bespeaking extraordinary skill, a new birth, so to speak, of Maori art, or what I might term the atavism of the ancient instincts blending with modern training in producing special types of artistic skill. These sort of things, of course, ought to find a place in the museum which is suggested. But we should leave open to the strangers and visitors to our country these productions out of which the Natives now are making a consider- Mr. Monk in the slightest degree, but what we want to do is to give such power that the Customs officers at all the ports of New Zealand shall be able to detain articles that they know belong to Maori antiquity, and they should be first offered to the Government. Then, again, supposing the possessor of one of these particularly valu- able heirlooms or something of historic moment is desirous of selling it, yet is contriving to put a price on it that was felt to be an imposition, I think the Government should have the power of submitting it to a committee of three or four experts, and they should determine what is the proper value of the article. An allusion was made to the laws now prevailing in Italy ; but it is well known that the Italian law is not as represented by the honourable member for Auckland City. It only applies to special works of art; but we know that the world is being supplied with duplicates of these works of art in Italy, only the originals of which are not allowed to be sent out of the country. I think the Minister will admit that the greatest delinquents in carrying off the antique trea- sures of this land are the notables who come to this colony-such as the Royal visitors we had lately, and the various Governors of the colony. An honourable member has placed in my hands the regulations imposed by the Home authorities upon the Governors of this country with regard to gifts from the Natives, and he desires me to call the attention of the House to it. One instruction is as follows :- "1. Governors, Lieutenant - Governors, and all other servants of the Crown in a colony are prohibited from receiving presents offered for their personal acceptance by kings, chiefs, or other members of the Native population in or neighbouring to such colony. "2. When such presents cannot be absolutely refused without giving offence they are to be delivered up to the Government. To this rule there can be no exception unless with the ex- press sanction of the Secretary of State. "3. When the presents are exchanged be- tween Governors or other officers, acting on be- half of the Colonial Government in ceremonial intercourse with Native chiefs, rulers, or others, the presents received must belong to the Go- vernment, and such return presents as may be sanctioned by the Secretary of State will be given at the Government's expense." Now, in confirmation of this there is an instance to which my attention has been called, and I feel sure honourable members will be pleased that I should place it before the House : - "In 1871 Sir George F. Bowen, who was then Governor of New Zealand, whilst on a tour of observation through the colony, was proffered as a memento of his visit to the Pro- vince of Otago a beautiful work of art carved in stone by a Native artist. It represented the ' Moka bird mourning the death of the Wax- eye.' "- Now, there is a wrong word. I know the Native Minister will object to that word being used as an interpretation of any ancient Maori 