sidered by many of the Law Societies in New Zealand, and they held the opinion that it would be a step in the right direction to abolish District Courts and arrange for Judges of the Supreme Court to go on circuit. If that were done it would tend towards placing the higher administration of justice on a better, more advanced, and efficient footing than at pre- sent. He would like to see a Select Com- mittee or a Commission appointed, consisting of Judges and lawyers, with the Under-Secre- tary for Justice, to consider this question, and also the important matter of what improve- ments could be made in connection with the practice and procedure of the Courts. He felt satisfied it would secure good results in the way of having the practice and procedure of the Courts so simplified that litigation would be cheaper and access to the Courts of the colony be made far more easily available to the poorest classes of the community. He thought the matter deserved serious considera- tion. The question of legal reform in connec- tion with Court tribunals and simplifying their practice and procedure was receiving attention in other colonies, and it behoved us to give consideration to the subject. The Dis- triet Court, being an inferior Court, its cases were not recognised as standard judicial deci- sions. People had not such confidence in it as in the Supreme Court. In many parts of the colony, where there were sittings of the District and Supreme Courts respectively, it was found that few cases were brought before the District Court ; consequently its business was to a large extent confined to the granting of probates, bankruptcy proceedings, and other Chamber work. He hoped the Minister would take the matter into serious consideration, and also his suggestion that something should be done in the direction he had indicated in regard to the question of cheapening litigation. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) 4.30. quite admitted that the honourable gentleman brought a qualified mind to bear on the subject, and the views he had expressed were worthy of consideration. At the same time he might say there was no immediate intention to abolish the District Courts. The suggestion that the Judges of the Supreme Court should go on circuit was a very im- portant one indeed, and he would take it into consideration ; but he could not promise that any alteration would be made in the present arrangements. He admitted the honourable gentleman's views were of considerable weight. He desired to say, however, that he had not been approached by the Law Society with a similar request, and until there was a stronger desire on behalf of the legal profession, and also on behalf of the public, he could not say he was prepared to comply with the request. SUPERANNUATION OF JUDGES. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister of Justice, When the proposed Bill to provide for the compulsory superannuation of Judges at the age of sixty or sixty-five years will be intro- a reflection on old age. He desired to say, how- ever, that he did not wish in any way to cast a reflection at all on the ages or capabilities of the present Judges. The question was put simply with the view of removing from office men who might in the future, unfortunately, when they reached a certain age, become un- fitted through weakness of intellect and other- wise unqualified for the high and responsible position of a Judge of the Supreme Court. No doubt it was true that in many professional walks of life the older men got the more able Yet they became to perform their duties. there were cases of men, when they attained a very old age, who became weak in intellect. But there was this distinction between the two cases : The men in the professional walks of life, when they became greatly advanced in years, were to some extent under the super- vision of the public -- that was to say, that people were not compelled to seek their advice,. nor were they absolutely subject to their de- cisions. On the other hand, a Judge of the Supreme Court, no matter how weak in in- tellect, could not be removed, and consequently the people's rights to obtain sound judgments were somewhat prejudiced. That was the distinction between the position of a Supreme Court Judge and one who was in a political or professional position in the colony. The people could judge of the capabilities of, and had some. option in removing their business from, pro- fessional men when they reached a very ad- vanced age. This option did not exist so far as the Supreme Court Judges were concerned. Some provision, he thought, should be made whereby men who were holding such great responsibilities as the Supreme Court Judges. did should be removed, if deemed expedient, when they reached a great age, and when their administration of the laws might be- come unsatisfactory. There was one Judge in the colony who had reached a very ripe old age, and who was alleged to be somewhat un- fitted thereby to satisfactorily adjudicate in cases-at any rate, complaints had been made as to the way in which he performed his duties. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER did not think the honourable gentleman was in order in making remarks reflecting on Judges of the Supreme Court. There was only one way to question the conduct of a Judge, and that was to bring a motion before the House. Mr. HANAN recognised that Mr. Deputy- Speaker was quite right in what he said. He (Mr. Hanan) simply wished to say there should be some control over men occupying high and responsible positions, so that they might be removed when it was found that they were unfitted to carry out efficiently the important duties intrusted to them. He did not in any way wish to interfere with the independence of the Supreme Court Judges. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the Ministry had no Bill in progress with such an object in view as was suggested by the honour- able member. The question of the age of pub- 