paid. that was not for officers in his own de- partment at all. It was a payment for services rendered by the Postal Department, who, after they had finished their own work, had to do work in connection with the pensions. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said that if the responsibility of watching the claims was put upon the Registrar there would be a good deal of expense to the country in the matter of mileage, because it had to be remembered that every single claim in the colony came under re- view once a year. He would urge upon the Premier the necessity of trying to find some simple plan whereby either the police sergeant or some other official should perform this duty, so that there would be no increase in the old- age pensions administration, because the higher that was, so much less would there be for the old-age pensioners themselves. Mr. TANNER (Avon) did not share the opinion of the Premier that there were any large number of claims which would prove to be inadmissible on closer investigation. A Magistrate who had had a great deal of ex- perience with this matter had told him that, in his opinion, the percentage of fraud would not rank to more than 1 per cent., and he would hardly have considered himself justified in putting it at that amount. With regard to claimants suppressing the fact that they had money in the bank unknown to the Magistrate who investigated the claim, he might say that the bulk of the small savings of this colony were invested in the Post-Office Savings-Bank, which was absolutely under the control of the Government, and though he shared the opinion that the utmost privacy should be insisted on in regard to the depositors, he thought it a matter that should be considered by the House whether it would not be advisable, where the names of claimants for old-age pensions were identical with the depositors in the Savings- Bank, that inquiry should be made. With regard to the transfer of freehold property and the evading of the regulations by bogus mort- gages, he thought that if some method could be devised for safeguarding the Consolidated Fund from these impositions it would be to the ad- vantage of the House, the advantage of the country, and to the credit of the management. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said the prevention of frauds would pay for the cost of investigation; and there was no doubt that a good many cases of fraud did exist. No provision had been made in the case of a person who had made himself indigent. Mr. SEDDON said he had an amendment which he should propose, providing that one of the questions to be considered was whether the applicant had divested himself or herself of property within the preceding five years with a view of coming on to the old-age pensions fund. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) was in- clined to make the somewhat novel objection that the amount ought to be very much in- created. The sum appeared to be ridiculously inadequate for the administration of the de- partment, and parsimony was very bad economy. so haphazard and so lax that the Magistrates and Registrars had no better opportunity of judging the matter than had the man in the street ; and perhaps not as good, as people would talk more freely on these subjects in the street than they were likely to do in the presence of officials. He would like to know how it was that forfeited instalments became a debit. Mr. SEDDON said these instalments had been paid, by the authority of the Minister, after the limit of time had been past, and before the amending Act had come into force. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) had not an oppor- tunity of saying anything in regard to the old- age pensions scheme. He did not think there was anything like the amount of fraud that some members seemed to think existed in regard to obtaining pensions. The amount of the pension was too small, and ought to be increased from 6s. 11d. per week to 10s. per week. If the Premier could see his way to increase the amount to 10s. he thought it would be a fair sum, and would then be a reasonable amount to keep body and soul together. It might be necessary, in order to prevent anything like suspicion being cast on old-age pensioners, to provide further safeguards. He would suggest to the Premier to allow the Deputy Registrar to appoint a substitute in places where he, being non-resident, would not know all the circumstances in connection with applicants' pensions. At present the old-age pension was simply a charitable dole, and the whole principle was not what it ought to be. The certificate for an old-age pension, instead of being, as it was now, a certificate that the holder had no means, ought to be an honour to a citizen, and that could only be done by making the system universal ; and he hoped to see the day when legislation would make the old-age pension universal. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) said he thought, with regard to frauds committed by applicants, 1 per cent. would be somewhat near the mark as the proportion of fraudulent cases. This, at any rate, was shown by the evidence of the Wel- lington Magistrate. It was undesirable that lawyers should be employed except in cases of extreme difficulty, and he thought it would be a proper thing for the Magistrate to say when they should be employed. Another point that required attention was whether the pension-list should be published. It was within his know- ledge that many old persons entitled to pensions refrained from applying because of consequent publication of their names. With regard to the collection of information, though he fully recognised the objection to the employment of the police to do this work, he still thought that they were, from their position and the local knowledge they possessed, the best officers for the work ; and, in any case, it must be remem- bered that the police were already employed to perform a number of Civil duties, such as the collection of statistics, and so forth. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said that con- siderable care should be exercised to prevent fraud, or injury would be done. 