means in his power, but he did not believe the stead of two members as at present.) honourable gentleman knew that this Bill pro- posed to deprive them of so large a portion of their endowment. Now, the Bill had been Borough representative.) only circulated the previous night, and it would take more than a Philadelphia lawyer to tell what the Schedule meant without a plan, and assets and liabilities in the Board, and pro- plenty of time to study it. He himself knew vides that wharfage on goods in and out of nothing about the Bill until that day, and the Motueka shall be paid at Motueka, and be ex- Hon. the Postmaster-General had informed him empt from wharfage at Nelson.) that the exigencies of the public service required last line of clause 7." that the colony should resume certain portions of the foreshore around the Government Wharf Borough of Motueka from the Nelson Harbour at Nelson and where the other wharfs were situated which had been given to the Board, Board district.) and that they should be revested in the Crown. officer of the Board, should have sent that This meant, if it meant anything, a loss of resolution to the Minister; but he did not revenue to the Board of nearly $500 a year. Sir J. G. Ward told him that, although the think it had reached the department yet. Government was going to revest these small Then there was a petition sent over here, and portions of foreshore in the Crown, he per- signed by almost every taxpayer interested in sonally had no intention whatever of depriving the Motueka district, praying to be taken out of the Nelson Harbour District. Mr. Hurst- the Harbour Board of the revenue it now derived from it, and that, as far as he was house, Mayor of Motucka, and an ex-member concerned, he would see that the Board still of the House, came over in support of the derived the revenue. But when that foreshore petition, and the member for Nelson City at- was revested in the Crown it carried the revenue tended at the Committee and fought against and everything else with it. While he believed this petition as strongly as he was objecting to the Minister would carry out his promise if the Bill now. The petitioners prayed that the within his power, still a time might come when Motueka Harbour and Wharf be removed from he would be no longer head of the department, the control of the Nelson Harbour Board and and therefore it was necessary that some pro- vested in the Motueka Borough Council. And vision should be made to provide that the the report of the Committee was as follows :- revenues from the foreshore, or their cash equivalent, should be continued for the enjoy- mittee recommends that the Borough of ment of the Board. He hoped the Premier Motueka, and the portion of the Waimea County for which the Motueka Harbour is would give the necessary undertaking to make that provision, without which it would be his the natural outlet, be withdrawn from the duty to oppose the Bill by every constitutional Nelson Harbour District, and that the Motueka means in his power until and unless the Go- Harbour and Wharf, with all its assets and lia- vernment promised to maintain the present bilities, be vested in representatives of the financial position of the Nelson Harbour Board. Waimea County Council and the Borough of Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) said the Motueka, and that the necessary legislation for member for Nelson City would lead the House the purpose be passed this session. to believe that something monstrous and out- rageous was about to be perpetrated on his constituents by this Bill. With regard to sub- there was nothing else in it concerning the mitting the plans of harbour works to the Go- Motueka District. The honourable member vernment, he might point out that in every told the House that he had a schedule pre- Harbour Act in the colony there was a clause pared to deal with the Motueka Wharf and to that effect at the present time, and in every Harbour. Did the honourable member imagine Government specification at the present day for a moment that he was going to allow him members would find this clause permitting to take it under his tender and grasping care, Government to stop the works if considered or even leave it under the management of the expedient. And therefore he did not see there Nelson Harbour Board as it was at present ? If so, he could disabuse his mind of that fallacy was any hardship in submitting the tenders to the Government, because the Crown found the immediately. money for the Harbour Board. The member for value of the Waimea County was double that of the City of Nelson, it must be admitted that Nelson City told the House that the members the county ratepayers had the whip-hand, and of the Harbour Board knew nothing about this Bill. Here was a motion carried at a meeting would doubtless use it ; unless this Bill passed of the Nelson Harbour Board, of which the there was no probability of a Nelson Harbour loan being sanctioned. However, he was will- honourable gentleman was Chairman, some ing to meet the honourable gentleman in any- months ago :- thing that was reasonable. The honourable "That the Government be recommended to amend the Nelson Harbour Board Act as fol- member for Nelson City also complained about lows : In clause 3, subsection (3), insert the word the endowments that were to be taken away ; but the fact of the matter was that his complaint . three ' instead of ' two ' in the first line. "Repeal subsection (5) of clause 3. (This would do away with the Motueka " Repeal clause 6. (This clause vests the Motueka Wharf with "Strike out the words ' and Motueka ' in the (The effect of this would be to exclude the The honourable gentleman, as executive "I am directed to report that the Com- "WALTER SYMES, Chairman." Now that was all this Bill was going to do ; Considering that the rating 