ing-expenses account. I have before me the report of the New South Wales Commissioners for the period ending the 30th June, 1901, and I find that out of railway revenue the percentage of expenditure to revenue that they paid to- wards the maintenance of permanent-way and works and buildings was 13.56 per cent. Now, Sir, what have we spent out of revenue and charged to working-expenses during the past year for maintenance ? We have paid #426,405, or 24.69 per cent. of expenditure to revenue. That is to say, we have spent 24.69 per cent. of revenue in maintenance ; whereas New South Wales has only spent 13.56 per cent. We have therefore paid a much larger sum out of revenue towards the mainten- ance of the lines than New South Wales, and they have charged 11 per cent. more than we have to capital account for the maintenance of permanent-way. Now, Sir, the total per- centage of expenditure to revenue in New South Wales last year was 57.17, whilst our total per- centage was 65.30, and, if you leave the figures at that, no doubt it is an unfavourable com- parison as far as New Zealand is concerned. But if New South Wales had spent as much as we have spent in maintenance and improve- ments, and had charged it to working-expenses account, their proportion of expenditure for working-expenses would have been 68 per cent., as against our 65 per cent., and consequently the working of the New Zealand railways during the past year has, to my mind, been more satisfactory financially than the work- ing of the railways in New South Wales. Again, the honourable gentleman said the amount for working-expenses was annually in- creasing. So it must necessarily be with the increased traffic ; but the relative cost of work. ing is increasing more rapidly in New South Wales. The expenditure for working our rail- ways, the General Manager says, was €1,127,848, equal to 65.30 per cent. of the revenue, an in- crease of 0.50 per cent. over the expenditure for the previous year. The honourable gentleman extolled the success of the New South Wales Railways Department in this respect, but I would point out that the increase in working- expenses to gross revenue is relatively greater in New South Wales than it is in New Zealand. In New South Wales last year the working ex- penditure per cent. of the revenue increased 1.24 per cent. In New Zealand the expendi- ture per cent. of the revenue increased only 0.50 per cent .; so that the relative difference between the working-expenses and the earnings is much less favourable in New South Wales than in New Zealand. If you judge of the success of the administration of the Railway Department by the percentage of the working-expenses to the gross receipts, then the management of the New Zealand railways is considerably better than the management of the railways in New South Wales. The honourable gentleman also said that matters which should pro- perly have been charged to working-expenses account for maintenance had been charged to the capital account. Now, the total amount, as penses for maintenance last year was £426,405. The particulars are given in Return No. 10, and it is significant that no reference was made by the honourable gentleman to Return No. 10; but, if reference is made to that return, it will be seen that there was nearly half a million of money paid for maintenance out of actual re- ceipts, and not out of borrowed money, and that much of that expenditure was upon works of & permanent character, and which could legiti- mately have been charged to capital account ; so that the complaint that renewals and repairs are all paid for out of the capital account falls to the ground. The charge is absolutely baseless, as is proved by the return submitted to the House, and which the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had an opportunity of consider- ing if he had taken the trouble to do so. But I shall not dwell upon that matter any further. I have a few remarks to make now with refer- ence to the expenditure on public works in the Auckland Provincial District. With regard to the North Island Main Trunk Railway, I find that a number of men have been discharged from the works, and their places have not been filled up. I admit that the men who were retired were properly discharged for either personal misconduct or inability to perform their work properly. What I contend is this : that as soon as those men were discharged steps should have been taken to replace them by competent workmen, so that the progress of the works would not be delayed. We had a specific promise from the Minister last year that this line should be completed in four years from 1900. The Hon. the Minister was urged by member after member from the Auckland Provincial District, and from the Wellington Provincial District - and in this matter we have had, too, the co-operation of the southern members-to determine that the North Island Main Trunk Railway should be completed with the utmost possible speed. Thousands of people petitioned the House to the same effect. But, Sir, on perusing the paragraph relating to the North Island Trunk Railway, I candidly ask myself if the Minister was sincere in the pledge he gave, and if the Government were sincere in the promise they made last year, that the line would be com- pleted in four years from 1900. I find that the estimated amount required to complete the work is $986,000. Now, let us suppose we vote £160,000 this year, there will remain £826,000 to be voted in the two subsequent years, and, notwithstanding the zeal of the honourable gentleman in charge of the Public Works De- partment, I must say I have my doubts that we shall get $826,000 in 1902 and 1903 voted by this House. Yet there is a specific pledge that that line shall be completed in less than three years from this day. I have placed great confidence in the honourable gentleman, and have accepted the promise as a sincere one, made bona fide, and I trust I shall not be mis- taken in him. I do not think the manufacture of the ironwork for the Mangaweka Viaduct at the Makohine workshops will in any way ex- 