to Dunedin, so that the business might be properly conducted, and in order that the men should be allowed proper rest, would be attended to, and, if it were found necessary, an additional officer would be sent. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) would like to point out that the Inspector of Prisons had his head- quarters in Wellington, and it would appear almost impossible for the condition of things as referred to by the member for Wellington City to have existed without his knowing something of it; but when the Inspector knew nothing about it, and the Minister knew nothing about it, and when none of the Visiting Justices had complained of different treatment here from that received in other places, naturally the honourable gentleman's position and con- tention was weakened. It might be, of course, that there was a new Visiting Justice without any experience at all, and he probably had a grievance and went to a member of Parlia- ment. Referring to the table quoted by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), he might say it was brought for- ward on a previous occasion, and when the attack was to be made on the large amount of medical comforts used in Wellington as com- pared with other gaols it was in members' minds that there was more alcoholic stimulants used in Wellington than in any other gaol in the colony. However, he would undertake to say, taking the relative cost with the relative pro- ductiveness over a given period, that the Wel- lington Gaol returned £3 to £1 of any other gaol in the colony ; and he thought that fact ought to be shown, in justice to the Gaoler. The Wellington Gaol, so far as its manage- ment was concerned, stood equal to the best gaol in the colony ; and there was no doubt, if they took the credits for the sale of bricks made, and the defence-work done, and if they brought to credit the bricks, tiles, and pipes, et cetera, in hand, the Wellington Gaol was the most productive gaol in the colony. And then, in regard to the cost per head, mem- bers must remember that the prisoners were divided, and that they worked at the Terrace Gaol and also at Point Halswell, and this brought the cost almost the same as'in a country district, and this extra cost had to be added to the management of the Terrace Gaol. However, he took it that all the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutche- son) intended was to call the attention of the Minister to the facts as they had come to him, and it was the duty of the Minister, when any- thing was brought before him by a member, to inquire into it, but not to take it as a charge against one of his officers. He would ask mem- bers not to lay too much stress on what was said outside, because they could not believe what every one said : and, so far as Mr. Garvey was concerned, he would believe him to be a good and efficient officer until the contrary was proved. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said his desire was to have a thorough inquiry into the allegations, by the Minister. There was Mr. McGowan when the operations were distributed over a wide area, but that did not account for the whole difference in the extra cost. But he would point out that every gaol in this colony could be made not only self-supporting, but could be turned into a huge profit-earning machine, if the Ministry were undeterred by any consideration for outside employers, and were not debarred by the idea of competing with free labour. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said the Premier told them that the Wellington Gaol produced more than any other gaol in the colony. Now. that statement was incorrect, because the table showed that the total credit for the Wellington Gaol amounted to £3,027, whereas the total credits for the Auckland Gaol amounted to $3,556 - that was to say, the Auckland Gaol earned £500 more than Wel- lington, which showed that the Premier was absolutely wrong. Then, Lyttelton Gaol earned £2,578, which, of course, was $500 less than Wellington, but by the time they allowed for the smaller number of prisoners at Lyttelton the average at Lyttelton for productivity was slightly better. Amendment by leave withdrawn. Vote, £30,886, agreed to. CLASS V .- POST AND TELEGRAPH DEPART- MENT. Postal and Telegraph salaries, £257,636. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) wished to ask whether all the advances shown in this department were strictly in accordance with the Classification Act, or whether there were any increases not provided for under the Act. In addition to that, he wished to know, in connection with the Telephone Department, whether his statement of the following figures were correct. According to the Post and Tele- graph Report laid on the table, the total cost of telephone construction to date was shown to be £176,349. Was that the cost of all connec- tions up to date ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes, it is. Mr. G. J. SMITH said a deduction was shown under working-expenses for wear-and-tear of 10 per cent. up till 1897, and after that of 5 per This was charged on the basis of the cent. total cost of the Telephone Department, but was not deducted or written off the capital cost year by year. If, then, the total cost of con- struction was £176,349, and the deduction for wear-and-tear was £131,789, it left a re- duced total cost of construction on the books of the department of £44,560, and it was on this amount that the interest earned by the department should be calcu- lated, and not on the larger amount of £131,789; and yet it was made to appear as if for a number of years the department was working at a loss, whereas in reality it was not so, but at a handsome profit, and the charge to subscribers to the various exchanges might very well be reduced. There ought to be & reduction in connection with the private sub- scribers, as the department should encourage 