with by all parties. Mr. HUTCHESON said that all he asked was that justice should be done in this matter, and he considered that the request of the City Council with respect to the Wainui Forest Reserve was reasonable. Neither the City Council nor the citizens of Wellington any longer desired, in their difference with the Pre- mier, to obstruct the settlement of the Middle District University College. But there was another Act on the statute-book of a permissive character, the interpretation of which the Pre- mier had declared to be a breach of faith on the part of the Wellington City Council, and he (Mr. Hutcheson) would ask the Premier to obviate the danger of what he might consider a similar breach of faith in this Act unless everything was made perfectly clear. He re- ferred to the Wellington Corporation 5.0. and Harbour Board Streets and Lands Act of 1892, and that particular clause which dealt with the shelter-sheds was just as per- missive upon the City Council in the uses to which it should be put as this section 2 of the present Victoria College Bill, because the sec- tion read thus : - " It shall be lawful for the Corporation to plant with trees or shrubs any portion of the said land, and to fence in the area so planted, and to erect any public conveniences thereon." Now, the Wellington City Corporation con- strued that in its permissive character, and acted upon it, thereby coming into conflict with the Premier; and he in this House and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 elsewhere, and frequently, had declared that their so acting was a direct and absolute breach of the spirit and letter of the Act. Anticipating the possibility of such another http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero breach, that he (Mr. Hutcheson), in the name of the Wellington City Council, desired to avoid, he asked that proper satisfaction should be given to the City Council by incorporating in the Bill these two clearly and distinctly specified provisions before there was thrown upon them the onus of interpreting such a clause as was now in this Bill in the same manner as they had interpreted the other clause. Because this clause reads thus : "The Wellington City Council is hereby em- powered to convey or transfer to the Victoria College Council," et cetera. Now, they were only empowered to convey it ; but if the Act passed, and the conditions which they stipu- lated for on the part of the Government were not carried out, they might take it upon them- selves, if power is left them at all, not to do it, and the Premier would consequently accuse them at some later time of a breach of good faith and a direct attempt to outwit or over- ride him. They did not want to be put in that unpleasant and unfortunate position, and they wanted to deal fairly and squarely with the Premier, as he (Mr. Hutcheson) desired to do. It was the Premier's duty to embody in the Bill those conditions which the City Council by resolution declared were the two conditions upon which they were prepared to convey the land. In the first place, he did not think it ton College even of that ten acres of elbow- room on the east side of its reserve. Mr. SEDDON .- They want the Wainui-o- mata Reserve as well. Mr. HUTCHESON said he felt quite sure that if the Premier went to the vicinity and saw the surroundings and nature of the land held by the two bodies-the reserve in the hands of the Corporation on the eastern slope, and that which is proposed to be conveyed by the Bill on the western slope-he would see it did not affect the City Council who that land belonged to. They could make no use of it. If the Premier wanted to obviate any danger of any misunderstanding, or these recriminatory actions, let him by all means carry out the letter and spirit of the conditions upon which the Corporation were prepared to transfer the Salamanca Road Reserve, and let the College Council go to work at once and build an insti- tution to be the permanent home of the Victoria College. He did not think the Premier had any reason to be aggrieved or indignant about this matter, for as soon as the City Council were aware of the nature of this Bill they imme- diately took action. The Mayor of the city was absent from Wellington, but the Deputy-Mayor and Council, as soon as they received the Bill for perusal, held an emergency meeting, and took what steps were necessary to protect the interests of the city, and at the same time go on with the negotiations for the final housing of the College. He did not want to introduce hostility, but he must do what he could to insure for the City Council fair play and no more. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he would not express himself very definitely one way or other in regard to this Bill, for anything he might say was not at all likely to be received with approval either by Sir Robert Stout, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or whatever he was, of the Victoria College Council, or by Mr. J. G. W. Aitken, the Mayor of Wellington. But the petition pointed out that in exchange for the reserve known as the Salamanca Road Reserve the Corporation was to receive land of equal value within the city. He would ask honourable members to mark the words " land of equal value within the city." Now, he would show honourable members where this "land of equal value within the city " was situated. He held in his hand the map of the City of Wellington. The land of "equal value within the city " was situated along the ridge extending from Mount Victoria down to the boundary of the Wellington College land, and that was the land, or the ridge, which was to be given to the city in exchange for the land on Salamanca Road taken by the Government under this Bill. One side of the land looked toward Wellington, the other looked toward Kilbirnie. He would ask whether that was " land of equal value within the city," He was not going to take any part in this feud between the two bodies. If the Corporation had not given the Premier fair warning that objection would be raised to the 