both sides of the House would admit that mem- ber was the member for Franklin. And if the honourable member for Franklin chose to champion the cause of a certain section of the community that was his lookout. The honour- able member had done it fairly, openly, and honestly, and he did not think they could ex- pect anything more. Now, the member for Wanganui, as an argument against the con- cession asked for, referred to the purity of the motives of members of the contingent from his own district, and repudiated the idea of any of them desiring to be paid for their horses. He could give the honourable member now the name of a man from his district who did want to be paid for the horse he had sent over there from Wanganui; and he dared say if members went amongst the returned troopers in Wanganui they would find them just as anxious to get as much of their own again as they were in any other part of the colony. In regard to Hawke's Bay, he must admit, and everybody who knew anything about it admitted, that on this question they were noted for their liberality - and, mind, the liberality came chiefly from supporters cf the Opposition ; there was no question of poli- tical motives there. Those who acted so promptly and judiciously in Hawke's Bay deserved every credit for the liberality and the care exercised in the selection of men and of horses-qualities not inferior to those shown in any other part of the colony. There was no one who wished to take away from that part of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the colony the kudos which they deserved. They were impartial in their selection, and nothing but the fitness of the men and horses Was allowed to creep into that selection. At http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero the same time there were parts of the colony where the men had not such a generous public to buy their horses and equip them, and they thought, and with justice, that if the Govern- ment were paid for these horses-the Premier told them now that they were not, and he would accept the Premier's statement, but the state- ment had been published and not denied before that night-the men who gave the horses very naturally thought if the Government were paid for them they at least deserved some recom- pense for the service which they had rendered. It was a good thing to get the explanation from the Premier in this public manner, and to allow the public to judge for themselves as to what was the correct course. But he did not think it was a proper thing, and he hoped the House would not often descend to such a level, that every time a member got up to voice a grievance it was to be said he was actuated by contemptible motives. Members might just as well accuse the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) in his advocacy of the San Francisco mail-service of being actuated by the fact that he came from Auckland. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was glad that at last members were coming back to the business. The business before the House was the Imprest Supply Bill. They wanted later on to get on to the estimates, and he was sorry the not, however, complain. The honourable mem- ber for Franklin, in bringing the matter for- ward, had been labouring under a misapprehen- sion, which misapprehension had arisen from the fact that they had seen in the newspapers a statement that the Government were receiving £28 per head for the horses. The honourable member had also been informed that some troopers had sold their horses in South Africa. Mr. MASSEY .- You said so. Mr. SEDDON said he had told them that he had known of one or two cases where certifi- cates had been obtained, and also that they were sold under exceptional circumstances. Of course, if there had been a private sale of Government horses to the officers, or if some- thing had been given in exchange for them, that was a matter between the parties, and had been a transaction made under a misapprehen- sion on the part of the sellers who were mem- bers of our contingents and of the officers of the Imperial troops, who certainly would not have bought them had they known that the horses already belonged to the King ; so, as he had said, these transactions must have arisen from mis- apprehension. But what he wanted to put to the House was that underlying this question the honour of the colony was at stake. They had sent Home to the Imperial authorities an intimation that they had equipped and defrayed the cost-landed free to the Empire in South Africa-these very contingents. If, therefore, having announced that, subsequently either the Government or anybody else made a claim for horses, they would be detracting from the gift, if, either individually, collectively, or as a Govern- ment, moneys were received for that which had been presented to the Empire. That was the side of the question he wished to put to honour- able members. He hoped the public mind would be disabused, and that we should not be judged by our kindred and condemned for having made a present and then subsequently made a claim for payment for the ho ses which had been part of the presentation. He might ask again, under that head, Who had paid the freight of those horses? That cost had been defrayed either by the Imperial Government or the New Zealand Government, and that, of course, added to the value of the horse in South Africa. The average price for the horses they had sold as remounts to the Im- perial authorities in New Zealand had been from £19 to £20, and the last, he believed, averaged £23. That was in the colony ; but he wished it to be clearly understood that in no case where a horse had been sent ordinarily with a contingent was it the property of the person who went with the contingent, be he trooper or officer. The honourable member for Bruce was, he thought, rather unfair, because he had not quoted section 2, which was as follows :- "The Volunteer shall embark with the corps. at [Name of port] on such date as he may be directed, and proceed on active service in South Africa to such port or place as he may be re- quired by any military authority on behalf of the Queen." 