stated, the Motueka Wharf was included in the Nelson Harbour Bill of last year, but only after the member for Motueka had explained to the member for Nelson City that Motueka desired it to be so ; otherwise the Motueka Wharf would never have been included ; and they had many concessions granted them in addition in last year's Act, which would be taken away from them if this Bill passed, and which very pro- perly would be taken away. Some of the Motueka people were desirous of retaining the wharf. They had petitioned the House, and their Mayor attended the Committee and gave evidence, and he (Mr. Graham) agreed person- ally to have Motueka and its wharf eliminated from the Act in accordance with the request which was made; and the Nelson Harbour Board also by resolution agreed to that. As to the provision in clause 2, the people of the county had never been asked whether they desired to be excluded or not. It was only the Borough of Motueka that expressly desired to be excluded. The Bill provided for taking away a portion of the harbour district, which meant a considerable reduction in the rating area. That was unfair to those who remained. There was no objection to the alteration in clause 3. The Harbour Board had agreed to it. Then, he did not know that there was any serious objection to the provision with re- ference to the Boulder Bank if " specifications " were substituted for " tenders." He hoped the Premier would explain why he considered it necessary in the case of Nelson to put a provision in the Bill which compelled tenders to be sub- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 mitted and approved by the Minister of Marine before the Board could enter into a contract, after the Government had approved of the plans. Why did the Premier wish to make an exception of Nelson, in saying that they should not accept tenders, even after the Government had made such modifications as might be considered necessary and as they thought proper? That was a provision which had not been inserted in any other Harbour Board Bill in the colony. Then, the next clause provided that the Go- vernment might order a discontinuance of the work. That might place the Board in a serious position, because the Board might call for ten- ders, the Government might approve of those tenders, and the work be carried on to a certain point, and then the Government might sud- denly step in and order a discontinuance of the work. That appeared a very dangerous provi- sion to insert in the Bill. If the Government took every precaution to see that the plans were right before they approved of them, that ought surely to be sufficient. This provision might have the effect of increasing the price of the contract. The Premier said his desire was to assist Nelson to get a good harbour. His words and actions did not appear to agree. Was it because the Premier had not confi- dence in the members of the Harbour Board that he wanted to have power to say whether the tenders might be accepted or not? Be- cause, if that were so, he, for one, would not remain upon the Board ; and, when he re- Mr. Graham Board, he believed they would be of the same mind. The Premier said that, if these clauses were objected to, he did not see why they should remain in the Bill. He asked the Pre- mier not to bind them by statute to such things as this, which were not made to apply to any other Harbour Board in the colony. This work was estimated to cost £60,000, ard then the harbour would be better beyond com- parison than any of those harbours which had each cost over half-a-million of money. It was the Nelson people who would have to pay for the work, and not the Government, if the work was to be discontinued. They would have to pay for undoing what had already been done. and possibly compensation for breach of con- tract. Now these objections had been empha- sized, he hoped the Premier would agree :0 strike out or modify these clauses, and show whether he possessed confidence in the Nelson Harbour Board or not. Now, in reference to clause 6, which read as follows : "The Motuex) Wharf shall not, after the passing of this Act. be deemed to be vested in the Nelson Harbour Board "-there was no objection whatever to that provision. But clause 7 read,- "All foreshore and mud - flats within the Motueka Electoral District, between the bon- dary of the Nelson City Electoral District and the entrance of the Motueka River, are hereby declared to be endowments for the Motueka Wharf, and shall be administered accordingly by the Motueka Wharf Board." That was a part in the Bill he strongly et- jected to, and it must be modified before the B ... should pass. The plan which he had jus: handed to the Premier showed the Motueks Borough and the foreshore attached to it. I: showed what was required, and what the Motueka people had asked for. The Nelson Board had passed almost unanimously resolu- tions expressing their willingness that the Motueka Wharf should be entirely eliminated from the Nelson Harbour District, and some inhabitants of Motueka had asked that thea wharf and the foreshore in front of it should ie so eliminated. He hoped the Premier would give the Motueka people what they asked for. and that he would not be a party to taking fr. r. the Nelson Harbour Board so large a portion :! the Nelson foreshore in order to give it to some one else simply because the member for Motueka said it must be so. If it was decided to give them an endowment it should not be taken from the endowment given to the Harbour Board last year, and the Nelson Harbour was of pri- mary importance in this matter. The Premie: had already admitted the gravity of the sitca- tion, and had expressed a desire that the harbour should be improved at the earliest pr- sible moment. He (Mr. Graham) had procured from the Commissioner of Crown Lands a schedule of what was delineated on the plars. which he hoped the Premier would agree to put in the Schedule of the Bill, as it described what was asked for by the Motueka people, and then one of his principal objections to the Bi. would have gone. He believed the Premier 