and have said, " We have got clause 6 into the Bill, and we will forego clause 21." I feel sorry that those members who were particularly strong in keeping in the word "either" did not show their magnanimity, and say at once that, having got clause 6 in the Bill -which is a retrograde step - they would forego their strength and allow the minority to insert the word "both." I do not know that I would have been entirely pleased had we inserted the word "both," but that would have been preferable to the word " either." It is somewhat hard on us who are supporting this Act, which has done such a great deal of good for the trade and industry of New Zealand, to find, or even to fear, that the action which has been taken may mean destroying the whole Act. When some members say that it is not going to destroy the Act, but that it will make the Boards better able to deal with the cases that come before them, it may be true that those honourable gentlemen are speaking honestly ; but is it right that members of Parliament, who cannot know all the circumstances of the case, and who have not had the practical experience-I ask, is it right that those members should practically ignore the evidence given before the Labour Bills Committee on this point, and that they should also ignore the wish of the workers and agree to this clause, which to a certain extent will, in the minds of many, kill the whole pur- pose of the Act? Because, I ay, if you take the conciliation out of the Act it will do a great deal towards destroying conciliation, and the harmonious feelings that should accrue from https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 conciliation. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- The sun will rise just the same. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I cannot say that I can treat the matter in such a light way as the Hon. Mr. Jennings appears to do. He seems to be remarkably light-hearted with re- spect to the action Parliament has taken. I think he will acknowledge that I and those who think with me have been honest in our attitude in respect to this matter, and I am sure he will not accuse us of pandering to out- side influence. I must say that I have been speaking my honest conviction on this par- ticular Bill all through. I do not, as a rule, pay much attention to what is said outside, or to what is likely to be said outside ; and I say that our actions in respect to this Bill have been the actions of men who honestly thought that Parliament was not doing what it should do, but was endangering an Act which has taken us seven or eight long years to put on the statute-book in its present form, and which has taken not only the time of Parliament, but has involved a great deal of consideration on the part of the framer of the Act, and of many of the foremost thinkers of the day. The greatest difficulty was experienced in bringing about the passing of the measure. We had to take the Bill in 1894 as it was brought down, with a hope that it would, at any rate, assist in solving a very large problem, and in a great number of instances it was sup- Hon. Mr. Jenkinson When it was introduced in 1894 it was wholly as an experiment; but there is not a member of Parliament, nor a man in New Zealand, but will say that the working of the Act has been for the benefit of New Zealand ; and it offends one's sense of fair-play when members of Par- liament will get up and say, with a light heart, that it might carry out what I personally believe will be the undoing of what we have struggled for during the last seven years in Par- lament. Sir, I am afraid there is not much to be gained in trying to oppose this third reading. It appears that the opponents of conciliation and arbitration have a substantial majority in this Council and in another place-a majority too large for us few to hope to convert ; and I can only express my sorrow that the work of the last seven or eight years in Parliament stands a very great risk of being completely undone by the work of a few moments. I shall oppose the third reading, and if it goes to a division I shall vote against it. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Sir, it is extremely disappointing, and even depressing, to find that after some seven years' experience of our system of dealing with labour questions there should be an attempt made now to undo what I consider is the vital principle of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We have had, during the last few years, so much discussion on industrial questions throughout the country that the history of labour legislation and labour disputes must be well known to almost every person in the country, and more especially to the members of this Council. You can go through all the centuries and right up to the present time, and you will find that there has been eternal tumult, eternal war, eternal loss, ill-feeling, and the creation of a fierce class distinction between those who have and those who have not ; and now we have found that, in this remote portion of the British Empire, within the last few years wo have solved diffi- culties that have never been overcome before, but which have been put aside and not dealt with in any practical way at all by the Mother- And now do we see that here country. there is a distinct movement to undo all the beneficial legislation that has brought this about. My honourable friend who has just spoken very properly constitutes himself as a representative on the labour side of the ques- tion. Sir, it may be a very low plane for me to take, but in the remarks I am going to make I shall almost exclusively deal with it from the point of self-interest -self-interest of the em- ployer-for the purpose of showing honourable gentlemen opposite that if they regarded this Bill in the light they should they would see that the abandonment of the principle of conciliation will be to them and to all the community a very great loss. Now, let us contrast, first of all, the position as we have had it even during the last seven years-and I will even include Wellington-with the period up to 1890. No. one, Sir, I presume, likes to bring forward his own personal affairs, his business, here, and I do not like it. It must be unpleasant, probably, to 