Board if it were not for the opportunity it gave him of helping deserving settlers. Was it not the duty as well as privilege of representatives to protect their constituents? Such members were, he might say, the buffer between the department and the settlers who needed assist- ance. Seeing that the services of members of the House were estimated on Royal Commis- sions at one-half and sometimes one-third of the value placed on the services of the general public, it was well that the position of mem- bers should be accurately defined by legislation. He believed members had the confidence of the public, otherwise they would not be sent to the House ; but, unfortunately, they had not always the confidence of their colleagues, and, as a re- sult, there was continually a squabbling going on between the "outs " and the "ins." At any rate, members who were doing their duty to the colony and the people they represented should not be subjected to gratuitous and mendacious attacks. The miserable tactics of disappointed members, supported by Ministers, made what was at best a thankless task so unbearable that he felt tempted to resign his seat on the Board. It was evident that the sooner the Government stated what positions members of the House could occupy the better it would be for all con- cerned. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) did not think there was any necessity for legislation on the matter. He did not think the fact that a man was a member of Parliament should restrict him in his actions, or that on that account he should not be open to receive any position that de- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 manded his services. It was clear, however, the majority of the members of the House had a feeling that those members who were on Land Boards possessed an advantage over those mem- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero bers who were not on Land Boards. The member for Masterton had admitted they had an advantage. He said he wanted to be on the Land Board so that he could look after the interests of the settlers in his district. Mr. HERRIES .- He said his " constituents." Mr. SEDDON said, That, of course, was a slip. He quite understood that members of the Opposition who were not on Land Boards would naturally like to occupy seats on those Boards to look after the interests of their con- stituents. However, they would have to wait until they occupied the Treasury benches, and no doubt, if they then appointed their friends to Land Boards, the member for Masterton and others who were now members of the Boards would complain, and would not vote for mem- bers being on Land Boards. However, he had a general knowledge of what underlay the whole thing. There was one statement he would like to make, and that was that the disqualification laws now on the statute-book were a discredit to Parliament. No doubt there were men in Parliament fitted for special work to which they might be appointed, and, as they were the elect of the people and were specially qualified, it was certainly wrong that, if they were appointed and accepted those positions, they should not receive the same reward for their services as was paid to those who VOL. CXIX .- 39. were not members of the House. It was well, of course, that there should be a limit ; but the present limit- £1 a day-was altogether, in his opinion, too little. Outsiders were paid the amount fixed by His Excellency the Governor. At all events, he had all along said, and he now repeated, that the disqualification laws required alteration, and if the House desired that that alteration should be made he was quite pre- pared to bring in a Bill to give effect to their wishes. A member of Parliament was away from his home all the session, and in the recess, if he was again called upon to leave his home to go through the country on business of special importance to the colony for a sum that barely covered his expenses, he was making a sacrifice he should not be called upon to make. Of course, he might be told these men should not be appointed, but if he were to take up that position he would many times lose the services of the best men. FOREST GATE ESTATE. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Premier, Whether, if the proprietors of the Forest Gate Estate elect not to compel the Government to take that property under the award of the Land for Settlements Compensa- tion Court, the Government propose to com- pensate the proprietors for the loss and legal and other expenses to which they have been put ; and, if so, from what vote will they ob- tain the money? This question referred to a very important matter-the acquisition by the Government of the Forest Gate Estate. Per- haps it would not be out of place if he briefly mentioned the circumstances leading up to the purchase. In the first place, he believed the estate was offered to the Government and by them declined. Subsequently the Government offered to buy the estate, and offered to the vendors the sum of £3 17s. 6d. per acre. The vendors declined this price, and the Govern- ment then offered £4 ; but the vendors asked for the sum of $4 10s. per acre, a request that was declined by the Government. In due course a sitting of the Compensation Court was held, and the Court awarded the owners of the estate £5 10s. per acre for an estate for which the Government in the first place offered £3 17s. 6d. per acre. Now, this was the extraordinary part of the position : A week ago the honourable member for Hawke's Bay (Cap- tain Russell) asked the Government whether there were any negotiations pending between the Government and the owners of the estate subsequent to the award; and the Premier, in replying, said the Government had decided to give the owners of the estate the option of retaining it. He also said this could only be done by arrangement ; but the position was ad- mitted by the Premier that the Government did not propose to enter into possession of the land unless the owners themselves declined to release them from the responsibility placed on the Government by the award of the Court. This was a very important matter. He wished to avoid matter that was arguable, but he could not help thinking the Government would 