those of wide experience, all informed the Commission that, in their opinion, and as far as their experience extended, the female teachers were not equal to the work now required to be done in order to overtake the syllabus work for the Fifth and Sixth Stan- dards. The general impression obtained by the Commission after going round the various districts and hoaring the evidence of the female and male teachers was that there was no advo- cacy on the part of either males or females that there should be equal pay for equal work, but that the disparity that exists in the various edu- cational districts should be removed as far as pos- sible. The honourable member for Palmerston has advocated just now equal pay for equal work, and yet he is a member of the Wanganui Educa- tion Board, which, I consider, is the greatest offender in maintaining a wide disparity- namely, 25 per cent. as between the salaries paid to males and females. Again, with re- gard to sick-leave, the honourable member in- formed us that it cost the Wanganui Education Board #1,000 a year for the salaries of the re- lieving-teachers. That does not seem to agree with the evidence tendered to the Commission by the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Bridge. The questions and answers were :- " What provision have you in the way of salaries for sick-leave ?- Under the regulations teachers are not entitled to any salary for sick- leave. All applications come up at the Board's meeting, and we make an allowance not ex- ceeding one month in the year. " Did you deduct from the £445 received by relieving-teachers the amount you do not pay to teachers absent on sick-leave ?- I could not tell what that amounted to. The salary of the re- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero lieving-teacher is charged to the school in which he or she is relieving. It would not be an im- . possibility, but it would be a great labour, to prepare a full statement. There cannot be much saving, because our teachers are not absent more than one month in the year as a rule." And, consequently, that objection, as far as the Wanganui district is concerned, will fall to the ground. I should just like, had I time, to quote a few remarks of witnesses who appeared before us, relative to the salaries of female teachers- namely, the Rev. P. B. Fraser, Mr. Mitchell, and Mr. Pryde (Secretary), of the Otago Edu- cation Board. These witnesses' evidence will be found on pages 168, 170, and 173 of the printed evidence. Then, at Wanganui Mr. Bridge, who is Chairman of the Board, and Dr. Smyth, the newly appointed Inspector, both said they were not in favour of equal pay for equal work. I will read an extract from the evidence of these gentlemen. Mr. Bridge says -the question is,- " Do you advocate that female teachers should get the same salary as males ?- No. " Do you consider that they should get the same up to a certain dimit ?- That is a very vague expression. Up to a certain limit I would say ' Yes,' but a male teacher, I think, requires a higher salary than a female. In most cases a male teacher takes up the profession as his life's work ; in many cases the female teacher takes it up until she goes out of the profession ; but even if she is not married a female teacher has only herself to support, whilst a male teacher has to support a wife and family." Dr. Smyth says in his evidence,- " With regard to the salaries paid to female teachers, do you consider that they should re- ceive the same remuneration as male teachers, provided they do their work as efficiently ?- No; I am opposed to equal payments. "On what grounds ?- It depends upon the principle you go upon. The question is whether the State should act on the principle of equal pay for equal work,. or, as it is called, equal pay for equal burdens. My contention is that the State should pay on the latter principle." In Wellington, Miss Myers and Miss Craig gave evidence on behalf of the female teachers in Wellington, and both said that the Welling- ton lady teachers do not press for equal pay for equal work ; and the reason why they should not receive the same remuneration as male teachers is well summed up by Mr. Bennett, of the Karori School, who states that they should not get the same pay for these reasons :- "In the first place, women are not demand- ing equal pay with men. I have asked many of our lady teachers, and do not find that they are demanding equal pay. Secondly, if a wo- man were paid the same salary as a man, keener competition would ensue, which must, in the long-run, result in the breakdown of the woman ; hence it would be cruel to place her in such a position. Thirdly, it is generally conceded that men have greater responsibilities than women. Fourthly, statistics prove that men adopt the profession as a life-work to a much greater extent than women. Fifthly, higher salaries for men are more likely to at- tract suitable boys into the profession. Sixthly, men do not break down so often as women. Seventhly, few women can control upper boys or mixed classes. Eighthly, a woman could not well take the place of the headmaster during his temporary absence. My last reason is that women teachers could not become heads of large mixed schools : married men are de- manded by parents. " You think that a woman can teach as efficiently as a man ?- In many cases." These are very cogently the reasons given by various witnesses, and summed up in his evi- dence by Mr. Bennett. It is not necessary to allude to the fact that in some of the education districts the Boards have been rather liberal in the establishment of small schools, and, conse- quently, they were unable to pay the salaries they would otherwise have been in a position to pay. That obtains in the case of the Marl- borough Board, and also in the case of the Auckland, and in drawing up this scale we endeavoured to harmonize the various methods in vogue at the present time. In only one or two instances will reduction be suffered, and the great mass of teachers throughout the colony will get substantial increases. Now, a great deal of complaint has been made by those teachers who will not get what they 