building, but it had been found advisable to obtain information from other places as to the best class of building for deaf and dumb children, and the cost of a building to accommodate the whole of the boys and girls. It was found that a complete building would run into a sum of no less than £12,000, and he did not feel justified in entering upon so large a contract with so small a vote without first con- sulting the House. When the public works estimates came down further provision would probably be made. At any rate, members would have before them the probable cost of the building, and would know how to deal with the matter. Every precaution had been taken in regard to fire, and he believed the whole system was so perfect that if a fire broke out there the children would stand a better chance of escape than was afforded in probably the majority of private houses in the colony. Mr. MEREDITH understood there was only one female attendant with the master and mistress of the establishment to look after twenty-five boys; and how could the attendants rush upstairs in the case of fire when their retreat might be cut off ? Mr. HALL-JONES said he was told that special arrangements were made so that, in the event of fire breaking out, no one attendant would require to look after more than two or three children. CANTERBURY COLLEGE AND CANTER- BURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE ACT REGULATIONS. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Go- vernment, When the necessary amended regu- lations under "The Canterbury College and Canterbury Agricultural College Act, 1896," as to elections will be gazetted ? The regulations as to the mode of electing the Board of Educa- tion were supposed to apply to the election of members of Canterbury College; but the Re- turning Officer for the time being last year called for nominations under the impression that members of the School Committees still had the right, the amended regulations not having been issued. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said this matter was entirely within the control of the Board of Governors. They had power under their special Act to make by-laws to regulate the conduct of elections, and so on. The only thing was that if they passed that by-law it had to be submitted for the approval of the Governor in Council. No such by-law had been submitted for the ap- proval of the Governor in Council, and so far the department were not aware of any new by law dealing with elections. Mr. ELL said the law stated distinctly that the School Committees should not have a voice in the election of members of the Board of Education ; and the Canterbury College Board of Governors to be elected by School Com- mittees. This seemed to him to be simply bringing the old regulations into operation again. by-laws was regulated, and until they made a by-law they worked under the Act passed some few years ago. # PUBLIC WORKS ACT AMENDMENT BILL. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether they will this session introduce an amending Bill having for its object the altera- tion of sections 20 and 21 of " The Public Works Act Amendment Act, 1900," in the direction asked by several deputations which have recently waited on the Government on this subject ? He might say shortly that section 20 of the Act provided that in cutting up land all streets laid off should be 66 ft. wide and should be formed, and that the formation should be made before transfers dealing with any subdivisions could be registered. In this case, the operation of the Act in the case of hilly land resulted in im- possibilities and absurdities, and rendered the cutting up of the land out of the question. The cost of roading, even if possible, would exceed the value of the land in many cases. Section 21 provided that in the case of sub- division of land fronting a road less than 66 ft. in width the owner of the land should go back 33 ft. from the centre of road, leaving the owner on the other side of the road also to go back 33 ft., thus making a 66 ft. road of it. But these provisions went altogether beyond the intention of the Legislature, and in many cases it proved a great hardship - indeed, a matter of ruinous forfeiture -to landowners, more especially in the City of Wellington, where very few of the streets were 66 ft. wide ; because, in the case of a man cutting up his land and having to allow so much for the road, it often meant that there was very little of his land left. Several deputations he had intro- duced to the Government had put the case very fully, and shown how urgently the Act needed alteration. He cited a case in Manners Street, Wellington, where a person purchased a property worth over £10,000 in order to cut it up. The land fronted Manners Street, which was half a chain wide, and two narrow side streets of very much less width. The result which the Act would bring about in this case would be to reduce the property to a strip of land 10 ft. wide, and, therefore, valueless. Numerous other cases of a similar nature could be instanced. The Act as it at present stood was inflicting injury and loss on all classes of the community, and he trusted that the Go- vernment would bring in an amending measure. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he had no doubt that there were exceptional cases where there might be some hardship inflicted. Where there were cuttings to be made no doubt there were great disad- vantages, and he thought it was right that some provision should be made for such cases. But in all road-formation he thought they must keep in view the necessity of the growth of the colony and of the various centres of the colony, and it was necessary that there should \--- be some reasonable provision against narrow 