companies. Dredging companies are in the ] same category. pretty well. as bo tomry bonds. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- They have got pontoons. Tue Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Yes, they have floating pontoons, and I think these companies should be exempted from the ordinary course of this Act, inasmuch as most honourable members know perfectly well that if a mining company or dredging company gets into dif- ficuities and wants a few hundred pounds, or a thousand or two, they cannot get the money at the ordinary rate of interest. Therefore I think they should be exempted, and perhaps a judicious loan of $500 or $1,000 may save a company from going to wreck. For these reasons I ask the Minister if he will take that into consideration, and, in drafting his new clauses to morrow, whether he will make an exemption in that respect. If not, I will have to do it myself. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .-- I do not think it is desirable to make any exemptions in this Bill, for this reason : If you once open the door to exemptions, on the application of these holders of bottomry bonds, and then also to mining companies, the limitation to them, being exceptional, would tend to shut out the con- sideration of other cases with equal claims. It would almost be an instruction to the Court to disregard every other application upon money lent which is based on a speculative transaction. Now, there are any number of things which you can conceive would come under the category of risky speculations, just the same as bottomry bonds and mining companies. For instance, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 there is no greater risk than lending money on crops ; but that is done all over the South Island at times, and I cannot call to mind any business that is more risky than lending money on such / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero security. First of all, there is the danger of the crop being a failure, from drought, hail- storm, fire, or from some other form. Then, a crop is still more dangerous, because it often happens that the lender is called upon to ad vance more money than he did in the first instance, and he may have to reap the crop. The borrower may fall short of money, and it may then happen that the lender practically becomes the owner of the crop-perhaps to his loss. So here is as good a case for exemption as that of a bottomry-bond security. Therefore I think it is unwise to introduce the element of exemption. We have already made certain safeguards against the risk of transactions being opened excepting over 10 per cent. Before I moved my amendment in clause 3 transactions in money-lending could be allowed to down as low as 5 or 6 per cent., but that has been altered. Having got that. I do not think we should go any further by bringing in exemptions. Of course, there are certain things on which it is necessary that the lender should charge a high rate of interest-for instance, bridge-build- ing, wharf-building, and mole- and dock-build- ing. I remember a case many years ago where there was a large speculative contra t in Lyttelton Harbour, and in that case a large profit was eventually made out of it. I remem- Hon. Mr. Reeves ber that the contractors at one time became pinched for money, and they had to give high rates in order to obtain it. That was a legiti- mate transaction, and it paid both the lender and borrower. That is one of the transactions that would be put aside altogether if you put in any suggestions such as the honourable gentleman suggests. It is a mistake to put any exemptions in this Bill. The circum- stances should be left to the discretion of the Court. I believe there are several other honour- able members who have knowledge of trans- actions of that kind that will lead them to a similar conclusion to that at which I have arrived. Bill recommitted, and progress reported. The Council adjourned at a quarter to four o'clock p.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 17th October, 1901. Second Readings- Local Bills Committees-Disorder in Committee - Cornwall Park Duties Exemption Bill-Opium Prohibition Bill - Charitable Insti- tutions Rating Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # SECOND READINGS. Factories Bill, Evidence Further Amendment Bill. LOCAL BILLS COMMITTEES. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, the names of the Hon. Captain Morris and the Hon. Mr. Peacock were dis- charged from the Local Bills Committee B. and the names of the Hon. Mr. Jones, the Hon. Mr. Louisson, and the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly added thereto. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, the name of the Hon. Mr. Fraser was discharged from the Local Bills Com- mitteee A, and the name of the Hon. Major Harris added thereto. 1 DISORDER IN COMMITTEE. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Sir, before the orders of the day are called on, I should like. with your permission, to make a few remarks. I have been now a member of Parliament for twenty-seven years, and hitherto I think my conduct has been such that I need not be ashamed of it. Yesterday I was unfortunately placed in a position which prevented my accepting your ruling, for which I am very much grieved. There are circumstances at times when one feels he is doing his duty, and is therefore prevented from retracting what he believes to be the truth. Under the circum- stances I feel grieved to think that I have in any way done wrong in not obeying your ruling, because I am one of those who at all times respect those in authority. Under the 