not demur to the lower riding going over. When the Bill was in Committee he was kindly relieved in acting as Chairman by Mr. Deputy- 'Speaker, and, under the circumstances, he was bound to allow his Bill to go forward. Mr. J. ALLEN said the honourable gentle- man had agreed to a compromise with the honourable member for Ellesmere. Major STEWARD said, No, he had not; he had merely remarked to the honourable member for Ellesmere that it might be best at a later stage to agree to a certain course. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) was sorry the member for Ellesmere was not in the House when the Bill was going through Committee. He thought the House might be under a misunderstanding as to the honourable member's position with regard to the Bill. It might be assumed that the mea- sure concerned the Ellesmere electorate ; but the fact was that the Ellesmere electorate was over a hundred miles from the districts men- tioned in the Bill, and was not affected at all. The alterations were within the Waitaki elec- torate. The two ridings must go together, and the suggested compromise would mean that the traffic from the hilly country would go over the low-lying country, which would have to bear the cost of maintenance of the roads. The proper course would be to let the Bill go for- ward, and allow the two ridings to be joined to the Levels County, in accordance with the wishes of the majority of those concerned. The House divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted be re- tained." AYES, 19. Allen, E. G. Hogg Stevens Steward Kaihau Bennet Ward. Carncross Lawry McGowan Flatman Tellers. Gilfedder Mills O'Meara Hall Barclay Hall-Jones Seddon Hornsby. NOES, 30. Allen, J. Graham Millar Hardy Monk Arnold Heke Russell, G. W. Atkinson Bollard Herries Russell, W. R. Buddo Hutcheson Tanner Thomson, J. W. Carroll Lethbridge McGuire Collins Witheford. Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Duncan McNab ElI Massey Fisher Meredith Rhodes. Fowlds Majority against, 11. Amendment agreed to, and Bill ordered to be recommitted. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That pro- gress be reported. The hour of half-past five having arrived, the CHAIRMAN reported that no progress had been made in this Bill. Leave was given to sit again. GROUND BILL. The House divided on the question, " That this Bill be further considered in Committee." AYES, 31. O'Meara' Allen, J. Hardy Arnold Rhodes Heke Herries Barclay Stevens Bennet Hogg Steward Bollard Hornsby Tanner Lethbridge Carncross Thomson, J. W. Collins Massey Witheford. McGuire Ell Fowlds McNab Tellers. Graham Millar Atkinson Hall Hutcheson. Monk NOES, 13. Mckenzie, R. Ward. Duncan Meredith Flatman Hall-Jones Tellers. Mills Seddon Buddo Lawry McGowan Thompson, R. Fisher. Majority for, 18. Motion agreed to. LAND-TAX AND INCOME-TAX BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer). 7.30. -Sir, this is merely a taxing Bill; it is the same as the Bill of last year, and is simply necessary so that we can get our taxes collected. I beg to move the second reading. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I wish to point out that the incidence of taxation is manifestly unfair and unjust, notwithstand- ing the fact disclosed by the latest returns ; yet in the year 1901 we are collecting £2,597 less land-tax than in 1893. Why I say it is particularly unjust is this : We transferred from the consolidated revenue last year $500,000, which is made up on the necessaries of life as regards food and raiment. We have transferred altogether two millions and a quarter of money, and now there is a proposal to transfer another £500,000, and this is being utilised in building up railways, roads, and bridges, which has a distinctly beneficial effect on land-values in the colony. I wish to draw the attention of the honourable member for Masterton to this point, because, in reply to a question sub- mitted to him some time before the election in respect to the Customs taxation, he said he was opposed to making any alteration in the reduction of the land-tax exemption, because an increase of the land-tax in this way would press heavily and unduly on the small settlers. I beg to say the settlers would be better off if the exemption were swept away, and, as against the amount of extra revenue secured from this source, a reduction of the taxation on the necessaries of life was made. I will ask the attention of the member for Geraldine to the Customs tariff. Let him examine that, and he will find that every article that goes to make up the furnishing of the homes of the people, that are necessary so far as food is concerned, are very heavily taxed. Lampware, cutlery, floor- 