with the neglect to pay Volunteers. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) could not agree to the reduction of the amount by £5, although he recognised that the honourable gentleman wished to protest against the ar- rangements of the department in connection with the sending of the troops to that review. He believed that this £20,000 was well spent on the review, and he would rather see the amount increased than reduced, if that increase carried with it the assurance that the men would be properly treated. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) was unable to support the amendment of the honourable member for Palmerston, but he only wished now to say a few words in reference to the Newtown Park scandal. He took part in the inquiry into that affair in the way of arranging the evidence for the Commissioners, and he asked, on behalf of the rank and file, that he should be allowed to be present at the inquiry, not professionally but as an ex-Volunteer, to conduct the inquiry before the Commission. He might say that if the Defence staff had listened to the representa- tions made to them by Lieut .- Colonel Sommer- ville before the men went into camp at Newtown Park that disgraceful affair would not have taken place. Two letters were written by Lieut .- Colonel Sommerville. Sir J. G. WARD .- I think this is the wrong place to go into the question of who is re- sponsible for the whole thing. Mr. WILFORD said the Minister in saying that showed he had not read the evidence taken before the Commission. He only now wished to ask honourable members to read the whole of the evidence before they condemned Lieut .- Colonel Sommerville, a man who had done so much in the past for New Zealand, in view of the fact that the Colonel was unable to reply on his own behalf. Sir J. G. WARD had no objection to the honourable member defending Lieut .- Colonel Sommerville at the right time-that was, when the Defence estimates were before them. The whole question and position of the Defence and Volunteer officers could then be fully dis- cussed. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item, ' £20,000' be reduced by £5." AYES, 18. Bollard Lang Symes Graham Lethbridge Tanner Hardy Massey Thomson, J. W. Haselden Meredith Tellers. Herries Monk Atkinson Hornsby Pirani. Parata Hutcheson NOES, 38. Allen, E. G. Hall Ell Arnold Field Hall-Jones Fisher Barclay Heke Bennet Fowlds Hogg Carncross Fraser, A. L. D. Kaihau Carroll Fraser, W. Laurenson Colvin Gilfedder Lawry Mr. Pirani Wilford Mackenzie, T. Palmer Russell, G. W. Willis. Mckenzie, R. Seddon McNab Tellers. Millar Collins Stevens Thompson, R. Smith, G. J. Mills Majority against, 20. Amendment negatived. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) wished to know whether the item, "New Zealand Flora, $300," was for Mr. Kirk's Flora of New Zea- land. Sir J. G. WARD said this was the salary of Mr. T. F. Cheeseman, who was appointed last year to prepare a Students' Flora. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said a very valuable work had been brought out recently, and the Government had encouraged it, and rightly, he thought. He wished to refer to a most valu- able work which had been prepared by Mr. Hamilton, and which, he thought, would be a most excellent work for this country to con- tribute towards. In regard to the item, "Expenses, Royal Commission on Federation, £3,800," he thought that the small farmers' interests had been most inadequately repre- sented on that Commission. He found on that Commission that there were more lawyers than farmers, and more newspaper men than farmers, and more commercial men than farmers. There was only one gentleman farmer, Captain Rus- sell, who was a runholder, on the Commission, and Mr. John Roberts, merchant and runholder. There was not one single small-farmer represen- tative on the whole Commission. He took no exception to the ability of the Commissioners, who were an excellent lot of men ; but it was a foregone conclusion what this Commission would report, because we knew that a majority of the Commissioners had expressed convictions against federation before appointment, and did not approach the question with an unbiassed mind. He wished to move a reduction of $5 on this vote as an expression on the part of the House of the inadequacy of the representa- tion of small farmers on this Commission. The whole Commission was a wasteful ex- penditure of the money of the taxpayer. Why, this very report cost £640 for printing alone, not including the cost of reporting, and it would never be read, because no possible result would ensue. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) said he wished to move, That the item " Miscella- neousentertainments, including Commissioners' salaries and expenses, also expenses of invited guests from Australia and elsewhere, Press representatives, £12, 153," be reduced by £1,000. His object in doing so was to elicit, if possible, some information from the Minister as to who were the Commissioners here referred to, and what their salaries were. He presumed these were the Commissioners who were supposed to. have charge of the arrangements made for the celebrations during the Royal visit. Rumours - had gone abroad that very materially affected the public with regard to these Commissioners .. It had been said, with what amount of truth he 