mittee set up for the purpose of improving or amending the Bill, we should arrive at very much better results than we can in Committee of the whole House. I have myself one or two amendments I should like to propose, and I hope to convince honourable members who may be associated with me that these amendments would very much improve the Bill. I flatter myself that I could do that. The object of the Council should be to make the measure as perfect as possible. My honourable friend on my left, in speaking to the Bill, gave, as an object-lesson, the passing of a similar measure at Home ; but he did not recognise this : that that Bill has gone into force, and that it has been seen that there are some flaws in it, and, therefore if we, seeing these flaws, do not try to amend them by improving the Bill, we should not be doing what I think is the function of the Council. I do not know that honourable members have noticed that clause 3 really leaves behind the whole of the other parts of the Bill, and goes, I think, in a direction not intended-that is, in the direc- tion of making every one who lends money liable to have the transaction brought before the Court at any time, whether six months or five years after the transaction is closed. There is no limit of time. The honourable gentleman says " Hear, hear." That, I suppose, is to indi- cate that he approves of the Bill in its entirety. Surely the honourable gentleman could not argue that if an ordinary man-not technically a money-lender-lent money at 6 per cent. or 7 per cent. he should be liable to be brought https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 before the Court at any time afterwards by the borrower, who possibly may have some private reasons for doing so, apart altogether from the question of the rate of interest, in which case the lender must go into Court and produce all particulars of the transaction, a transaction which may be six or seven years old. Surely no member of the Council will recognise a state of things like that as being in the interest of any person whatever. Honourable mem- bers do not appear to see that subsection (8) says, "the expression ' money-lender' includes any person who lends money for interest." There is no limitation as to interest, or time, or the definition of the lender, as in the interpretation clause provisions, and I say if you allow a Bill to pass in that form you are passing legislation that cannot be shown by any one, I think, to be \`in the interest of the borrower, of the lender, or of the public. I shall support the amendment of my honourable friend, because I think there can be amendments put in the Bill which, when shown to the Council as a whole in Committee, will be recognised as improvements. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- The objections the honourable gentleman who has just sat down has made to allowing the Bill to be considered by the Council, without having it referred first of all te a Select Committee, are such as can be well dealt with by the Council itself. If it be proper to send this Bill to a Committee, a simple Bill like this-for it is a simple Bill, Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith on the surface-I say, if it is necessary to send a Bill of this sort to a Select Committee, it is necessary that all Bills should be sent to a Select Committee. And what does it mean ? Why, the honourable gentleman must know that at this stage of the session it means that in all probability the measure will not be passed at all. We have, according to the honourable gentleman, to make a number of amendments in the measure, and it must be sent to a Select Committee in order that the amendments may be made with greater ease. And then the Bill, so amended, has to come before the Council, and we are to accept those amendments whether we like them or not. Now, I want to know how it will simplify the consideration of this Bill, and contribute to the passing of it, to send it to a Select Committee. The large majority of Bills are not sent to Select Committees. Measures that deal with stock are sent to the Stock Committee, and Bills dealing with industrial matters are sent to the Labour Bills Committee. I can understand that ; but why should this Bill be sent to a Select Committee at this junction more parti- The honourable gentleman who cularly ? moved the amendment knows as well as I do that the Committee would call for individuals to state the money-lenders' case, and for others on the other side to give evidence. Does he know what he is contracting for? Does he know that that means occupying weeks or months in taking evidence that will only demonstrate what we already know quite well ? Weall know what is taking place, and I say that if one-tenth of what has been exposed at Home, under a search- ing investigation, takes place in this colony it is time we dealt with the matter-dealt with it vigorously and at once ; vet the honourable gentleman wishes to deal with it by putting it aside for a more convenient season. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- There is no idea of setting it aside. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - There is no doubt that if we send it to a Select Committee it means that we are not going to deal with it this session. The honourable gentleman who is in favour of that course knows this perfectly well. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- The honour- able gentleman should not say that; it is misrepresenting -- The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I am not misrepre- senting the honourable gentleman, and he should not interrupt me; I am referring more particularly to the Hon. Mr. Reeves, who does not want the Bill to pass. The Hon. Mr. Reeves has pointed out that the preamble casts a slur upon the money-lenders of the colony. It does nothing of the sort. It only refers to those who have been guilty of improper prac- tices in respect to the lending of money. It does not refer to those who have acted straight- forwardly, honourably, and liberally at all ; and, as to the others, I say that those whom the cap fits can put it on-they have the right to put it on, and it will be all the better that they should 