and that in the large centres of population men were, because of the expense of sending repre- sentatives from the country, usually elected to the positions. Mr. HERRIES said he did not use the word " usually." Mr. T. MACKENZIE said, at all events, the honourable gentleman meant that they were elected, and in portions of the colony he was familiar with they were usually elected locally. Well, the fact that they were so elected usually threw the election of members of the Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards to men who were located near the institution, and by that means country districts did not get the representation they ought to obtain. The men in the city adopted city interests, possibly unconsciously, and they had not the same interest in the country districts that representatives would have if they were sent down from the coun- try districts to the periodical meetings. He thought that was an indication that there was some necessity for the measure. Then, the present system was not sufficiently in touch with the people. The Trustees be- came almost perpetual, and many times little interest was taken in the election by the dele- gates ; the positions became close corporations. 'To show the lack of interest now taken, he might mention an election of Hospital Trustees that took place last year for a large provincial dis- trict, and only five delegates attended, and these five persons nominated three of those present for Trustees, and two of whom were elected. No one could say that showed an interest that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 would keep the public institutions in touch with the people. He thought clause 4, to which the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty took exception, was an excellent clause. He believed in the principle of voting contained in that clause for the election of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards, and especially the ques- tion of Hospital Trustees. The poorer people were just as much and a great deal more in- terested in the manner in which public institu- tions were managed than were the people who at the present time enjoyed a plurality of votes, because the latter were well off, and did not require to go into public hospitals. He there- fore strongly supported this clause, and he hoped the honourable gentleman would take this view of this matter. Mr. HERRIE S .- They are more interested ; they get money, and the others find it. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said that, in a case of this sort, the working-people were deeply in- terested. The question of contribution, he believed, was a serious one ; but when they considered that those who were well enough off, and who contributed perhaps more indi- vidually, never themselves, fortunately, had to go into these institutions, they would see how essential it was that the poorer people, who had to go to the institutions, should have a propor- tionate voice in the selection of the managers of these institutions. When members con- sidered the electoral roll of the boroughs and counties-and counties as now constituted were Mr. T. Mackenzie the Counties Bill was not going to pass this session-they would see it was not too wide a franchise at all that was contemplated in this measure. He also heartily indorsed the opinion voiced by the honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Collins), that women should be on these Boards. An Hon. MEMBER .- They can be put on now. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said the honourable gentleman said they could be put on now. He knew that under the present franchise they were never put on these Boards. An Hon. MEMBER. - They are. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said, Well, they were not on the Boards with which he was familiar. He considered that came quite within the scope of the duties that might be better per- formed, he believed, by women on these Boards. Now, there was just one little matter he would like to say in connection with this sub- ject, as he might not have another opportunity of alluding to it. He noticed at a recent meet- ing of the Dunedin Hospital Trustees a state- ment was made by the Chairman, and he found it necessary to telegraph to that gentle- man as follows :- "J. Robin, Esq., Octagon, Dunedin. "18th October, 1901. " Re Hospital: Before dealing with the matter, kindly inform me whether you are correctly reported in Times, seventeenth, read- ing : 'He felt it his duty to the Hospital and nurses to declare that Mr. Mackenzie made that statement knowing it was absolutely un- true.' "THOMAS MACKENZIE." That referred to a statement about the im- provement in the condition of the Hospital. He received this telegram from the Acting- Chairman :- " Thomas Mackenzie, M.H.R., Wellington, "19th October, 1901. "YES, report quite correct, but in heat of moment I said what I did not exactly mean. Should have said only statement was absolutely "J. ROBIN." untrue. He then wired again,- "J. Robin, Esq., Octagon, Dunedin. "19th October, 1901. "YOUR telegram just received. It will satisfy me if you will make an early correction in the papers in accordance with the terms of your telegram, as I cannot allow it to go uncon- tradicted that I stated what I knew to be un- "THOMAS MACKENZIE." true. He wished to show what that statement was based upon. On the 30th September he made this statement in the House :- "He knew already that as a result of his statements great good had been done. He had received another letter only to-day in which the writer stated that very considerable improve- ment had already taken place in that institu- tion, and he was glad to hear it." He might say in this connection that when he made the statement that " He knew already 