Native people. Mr. WILLIS .- And give an income to the Natives. Captain RUSSELL .- That is an after- thought. The honourable gentleman, when speaking, only spoke of the acquisition of seventy thousand acres of the Ohutu Block, so as to make roads into Wanganui. He may have had ulterior views, but certainly he did not enunciate them. He seemed to me to give an illustration of the land-sharking proclivities which I recognise that some persons from the North Island have, but I believe they are few. But really this cry about the land-shark is pure nonsense - the law prevents it. Everybody knows that it is just a political cry-a cry that has been shrieked for years past. Everybody is extremely anxious, who has any interest in the Native people, to prevent the undue alienation of their lands. All are anxious that the Natives should retain in their own hands enough land to main- tain themselves and families in comfort. We are not only anxious to prevent the extinction of the Maori people, but are anxious also that they should not become dependent upon the charity of the country. There is no reason why they should. We are told there are only five million acres of land left to the Native people. Sir, there is land enough, if regulations were made with sufficient care, to grant ample farms for every Native family in New Zealand, and the first duty that ought to be imposed upon the Legislature, in connection with the Native lands, is to insure that every https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Native is provided with land, and that they are compelled in some way or other to occupy that land for their own benefit and to the benefit of the country. What is all this fear about free- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero trade in Native land ? That is but another Logey put up to frighten unthinking people. Everybody realises that, whatever the policy may have been in the past, the policy of the country now is very distinct : that there is to be no acquisition of large estates, and that every- thing approaching free-trade in land can only be under conditions of restricted alienation. The Natives should not be allowed to dispossess themselves widely of their possessions, but should occupy inalienably certain areas of land ; and, being secured in ample lands, why should they not obtain from the remainder capital for the development of that land ? Surely such a policy cannot be called an injurious policy for the Natives. Undoubtedly it would be bene- ficial to settlement. Well, now, there are, as I have said, Maori gentlemen educated as lawyers, and doing credit to their profession .. There is a remarkable instance in the Health Officer, a distinguished Native gentleman devoting him- self to the health of his brethren. Then, in the North Island we have known Maori clergy who have been doing good work for years and years past-men who have risen by their own exertions, not by adventitious circumstances. Is it possible that honourable members can think that we can keep such men as they stand at the present time, or that we can retain the Maori in his present dependent position, ' I, at any rate, advocate that we should treat the Maori as a man, and endeavour to elevate him. I know he is capable. I have instanced the professions; but go into the humbler walks of life; go into the fields and see his harvesting machinery. It is as well driven as that of Europeans. Look at his stacks when he has gathered in his crops, and you will find that they are better built than those of most Euro- pcans. The Native is capable of cultivating potatoes, wheat, maize, and other crops as suc- cessfully as his European brother. Then, take the Maori in the shearing-shed, and I say that you cannot find better workers than the Maoris are. Surely, then, it is necessary to give the Maori the opportunity to improve his position by managing his own farm. In- stances have come under my notice of the wastefulness of Maoris when living in common. Whenever they want to do honour to a visiting guest they will sell much of their possessions so as to have piles of food and blankets to dis- tribute to their visitors, sometimes with bank notes attached to them. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- And free railway passes too. Captain RUSSELL .- And free passes on the railways too. But I have known this also: I have known lands which the Natives have been compelled to alienate for less than the value to meet the cost of these tribal orgies, and not unwillingly ; but the Native, when he becomes an individual owner like the pakeha owner, is prepared to fence his land, put up decent houses on it, get machinery and work it as well as the pakeha can, and never even dream of selling it. That is the policy we must instil into them - to educate themselves as men and responsible beings. Sir, there is much talk about the Native fusing with the European. In process of time we must become one people. We who have lived in this colony for many years can remember the Native of the old days with his chivalry and courtesy to the Europeans, and we are anxious that their race should not be destroyed. But so long as we keep them living in a state of communisim, and from getting the benefits of civilisation, so long will we be pushing them to- wards the downward grade. We can only save them by impressing on them that only by their own endeavour and desire to rise to a higher life will they acquire power ; and that can only be done by self-reliance and the individualisation of the titles of their property. I have been told that it is impossible to individualise. I admit there is lots of land which is of a poor descrip- tion, which might not pay to divide into indi- vidual farms, though the title ought to be ascer- tained. But that does not affect the principle. The principle is that there ought to be compul sory individualisation of title of all lands of sufficiently fertile description to bear the ex- pense. The State owes a great duty to the Native people. True, we have brought them civilisation, and given them roads and railroads, education in schools, and many of the advan- tages of civilisation ; but the State has their land. Without their good-will we could never have 