breaking faith with me and with the House. All that is desired is to have a perfect criminal libel Bill, and it is on that understanding I shall ask that the Bill be referred to them. If they go beyond that they will not be doing their duty. An Hon. MEMBER. - Put Mr. Fisher on the ·Committee. Mr. SEDDON. - No. I know the members of the Committee, and if they confine them- selves to the perfecting of the Bill and do not extend it I shall be satisfied. An amendment Act of 1888 relates to the publication of libel by newspapers. protecting them-in certain cases such as where the libel was true and was published for public benenit. In 1879 Sir James Fitzjames Stephen and three other English Judges prepared a criminal code, included in which were the provisions of this Bill. In 1883 Sir Patrick Buckley introduced a Criminal Code Bill founded on the English Bill, and containing the same provisions re- lating to libel. This Bill was drafted by Judge Johnston and the late Solicitor-General, Mr. W. S. Reid. and was reported on by the Sta- tutes Revision Committee. An Hon. MEMBER .- Was it passed ? Mr. SEDDON .- It was not passed, but they prepared the Bill. The Criminal Code Act of 1893 contained similar provisions, but they were omitted in the passage of the Bill through Parliament. The Queensland Parliament also passed a Criminal Code Act drafted by Sir Samuel Griffiths, and I am told that he took that Act from our Bill of 1883. I will not trouble the House any further, but I hope the second reading will be passed and the Bill referred to the Statutes Revision Committee. The House divided. AYES, 42. Allen, E. G. Gilfedder Mills Arnold Graham Napier Hall O'Meara Atkinson Hall-Jones Seddon Barclay Hardy Smith, G. J. Bennet Buddo Hogg Stevens Steward Carroll Hutcheson Collins Kaihau Symes Colvin Lawry Tanner Ward Lethbridge Duncan Witheford. Ell McGowan Field McGuire Teliers. Carncross Flatman McNab Fowlds Meredith Hornsby. Fraser, W. NOES, 13. Thomson, J. W. Bollard Monk Rhodes Fisher Russell, G. W. Herries Tellers. Russell, W. R. Mckenzie, R. Massey Mackenzie, T. Thompson, R. Pirani. Majority for, 29. Bill read a second time, and referred to the Statutes Revision Committee. Mr. Seddon BILI .. IN COMMITTEE. First Schedule .- Part I. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved- (a.) In line 1 of table, To omit " Not over 20 .. (Capitation), 100s. .. (Capi- tation), 100s.," and insert "Over 8 and not over 20, (Male, Fixed) £52 (Capitation), 80s. ; (Female, Fixed) £52 (Capitation), 80's." (b.) Next below table, insert "In schools with average attendance 1 to 8, capitation at £5 a head." (c.) And to insert the following new sub- clauses :- "PART IV. " Separate Boys' and Girls' Departments. "If the average attendance exceeds 660 in any school in which boys and girls are taught in separate departments, in each such depart- ment an assistant at £80 may be substituted for a pupil-teacher, or a pupil-teacher may be added to the staff, at the discretion of the Board, subject to note (h) in Part I. hereof. "PART V. " Half-time Schools. " In estimating salaries two half-time schools shall count as one school, the totals of the average attendance at the two schools being added together ; and if the teacher of two such half-time schools be required by the Education Board to teach on six days during the week his salary shall be increased by one-fifth of the salary shown in Part I. hereof." Amendments agreed to, and Schedule as amended agreed to. Second Schedule. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved,- (d.) In Part I., line 1 of table, to omit " Not over 20 (Capitation), 100s. (Capi- tation), 100s.,' and insert 'Over 8 and not over 20 (Male, Fixed) £52 (Capitation), 80s .; (Female, Fixed) £52 (Capitation), 80s." (e.) Part I., next below table, insert, " In schools with average attendance 1 to 8, capita- tion at £5 a head." ( f.) And to insert the following new sub- clauses :- "PART IV. " Separate Boys' and Girls' Departments. "If the average attendance exceeds 660 in any school in which boys and girls are taught in separate departments, in each such depart- ment an assistant at £85 may be substituted for a pupil-teacher, or a pupil-teacher may be added to the staff, at the discretion of the \--- Board, subject to note (h) in Part I. hereof. " PART V. " Half-time Schools. "In estimating salaries two half-time schools shall count as one school, the average attend- ance of the two schools being added together; and if the teacher of such two half-time schools be required by the Education Board to teach on six days during the week his salary shall be 