colony. He says,- " It may be assumed that the net result of the working of the Midland Railways for the nine months they have been in the hands of the Government would not add more than £4,000 to the revenue of the Government railways." Therefore there is £5,000 profit annually on the Midland Railways. And yet the honour- able gentleman asks coolly that the Govern- ment should seize this line !- which is return- ing £5,000 a year. This sum represents over 4 per cent. on the £130,000 now proposed to be paid to the company and debenture-holders. Compare the position of this line with that of some of the other lines in the colony. Do honourable gentlemen mean to tell me that, if the Midland Railway Company had not con- structed these lines, there would have been no agitation on the West Coast for their construc- tion ? Why, I venture to say there would have been an agitation from those portions of the colony that would have compelled the colony to make these lines if the company had not undertaken the work. And if you remem- ber what I have stated-that the railways are returning 4 per cent. on the capital we are asked to pay for them -and compare what they are thus paying with what is being paid by the Government lines, they will return a higher rate of profit on that sum than a number of Government railways are return- ing at the present time. Take, for example, the Auckland system of railways : those lines, which have cost £2,434,000, last year returned £2 7s. 9d. Take, again, the Wellington-Napier and New Plymouth system : they returned only £3 2s. 9d. ; the Hurunui-Bluff returned only £3 15s. 3d. ; the Picton line returned 10s. 11d. per cent. on the cost of construction ; whilst the Nelson line shows a deficit of £1,531. On the other hand, here is a line which the Go- vernment has taken over, for which it is asked to pay a reasonable sum, and on which it is obtaining a return of 4 per cent. on the capital now asked to be paid for it. Yet the honourable gentleman denounces the whole thing as a job. To take a homely illustration : Let me admit the penal clauses existed, and that the seizure of the line was strictly legal. That has been proved. Yet I do not think any member of this House, if he engaged with a contractor to have a mansion built, and if that unfortu- nate contractor got himself within the penal clauses, and had the whole place, when partly completed, seized, would care to live in a house without having paid anything for its construc- tion. That is very much the position in regard to this line. There were penal clauses, it is true ; yet so little were they relied on that, I venture to say, at first the Government did not know they existed in the Act. It was only at a certain point in the history of the matter that the existence of those penal clauses was discovered. Then it was that, under them, the Government assumed possession of the line. Up to a certain point the Government were under the impression that they would have to buy out the company ; but they discovered that Mr. G. W. Russell possession, and they put them in force. There are not many members who would, to use the homely illustration I have given, like to lie down to sleep in a house that a contractor had built if he had lost the whole of his money through the existence of penal clauses. Both the company, the debenture-holders, and the Government believed for years that the deben- ture-holders had a prior claim to the line be- fore the resumption rights of the Government could be exercised. Can any sane man believe the debenture - holders would have advanced their money if they or their solicitors believed such a contingency as the seizure of the line by the Government was even possible? Part of the evidence read by the honourable member was to the effect that these lines were of no value because they were isolated. Is not that the position in connection with every railway-line that is not complete in itself ? Take the North of Auckland and other lines we are constantly hearing about in the House. Is it not a fact that until these isolated sections are brought into connection they are of little or no value ? I do not wish to weary the House, but the very aggressive speech of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) necessitated that something should be said upon the subject as to the equi- table view of the matter. He has said the persons connected with the Midland railway are persons of more than ordinary influence, and if it had not been so this petition would never have been heard of. But if they had not been men of more than ordinary influence the money would never have been subscribed to construct the railway. Also, I point out that the honour- able gentleman admitted he has been opposed to this line from its inception. He was a very strong opponent of the Stout-Vogel Government, and has always been, and is now, a very strong opponent of Sir Robert (then Mr.) Stout, who was undoubtedly one of the champions of the Midland Railway right through, and was largely responsible for the contract with the company. I should like to add : this line is an integral part of our railway system, and it has got to be com- pleted. Let members make no mistake aboni that. This colony is not, after so much money has been spent, going to leave the West Coast with its mineral wealth unconnected with the agricultural and pastoral districts of Canter- bury. The farmers of Canterbury know that when the mineral country on the West Coast reaches the greatness it is destined for. and when it has, instead of twenty or forty thousand, a population of a hundred and fifty thousand, as it must have in time, it will be one of the finest markets for the Province of Canterbury. Not only that, but there is a great revenue in the tourist traffic that is bound to grow up between the east and west coasts of the South Island. An Hon. MEMBER .- Underneath the moun- tains. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The whole of the route will not be underneath the mountains, but it will be a great deal better route than by sea round the West Coast. The railway will 