both sides of this House, and I can say now, and I say it fearlessly, that those members who came from the Opposition side were as assiduous in their efforts and as indefatigable in their labours as any other members of the Committee ; they certainly did good work-as good as many other members-in bringing the Bill to the shape in which we now have it. I do not think it would be fair to mention names, but the one desire of every member of the Com- mittee was to make the measure such as would be workable, and I believe the Committee did make it so ; it was not such when it first came down to the House. The Labour Bills Com- mittee did not raise any trouble. There was scarcely a member of the Committee spoke throughout the time when the Bill was in Committee in this House; they left the talk- ing to be done by others. There was a tacit agreement amongst us that the Bill was in good shape, and it would be best to get it through the House as speedily as possible in the form in which it was sent down from the Committee. It is quite true others spoke, and moved amendments with the ulterior motive of killing the Bill ; there is no doubt about that. But, if those who worked on the Committee did not participate in the discussion, it was that they might not prolong the debate, but by their silence help the Bill through. There is no need to say more. When witnesses came before the Committee, which they did from every part of the country-it was a great satisfaction to the members of the Committee to note that when they came as representatives of employers, and some of whom represented the greatest in- dustries of the colony, nevertheless they spoke in terms of approval and favour of labour legis- lation; they spoke in the highest terms of praise of what has been accomplished in the past as the result of the labour legislation that has been placed on the statute-book. I, with others, say how glad I am that this Bill, which, I believe, is a distinct advance -- which will make largely for the benefit of employer and employed - how glad I am it has reached the stage it has, and how sincerely I hope, without any further alteration, it will reach the statute-book. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- I rise for the pur- pose of moving That the Bill be recommitted, for the purpose of adding a proviso which was promised when the Bill passed through Com- mittee. I will confine myself to the proviso, which is to subsection (3) of new clause 20, to this effect : "Provided that, in the case of persons employed in and at bush sawmills engaged solely at logging, breaking down, and sawing rough timber, the overtime shall only be payable for the extended hours worked during the week in excess of the forty-eight hours." Amendment agreed to, and Bill recommitted. # IN COMMITTEE. Orertime. Clause 20 .- (1.) The prescribed number of working-hours may from time to time be ex- tended, but such extension shall not, in the case of women and young persons, be- Alr. Collins "(b.) More than two days in any week ; or " (c.) More than thirty days in any year ; or "(d.) On any holiday or half-holiday. " (2.) On every such occasion no person shall be employed for more than four hours con- tinuously without having an interval of at least half an hour for rest and refreshment. "(3.) Every person who is employed during such extended hours under this section shall be paid therefor at not less than one-fourth as much again as the ordinary rate : " Provided that when the ordinary rate is by time, and not by piecework, the overtime rate shall not be less than sixpence per hour for those persons whose ordinary wages do not exceed ten shillings a week, and ninepence per hour for all other persons so employed ; and shall be paid at the first regular pay-day there- after. "(4.) The occupier of a factory shall at all times keep a record-book, called the " Overtime- book," wherein shall be entered a correct record showing, in the case of each person who is em- ployed during such extended hours under this section, the name of the assistant, and the respective dates and periods of such employ- ment. " (5.) The overtime-book shall at all times be open to the inspection of the Inspector. "(6.) The Inspector may at any time require the occupier to verify the entries in the over- time-book by statutory declaration in such form as may be prescribed by regulations." Mr. SYMES (Egmont) moved, after subsec- tion (3), to insert the following proviso : - "Provided that, in the case of persons em- ployed in and at bush sawmills engaged solely at logging, breaking down, and sawing rough timber, the overtime shall only be payable for the extended hours worked during the week in excess of forty eight hours." Amendment agreed to, and reported to the House. On the motion, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) said, 9.0. - Sir, I would not have risen to speak on this Bill but for what was said by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins). He took the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton to task for a statement he had made about the fact that a number of articles that formerly used to be manufactured in this colony were now imported. First of all, let me ask the honourable gentleman if he is prepared to deny that such is the case. Is he prepared to say that a number of articles that were formerly manufactured here are not im- ported now, or to deny that it pays the manu- facturer better to import them than to make them ? Is there any doubt on this subject ? I am not talking about a particular article, but in a general way. The honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) adversely criti- cized the honourable member for Riccarton for drawing attention to this fact. Now, I desire to point out that the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton spoke not against or in 