This is not in any sense a personal matter. It is a matter affecting the interests of the people and the standing and dignity of Parliament. It is a question which ought to be kept free from all personal bias of any kind. Sir, it is known I came into Parliament at some personal sacrifice. I am not referring to the nine shilling episode. I am referring to the time when I first took my seat in this House in 1884. I then resigned my position on the Hansard staff -$300 a year for three months' work-to ac- cept a position on the floor of this House at £160 a session, and entailing upon me a great deal of public labour and public worry. It cannot be said, therefore, that I profited by the salary paid to members. The member for Palmerston says this is a question which ought to be referred to the vote of the people. I ask why? Why should not other ques- tions involving expenditure be submitted to the vote of the people? I say this ques- tion ought to be determined by Parliament, and by Parliament alone. We have increased the salaries of the Civil servants this year by £50,000. Was that referred to the vote of the people? We increased the salaries of Ministers last year. Was that referred to the vote of the people? We increased the salary of the Governor last year by £2,000. Was that referred to the vote of the people? We are being asked now quite unjustly to pass a vote of £130,000 to the Midland Railway Company. Is that to be referred to the vote of the people ? No. Then, why in this case is any such refer- ence necessary? Last year, when the Minis- ters' Salaries and Allowances Bill was before the House, I said this upon the question,- "I did not speak during the debate on the second reading of this Bill, for the reason that in speaking upon the Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill I said all that I wished to say in regard to both measures. But there is one branch of the subject which during the discus- sion of both Bills has been kept steadily in the background. Now, I am not one of those mem- bers who organized an opposition to the pro- posals of the Ministry. I am a loyal supporter of the Government. The branch of the subject that has not been brought to the front is the amount of salary or honorarium paid to mem- bers, and on that subject I hold a very distinct opinion, which I will make very plain. It was said that to have made any proposal to the House on that subject during the present ses- sion would have been to take the country by surprise. It was also suggested that, in order that the country should not be taken by sur- prise, members of the House should broach the matter to their constituencies during the recess. That was, without doubt, a prudent course for the Government to suggest ; but I have an opinion of my own on the point, which is this : that now is the time, and this House is the place, in which to broach the subject to the constituencies ; not with a view to include the proposal in either of the Bills immediately before us, but with the view to the introduc- tion of a measure in the next session. In the VOL. CXIX .- 72. there should be an increase in the salaries and in the number of Ministers; and I now speak in advance of a step which I hope to see taken during the next session - namely, that the honorarium or salary paid to members shall be increased to £300 a year. It is futile for mem- bers of this House, or any member of the pub- lic, to cavil at my opinions on this subject or to cast imputations at me. I give at once and without doubt my clear and emphatic opinion upon the subject. I think a member of the Par- liament of New Zealand is entitled to at least the salary paid to members of the Parliaments of Australia-Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria. We are equal in legislative stand- ing to the Parliament of any one of these colo- nies." I now say again, that as a Parliament we are equal in standing to any of the Parliaments of Australia ; and I ask, looking at the amount of labour one has to perform in close attendance upon the business of this House, whether £300 a year is too much to pay a member? Sir, it is said in joke, and I enjoy the joke myself, that That is true; but my last election cost 9s. that only shows that, if a man is faithful in his service to the people who sent him here, they do not begrudge paying him any salary fitting to the duties. Now, after one of my elections, the Bakers' Union of this city sent me this resolu- tion : - " Your election is all the more gratifying to my union seeing that you were the first bona fide working-man ever elected by the labour party in Wellington to a seat in Parliament, and the solidarity of the labour party in the recent contest gives greater promise of even greater triumphs in the future." I do not wonder that it should cost a man a small amount of expense to get to a seat in this House if his constituents are satisfied with his services. I attach no importance to the state- ment of the member for Waihemo that a coun- try olection costs more than for a city election. That may be viewed in various ways, and in accordance with the ability of the man and the loyalty and honesty of his services to the people. I do not harp on that 9s. incident; but I have known men who have tried to get seats in this House for this city, and who have spent £2,000 in the effort and failed. Now, it only shows that for faithful services rendered the people of the country are willing to pay ; and one great argument in support of the payment of members is that it renders a member independent of all influences which may be brought to bear upon him outside Par- liament. The present salary is £240, and it is proposed to raise it to $300. Does any one sup- pose the £300 meets a member's whole expenses for the year ? It is ridiculous to think so. I wish it were possible to take a ballot vote on the question ; I am sure what the result would be. The Bill would be carried through the House with not more than eight or ten dis- sentients. I say this not for the purpose of casting any reflections on any member of the House. 