to give in, we find fault with it. But contrast that with a strike, and then put it to your own mind whether, if you were in their place, and saw other people getting all this advantage, and you did not get a share of it, or only a very small share of it, you would not think as they do. "Risk of accident and disease which he has to incur": The Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act has settled this aspect of the question in a liberal and progressive spirit. "Yet about the majority of these questions he cannot bargain at all." Yes, that is the key-note of the whole position. Unfortu- nately, he cannot bargain at all. He knows he has not participated to any great ex- tent in the increasing wealth which is always being stimulated by science and ingenuity, and by every agency that appertains to the creation of wealth. Individually he can do nothing ; he can only stand at the door of the employer, and must take what he can get ; and by all the laws of humanity and of want the workers must assert themselves, and say, " We must stand together and appeal to these people to give us an opportunity of getting something out of the improved circumstances of our country." Is it too much to ask of others what we do ourselves-every one of us ? Look at combinations in trade. They have all the increased profit, but still want more. The employé simply asks that he may have something over and above his past rates of remuneration. He sees richer men getting more ease, and he thinks he would like to have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 a similar advantage. He does not want the great luxuries of the rich men. He wants something to make his home more comfortable, and to give more pleasure, and give an oppor- tunity to his children to improve and get on in life. He says, " Here is legislative machi- nery that will help us, ready to our hands." Here is another remark,- "A series of telling illustrations is adduced to prove the efficacy in practice of common rules imposed upon a trade, and the foolish objection that these rules, by raising the cost of production, ruin trade is refuted by citing, among other cases, the cotton operative and the coal-mine, the most wretched and most servile workers under the ancient regime of laissez faire, now among the most free and prosperous." That is true. Everybody who has followed the history of trade movement at Home and the history of union organization will find that the workers in the cotton-mills and coal-mines have obtained advantages which, in the old days, would have been thought a dream of the far, far future-in fact, a fair Utopia. With regard to cotton operatives, I dare say it can be affirmed with a large degree of accuracy that the operatives' position formerly was one, probably, of the lowest depths of degradation of industrial work-if I may use that term. They got low wages, they worked long hours, they worked under bad sanitary conditions - bad atmosphere - and no provision was made for their receiving the benefits which modern science has placed at the command of such in- dustries ; and the consequence was that the death-rate in that particular occupation was probably larger than in any other sphere of industrial work. It was almost as bad as it was in the glass and chemical trades, which have also, by regulation, been brought into line with other industries, and have been put in such a position that the workmen have much greater opportunities of preserving their health and working under better conditions. Then, there is the question of the agricultural labourer. It is very difficult to get a combina- tion of these workers, and the consequence is this: that at Home, here, and I dare say even all over the world, their conditions are worse than those of almost any other occupation. The result is that there has been an exodus from the agricultural districts towards the towns. The agricultural labourer has latterly seen with envious eyes the largely improved conditions of other classes of labour, and it is natural that he should desire to participate in those im- proved conditions. The consequence has been that in many counties of England-I will take Yorkshire, for one- some districts have been almost denuded of agricultural labourers-dis- tricts in which for generations past these men received 9s., 10s., or 12s. a week, and worked ten hours a day; and many of those men have got probably a wife and five children to support. At Home much attention has recently been given by writers to the agricultural-labourer question, and they have been ventilating the subject in order that something may be done to mitigate the evils of the past. It is going a long way back to the time of Joseph Arch, when he came out and fought the battle of the farm-labourer ; but modern men, with the accumulated experience of intervening years, have invaded, with great spirit and acumen, the agricultural domain, and have put before the men their conditions, and explained to them what has taken place in the towns. It has created a feeling of unrest, and, failing to be able to combine so as to get from their masters the consideration of their complaints, they have consequently left their homes and gone to the towns to get work there. Such a position can- not be to the advantage of either the landlord, the farmer, or his workman. In the course of my remarks I have dealt in what I may call an abstract manner with this question, and have not hitherto alluded to the Bill itself. I think there are two great flaws in this Bill. The first is section 6, which gives to either party an opportunity to set up independent Boards of Conciliators. But I do not complain so much of that as I do of clause 21. Under clause 21 one of the parties may desire to go direct to the Court of Arbitration, and hence you have set up a very difficult and serious position. I do not know that there is any machinery in the Bill to show how such a posi- tion can be provided for. I can conceive it quite possible that there might be a deadlock ; and, after all, you might have to come back to conciliation, and there is no reason why you should invite a position which demands concilia- tion in an inverse way like that. At present 