States flag must fly over the vessel. Hence, when Hawaii is annexed to the United States no British vessel will be able to trade between One of the Honolulu and San Francisco. steamers engaged in the mail-service between this colony and the United States is under the British flag ; and it should be considered when the mail arrangements are being reviewed whether we ought to subsidise a purely Ameri- can line, especially in view of the alternative line to Vancouver. Another aspect of the case was that, by continuing to support the mail- service, this country would be subsidising a connection between the United States and one of the outlying possessions, assuming that Hawaii was created a territory." That last aspect of the case has not been pre- sented to the House to-day-that is, subsi- dising an American line is virtually giving a subsidy to America to establish a connection with its outlying territory. The Lyttelton Times, in an article on the same day, referring to that interview, said,- "His (Mr. McNab's) alertness in considering the interests of this country in connection with passing events in other lands is also shown in his comments upon the Hawaiian situation. The considerations named by him arising out of the selfish shipping laws of the United States must, to a large extent, modify the policy of this country with regard to the San Francisco mail-service when the Hawaiian Islands are annexed to the great Republic; and they in the meantime constitute a sound reason https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 for only a slight extension of the existing con- tract, so that the whole of the altered circum- stances may be taken into account next year." So far as I am aware, that was the first re- ported result of what at that time I anticipated would come from the annexation of Hawaii by the United States, and the discussion to-night will show honourable members to what extent the anticipations which I formed at that time have been verified. When the Postmaster- General, if he succeeds in carrying these reso- lutions, goes into the question of detail I would suggest to him that some arrangement should be made under which the Americans shall not be able to charge a higher tariff between Auck- land and San Francisco than between San Francisco and Auckland. In a paper laid on the table of this House-F .- 6A, of 1898- I find it is there stated that from Auckland to San Francisco general cargo is carried at from £2 10s. to £3 a ton, while from San Francisco to Auckland general cargo is carried as low as 8 dollars to 10 dollars per 40 ft. cubic measure ; so that if honourable members com- pare it they will see that the difference in the rate of the tariff comes to from 18s. to 20s. per ton-that is, per 40 ft. cubic measurement. And I hope when the Postmaster . General specifies the terms of this contract he will see that that exception in favour of the United States is not allowed any longer to prevail, or, if he is not able to have it abolished, he will endeavour to get the amount largely reduced. Sir, I have occupied the time of the House already longer Mr. McNab would like to mention that I thought there was a world of meaning in an interjection made by the honourable member for Waite- mata, Mr. Monk, in answer to some re- marks made by the honourable member for Napier, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser. When the honour- able member for Napier stated that the Americans were training young men for their navy in the subsidised vessels of the Fr'isco service the honourable member for Waitemata interjected, "They are wiser than we are. They are training their young men." I think there was a world of meaning in that, because, while they are wiser than we are, and are train- ing their young men, they are calling upon the colonies of Australasia to pay for that training. I have occupied the time of the House longer than I had intended, but having looked into the question of the exception of Canada to the shipping laws of America, and hearing the question referred to in the House, the splendid lead given to me by the honourable member for Bruce drew me to my feet this evening, and I hope I have not wearied the House in enter- ing into the discussion of that aspect of the Fr'isco service. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- As a matter of personal explanation, Sir, I wish to say the honourable member for Mataura to-night en- deavoured, by quoting from my speech of last year on the San Francisco service, to convict me of inconsistency. I do not think that honourable gentleman could have been in the House to-night when I was speaking, or else he did not listen to my speech. If he will read it in Hansard afterwards he will see the point I laid most stress upon was the advisability of keeping in view the Vancouver service. I did the same last year. I said I hoped that the Government, in making arrangements with Messrs. Spreckels, would not do anything to prevent our entering into a contract with the Vancouver Mail Company when the eighteen months or two years for which they were bound to go to Brisbane direct expired. My argument to-night was in favour of the Vancouver ser- vice, and any one who chooses to read my speech in Hansard will see that it was so. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- I will not delay the House more than five minutes. An Hon. MEMBER .- We cannot hear. Mr. ELL .- I am voting entirely unbiassed on this question ; and let me say this at the outset : that I extremely regret the remarks made by several honourable members with regard to America. I do not think, Sir, that we should regard America as a foreign country at all, and I am positively astonished that a number of members in this House should regard America as a foreign Power. America is distinctly friendly to us, and her aspirations and social life are very much akin to our own. Suffice it to say, however, with regard to that phase of the question, that I am entirely opposed to it, and I regret that any members of the New Zealand Parliament should be persuaded in any way whatever by it in casting their votes. It will not have any influence on my vote at all. 