The Native Minister for many years practised in the Native Land Court, and he was one of the most capable men that ever appeared in that Court. Surely the member for Pahiatua did not wish to say that the Native Minister should not continue to act in such a capacity if he so desired. Of course, there had been black sheep in the profession in the past ; but now that the matter was in the hands of the Chief Judge, who had power to grant licenses for ad- mission to that special Bar, he thought they would have no more black sheep in the future. As to the attack of the honourable member for Pahiatua, although that honourable member be- lieved he was attacking him (Mr. Fraser), he was really attacking the Native Department. The honourable member quoted from a letter which put words in Mr. Sheridan's mouth which he (Mr. Fraser) was given to understand he never uttered. He (Mr. Fraser) was not to appear in the case, but was to be a witness. He did not care in the least about any attack upon himself, but he thought it was ungenerous to attack a Government servant who was not there to defend himself. Fortunately, the Native Minister was there to defend him, and, no doubt, when he replied later on, he would do If the honourable member for Pahiatua so. knew all the circumstances he would be the very last to make an attack upon this officer. The whole thing was due to a misapprehension in the letter written by the firm of lawyers re- ferred to, and he hoped the Native Minister would be able to demonstrate to the member for Pahiatua that the statements in the letter were incorrect. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) desired to make a personal explanation. He might state that the Bill which he had opposed at length on a pre- vious occasion was a private member's Bill, and he thought his action was justifiable on that occasion. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) said that the pre- vious case which had been mentioned where there had been stonewalling was in connection with a private member's Bill ; but in this case it was a Government measure, and the honour- able member had no hope of defeating it, and yet he kept the House up all night. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) thought they had had enough talk about Native legis- lation. He did not propose to answer the arguments that had been brought forward that morning. Everything had been threshed out in the night, and nothing fresh had been brought up in the morning. He was sorry the time of the House had been taken up as it was, but only a few members had carried things on, and on those few members must rest the responsibility for what had been done. He was sorry the honourable member for Napier had taken the course he did. That honourable gentleman, he thought, might amend his conduct in the House, and not say sharp things to honourable members-remarks that were unprovoked. It might be clever or witty, but the honourable gentleman should remember that other mem- bers had feelings as well as himself, and he Mr. A. L. D. Fraser bers bore up well against some of the honour- able gentleman's sharp witticisms-at any rate, much better than the honourable member him- self would stand a return of the compliment. He (Mr. Carroll) regretted that motives had been imputed. It was a line of conduct that should not be pursued unless there were facts upon which to base the imputations. The honourable member for Napier had said that those who were supporting the measure were office-seekers. He did not give them the credit of acting with a patriotic desire to serve their race. He claimed for himself that he was the pure article, and others, who held different views, were impure. He said the whole object of the Bill was to build up a professional Court in which the supporters of the measure could practise. That was quite wrong. He (Mr. Carroll) thought if the history of the Court as at present constituted was looked into it might not bear too close an inspection ; but was that an argument in opposition to the measure ? No, it was not. On the contrary, it was a very good reason why the present measure should have a fair trial. He would like to say in the honourable member's favour that, so far as he had known him, he had always been upright, and it was to be regretted that he had taken the stand he did, and had wasted the time of the House. The honourable gentleman - he referred to the member for Napier-was hasty and hysterical, and allowed himself to be drawn into paroxysms, so that he was not always responsible for what he said. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay attempted to justify the stonewalling of last night, and said the honourable member for Napier was making a noble stand to prolong time and give the country an opportunity of understanding what the Bill was, and what the honourable member's views were. Captain RUSSELL .- To give the country an opportunity of knowing both sides of the ques- tion. We were not allowed to discuss the other. Mr. CARROLL said that the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was a great stickler for propriety-at least, they might so assume from his many attempts to urge this point against the Right Hon. the Premier. Yet here they found him, fresh after a good night's sleep, attempting to justify, in his usual lofty and suave manner, the stonewall of the honour- able member for Napier, and condemning the action practically of the whole House, which resisted throughout a long night the efforts of one member to obstruct a Bill desired by Europeans and Maoris alike. The honourable member for Napier had already filled the news- papers with his views on the Native question. and declaimed against the Government far and wide. Now, in reply to the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), in the matter which he brought up in connection with Mr. Sheridan, of the Native Department, be could only say that from his knowledge of that officer, ranging over a course of many years, in which he had held a high and responsible position in the Government, he 