For. Against. Fraser, W. Duncan Hanan Allen, J. Bollard McLachlan Millar Morrison Bennet Pere Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 3. Amendment negatived. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved the fol- lowing proviso : - "Provided that every member of the present Parliament who desires to obtain payment of the increase in honorarium shall make applica- tion in the form prescribed by the Schedule attached to this Act, and it shall not be lawful for any increased payment to be made under this Act unless such application be first made. # "SCHEDULE. "To the Treasury. "I, A. B., do hereby apply that the increase in the honorarium provided for in 'The Pay- ment of Members Act, 1901,' be paid to me during the existence of the present Parliament, and in accordance with the terms of the said Act. ( Signature). " Date : " Witness : Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to insert, after the words "Provided that," the words "any member of the House who shall in writing intimate to the Paymaster-General that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 he desires during the currency of the present Parliament to receive only the sum of two hundred and forty pounds per annum if a member of the House of Representatives, or one hundred and fifty pounds per annum if a member of the Legislative Council, as provided by 'The Payment of Members Act, 1892,' shall be paid accordingly." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved, "That the Chairman leave the chair." The Committee divided. AYES, 23. Rhodes Hutcheson Atkinson Russell, W. R. Buddo Lang Smith, G. J. Collins Laurenson Ell Lethbridge Tanner Fowlds Massey Willis. Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Graham Pirani Meredith Hardy Russell, G. W. Herries O'Meara NOES 29. Hall-Jones Allen, E. G. Napier Heke Arnold Palmer Hornsby Parata Barclay Seddon Houston Carncross Kaihau Carroll Stevens Colvin Lawry Symes Ward. McGowan Fisher Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Gilfedder Flatman McNab Guinness Mills Hall Hogg. For. Against. Allen, J. Hanan Bennet Pere Bollard McLachlan Fraser, W. Duncan McGuire Smith, E. M. Morrison Millar Russell, W. R. Hogg. Majority against, 6. Motion negatived. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved to report progress. The Committee divided. AYES, 17. Pirani Atkinson Laurenson Buddo Lethbridge Rhodes Collins Massey Russell, G. W. Meredith Graham Tellers. Herries Ell Monk Hutcheson O'Meara Lang. NOES, 28. Allen, E. G. Hornsby Parata Houston Smith, G. J. Barclay Kaihau Carncross Stevens Carroll Lawry Steward Colvin McGowan Symes Fisher Mckenzie, R. Ward. McNab Gilfedder Hall Mills Tellers. Hall-Jones Napier Arnold Flatman. Palmer Heke PAIRS. For. Against. Allen, J. Hanan Bennet Pere Bollard McLachlan Fraser, W. Duncan Mackenzie, T. Seddon McGuire Smith, E. M. Millar Morrison Russell, W. R. Hogg. Majority against, 11. Motion negatived. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, That the Chairman do leave the chair. The Committee divided. AYES, 19. O'Meara Atkinson Herries Buddo Rhodes Lang Collins Laurenson Russell, G. W. Lethbridge Ell Fowlds Massey Tellers. Meredith Graham Hutcheson Monk Hardy Pirani. NOES, 26. Arnold Palmer Heke Parata Hornsby Barclay Houston Carncross Stevens Carroll Kaihau Steward Colvin Lawry Symes Fisher McGowan Ward. Mckenzie, R. Flatman Tellers. - Allen, E. G. McNab Hall Mills Napier. Hall-Jones 