Thursday, 31st October, 1901. First Reading-Second Reading-Third Reading- Taumutu Native Commonage-Inspection of Meat -Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill- Old-age Pensions Bill-Egmont National Park Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. State Coal-mines Bill. SECOND READING. State Coal-mines Bill. THIRD READING. Pariroa Native Reserve Bill. TAUMUTU NATIVE COMMONAGE. The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA asked the Minister of Education, Whether the Government will take steps to cause the County Council having control of the Southbridge district to extend to low-water mark their drains which carry off the streams and surface-water and the surplus from their irrigation-works running into Lake Ellesmere, which drains are now flooding the Taumutu Native Commonage ? He felt it would be advisable to give a little further in- formation. In the year 1883 the land was granted or secured to the Natives under the provisions of the Taumutu Native Commonage Act, and this reserve contained about 700 acres. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The drainage from the roads and other water- sheds was being brought through drains on to this Native Reserve. There was also water being brought down from the Rakaia River for irrigation purposes, and the surplus of this water from some of the farms was also coming down these drains and flooding the reserve, and the ground was being made useless and swampy through this water being poured on to it. This reserve was given for the benefit of the Natives in that locality, and it was only right that the Government should see that this land was not made swampy and spoilt by this water being drained on to it. Subsection (5) of section 4 of "The Taumutu Native Commonage Act, 1883," said,- " Her Majesty shall, for all purposes of ' The Drainage Act, 1881,' be deemed to be the owner of the said lands." He took it that the meaning of this subsec- tion was that the Native owners would not be in a position to resist the work of the County Council, who were bringing this water on to the land, but that it was the duty of the Crown to see that our lands were not destroyed ; and what he would ask now was that the main drain in which this water was collected should be extended to low-water mark. He believed it would not require more than 40 chains of drain to do this. He would like to explain to the Minister that a drain was originally cut through, but the authorities had not kept it clean, and it was now useless. The reasons of awarded to the Natives the County Council ceased to keep the drain open through that land. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER asked, Would the honourable gentleman tell him if the Tau- mutu Native Commonage was between the lake and the sea, or to the west of the lake ? The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA replied that the Taumutu Native Commonage was to the south- west of the lake, on the inland side. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER understood that the Natives stated that the water came down upon them, and that the County Council apparently had not provided a sufficiently deep drain to carry it off. Was that so ? The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA .- Yes. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, as to taking steps to cause the County Council to do these things, he was not sure the Government had got power in the matter ; but the Native Minister, who had charge of these affairs on behalf of the Natives, would make inquiries, and if anything could be done he would do what was necessary and what was in his power to assist the Natives ; but he must say there was a certain amount of presumption in the question that he could not admit for a moment from his own knowledge. For instance, they talked about irrigation-works. There were no irrigation-works in that district, but simply water-channels on the surface of the ground, and he did not believe that any one could imagine that those surface-channels could have the effect suggested. The water was nearly all consumed before it got to this locality, and therefore he did not think the County Council was in any way to blame so far as that part of the matter went. But generally as to the ques- tion, he would see that inquiry was made, and if anything could be done to relieve the settle- ment it would be done. The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA would like to say that he might have been wrong in using the words, "irrigation-works." What he meant was that the water was brought from the Rakaia River, possibly through open drains ; but it came through the farms, and the sur- plus was poured into the drain to which he had referred. INSPECTION OF MEAT. The Hon. Mr. JONES asked the Minister of Education, Whether, in view of the disclosures which were made in the course of the trial of a Sydenham butcher at Christchurch, on the 29th October, for selling meat tainted by pleurisy and tuberculosis, and the statements made by several butchers that what are termed "small goods " are usually made of "greatly inferior meat," which it appears may be taken to mean diseased meat, and also the smallness of the punishment-namely, 20s. fine and costs- which was inflicted by the Magistrate, and which will probably fail to act as a deterrent, the Government will see that the officers under the Public Health Act do their duty, so as to secure a more effective and reliable inspection of meat, and the adequate punishment of any 