of our antecedents. I said that the Bill was absolutely a retrograde measure, and therefore I was sorry that a majority of both Houses were apparently willing to go back on their own actions. Some people, of course, do not mind doing so, but I do not like to do so ; and certainly I do not like to go back on measures that have acted up to the present time in a most beneficial and instructive way, not only to ourselves, but to those who have visited this colony. What will be said now of us if we destroy by our own Act the measure that has been law since 1894; because it is nc use tam- pering with words, if we pass this Bill it is ab- solutely putting a knife into our own bosoms, or into the bosoms of our own mothers. Ifit is not suicide it is matricide. Honourable members may laugh ; but those honourable members would be only too glad to see us kill ourselves and our mothers too. Of course, they are laughing all the time up their sleeves, and some of those who we thought were our friends are playing their game. Where am I? I have got to try and run this Council, and I am astonished at some of my friends, who do not seem to mind playing the game of our old friends who used to run the Council years ago. That is not what I call business ; and this Bill is certainly not business in the form in which it is. Therefore I said, in moving the third reading, that I did so with the greatest regret, and I still maintain that. The two clauses that are to my mind the most objection- able are clauses 6 and 21; both those clauses https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 strike at the vital principle of conciliation. I think they are conflicting. I say that those two clauses really strike at the whole essence of the original Act; and as to how on earth a majority of the other House could have voted as they did-well, I have my own ideas about that. I believe it was done very early in the morning, and only those who were very wide awake were up early enough to pass this clause in the form we have it. I am quite certain · that no friend of conciliation or arbitration could have agreed to pass this clause. It is of no use to talk about what the Wellington Board has done, because that can be got over in a very short time. It has been shown re- peatedly that, even if the Wellington Board was as bad as it is said to have been, the work of that Board has cleared the ground, and cases have been able to be decided in the Court of Arbitration in consequence of the manner in which the Wellington Board cleared the ground. And if we could only get the testimony of Mr. Justice Cooper on the matter-unfortu- nately, we have not got it - he would have assured us that without the assistance of the Wellington Board he could not have decided his Wellington cases in the rapid way in which he has done ; because it stands to reason that, if a Board clears up many of the points in a diffi- culty, where there are difficulties and techni- calities, not only are the disputants on much better terms with each other as to the whole issue, but the Judge is able to deal with the whole question in a much shorter time. And Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker about the Boards, whatever time they may have taken-and I may say it is unfortunate that the Wellington Board seems to have taken more time than any other Board to go through their cases-at the same time, I say, do not let us abandon the Boards. They are the best thing we have got, and if the Boards are not satis- factory at the present time let there be a change in the personnel. The Hon. Mr. Twomey suggested-and, of course, he ran away afterwards-that the Chairman of the Board should be a Stipendiary Magistrate. Well, I do not object so much to that. I admit that every one of these Courts or Boards would be all the better for having somebody who is accustomed to take evidence in the strictest sense; and it is quite possible that the Board would be all the better for having a trained lawyer to take down the evidence, and see that only evidence pertinent to the question was taken down. From my experience of the way in which evidence is taken down in Select Committees of this Council, I am beginning to doubt whether there is any value in evidence at all. Upon my word, I think we shall have to do something in the way of employing a paid lawyer to take the chair, more especially on the Labour Bills Committee, to restrain, not the witnesses from saying what they should not, but members of the Council from putting questions in such a roundabout and intricate way that I defy any witness to give an answer to them. The other day we had a very in- telligent lady giving evidence before us, and there was a certain member of the Council who said, " You will not say, Yes or No." Well, she said, " I do not know what you mean ; I cannot understand your question." And I quite agree with her. It was put in such a rigma- role fashion that nobody could understand the question, and I say that something should be done to prevent members from putting questions to witnesses in such a manner that they cannot be answered in the affirmative or negative. Study our reports and ask who is a master of cross-examination. Is there any one among us who knows what cross-examination is ? You will find that nearly every one of us, in putting a question to a witness, begins with a long preamble, and twists the whole thing up, and if the witness says "Yes," or " No," his answer conveys very little. We want more precision in our procedure, and, certainly, I sympathized very much with that lady witness when she had to confess that in spite of her good wishes she could not understand the question that was put to her. Well, if all this trouble is taken to confuse the witnesses, why should we not give a certain amount of credit to those who are endeavouring to fight for the liberties of the subject. An Hon. MEMBER .- Are you fighting for them now ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am try- ing to. I say again, I am very sorry I am obliged to move the third reading. It is a back- ward, a retrograde step, and I regret it exceed- ingly. Now, it has been stated in this Council 