all be closed at the same time. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN did not agree that this was properly an amendment of the Phar- macy Act. The difficulty he saw about this pro- posed new clause was the want of power to compel the Pharmacy Board to do this. It was very easy to compel it by putting a clause into this Bill that it should not only be lawful but incumbent for the shops to be open at all hours. He thought it would be a very good thing that two shops should be kept open in Wellington when the others are closed, one at Te Aro end and the other at Thorndon. If that were done there would be no objection to the others shutting up the whole day. It would probably be as well tc go into Committee and see if they could not put in a provision to meet the case. He was as anxious as any one to see chemists get their holiday like other people, so far as it could be settled ; and he thought it might be so arranged that certain shops should be kept open while the others are closed. It should not be neces- sary to keep the shops actually open during the night ; it should be sufficient that some one slept on the premises. He hoped the Council would go into Committee to see what they could do in this matter. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON hoped the honourable gentleman would withdraw his amendment, for, as the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly had pointed out, it was not an amendment which should go into this Bill at all. It was quite nonsense to put it in a Bill the object of which was to give the people employed in chemists' shops a weekly half-holiday. The honourable gentleman wanted to include in the Shops and Shop-assistants Bill an amendment to make it imperative to keep open chemists' shops day and night. If that was done the Government should subsidise them, and the State should pay them for the extra expense these people would be put to in keeping their shops open at night, in lighting, and the re- muneration of the people whom they employed. He thought it was a libel on New Zealand to say its people were continually running around for medicine. Judging from the appearance of the honourable gentleman, he did not suppose his honourable friend had been in a chemist's shop in his life, and most honourable members, perhaps, had much the same experience. The people of New Zealand did not want to be running for drugs at every hour of the day and night, and when the honourable gentleman said he wanted this provision added to the Bill he assumed he must have done so more as a joke than anything else, so absurd was it. He hoped the honourable gentleman would with- draw his amendment. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER did not see why the honourable gentleman who last spoke should try to ridicule the amendment of the Hon. Mr. Feldwick. He believed the proposal was a very sound one indeed, and that it might be carried a little further. The Hon. Mr. Feldwick had referred to his (Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker) having mentioned-and it was not the first time he had mentioned it, for it was an Hon. Mr. Shrimsk certain cities in South America, which were not. supposed to be as civilised as our own cities,. although in some ways they were, there was advertised in the newspaper the daily rota of the doctor, chemist, and midwife for each quarter of the city, who had to be on perma- nent duty through the twenty-four hours. He called that a very civilised proposal. An Hon. MEMBER .- Probably they are sub- sidised for doing so. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, No, they were not ; and all the other people taking their holiday could shut up through the hours when they were not usually on business. He did not like joking about these things. The Hon. Mr. Jenkinson spoke in a carping way about want- ing doctors, but they never knew who would. not want a doctor. Any one of us might want a doctor or a chemist within the next six hours, and therefore we ought always to be ready to make as much provision as we reasonably ought to do as wise men ; and he felt quite certain that the medical service in our cities would never be satisfactory unless some arrangement of this kind was made by law. We were told a year or two ago by the medical fraternity that they now relied upon places like the hospital, which was always open day and night, and, fail- ing the hospital, there were certain doctors who kept drugs on their own premises, but that, as a rule, they could not rely upon chemists. The chemists, on the other hand, told us that they did up to a certain time take steps to have some- body always on duty on their premises, but they found they were not called out, and that the busi- ness did not warrant their going to that expense. Well, he hoped this was a very great testimony to the healthiness of the Wellington climate, but we did not know when anybody might not be smitten down with illness, and in such a way that immediate relief was essential, otherwise possibly life might be lost. Therefore he did think we should not neglect an opportunity of amending the law in this direction, which possibly might be for the benefit of the com- munity. All he could say was that, from his experience, he had never seen any arrangement so satisfactory as that which the Hon. Mr. Feldwick had now given notice of, and he was quite sure that it would be very much to the benefit, not only of the community, but also of the chemists, that this arrangement of duties should be emphasized by law. Of course, as to whether this amendment should come into this Bill or into a Pharmacy Amending Bill was another matter. He really did not think it mattered very much, because this Bill cer- tainly dealt with chemists, and it provided machinery by which the chemists' hours of work should be regulated. Therefore he saw no difficulty whatever in inserting this clause in this Bill if the Council thought it was in the right direction. The Hon. Mr. JONES thought, with the Hon. Mr. Kelly, it would be better if the clause proposed by the Hon. Mr. Feldwick had been in the Pharmacy Act, but it was not convenient to put it in the Pharmacy Act on the present 