the highest degree of efficiency in country schools.' (Vide Commissioners' report.) Messrs. Petrie and Rice, two of our greatest authorities on schools and school working, admitted to the Commissioners when in Auckland that the salaries of assistants were high compared with those of headmasters. Mr. Petrie said : 4 Teachers of schools from thirty-five to a hun- dred had far more exacting work'; yet when an adjustment of salaries is being made these very teachers are given the smallest increases, whilst females in charge of schools and female assist- ants, who have not nearly the same responsi- bilities, are to receive increases of from 20 to 00 per cent. This seems to us unfair, and we desire to bring it before you, so that a more equitable allocation of salary may be made. Our present position, from the smallness of our salaries and the arduousness of our duties, is not as good as it should be, and we trust that you will adjust the scale, giving male teachers in charge of schools averaging from thirty to sixty an increase on our present sala- ries of at least 20 per cent. We would also pray that individually we may be classified, and that our promotion in future depend upon such classification, determined by length of service and the reports and marks of Inspectors. If this were done we should have a greater sense of security in our positions, and it would en- courage even more strenuous efforts on our part to merit good reports, and so gain the Inspec- tor's coveted marks; thus both we and the system would be benefited." As I have said, that petition is from sixty- two head-teachers in the Auckland Provincial District ; and I have not the slightest doubt in my own mind but that hundreds of others in different parts of the colony are of exactly the same opinion. Under the circumstances, then, I would indorse what has been suggested by the member for Bruce-namely, that this matter should be allowed to stand over until next year. By so doing very little harm would be done, because we have already voted a bonus of 5s. per head in connection with the Education estimates, and teachers can be paid the in- crease in exactly the same way as they were paid last year. Now, Sir, the Premier, when speaking, said that no objection to this Bill had been made by the Education Boards of the colony. The member for Bruce pointed out that Otago did object. I have objections here from two important Boards of this colony. Mr McGOWAN .- What about the teachers ? Mr. MASSEY .- I have told you what the teachers think of the proposals, and now I am going to give you the opinion of the Boards. The Auckland Board says this :- " The effect of the proposed colonial scale of salaries, as set out in the report, upon these teachers is most serious to contemplate. The Board has lately improved their position by giving a fixed salary of £108 to a male teacher of a school of fifteen average, and a salary of £114 for an average of twenty. Under the proposed colonial scale these teachers will be reduced from £108 to $75 and from £114 to £100. below an average of fifteen, will suffer even greater reduction of salary, some to the extent of more than 40 per cent." Then, the Canterbury Board, speaking of the small schools again, says,- "That the provision as to the salaries of teachers in the small schools-namely, $5 per head on the average attendance-is insufficient, and will result in a number of small country schools being closed ; or, as an alternative, in the teachers receiving starvation wages." I know of no men in the colony better qualified to speak than the members of the Boards of Education of Auckland and Canterbury. Sir, I may say, in conclusion, that I would like to see this matter per- manently settled ; but I am strongly of opinion that what is proposed will be an injustice to a most deserving set of individuals, and that the interests of education generally will suffer. But, as I indicated when I commenced to speak, I do not propose to oppose the Bill. I will leave the responsibility with the Government, and when the Bill goes into Committee I will endeavour to amend it, if possible, wherever 1 think an amendment is necessary. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- Like seve- ral of the previous speakers, I do not intend to take up much of the time of the House in dis- cussing the details of this Bill over its second reading. I believe the question we have got to consider is not as to the details of the Bill, but whether the country demands a colonial scale of salaries for teachers. Now, I do not think there is a single man in the House but will agree with me when I say that there is an almost universal demand that the incongruities and injustices of the present system of paying public-school teachers should cease, and that we should begin to pay a colonial scale of sala- ries based on some rational system. Now, the honourable member for Bruce seemed to be desirous of throwing cold water on the Bill, and to deprecate any attempt to interfere with the power of the Boards of Education. I can quite understand the member for Bruce taking up this attitude. Iadmit that the best-paid teachers in New Zealand are the teachers of Otago, and I believe if there is any place in New Zealand in which a colonial scale of salaries will injuriously affect the teachers it will be in Otago. But, after all, we have got to do, not with the best- paid province of New Zealand, but with all the <!-- PageNumber="\-" --> provinces, and we have got to see how it will affect them all. In this connection I would just like to point out to the House what the average salaries paid to teachers amount to. I took this out from the reports of the different Boards of Education : The average salary paid in Marlborough is $02, in Taranaki it is $90, in Wellington $94, in Auckland $95, in North Canterbury it is £105, while in Otago it is $117, or nearly double what is paid to the teachers in Marlborough. As for sewing-mistresses, I find that in Taranaki or Wanganui they are paid on the average about $5 a year, and that rises until we come to Otago, where they are paid from $20 to $30 for the same duties. What 