sixteen and a half knot boats. It is calculated to be a twenty-two days' service from Sydney, or an eighteen days' service from Auckland to Vancouver. Even though it may take eighteen days to perform the service, I would gladly give preference, though at the cost of an extra day or two, to colonial boats and colonial workmen. I may point out that the Oceanic Company has often been behind its time-table date. The mail route from San Francisco to New York could be altered, and, instead of making New York the port of shipment to Liverpool, we could have Halifax, in Nova Scotia. At present there is a railway running from New York to Halifax. Let us compare the distances by sea from New York and Halifax to Liverpool. If you go from Halifax direct to Liverpool, instead of from New York to Liverpool, there would be & saving of about 788 miles. An Hon. MEMBER .- They take the mails to Queenstown. Mr. WILFORD .- They deliver at Queens- town on their way to Liverpool. If you look at the table of distances from New York to Liverpool, touching at Queenstown, you will see that the mileage is 3,130, and from Halifax to Liverpool the distance is 2,342 miles-a difference of 788 miles. If you work that out on the fifteen-knot-an-hour ratio it means a saving of fifty-two hours. That is to say, by the route from Halifax to Liverpool, as compared with the route from New York to Liverpool, there would be a saving of fifty-two hours. Now, it is proposed to extend the railway from https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Halifax to Cape Breton, which is the nearest point to England. There will be an extra half- day saved in that way. I ask, why should that course not be adopted if we can have our colonial boats; and why should they not be given an opportunity of "cutting in," if I may use the expression ? The time also could be shortened by that means. Let us look for a moment and see what the distances are in various routes. From Sydney to Vancouver via Brisbane, Honolulu, and Victoria, 7,087 miles ; from Sydney via Auckland to Van- couver, 7,616 miles ; and from Sydney via Wellington to Vancouver, 7,956 miles. If a mail comes from England to Adelaide it is sent by rail and distributed at Sydney and Melbourne, and there is nothing to prevent the Govern- ment entering into a contract with the Union Company for the immediate conveyance of mails received at Melbourne and Sydney to Auckland and Wellington. There is no reason in the world why a subsidy should not be given to the Union Company for an improved service between Wellington and Sydney and Mel- bourne, both to take mails to Australia and from Australia. As I have said, the mails from England are landed at Adelaide, and are dis- tributed at Sydney and Melbourne ; and there would be no trouble whatever, if a fair and reasonable subsidy were given to the Union Company, to run an improved service between Auckland and Sydney, and Wellington and Sydney. Although it may mean that our mails, perhaps, will not arrive within four days of the lar and absolutely reliable service. Let me show how absolutely rotten the time-table of the Oceanic Company really is. I have pre- pared a table, which will show honourable members how the mails by those steamers have been delivered. There have been repeated breakdowns on the line. There bas been no due observance of sailing dates, and no pro- vision has been made for the substitution of other boats for the boats which have broken down. The " Sonoma," which was supposed to have left Sydney on the 4th May, stayed in port for nine days to effect repairs. Those repairs were not effected, and the "Sonoma " went to sea without being repaired, and, after going back to San Francisco, was laid up there, and the "Mariposa " took her place at a later date. These are facts and figures which can be seen by any one who takes the trouble to look up the tables. I have only got to quote two or three more instances to show how necessary it is that this service should be looked into. The " Sonoma," due at Auckland on the 19th November, was one day late ; the "Mariposa," due on the 10th December, was two days late ; the " Sierra," due on the 31st December, was four days late ; and the " Sonoma," which was due on the 15th April, was three days late. Again, take the due dates of arrival in London. The "Sierra " was once five days late and once four days late, the " Alameda " was three days late, the " Ventura " was five days late, and the "Sonoma " was twelve days late by the time- table. What sort of a service is this for us to subsidise ? What sort of a service is this for colonials and for the Government or the people- of this country to put their hands in their pockets for? What does the colony get as its quid pro quo? The Americans are playing the game of "so-much to nothing" ; and what kind of a contract have we got with them ? Mr. Spreckels says in a letter he writes to the Government, "We must have a contract." And look at this impudence-I can call it nothing else-when he says in his letter of the 19th November 1900, " We shall be pleased to carry your mails upon the basis suggested, but we do not feel inclined at present to enter into a contract to do so " : that is to say, " We will carry when we choose, but you do not bind us." Should New Zealand countenance such a condition of things ? Then he says, " We have been much disappointed at the running of our new steamships. We do not wish to be bound by a contract." I say, Thank you for nothing, Mr. Spreckels. I ask, is that the kind of company we are going to grant a subsidy to? Now, Sir, I am a young man, and it is possible I may be out of Parliament at any time. Still, I think, ten years hence, I shall be able to look back at this exploiting of New Zealand by the Oceanic Steamship Company, and congratulate myself on having opposed it. Though I hold no brief for any- body, I am doing my best to help a local colonial company, as I shall always be ready to help it against any outside company. We have been exploited quite long enough by this 