the' new electorates were defined, and he could promise that the law would be complied with and the Surveyor-General appointed at the earliest possible moment. With regard to the question of the Chief Draughtsmen, which had been referred to by several honourable members, he did not think there was any bar to their promotion, though he believed at one time there was a sort of unwritten law that after a man had given up field-work through age or any other cause, and had become a draughtsman, he could not go back to regular survey-work again. However, he did not think it right that their claims should be overlooked on that score. In reply to the honourable member for Ashburton, he could only suppose that the reduction in the amount put down for the Christchurch office was due to the fact that one of the older officers had retired or had been removed, and his posi- tion was filled by a junior who naturally would not receive so large a salary. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) noticed that in Tara- naki, where surveyors were so urgently needed, the amount put down this year for surveyors was exactly $100 less than last year. The people there were absolutely unable to get the lands cut up owing to the want of surveyors. Mr. DUNCAN might mention that there were four temporary surveyors employed who did not appear under this item at all. In reply to the member for Otaki, he might say he was having inquiries made, and at an early date would have an appointment made to the Wel- lington Land Board. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) noticed that the amount for surveys in the Auckland District was considerably reduced this year. At present there were only six surveyors em- ployed, and, under the circumstances, he did not see how the Government were going to carry out their promise to push on the settlement of the vast areas of valuable waste land in that district as speedily as possible. Mr. DUNCAN said there were no fewer than twelve surveyors in the district referred to by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford). They had done a great deal of work, and in a very short time there would be a considerable area of land available for settle- ment. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked why an officer in the Head Ofhce was allowed to discharge the duties of Secretary of the Board of Surveyors. Mr. DUNCAN said he was informed that the work was not done in official time. Mr. FISHER thought that there was a good deal of unnecessary printing done in connec- tion with the sale of small sections of land. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked why the for- feited lease - in - perpetuity sections were not offered to the people who had adjoining sec- tions, instead of being put up for sale for cash. Mr. DUNCAN said that was a question that was largely in the hands of the Land Boards. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked for an explanation of the item, "Temporary as- sistance, $15,000." Mr. Duncan were taken on temporarily in the offices. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) asked who was the Superintendent of Settlements, whose salary it was proposed to raise from £375 to £390. Mr. DUNCAN said the Superintendent of Settlements was Mr. Marsh. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) wished to know what were the duties of the Superintendent of Settlements. He (Mr. Meredith) had in his district some five or six settlements, yet, as far as the Canterbury Land Board was concerned, the Superintendent was an unknown quan- tity. Mr. DUNCAN said the Superintendent looked after special settlements in different parts of the colony. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) regarded the officer as a nuisance, and moved, That the item, " Superintendent of Settlements, £390," be re- duced by $15. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item be reduced by £15." AYES, 6. Tellers. Buddo Meredith McLachlan Symes. Hogg Smith. NOES, 30. Arnold Heke Parata Barclay Kaihau Rhodes Bollard Russell, G. W. Lang Lawry Carncross Seddon Carroll Massey Thompson, R. Colvin McGowan Ward Duncan Mackenzie, T. Witheford. Fisher McKenzie, R. Tellers. Hall McNab Fraser, A. L. D. Mills O'Meara. Hall-Jones Hardy ## Majority against, 24. Amendment negatived. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for details of "Contingencies." Mr. DUNCAN said the principal items were as follows : - s. d. £ Destroying rabbits, Earnscleugh .. 1,390 2 11 Run credited to vote in Amounts 371 17 8 error Plans on certificates of title, &c., 351 11 by contract 6 . . .. . . Legal costs 285 8 3 .. Classifications of runs, &c. 179 2 4 150 0 0 Fees to teaching surveyors .. Subscriptions to telephones 134 12 Drawing maps for lithography, by 134 contract 9 00 . Removal of officers 126 O Freight, cartage, shipping-charges 107 1 Expenses in connection with Can- terbury Exhibition 58 13 11 .. .. 58 Repairs to offices, &c. .. 7 3 .. Insurance premiums 51 13 0 ... . . Subscription to newspapers, jour- nals, &c. 39 8 0 . 