the same. " Any land so resumed or acquired may be worked by the Minister on behalf of Her Majesty unless the Legislative Council and the House of Representatives shall by resolution otherwise determine." This is from the Coal-mines Act of 1891. And then, after I have placed upon the statute- book of the colony a law providing power for the State to acquire and work a coal-mine, the honourable gentleman coolly attempts in this House and on the public platform to take credit for having been the moving spirit in this matter; and to call me an opportunist, and to say that I am working from other people's brains in bringing this Bill before the House, after I had actually placed it on the statute- book four years before the honourable member came into the House. In 1881, in Sir George Grey's Bill, sketching the extended functions of the State, I believe, amongst the provisions in that measure was one for the working of a State coal-mine, and if the honourable member will look at my speech in the debate on that Bill he will see that, as far back as from 1879 and 1881-it was during those years that the Bill was introduced-that I said the same in reference to that measure as I said in 1891, and as I said in introducing this Bill. I have always held that there is a danger if our coal-mines are owned outside the colony. I think it is a necessary safeguard to have the right to resume mines at any time for State purposes, and also to have the right to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 work them. Sir George Grey, speaking on the Coal-mines Bill of 1891, said,- "I wish to make a few remarks on this Bill. One is, that in Committee I shall try to get put in in precise words that the Government shall not only be authorised to work any of these mines, but, in the event of working the mines, they shall work them on co-operative principles with the workmen ; because this is one of the most dangerous pursuits in the world, and one in which loss of life and limb is of frequent occurrence." That was in July, 1891. And then, because the honourable member and a few others during the last few years have advocated State coal-mines, they are oblivious altogether of the past. But I want to be just, and I want to show that the honourable member is abso- lutely oblivious of what has gone before. have here the dropped Bills of 1892, and what do I find ? I find the Bill headed "Coal- mines Acquisition and Resumption." Clause 4 of that Bill provides that the Government may undertake the working of coal - mines. Power is given to resume land ; compensa- tion is to be paid, and then provision is made for laying the returns before Parliament, just as is provided for in this Bill. I might call honourable members' attention to this clause 13 :- "13. The Minister may from time to time, on behalf of the Queen, cause any coal-mine purchased, acquired, or resumed under this Act to be worked in such manner and at Mr. Seddon that purpose may carry on such works, erect such buildings, and procure, use, and replace when necessary all such plant as shall be required for that purpose; and all coal won or gotten from any such mine shall, in the first place, be used or supplied for the purposes of Her Majesty's Naval forces or of the Govern- ment of the colony ; and, in the second place, shall be sold and disposed of at such rates as may be thought reasonable to the owners or lessees of railways, steamships, factories, work- shops, and to any person for manufacturing or domestic purposes." That is clause 13 of a Bill introduced in 1892, and that Bill was introduced by William McLean, member for Wellington. I was astounded, Sir, that the honourable mem- ber did not know that. An Hon. MEMBER .- What have you done under it ? Mr. SEDDON .- What have we done? That is not the question. The honourable member for Riccarton is now shifting his ground. He tried to make out to the country, and he has said from time to time, that the Premier had no constructive ability. He said it again to-night. He mentioned the old-age pensions, and said the Premier had taken no action in the matter. Old-age pensions were mooted when I was a boy. But what I can claim is this-namely, to have put into practical shape, and to have carried through Parliament and put on our statute-book, useful measures which people have talked of, but to which they had not been able to give practical form. That is the credit I can fairly claim. The honourable member talked about the advances to settlers. I do not care who gets the credit. All I care about is that progress is made to improve the condition of the people, and give them opportunities which have hitherto been denied them. I point to the election of 1893, and I look back with pride to the speech I delivered at Foxton- that famous Foxton speech-in which I first sketched the advances to settlers and cheap money for the farmers. Just think of all the sneers and the ridicule that was cast on me and on the proposal then! And when I made the second speech on the same subject at Feilding I was ridiculed as a dreamer, as a man who was trying to deceive the country; that it was never intended to become law ; I that it was only done for the purpose of carry- ing the elections, and that I was bribing and corrupting the settlers of New Zealand. Those and other terms were applied, and for pro- pounding cheap money for the settlers I was called a social devil. Now, every one admits the advances to settlers as being a great boon. I look back with pleasure on what transpired, and time has proved I was right, and the mort- gagees' yoke was broken. It has been placed on the statute-book, and it has done a great deal of good, and to the people who stood by the Government credit should be given. I give credit to my colleague, Sir J. G. Ward, and also to the members of Parliament who passed it. And, then, the Mines Act of 1891. I only 