he would vote for the motion. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said he had been on Committees connected with this particular matter for a number of years. It was one of these Maori questions of which it might be said, " Hope deferred maketh the heart sick." He did not wish to express any opinion on the merits of the case ; but in view of what the Minister had said-that the Government would make inquiries-he would ask the mover of the motion to allow it to be amended, so as to allow them to have some finality in the matter. With that object in view he moved, as an amendment, That, after the word " recess," the words " and to report to the next sitting of Parliament " be added. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER did not want to draw out the debate on this question at such a late stage of the session. He admitted that he had, perhaps, read the motion a little hastily. He was prepared to accept the motion if the Hon. Mr. Jennings would withdraw his amend- ment. Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. The Hon. Mr. TOMOANA understood the Minister to say he had no objection to the motion, and, that being so, it was not necessary for him (Mr. Tomoana) to make any reply. Motion agreed to. # CHEMISTS' ROTA OF ATTENDANCE BILL. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said that at that late stage of the session he did not propose to It was proceed any further with the Bill. quite obvious he could not get it introduced and passed through another place before the close of the session, and he would therefore be content with having carried the Bill to its pre- sent stage. He moved, That the Bill be dis- charged, and made an order of the day for Wed- nesday next. Motion agreed to. BOROUGH OF MORNINGTON TRAM- WAYS BILL. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON, in moving the second reading of the Bill, said it was short and simple, but very important. The Borough of Mornington, one of the suburbs of Dunedin, desired more accommodation in the way of tramways, and the Borough Council wished to be empowered either to buy the present tram- way-line, and extend it, or to have power to come to an agreement with the Dunedin City Council to have a fresh tramway carried through the city into the borough. They also wished to have power to borrow £40,000 to enable them to carry out the proposed work. The tram was a cable one, and one of much importance to the borough and also to the city. Bill read the second and the third time. CITY OF AUCKLAND LOANS CONSOLI- DATION AND AUCKLAND CITY BOR- ROWING BILL. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS moved, That the City of Auckland Loans Consolidation and Auck- Hon. Mr. Twomey time. The whole position was set forth in the preamble to the Bill, and its recital meant that the municipal authorities in Auckland were in this position : that, with the restriction placed on their rating-power, necessary works could not be undertaken by the Council, although the citizens by a poll expressed approval of the works. Eight issues were placed before the ratepayers on the 12th September last, and by a large majority the ratepayers signified their approval of five out of the eight issues. The eight proposals would necessitate that a loan should be raised by the Auckland municipal authorities of £100,000 for the purpose of carrying out the works. Through the rejection by the ratepayers of three of the eight pro- posals it was found that the necessary works could be completed for £60,000. However, to get that £60,000 from one of the banking institutions of the colony-the money was to be raised locally-it was necessary that the restriction as to rating should be removed, for it was found that the restriction of the Council's power to rate prejudicially affected the credit of the city. All that was asked for was that Auckland should be placed in the same position as other munici- palities in the colony as regards rating-powers. The Mayor and Councillors of the City of Auck- land had therefore asked that this Bill should be passed by Parliament. It had gone through the other Chamber, and before the Local Bills Committee, and all the necessary requirements that were set out in the Standing Orders had been complied with. In Auckland, as in other parts of the colony, there was a desire to carry on necessary works for purposes of sanitation and the improvement of the city. He knew, from the petitions presented, that there was a feeling against the removal of the restriction, and he sympathized to a large extent with that feeling. A poll of the ratepayers had, however, been taken, and, as it was largely in favour of certain of these works being proceeded with, it was necessary to increase the rating-power, in order to extend the credit of the Corporation. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said the honourable gentleman had not told them what the limit of the rating-power was to be in the City of Auckland when the Bill passed. The limit now fixed by law with regard to the City Corpora- tion of Auckland was 2s. This Bill proposed to do away with that limitation, and, as he under- stood it, there was to be no limit whatever for the rates that might be levied by the municipal authorities of that city, because this Act would, he ventured to think, override the Municipal Corporations Act of 1900, which provided a limit of 1s. in the pound for special rates, and 2s. in the pound for a general municipal rate : so that it appeared to him that, so far as the City of Auckland was concerned, there would be no limitation to the rating-power of the City Council. He suggested the matter should be further inquired into. The Hon. Colonel PITT thought the honour- able gentleman would have to pay attention to the question raised by the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, because, as pointed out, under the Act which 