colony than those who devote themselves to the peaceful arts of colonisation and the de- velopment of the colony. I desire to draw attention to the large amount of money spent by the Minister for Railways on rolling-stock. I have no doubt he believes the increase is necessary ; but when we find £576,000 on the public - works estimates voted for increased rolling-stock, and that we have now passed another £25,000 on the supplementary esti- mates for the same purpose, I cannot but ex- press my regret that so large a portion of this rolling-stock has been imported from outside, instead of being made in the colony. And I express still greater disappointment at the fact that throughout the whole of this session there has been no declaration that the Government propose to spend any part of the money given to them for additions to open lines in extending the workshops in our own colony and increasing the plant, so that the Govenment workshops may be able to take up a large part of the work of constructing rolling-stock in the colony. I trust that before the session closes the Minister for Railways will be able to indicate that the Government have not forgotten this. I trust that the Government is not likely in the course of another year or two to find that further large importations of rolling-stock will be necessary to meet the growing traffic of the railway system. One matter to which I wish to refer is that this year the Workers' Compensation Act has not been amended and extended to agricul- tural labourers. The Right Hon. the Premier gave, I will say, a qualified promise last ses- sion that the legislation that might be intro- duced by the Imperial Government would be placed on the statute-book of this colony. I regret that the session closes without any amendment to the Workers' Compensation Act, so that the farmers of the colony have no means of knowing now, except by appeal to the legal tribunals, whether they are or are not under the provisions of the Workers' Compen- sation Act. My opinion is that the Premier in that matter made a mistake. The farmers of the colony are not averse to being brought under the provisions of the Workers' Compen- sation Act. I believe the agricultural labourers desire this should be done, and I regard it as unfair and illogical that, while the labour laws apply to the whole of the artisans in the cities, the workers on the farms of the colony should be debarred from the privilege of the protection that is given by the Workers' Compensation Act. If I am told in reply that they are already under the provisions of that Act, then I say it is to be regretted that some distinct pronounce- ment of that nature has not been made ; and, at any rate, no harm could possibly have been done had the Government introduced the English Act, which I quoted in a speech delivered the other day on the matter, because in that case the precedents of the English Courts would have been available for the assistance of our own tribunals in settling the question. Sir, the Crown Tenants' Rebate Bill, which was to have been amended by the Government during passed last year. No amendment has been made to that obnoxious and iniquitous measure, which has caused more dissatisfaction among the Crown tenants of the colony than any measure placed on our statute-book for some years past. The administration of that Act has been faulty in the extreme. The Govern- ment have laid down no line of interpretation for the Receivers of Land Revenue. The result is that in different land districts of the colony the law is differently interpreted, and the effect is that there is no finality as far as the rebate is concerned. But I have a still greater com- plaint against the Government in connection with the settlers throughout the colony. In the course of the Financial Statement, under the heading of "Crown Tenants' Rebate of Rents," the Treasurer said, - " Last session the Rebate of Crown Tenants Act was passed. Its working has not been satisfactory, or equitable in its incidence. An amendment of the Act is necessary, and at this juncture it is well to speak plainly, for from facts which have come within my own know- ledge it is quite clear that a person taking up bush land, and having little or no capital, can- not pay rent until the land yields a return. There are practically no returns for two years. By that time two years' rent are in arrear, and the yield is not sufficient to maintain the settler and his family. Another two years pass over, and still find him behind in payment of his rent, or, if he has paid the rent, he has pro- bably had to borrow the money for that pur- pose. Under these circumstances it is much better that the State should insist upon the improvement conditions being strictly com- plied with, and allow the tenant to sit rent-free for the first four or five years. After that time the tenant would be in a position to pay the rent, and the anxiety and worry caused under the conditions now existing would be avoided. There is also another point worthy of being taken into consideration - namely, that, al- though there is a large area of Crown land available for settlement, most of it is inacces- sible, and situated a long way from the centres of population, and is not of extra good quality ; therefore some inducement is necessary, which, if given, will tend to promote settlement of the people on our Crown lands, and relieve the ex- isting congestion among those who prefer to go upon the lands acquired under the Land for Settlements Act, thus avoiding the hardships which fall to the lot of the pioneer or back- blocks settler." Sir, there was a great deal of truth in those remarks of the Treasurer, and it is to be re- gretted that the session closes without the benefit being given to the back-block settlers of the concessions promised several months ago by him in the Financial Statement, delivered so long ago as the 16th August. And why has that concession not been given ? The Govern- ment brought down a Bill to give that con- cession to the back-block settlers. We have the Bill before us ; but it is not passed. Why ? | I do not desire to peer into Ministerial secrets 