introduced into the American law, and, with- out going through the length of that amend- ment, I will shortly state its provisions. In the first place, it does not give free passage and free trade between the Canadians and the Americans. It does not even give, without a very material qualification, reciprocity, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Bruce. I will read it in the words of the sta- tute, and behind that nothing can go :- " All subjects of Her Britannic Majesty may carry in British vessels "-this is a proviso to the section I have already read-"without pay- ment of duty, goods, wares, or merchandise from one port or place within the territory of the United States, upon the Saint Lawrence, the great lakes, and the rivers connecting the same, to another port or place within the terri- tory of the United States." That is the first limitation, so that this only can be carried from places on the banks of the St. Lawrence, on the shores of the great lakes, and on the shores of the rivers connecting the same, to any other port or place within the territory of the United States; but even then there is a limitation. The further limitation is as follows : - " Provided, further, that a portion of such transportation is made through the Dominion of Canada by land carriage and in bond under such rules and regulations as may be agreed upon between the Government of Her Britannic Majesty and the Government of the United States." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 So when you come to consider the sum total of these two limitations, you find that the only trade that is an exception to this rule of the United States is trade that has its origin http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero on the banks of the St. Lawrence, on the banks of the great lakes, or on the banks of the con- necting rivers, and goes through the Canadian canals on its road to the sea. By that means all that trade is compelled to pay 10.30. tariff to the Canadian Government, and that was the condition under which it was granted, and that is the limitation that is imposed upon that trade. For instance, you cannot get a Canadian to commence trade even on the banks of the St. Lawrence, outside the Canadian canals, and ship goods, say, to Boston or New York. They would not come under that exception. However, I do not want to dwell too long on that aspect of the case. I only want to point out to this House that, so far as any lesson can be learned from the experience of Canada with the United States, we can never hope to raise the condition of matters in this colony in regard to the United States as the Canadians did, when, in 1872, under the Treaty of Washington, they got an exception made of the ordinary navigation laws of the United States. It would be utterly impossible that circumstances could arise that would allow us to expect a modification of the navigation laws of America to allow British vessels to be allowed to trade between Hawaii and the United States; and, lest honourable members may think that, I would just like to ! argued before the arbitrators of America and Great Britain, given by the High Commis- sioners themselves. The statement from which I am about to quote is dated Washington, 4th May, 1871, and contains a synopsis of the dis- cussion regarding this point of concession on the navigation laws :- "At the conference on the 6th March the British Commissioners proposed that the reci- procity treaty of 5th June, 1854, should be restored in principle, and that, if any con- siderable modifications in the tariff arrange- ments in force under it were made, the coasting trade of the United States and of Her Britannic Majesty's possessions in North America should be reciprocally thrown open, and that the navigation of the River St. Lawrence and of the Canadian canals should be thrown open to the citizens of the United States on terms of equality with British subjects." In regard to that contention the Commis- sioners note, "The American Commissioners declined this proposal." Then, it refers after- wards to the requirements of the American Commissioners, and virtually they refuse to allow reciprocity upon bare reciprocity lines ; and they put forward the contention on be- half of America that the Canadian Government should, before they obtain reciprocity, not only allow the Americans to use the canals by simply paying the same tariff as the Canadians, but they require, further, that the tariff should be a tariff fixed not only to cover the working- expenses, and to cover ordinary deprecia- tion, but that a small sum only should be paid by way of a sinking fund. They went even further, and provided that, if they granted reciprocity in regard to these canals, the Canadians should not only do what I have stated, but they should also deepen and enlarge the canals themselves. So much weight did the Americans lay upon the concession given to the Canadians in allowing them to come in as an exception to this Navigation Law. Before I leave this point I should state that the con- cession was not given to the whole of the Dominion, but only to those portions bordering on the great lakes in the interior, which would require to pass through the Canadian canals in getting to the sea. In regard to this question of the navigation laws, and the trouble which is now forced upon us by the United States dominions being extended as far as Hawaii, I would just like to place upon record a few opinions expressed by myself as far back as 1887, when I had not the honour of having a seat in this House -- opinions expressed at Christchurch. In the Lyttelton Times of the 10th December, 1897, the report says,- " When Mr. McNab called at Honolulu on his way from America to Japan there was considerable excitement among the people there on account of the anticipated annexation to the United States. In this connection a point has struck Mr. McNab as being of importance to New Zealand. Under American law, he was informed, foreign vessels are not allowed to trade between any two points within the United 