assistant master, and yet-note again the dis- parity-the master gets £180 and the mistress £105. These are the salaries paid at present. But, Sir, the worst of it is that this disparity is still further accentuated in the scale now before the House. I am desirous of seeing the School Teachers' Salaries Bill passed, but I do wish that a scale could have been framed which would not show this wide disparity be- tween the male and female teachers of our city and suburban schools. The member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) said he could not agree with the theory of equal pay for females with male teachers, and he gave as his reason that the functions of the female teachers were not the same as the male teachers. But, Sir, I would draw his attention to this fact : that, so far as suburban schools, at any rate, are concerned, the first assistant master and the head mistress do identically the same work. An Hon. MEMBER .- And always do it as well. Mr. COLLINS .- Oh, there is absolutely no question that it is done as well by the female teachers as by the male teachers. At any rate, here is a case where the functions are identical, and exactly the same work is done. I do not wish to go largely into the question of equal pay for equal work; I simply wish to draw attention to this disparity, which is accentuated and intensified rather than minimised in the scale now before the House. Mr. FISHER .- Are there any female univer- sity professors ? Mr. COLLINS .- No; but there are females who ought to be university professors, and who would make much better professors than some of the male professors. But what I want to say is this : that I hope this Bill will not be regarded as final in this matter. I know we have to make a start, and it is something to get a School Teachers' Salaries Bill on the statute- book. It is something to put the whole position on a sounder foundation than it has been on in the past, and I quite agree with every- thing that has been said as to the necessity of giving a better status to the teachers of the colony than they hold and enjoy at pre- sent. But I do sincerely hope that the de- partment will not regard this as a final settle- ment of the matter. I wish to heaven we had a live Education Department. When I look back on the time when the Minister of Educa- tion was in this House-the Hon. Mr. Reeves- and a real, live, intelligent Minister of Educa- tion, and remember the way the department worked in those days, I cannot but regret that the department does not show an equal amount of intellectual activity in these days. It is true -paradoxical as it may seem-that in those days no attempt was made to give us a scale of salaries such as is now proposed, and to put the teaching staff on this footing. But I feel quite certain that the school-teachers will be more alive after this Bill is passed than before its passing as to the necessity of having that justice done to them to which they are entitled. I agree with every word that has been said as to the Mr. Collins of this colony, and if we are to have ! intelligent men and women in the future, such 1 men and women as this colony may be proud of, then it will largely depend upon the teach- ing staffs. I think the Premier, in his opening remarks, pointed out how, perhaps to a much greater extent in many cases, the future well- being of the children of this colony depended ! upon school-teachers rather than upon home 1 influences. Unfortunately, that is too true in very many cases. But, at any rate, if our child- 1 ren are to grow up men and women, and become fitted to fill to the full the duties of citizenship, then it is necessary we should have our teachers selected, intellectually speaking, from the very best, and we shall never get them until at least we are prepared to pay such emolument as the best deserve. Therefore I hope this will only be regarded as an instalment in the direction of bringing about that perfect state I desire to see in our Education Department. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) .- I have only a word or two to say at this stage of the debate. I did not intend to speak, and would not have done so were it not in order to clear up a few points raised by previous speakers. With re- gard to the measure now before the House, it must be gratifying to the teaching profession in the colony to know that the Government have so cordially taken up the question of uni- form staffing and payment, and are determined to place on the statute-book a colonial scale for teachers. For years the teachers have been agitating for a colonial scale of salaries and for a uniform scheme of staffing. They found as years went on that there were great con- trasts between one district and another, for numerous anomalies existed, and the most difficult work the Commission had to do was to adopt a system of staffing that would be at once sufficient, efficient, and uniform through- out the length and breadth of the colony. Once that was done the path was clear for the allo- cation of the money that, so to speak, was placed at the disposal of the Commission, and \- to parcel it out amongst the different classes of teachers. It must be gratifying to the : Government, and also to the teachers, to find that this Bill has been so favourably received by the House. Nearly every speaker has pointed out individual cases in which teachers will suffer a slight reduction, or will not receive a sufficient increase, and nearly every one has advocated an increase of salary for one section or another of the teachers. This was also the great difficulty with which the Commission had to contend. We were \--- limited to a capitation allowance of £4. Con- sequently, although we would have liked in very many instances to recommend higher 1 salaries than those contained in the report, ! the money at our disposal was not sufficient to enable us to do so. With regard to the ques- tion of equal pay for equal work, I may say the lady teachers who appeared before the Com- 1 mission and gave evidence did not contend for equal pay for equal work. They did not advo- cate it; and the teachers of the larger schools, 1 