to ascertain why so important a measure has been kept to the dying hours of the session. The Bill, which was promised as far back as the 16th August, only made its appearance before us yesterday, and the Government have not been able to pass it because of want of time in the concluding hours of the session. I leave the Government to explain why, with that paragraph in the Financial Statement, they continue the Crown Tenants' Rebate Act, which they state themselves has not worked in a satisfactory or equitable manner. Sir, I leave them to explain why the back-block settlers are to be left for another year without any relief from the troubles the right honour- able gentleman detailed. Another paragraph in the Speech from the Throne dealt with the Land for Settlements Act and the earth-hunger that was experienced. That earth-hunger still continues, but for some reason the Govern- ment is unable to keep pace with the demand for land-settlement. Instead of that, we have a number of small sections purchased by the Government as workmen's homes, village and hamlet settlements, which in some cases are not applied for by the public, who apparently do not want land in these small holdings ; whilst the larger class of sections, which would provide reasonable-sized homes for men who desire to start as farmers for themselves, are not being purchased to the extent by the Go- vernment they should be. I congratulate the Government on one important development of policy during the present session. I refer to the Bill passed for opening State coal mines. I believe the effect of that will be to open https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 a new line for industrial development for the colony, and will show that New Zealand in this matter is keeping pace with the pro- gressive spirit of its population; and I be- lieve also it will have the effect of lowering the present extortionate and unreasonable price of coal. One very important matter that has come before the Parliament is the action of the Government in proposing to grant £442, in defiance of the provisions of the Dis- qualification Act, for the purpose of rewarding the Federation Commissioners who were mem- bers of Parliament during their absence from New Zealand. I notice clause 22 of the Appro- priation Bill is intended to deal with the matter. There is here an important difference in the clause from the explanation that was given by the Right Hon. the Premier in Committee of Supply when this vote was being taken. In Committee of Supply the Premier stated that the computation upon which this sum of £442 -which I will parenthetically remark repre- sents £88 8s. to each of the five Federal Com- missioners who were members of Parliament - I say the Premier stated that that sum was in- tended to provide them with two guineas per day during the time they were in Australia; but that statement is not supported by the clause that is in the Bill now before the House. This clause contemplates the payment of £1 2s. per day for the Commissioners for the « hole of the time they were engaged in connection with the Commission. Mr G. W. Russell Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Then, all I can say is you will have to amend the Bill if that is not the case. The members of the Commission who were not members of Parliament were paid 1 the sum of $3 3s. per day for their services \-. during the whole time. According to the pay- ments under the Disqualification Act, as com- muted by the more recent Act, members of the House were paid only £1 per day for their expenses ; but the Government apparently have made up their minds to take a new departure, which seems to imply this extraordinary posi- tion : that, while the members of the Federa. tion Commission are to be paid £3 2s. during the whole of the time they were employed in Australia on the Commission, the members of the Rivers Commission, the Coal-mines Com- mission, the Teachers' Salaries Commission, and the Midland Railway Commission all of which, with the exception of the Coal- mines Commission, had members of Parlia- ment as members of those Commissions-are to be paid only £1 per day for their expenses. This is a distinction that has no business to exist, and it is improper that such a distinction should have been made by the Government. If any alteration is required, that alteration should be made by an amendment of the Dis. qualification Act. I do not say that members of Parliament should receive only £1 per day when on Commissions. I think, myself, that that small payment entails an unreasonable sacrifice on the part of members of Parlia- ment who accept positions on Royal Com- missions ; but I say that everything that is done should be done according to the law, and if the law stands in the way the law should be altered. I do not desire to de- tain honourable members any longer, but I have thought it desirable to express these opinions in connection with the closing hours of the session. I believe that the session will in some respects be regarded as historical, from the fact that it has been the one in which the State Coal-mines Act has been passed. I believe also the free criticism that has been in- dulged in by members on this side of the House has shown the Government that, while there is no organized Opposition, members of the House are alive to a sense of duty, and that party ties have not the same hold on them as existed in days past. We have to realise that we are not sent here merely as party marionettes, but that we have a duty to perform to the country ; and I believe that the more free and outspoken our criticism is the better it is for the colony. I have to thank honourable members for the courtesy with which they have listened to me after the long sitting of the House, which has now nearly come to an end. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- The honourable member has given us what he calls the outstanding features in connection with this session, and he commenced by saying that he would speak in connection with the financial position of the colony, and he indulged in some criticism concerning it. The honour- able member referred to a speech which he 