kind to stimulate Ministers. I, myself, do not believe it will pay; and it must pay if the Government are going to sell coal cheap, as they say they will do; but, as I have shown, there is no occasion whatever, at least at pre- . sent, for the Government entering on this State coal-mine venture. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I must con- gratulate the House upon passing this State Coal-mines Bill. It is not perfect. We all realise that when we are legislating upon ques- tions of such importance as this and passing a measure for the first time it cannot be quite perfect ; but I think the House is to be com- plimented on the fact that the Bill as it now stands is workable, and will, in my opinion, prove one of the most valuable measures we have ever placed upon the statute-book. The second-reading debate on the Bill was a debate which can be read with pleasure by any one who takes an interest in social questions and in progress in the best interests of this colony, and up to a certain stage in Committee the Bill proceeded on what I call reasonable lines. Objection was taken first of all to the 2nd clause, as to alienation. It was urged by the member for the Bay of Plenty it should be restricted. Well, I turned up the Land Act, and I find-I have to thank the member for Mataura for drawing my attention to it-that in clause 3 the interpretation is as follows :- " In this Act, if not inconsistent with the con- text,- "' Alienate ' and ' alienation' respectively, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 include a limited disposal by lease or license, as well as an absolute disposal by sale or other- wise." Clause 2 of this Bill therefore says,- "The Governor may from time to time, by notice in the Gazette, set apart for the purposes of this Act any alienated Crown lands which in his opinion contain coal, or may be required for coal-mining operations under this Act." I say, therefore, the objection taken to the Bill on that ground should be at once set aside. The most material point we have heard was in regard to section 8. Under that section there was a repeal of a proviso to section 60 of "The Coal-mines Act, 1891." As the Bill was intro- duced, provision was made that within ten days after the House met the contract for resump- tion was to be laid on the table. That meant the approval of the contract and the resump- tion. After carefully considering the objec- tions, I think I have gone as far as one could reasonably be expected to go, and have amended the clause so as to fix that the contract for resumption must be laid on the table within ten days of the meeting of Parlia- ment, and within thirty days a resolution of the House must be moved confirming the resump- tion. Well, I think, myself, that that is a very fair concession to give, and fairly met the ob- jection which was taken. It was contended that this branch of the Legislature should not have taken the sole right, and an amendment was proposed that it should be both branches of the Legislature who should pass the resolution con- do not think it is right. There are constitu- tional issues, because it would be equal to a money clause of a Bill. The resumption of a mine means a large sum of money, and the deal- ing with moneysand taxation or placing a burden on the people is the prerogative of this House, and not of the other branch of this Legislature. I think now, safeguarded as the Bill otherwise is, and with the right to raise debentures, and as we have Crown lands of our own coal-bearing, I do not think there will be any necessity at all for the resumption powers of the Act. I hope not, at all events, although it is wise and prudent at all times to have the necessary legis- lation in case such a thing were required. As the Bill progressed through the Committee I was not at all inconsiderate. When the mem- ber for Bruce asked that the accounts should be audited and gazetted, so that the world should know what we were doing and what we were spending on these coal-mines, I accepted that as an addition to subsection (4) of section 13. Then we come to the question raised by the member for the Bay of Plenty with reference to introducing a clause in this Bill under which it was enacted that the Minister should be an employer within the meaning of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and that the men working in the mine should be workmen under that Act. I gave, Sir, reasons to the Committee, which I now repeat to the House. You cannot place the Crown or the Government of the day on the same plane with respect to employment, either in their coal-mines, rail- ways, or other branches of the public service ; you cannot divest them of the constitutional position-namely, that the representatives of the people have the control of the purse of the colony-and give it to a Board or Court to fix what is to be paid, and to make a claim or cast a burden upon the taxpayers of the country. That would be an abrogation of our rights which I believe, myself, the people of the colony would object to. But, Sir, I ask honourable members to listen to what I now read, and, after they have listened to this, to draw their own conclusions. This is what was 2.0. ultimately agreed upon, and inserted on my motion :- " Any award under ' The Industrial Concilia- tion and Arbitration Act, 1900,' regarding the coal-mines in the industrial district in which any coal-mine is situated shall, subject to such variations as are in the opinion of the Court necessitated by local circumstances, apply to such State coal-mine." What more could be wished for? We decide by this amendment that the Minister respon- sible for the working of the State coal-mine has to take as his guide the award in respect to other coal-mines in the same district. This is satisfactory to every unionist and to every man working in the other mines ; and, what is more, it is fair in its incidence as applied to the other mine-owner or worker. I cannot understand why there has been this difference of opinion. The member for Palmerston's reason for sup- porting the amendment of the member for the 