value they do not take the original cost, but the average condition. The average condition is the condition to which the railway comes after a certain amount of usage, and when the rails and so on are being replaced, and it is not the original condition. And to bring the value from the average condition to the original or new condition there is this reason why a certain amount of depreciation should be charged : Under the old condition that depreciation was met by replacing light rails with heavier rails, light engines with stronger engines, and light bridges with heavier bridges, and so the railways were kept up to the original value. Now we are not at the present time maintaining our railways up to the original value out of general expenditure, but we are doing it out of capital account. The Minister for Railways, who himself seems to be a monomaniac in regard to the charging of these things, charges them to capital expendi- ture, instead of charging them to revenue. Now the Hon. the Minister for Railways seemed to object to our quoting New South Wales as an example. Would he rather that we quoted Victoria ? Has he any excuse to offer with regard to Victoria that he would like to urge ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I can give you the facts. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Now what is Victoria doing with regard to keeping up her railways, and out of what account does she do it ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The maintenance branch. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I am quoting from the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Victorian Railways Report of 1900 : " Mainten- ance branch-Extensive renewals and repairs to the permanent-way, increase in the size and number of sleepers, relaying with heavier rails, regrading various important lines, replacing, renewal, and strengthening of a large number of bridges and culverts," et cetera. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is exactly what we do. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No, you do not. You do not replace lighter rails by heavier rails, or lighter bridges by heavier bridges, out of work- ing-expenses, but out of capital account. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member does not understand what he is reading. Mr. J. ALLEN .-- I am reading about main- tenance out of revenue. This is all done out of revenue, out of working-expenses, and not out of capital account. Sir J. G. WARD .- Exactly what we do. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It is nonsense to say that, when we have the report before us to show that in one case much of what I have quoted is done out of capital account. And when the Minister is tackled with this by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, he denies it. I have shown him that the Victorian railways do not do so, and if he wants any more illustrations I could take him to the South Australian railways, but I do not want to labour the question. As a matter of fact, they go a great deal further in some respects than Victoria and New South Wales, and it seems to me to be the invariable practice in the Australian Colonies; and I be- | 1888 up to the present day, and I have been as- Mr. J. Allen we ought to provide for this depreciation, to bring the railway from its average value to its original value, by replacing light rails and so on by heavier ones, and by replacing our light bridges by heavier and stronger ones. Now, the honourable gentleman has said that there has been an immense increase in the traffic. Well, of course, there has been an immense increase in the traffic, and there has been a large increase since 1887, which was the year quoted, in the number of miles opened. Does he mean to say that during that time he has been making no pro- vision for the rolling-stock and permanent way of those opened lines? Every year there has been £40,000, £50,000, £60,000, £70,000 voted for permanent-way, in addition to certain sums voted for open lines, so that a certain amount of provision has been made for extra rolling- stock. But no one objects to the addition of rolling-stock for the extra traffic. The honour- able member, in putting that up, is putting up something that the honourable member for Hawke's Bay never urged at all, and never intended to urge. We are just as anxious to vote for the necessary additions to the lines as the Minister is, but what we object to is that works which should properly be charged to working-expenses are charged to capital ac- count, and the returns of the railways are thus swelled, and the country misled as to the exact position. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is not done at all. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I say it is, as compared with the year 1894. In the year 1894 all these things were charged to working-expenses, now they are not, and, as a consequence, the parallel between now and the year 1894 is an unfair comparison, and the honourable gentleman cannot, as a business-man, say it is fair. If the railways were put upon the same footing as they were on in 1894, it would be found that they had not been earning 3 per cent., and honourable mem- bers can find that out. Mr. HORNSBY. - The Commissioners let everything go to rack and ruin. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I am not here to defend the Commissioners, but the honourable gentle- man cannot have read the report on the rail- ways when the Commissioners went out of office, nor has he read the report of the Minis- ter himself in the succeeding year. If he had. he would not make the statement which he has just made. The railways were not in a bad condition in 1894, and the report of the three independent men show that that was so, and disprove what the honourable gentleman said. Statements like that are not facts, and it is no use making wild statements. I say that the exist- ing condition of things exists not only in the Railway Department, but this plan or scheme of shifting things on to capital expenditure which in years gone by were not charged to capital ex- penditure is growing year by year. If honour- able members only compare the public works estimates with those of ten years ago they will be astounded to notice the difference. I have gone through the estimates of all the years from 