mittee. The Bill itself is a consolidating Bill, and when it gets into Committee it will be necessary that a few points will have to be dealt with by the House; but, as far as the Bill generally is concerned, its principles have been accepted by the colony, and it simply means now that we have to adjust any differences of opinion on minor matters as soon as possible and get the measure into good workable shape. I would like to indorse the remarks of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) as far as the Inspectors of Factories are concerned. I think the Government have been distinctly fortunate in the appointments they have made, at any rate, as far as the Canterbury District is concerned. We have had Inspectors there permanently appointed, and We have had Inspectors relieving, and in every case there has been, I think, exceedingly little friction, and the large powers intrusted to them have been exercised fairly. In many cases, of course, they have had to point out where the provisions of the Act were not being complied with ; but they have done it in such a way as to cause as little friction as possible, and the consequence has been that the whole work has gone on very amicably, and I think it is to the credit of the Government that that is so. As far as the embodiment in this Bill of the principle of eight hours as a day's work is concerned, I would like to say that I am heartily in favour of it. It has been a bone https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 of contention for some time, but I think it is well that provision for an eight-hours day should be embodied in our statute law, and I hope it will go through the House and be a distinct advantage both to employers and employés. There are several other points in connection with the Bill that I might speak on, but I think it will be better if I reserve any- thing I have to say further until the Bill is in Committee. With that reservation, I hope the Bill will get into Committee and go through, so that the employers and workers may know what the Factory law of the colony really is. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden). - As one of the Labour Bills Committee, I would like to say a few words on this Bill. The Committee have spent a very large amount of time on it, and we believe we have made it as nearly perfect as it is possible to make it. The provisions of the Bil as it came before the Committee were such that no reasonable man could accept, and I think it was a great blunder that the Pre- mier, as Minister of Labour, did not go into the Bill more carefully, and have certain obnoxious clauses excluded from it before he brought it down to the House. Now, Sir, the effect of the careless manner in which the Bill was brought down caused a great deal of unrest throughout the colony, with the result that I suppose no Bill has caused more unrest and agitation than this one. It is well known to members of the Committee, and also to mem- bers of the House, that a very large number of employers attended the Labour Bills Commit- tee from all parts of the colony at their own expense. The provisions of the Bill were perishable commodities could not possibly ob- serve the Bill without doubling their expenses. The extra expense-100 per cent. - would be taken out of the producer ; the farmers would have to pay the extra expense of double shifts in freezing-works and fellmongeries and other trades in the schedule of the Bill. We had it in evidence before us that it would be impossible for persons engaged in certain trades dealing with perishable goods to carry on business with- out having a double set of men, which would, of course, cause double expense. The employés engaged in these trades do not wish it. because at certain seasons of the year they earned large wages, while at other times they are practically idle, and it would be an injury to them, as well as being extra expense on those engaged in the trades. It was a mistake that so many people were put to the expense and trouble of coming to Wellington to protest against the provisions of this Bill. It was promulgated by the trades- unions. It was admitted by a leader of the trades-unions that it emanated from them, and they wanted the whole Bill and nothing but the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- What was the name of the witness ? Mr. BOLLARD .- I do not remember his name, but he is an employé of the Government Printing Office. The Bill as brought orginally before the Labour Bills Committee was so drastic in character, that had it passed in this House as printed, there would have been a war between capital and labour ; but now the Committee has taken the sting out of it. There is no limit to overtime, but, if worked, time and a quarter is paid. This is quite fair, and en- ables workmen at certain seasons to do an extra amount of work to make up for the time their work is slack. In regard to women and young persons being confined to forty-five hours a week, and the amount of overtime they get, I agree with that as fair and reasonable, and it should be accepted by all employers of humane principles. Another provision of the Bill as it now comes before the House is that, in addition to the trades mentioned in the schedule, other trades can be added to the schedule if so directed by the Arbitration Court ; so that in the working of this Bill, if it becomes law as it now stands, there are trades outside the trades mentioned in the schedule which may be added. That would enlarge the scope of the Bill to that extent, and I also think that is very fair. I can tell the House a very extra- ordinary circumstance in connection with this Committee. During the whole of our delibera- tions on this Bill-practically from the com. mencement of the session until the present time-we had not a single division in Com- mittee on the Bill. We were satisfied with the Bill as altered, and I think I am correct in saying-the Chairman of the Committee will correct me if I am wrong-we had not a single division on a clause of the Bill. I think that shows that we went into the matter with heart and soul in order to make it as perfect a mea- sure as we possibly could. So far as I am 