especially for a tenant who paid practically only $200 a year for the privilege of occupying the house and grounds. If the Premier is going into the question of the cost he is to the colony, it would be a simple matter to rake up £4,000 or £5,000 a year which the Premier costs the colony. The colony thinks the Premier cheap at the price, or he would not be continued in office ; and therefore, as the colony thinks that, we members have really no right to growl at the expense. But it is not right to the colony that a statement like this should be laid on the table as the whole of the personal cost of the Premier remaining in the official position he holds at the present time. There . are very many other matters which have not been alluded to, but form part of the expense of having the right honourable gentleman as Premier. There is the fact, for instance, that he has six private secretaries. While His Majesty the King, and the Premier of Eng- land, are satisfied with two private secretaries each, no less than six are required for our Premier. Then, there is another official. I do not know the nature of the title he goes under, but he is in uniform. He is rated as a member of the Permanent Artillery. He is at the sole disposal of the Premier-a guardian of his peace, I suppose. Besides that, I under- stand the Premier has also two messengers at his own disposal, and all these must be added as a part of the expenses of the Premier and his office, just in the same way as salaries, travelling-allowances, and expenses of whatever kind are given; and, if all these details were https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 given in full, I think those members who say the cost of the Premier to the colony- Mr. SEDDON .- They did not say that; they said that I drew the money. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, money or its equiva- lent. I did not say anything of the sort. In considering the personal cost to the colony of the Premier, 1 maintain that a member who looks at the matter from a fair point of view has a right to take all these expenses into con- sideration. While we are extravagant enough to pay the Governor £7,500, we are not, com- paratively, paying a Premier too much if he incurs expenses amounting to $4,000 or £5,000. The Premier of the colony has much more work to do, and very much more responsibility, and is entitled to something like a decent salary and allowance. I have not called into question the amounts drawn by the Premier, and the expenses of one sort and another incurred by him. But if we are going to have a statement like this-practically a duplicate of another statement that has been laid on the table of the House-and it is intended to show these are the only expenses incurred by the Premier and his suite, it is only fair to the House and the country that the full expenses should be stated. Personally, the greatest objection I take to the return is that the time of the House should be occupied at this stage of the session, with a return laid on the table purely for the purpose of defending some statement made against the Premier. The Premier had an opportunity in | Mr. Pirani suppose he took it. Mr. SEDDON .- I was not here when it was made. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I think the member for Palmerston might be content to accept the return laid on the table by the Premier. I lay no special stress on the particular form of the return, but it is per- fectly absurd to suppose that the return re- presents the cost to the country of the Minis- ters and the Ministers' Secretaries. I could place in the hands of any honourable member the draft of a return that would, if complied with, show the actual expenditure of the Minis- try, or of each member of the Ministry, if that were desired; and I am sure the House will believe that that draft would produce the fullest and most satisfactory results when I say that it is in the form of a return of the expenses of the Atkinson Ministry asked for in the House when I was a member of that Ministry. That draft was prepared by the then member for Kumara, who is now Premier of this colony. The honour- able gentleman, I am sure, will understand the full value of the return which he has now presented to the House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier.)-Sir, I think the member for Palmerston was unfair and un- generous in trying to bring in this question of the expense of the "Tutanekai " and the " Hine- moa." Mr. PIRANI .- I did not mention the " Hine- moa." Mr. SEDDON .- Well, the honourable gentle- man mentioned the "Tutanekai." Now, I wish to say that, as far as the visit to the Islands is concerned, the expense should not be charged against me. I think time has proved, by what has taken place, that the colony has been re- couped tenfold the expense of that visit. Then, the honourable member brought in another matter-it is not the first time it has been mentioned, though not in the House-and it is a matter that is much more reprehensible. It is an under-current of statements that I would rather not describe to honourable members. When you have these statements covered, there is no other way of meeting them except to bring documentary evidence to prove the actual amount received by Ministers, and the actual expenses incurred, and certified to by the Pay- master-General and the Accountant ; it is the only way of meeting these statements that are abroad. The member for Palmerston says he deprecates such assertions; but I think the honourable member has probably heard some- thing of the kind himself. He also referred to the taking down of a tinsmith's shop adjoining the Ministerial residence. Well, I wish to teil the House that work in that shop used at times to go on all night-for years it was the same -- and, with the hammering and working at the same time, members may imagine the discomfort that was caused to any one living close by. I never complained ; I never said word to any one. When the occupants kit. the premises they were condemned as being insanitary and unfit for a factory. Then some 