vercargill he found the Clerk and warehouse- age still had large cares of family upon them, and he thought in this country, where there keeper received an Irishman's rise of £20, while was a declining birth-rate and marriage-rate, the next two officers received substantial in- such questions as this should be looked at from creases. Then he found that the Customs a family point of view. However, the first Expert at $800 got greater remuneration than question should be, was a man fit for the posi- the Secretary and Inspector of Customs, who tion, and able to do the work? He admitted stood at £650, while the Chief Clerk got an that the responsibility of deciding whether a advance of £25. If there was a system at all man was fit or not rested with the Minister; it must be a haphazard system. He thought but, where fitness and efficiency continued, he the estimates ought to be accompanied by a statement showing how long the officers had did not think age should be a barrier. Person- been in the service, and the grounds on which ally, he should have no alternative but to vote against the amendment. the increases or decreases were made. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said he was opposed plain that he did not say he would take this to this increase of salary, but at the same time he could not see his way to support the amend- as an indication that a man should be retired ment proposed. He intended to vote against after thirty years of service. Age and length any increases in salaries to heads of departments of service went together, and a man could only or to the more highly-paid officers of the Go- be retired after thirty years of service. vernment. He considered Civil servants with over $500 a year should be satisfied, especially one officer in the service more than another entitled to an increase, that officer was Mr. when there were hundreds of clerks in the ser- Rose, who was actually receiving £600 per an- vice who could barely afford to keep a decent num prior to 1888, when there was much less ceat on their backs. Nor did he see why in- sidious distinctions should be made. No ad- work attached to the position than there was dition was made to the salaries of the Collectors now. He could not support the amendment of the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). at Wellington, Dunedin, or Lyttelton. If an increase of salary were allowed to the Collector Mr. Rose at present was receiving £550 a year, and if he retired he would be entitled to a of Customs at Auckland, all the Collectors at pension of £400. The officer who took his the other centres would have a cause of com- plaint, and naturally would consider themselves place would receive a salary of £500; so that, looking at the question from a financial point entitled to a similar increase next year. As to the proposition that an officer should be retired of view, to retire Mr. Rose meant an annual expenditure of $900 instead of £550. They had when he reached a particular age, he did not agree with that. He thought there could be no contract with younger men, and he thought the member for Auckland City ought to remem- no hard-and-fast rule respecting the age at ber that we were here as trustees for the public, which a man should be retired. An officer should only be retired when his employer began and it was our duty to look at these things from a business point of view, and, so long as to find that he was no longer capable of per- forming his duties and earning the salary paid an officer did his duty well and efficiently, it was the duty of the Government to keep him in the to him. As regards pensions, he thought people service, unless the officer himself wished to retire. earning good salaries should be able to make provision for themselves. If this amendment the Minister would take a note of the fact that were lost, he intended to move that the £25 increase be deducted. It seemed to him an ex- the messenger at Auckland was getting 6s. a day. He would like to say, in regard to the traordinary thing that Civil servants with £550 general question, that this department collected a year should require their salaries raised, and three-fourths of the whole revenue of the colony, yet working-men on the Rimutaka incline, con- and did it in a most economical manner, and tending with a rigorous climate, were expected had shown last year a decrease in the cost of out of 7s. a day, less the time lost through the management. He thought these were salient inclemency of the weather, to maintain their families and themselves. points in the apportionment of salaries. No Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said, With doubt the claims of the younger generation had regard to the amendment proposed, to reduce to be considered in the question of retirement, the item by £1, he was sorry to hear the inter- but the honourable member must remember jection of the Premier to the effect that he was that there was no other Customs Department except the Government department, and he prepared to accept a general instruction that made bold to say that a man who had served all officers who had been in the service for the Government for fifteen or twenty years was thirty years, or who had attained the regula- tion age, should be retired. Did the honour- absolutely incapacitated for private employ- able gentleman think an officer was unfit for ment. In regard to the increase of salaries, further service when he reached the age of there was the head of the department, the forty-seven years? Even at the age of sixty, Secretary for Customs, who was also Secretary for Marine. He was the lowest paid officer at many men were better fitted for work that required ripe experience and knowledge of the head of a department in the service. details than they were as younger men. He would instance the ages of Lord Roberts, Glad- Minister to explain how these Collectors were stone, Bismarck, and others. Members should paid-whether according to ability, length of Mr. SEDDON (Premier) would like to ex- Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, If there was Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) hoped Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) would like the 