lifelong poem in wood or stone that it was before, and we cannot help it. It is objected against this Bill that it might possibly prevent the continuance of the trade that goes on to- day in Maori carvings, and that go Home in the shape of Maori carved pipes and walking-sticks. They are not Maori art in the true sense of the word, and there is no fear that this trade will be interfered with. As regards New Zealand books that Mr. Jenkinson referred to, I am quite certain the Library Committee are alive to the necessity of procuring all the New Zealand books that come on the market. The previous Librarian omitted no opportunity of adding to our library, and it is hardly necessary to say that more care will be taken in the future than in the past. As to whether the Government could afford to purchase in competition with London buyers, all I can say is that a few years ago there was a bird found in the interior of Otago. It was something of the style of a very large pukako, and the Govern- ment bought it for the Otago Museum, and there it is to-day. We bought it against the London buyers, and we refused to allow that bird to go out of the colony, and we paid a very large sum indeed in order that the bird should be preserved to the colony. It was believed to be the only specimen found in the memory of man, and that bird is now in the Otago Museum. In conclusion, I may say that I am sure the Council will be glad to hear that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 since the debate began I have been informed by the Native Minister that yesterday, at Papawai, at Mr. Tame Parata's house, on the motion of Mr. Tamahau, the well-known Maori chief, the Wairarapa Natives determined, if this Bill passes, and if a Wellington museum of Maori relics is established, to hand over to the Government the large Maori house at Martin- borough for the museum, in appreciation of what the Government is doing in the direction of preserving Maori antiquities. Bill read the second time. MONEY-LENDERS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3. - Reopening of transactions of money-lenders. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH moved to insert a new subclause : - "(34.) Where it appears to the Court that any person other than the money-lender has shared in the profits of, or has any beneficiary interest, prospectively or otherwise, in the transaction which the Court holds to be harsh and unconscionable, the Court may cite such person as a party to the case, and may make such judgment in respect to such person as it may deem fit." The Committee divided on the question, "That the subsection as amended be inserted." AYES, 19. Kelly, T. Barnicoat Gourley Bolt Jenkinson Louisson Bonar Jennings McLean Feldwick Pinkerton Jones Scotland Swanson Walker, W. C. Smith, A. L. No, 1. Arkwright. Majority for, 18. Subsection as amended agreed to. Bill reported. The Council adjourned at a quarter past four o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 11th October, 1901. First Reading-Third Readings-Railways Classi- fication and Superannuation - Fisheries En- couragement Bill-Education Boards Election Bill-Charitable Institutions Rating Bill-Evi- dence Further Amendment Bill-Cook and other Islands Government Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards Bill. THIRD READINGS. Opium Prohibition Bill, Egmont National Park Bill, Cornwall Park Duties Exemption Bill. RAILWAYS CLASSIFICATION AND SUPERANNUATION. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Minister for Railways, without notice, as the matter was one of very considerable interest to a large number of members of the House and to a large number of people outside, Whether any decision had yet been come to with respect to the classification and superannuation scheme for the railways. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the matter was still under consideration. FISHERIES ENCOURAGEMENT BILL. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) .- Sir, this a Bill extending the provisions of the law in regard to the bonus on canned and cured fish exported from the colony. It has been in operation now since 1885 or 1886, having been extended from time to time. This was done some three years ago in the expectation that the industry would be able to run without this bonus. But from information that has come to our knowledge we find that the industry is yet unable to stand alone, and it has been represented by persons interested in the busi- ness and by several members of the House that we should continue the bonus for a time, and then let the bonus be gradually tapered off, and that is the main provision of this Bill ; so that by the year 1905-four years hence-there will be no bonus payable, and the industry will, it is expected, then be in a position to support itself. I move the second reading of the Bill. 