worthy of consideration, because if we could manage anything of the kind indicated in the question it would be a very good thing for the colony. He might say that at one time he had a reciprocity treaty with South Australia fully agreed upon, conditionally, of course, on federa- tion not taking place. It was questionable now whether we could open negotiations with other countries in regard to the same point. He still adhered to what he had always said-that there ought to be a preferential tariff between New Zealand and the Mother-country. KAPUATOHE AND KAIMAHI BLOCKS. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Premier, On whose advice the Government pur- chased the Kapuatohe and Kaimahi Blocks, near Christchurch, as land for settlements; and what steps were taken to ascertain whether any demand existed in the districts affected for workmen's homes? The matter was re- ferred to in the House last evening, but he would be glad if the Premier would give a reply to the two points raised in the question. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, The depart- mental answer to the questions were : (1.) On the advice of the Land Purchase Board. (2.) In the matter of providing land for workmen's homes the Government did not wait on de- mand, but provided land and cheap railway- fares in anticipation, with a view to induce workmen with families to occupy healthy sub- urban localities in preference to the slums of the larger towns. (3.) Kapuatohe (fifty acres) was on the line of railway and main road be- tween Christchurch and Belfast, one mile from the Belfast Railway-station and Freezing works. (4.) Kaimahi (a hundred acres) was from one to two miles from Papanui Railway-station by a level metalled road. A member of the House some time ago said that it was owing to the subdivision of the land and the areas that these sections were not taken up. Probably that might have had something to do with these lands not being taken up. At all events, what would require to be done was this : So long as the Government had land for workmen's homes that had not been taken up, the Government would not take any more land until it was taken up. HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether it is the fact, as stated by the Premier at a dinner given at a Welling- ton hotel, that they have asked the Home authorities to renew the appointment of Lord Ranfurly as Governor of the colony ? He asked this question in order to call attention to an undesirable practice which had recently grown up, and, in accordance with Standing Order No. 81, he would refer to just sufficient fact to elucidate the question. At the opening of the bridge at Waikanae some few weeks ago the Premier, at a banquet held on the occasion, announced the terms upon which the Govern- ment were prepared to agree to the purchase of the Wellington-Manawatu line. Mr. Seddon see what that had to do with the question of the Governor's appointment. Mr. FISHER said that afterwards the same terms of agreement were announced to the House by the Premier. On another occasion, about a fortnight ago, the Premier, at a sym- posium held at Bellamy's, amongst the making of many speeches, announced the appointment of Major-General Babington to the command of the forces of New Zealand. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able gentleman must see that this had nothing to do with the question. Mr. FISHER said that subsequently the Pre- mier announced that appointment to the House. He would now come to the question directly and pointedly. Formerly it was believed that Parliament possessed the first right to be in- formed in regard to all matters affecting the constitutional welfare of the colony. That prac- tice had in recent times been very seriously departed from. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member, in asking the question, was now criticizing the action of the Government. Mr. FISHER wanted to know whether the honourable gentleman was rising to a point of order or not. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, he was. He wanted Mr. Speaker to rule that the honourable mem- ber was out of order in criticizing the action of the Government in asking for information. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he thought the Premier was right. The honourable mem- ber was going too far in putting his question, because he was really calling in question the action of the Government in making the an- nouncement referred to. Mr. FISHER said he was calling attention to the fact that the Premier had made, in a place outside the House, an announcement which, in accordance with all constitutional form, should first be made to this Parliament. That was what he was calling attention to. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that might be a debatable point. Mr. FISHER said, Well, then he would ask whether, as a mere matter of propriety, it was right that the Premier should make an import- ant announcement at a banquet held in the city prior to this announcement being made in this Parliament. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able member must see he was now debating the question. The honourable member was argu- ing that the announcement should be made here. Mr. FISHER .- Exactly. Might he not pro- ceed sufficiently in that direction to elucidate his question ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he thought not. Mr. FISHER said that what he held was this : That, in the interests of Parliament and of \--- the people of the colony, the House had a right to be first informed of the important matters in Parliament, while Parliament was sitting. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- 