depression could not apply under your condi- tions." Well, of course, that is relative. Of course, my friend was talking of his London experience, and he would not think a popu- lation hard up as long as they had watches in their pockets that had not been "popped." But, as far as we are concerned, there does not seem to be the amount of every-day living from hand to mouth that there is in the Old Country. Still at the same time we ought to protect our people from the usury of the kind which goes on. No one can look at some of the trans- actions which are disclosed by the Mercantile Gazette without seeing that transactions are entered into every day without considera- tion of one kind on certainly the part of the borrower, and without consideration of the other kind on the part of the lender; because if the lender has any hope that what he was lending was going to benefit the bor- rower he would never consent to lend his money on such terms as would only bring the borrower into further trouble. Now, this Bill proposes, I think in a very reasonable way, to set the matter on a very satisfactory foot- ing. In the first place, the operative clauses are not very many. Clause 2 defines the word "money - lender " as including "every person (whether an individual, a firm, a society, or a corporate body) whose business is that of money-lending, or who advertises or announces himself or holds himself out in any way as carrying on that business ; but does not in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 clude -- (1) Any duly licensed pawnbroker," because they are dealt with under their own Act ; or building societies, also because they are under their own Act; or the friendly societies ; or "any person bona fide carrying on the business of banking or insurance or any business in the course of which and for the purposes whereof he lends money at a rate of interest not exceeding ten per centum per annum." Then clause 3 provides that- " Where proceedings are taken in any Court by a money-lender for the recovery of money lent after the passing of this Act, or the enforce- ment of any agreement or security made or taken after the passing of this Act in respect of money lent either before or after the passing of this Act, and it appears to the Court that the interest charged in respect of the sum actually lent is excessive, or that the amounts charged for expenses, inquiries, fines, bonus, premiums, renewals, or any other charges are excessive, or that, in either case, the transaction is harsh and unconscionable, or is otherwise such that a Court of equity would give relief, the Court may reopen the transaction and take an account between the money - lender and the person sued." And so on, to the end of the clause. The whole matter is a matter for a Court of equity to enter into, and to state what, in their opinion, is a fair amount of interest for the person bor- rowing to pay. And, then, clause 4 requires the money-lender to be registered. He has to register himself " under his own or usual trade name, and in no other name, and with the | that, there are subsections giving exceptions, Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker at which he carries on his business of money- lender ; and shall carry on the money-lending business in his registered name, and in no other name and under no other description, and at his registered address or addresses, and at no other address." I think that provision of the statute will be found to be perfectly reasonable. Of course, there are penal provisions by which, on summary conviction, the offender shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding $500, or, "in the case of a second or subsequent convic- tion, to imprisonment, with or without hard labour, for a term not exceeding three months, or to a penalty not exceeding one hundred pounds, or to both : provided that, if the offender is a body corporate, that body corporate shall be liable on a second or subsequent conviction to a penalty not exceeding five hundred pounds." I do not know why the directors should not be sub- ject also to imprisonment, but still we all know that some companies are very hard to get at in their personal capacity, if not their corporate. The rest of the Bill simply gives the machinery for the registering of money-lenders and giving effect to the Bill. I am quite sure that the Council will have every sympathy with a Bill of this kind, although, as I said before, the evils are not so apparent as they are in the Old Country. Still there is no reason why we should not in Committee take any suggestions that legislation in the Old Country may give us ; and perhaps if we look into our old archives and dip into our old recollections there are abuses even in this country as regards money- lending which fully justify us in endeavouring to legislate against them. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Whilst I think it is a very desirable thing that all necessary steps that are possible should be taken to curtail in some cases the very extor- tionate interest that is charged by money- lenders, still I think at the same time all honourable gentlemen here will admit that it is a very difficult thing to carry through. We all know that in the past all the efforts that have been made for the putting-down of usury have been in the main absolutely futile, and I am very much disposed to think that our efforts will result very much in the same way. But, at any rate, I cannot congratulate the Government upon the Bill which they have produced for that object. In the first place, it is very crude ; it is contradictory ; it does those things which it ought not to do, and it does not do the things which it ought to do. Now, in the remarks which I am going to offer 1 shall endeavour to make it clear to the Council, and I think before I have done I shall be able to show to honourable members, that what I have said is not without justification. Now, Sir, the definition of "money-lender " is that it "includes every person (whether an in- dividual, a firm, a society, or a corporate body) whose business is that of money- lending, or who advertises or announces himself or holds himself out in any way as carrying on that business." Then, following 