that subject and one or two others. He might also point out that the administration expenses of two Education Boards in New Zealand for 1900 amounted to £4,790 ; and he said that those members who begrudged £4,000 for administer- ing the various details of the Education Depart- ment, where was an expenditure of £500,000 per annum, were no friends of our present system of education. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) thought the Minister of Education should be a member of the House of Representatives. It was an anomaly that the Minister of Education was a member of the Legislative Council, and had no responsibility to this House and to the country. The increase in the number of officers and in the salaries of the officers of the Head Office was regrettable. This was largely owing to too much red-tape by the Secretary in the Head Office in Wellington. In reference to some remarks that had been made about the Boards, he wished to say that, if the work of the central department was only done half as well as the work of the School Committees and the Educa- tion Boards, the system would be much more satisfactory than it was. When the late Mr. Habens was at the head of the department the number of officers was kept down, and the ex- penses were reduced to the lowest point consis- tent with efficiency ; but since that gentleman's . decease there had been, as all members who were connected with Education Boards would know, very strained relations existing between the Boards of the colony and the central de- partment. He hoped the amendment moved by the member for Franklin would be carried. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 If he was in order, however, he would move, That the vote be reduced by the total sum of the increases which it was proposed to grant. namely, £662. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said the honour- able member would not be in order in moving the amendment, as there was already an amend- ment before the Committee, which must first be disposed of. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) did not know where the Minister got his figures when he said that the administration of two Boards cost £4,900; but if he would look at the depart- mental returns he would see that the whole of the Boards in the colony spent slightly over £14,000 for their administration. What he objected to was that, while under the legislation of the colony the administration of educational matters was vested in the Education Boards, within the last two years they had had such in- terference by the head of the Education Depart- ment as no member who had any respect for himself as a member of an Education Board would tolerate. He thought, if the central de- partment would carry out their own particular work, and allow the Education Boards to do the work that properly fell to their lot, the expenses of the Head Office would not be nearly so heavy as they were. It was the overlapping of the work of the head department and the work of the Education Boards that was causing increases in the administration expenses; and Mr. Hall. Jones that, before very long, the House would demand that the respective functions of the Education Boards and the central department should be defined better than they were at the present time. It was the manner in which en- croachments were going on by the head of the department that most complaint was made about. The men who had borne the heat and burden of the educational work of their particu- lar districts really knew more about the wants of their schools than any of the officers of the central department, or even the Minister him- self. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said there was an impression throughout the colony and amongst most of the Boards that the In- spector-General of Schools was thirsting for power-that he desired absolutism, and to get rid of the Boards ; and, judging from the manner in which some of the Boards were treated, and the trouble they had with the Head Office, it seemed as if they were being in process of being worried out of existence. When the Commis- sion was appointed to draw up a classification scheme it might fairly have been expected that the Inspector-General would have produced a scale of salaries approximately like that which would have been adopted by the Commission. As far as he was able to gather, several scales were produced by the Inspector-General; but the Commissioners had to remodel them all. It was said by members of Education Boards that things were not working so smoothly now as they were a few years ago, when Mr. Habens was in office. He trusted that changes would take place, and that all causes of friction and discontent would be removed. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said the Inspector-General submitted a scale to the Com- mission, and had materially assisted the Com- mission, and, as the evidence developed, the Inspector General endeavoured to meet the re- quirements. Amendment, to reduce the vote by £25, nega- tived. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) proposed, That the vote be reduced by £300. The Committee divided. AYES, 17. McLachlan Arnold Hall Barclay Herries Monk Bennet Russell, G. W. Hogg Buddo Hornsby Tellers. Meredith Collins Massey Ell Mackenzie, T. Tanner. NOES, 27. Allen, E. G. Kaihau Stevens Laurenson Carroll Symes Colvin Lawry Ward Duncan McGowan Wilford Field Mckenzie, R. Willis Fisher McNab Witheford. Fowlds Mills Tellers. Hall-Jones Napier Carncross Hardy Parata O'Meara. Heke Majority against, 10. 