wages, which I deny. Now, when I go along the streets and look around me I form a very different opinion, and, having myself at one time been in trade, I think to myself, " Dear me, what a big sum these people have to spend in the way of business to make so much show ! " and I find the interest earned upon the money which is spent on these stores must be very small indeed. Large, handsome stores do not always denote prosperity. With respect to the Bill I cannot find very much fault, but I must say it needs a few alterations in the direction indicated in the remarks made by my honour- able friend Mr. McLean. He seems to have got a very good grip of the necessities of different trades, and he mentioned woollen-mills as one of the industries that required special con- sideration. There are amendments necessary with regard to the working-hours of women and young persons. These persons are only to work forty-five hours, whilst men are to work forty-eight hours. Now, as all these have to work together at the same time, the hours should be equalised. The men prepare the work, whilst the women do the weaving. Most of the women work on piecework, and the men, if they are employed for the whole forty - eight hours, can prepare more wool than the women can spin in the forty - five hours. Now, the remedy, so far as I can see, is to reduce the time of the men to forty-five hours, if we are to decrease that of the women. I am sure that no woollen-mill that wants to make a profit is likely to wish to do that kind of thing, because it would decrease the output of the mill. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 think the women should be allowed to work forty-eight hours along with the men. The honourable gentleman thought it was too hard work for women to work forty-eight hours. And so it would be in some businesses ; but I think it will not be denied that in a woollen-mill the machinery does the work, and the women have only to attend to the machinery, and it is not very difficult work. But when the atten- tion of the women is taken away from the ma- chinery, of course the machinery must stop. I know something about the effect in woollen- mills, because I am concerned in one myself. If this difference between forty - eight hours of labour for men and forty-five for women and young persons is to be maintained in the Bill the output will be considerably less, and that will be, therefore, a loss to the country ; while at the same time if the men are deprived of a part of their work there will be a loss to them in wages. I do hope that when we go into Committee we will be able to show that a change in this respect is for the good of the country-not so much for the good of the mill-owners, because I do not think some honourable members would think about that. I certainly think, as an employer, and I have always thought, that when wages are reasonably good employers generally are prosperous ; but when the wages are excessively high it allows, as the Hon. Mr. McLean has shown, a large importation of foreign manu- factures to come in, and therefore the em- Hon. Mr. Peacock and the colony loses. They have to place re- strictions in the shape of duties upon foreign manufactures coming into the place in order to maintain the excessive wages demanded. I hope that when we go into Committee some amendments will be made. I see the Second Schedule is struck out. I should like to say a word about freezing-works if I find the ex- emptions are not to be restored. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- They will be re- stored right enough. The Hon. Mr. PEACOCK .- If they are going to be restored I will not say anything about that. Freezing-works are different from any other kind of works, inasmuch as a great deal of work has to be done in a very short time, and unless you can freeze lambs when they are lambs you cannot send lambs away. Therefore these works must be considered. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- It is a little difficult to answer the arguments of my honour- able friend opposite, Mr. McLean. He is so transparently impressed with conviction as to the truth of the arguments that he has ad- vanced, and couches his remarks and his language in so genial and friendly a style, that he imposes on any person the desire to be careful he does not do anything that might hurt the honourable gentleman's suscepti- bilities. He has referred, Sir, to an honour- able gentleman opposite who is an extremist. I do not know exactly to whom he offered that remark, but I have reason to suppose it was possibly myself, because he implied I that a man with experience of that kind ought to know better. Well, I think that the true way to meet the competi- tion which the honourable gentleman says is getting so extremely close, and to reduce the excessive importations which are coming in to cause that competition, is by putting your system of manufacturing in a manner that will lead to a better condition between the two factors, capital and labour, and, further, to set to work in the best way we can to meet the progress that we see is taking place in other countries. Now, for myself, I think it lies in the direction of improved machinery, and to cultivate that technical aptitude which is so marvellously displayed in the United States. Any one, on looking into this question and summing up the difference which the factory legislation would make between the cost of labour in the future and that in the past, must see that it would be extremely small compared with the advan- tages which might be got, the saving which would be made by manufacturers taking every step possible to insure that they should have the very best appliances, the very best men, and the best organization that can be set up to produce upon the finest lines of production. Now, we see in America that these conditions prevail to an extent which you cannot find in any other country. Every manufacturer there, and most of his employés, are constantly on the watch to discover some means whereby they can save money, and they have the acuteness to see that in the selection of improved 