total of 132 miles 72 chains of new fencing for the year. " All bridges and culverts have been carefully inspected, and repairs and renewals effected where necessary. In the latter case steel has been largely used to replace timber structures. The work of renewing the Wagga Wagga Viaduct in steel has been completed. " Increasing traffic has rendered necessary the construction of a large number of addi- tional works, in which are included many fairly chargeable to capital, but which have been debited to working-expenses." The Wagga Wagga Viaduct was renewed in steel at a cost of ¥45,000. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .-- The honourable gentleman has experienced some difficulty in being able to give us the con- clusive history of what he is anxious to put be- fore the House, in consequence of the time-limit. Doubtless we should have been glad to hear him finish his arguments on the lines he first indi- cated, and placed before the House those views he entertains. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Abolish time-limit. Sir J. G. WARD .- We cannot do the impos- sible. I am extremely sorry to find myself in the position of not being able to meet the whole of the honourable gentleman's arguments, be- cause he has not been able to finish them ; and I shall have to take up a certain amount of time in showing the House that the honourable gentleman is almost a political monomaniac-I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 use the term without offence-on the question of railway administration. Captain RUSSELL .- I could not get at my argument. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, I will show this to honourable members on the first statement made by the honourable gentleman : He said the Minister for Railways had expended, in- including liabilities of £400,686 and €325,032, which he took from the Public Works Fund- he said the Minister for Railways had expended £725,718. Captain RUSSELL .- " Expended or com- mitted." Sir J. G. WARD .- And he went on to state that this amount was beyond the authorisation given by the House. Now, if the honourable gentleman looks at the very next column he will find that the authorisation was €750,000. Very well, the authorisation was $750,000, and the House gave authority by actual vote to the Minister to expend €600,000; that was the vote given. Now, if the honourable gentleman will look at the Financial State- ment he will find that out of this authorisa- tion of $600,000 only £325,000, principally the cost of rolling-stock, had come to debit during the financial year; that shows a difference between $325,000 and $600,000 -namely, £275,000, which had to be carried forward to this financial year. That is as clear as possible. So the honourable gentleman is entirely mistaken in the first instance in coming to the conclusion that there was no Captain Russell because there was authorisation for $750,000. But, putting that on one side, there was only £325,000 of actual expenditure took place up to the end of the financial year. What is the next point ? The honourable gentleman harps on the extraordinary increase in the expenditure on additions to open lines and rolling-stock, and goes back to the antiquated, idiotic, ridi- culous humbug of a comparison with the Com- missioners' reports of previous years-1886 and 1887, up to 1895. Captain RUSSELL .- "1892" I said. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am going to show honourable members where the honourable gentleman misleads himself and others by not pointing out what an extraordinary develop- ment there has been in the traffic of the coun- try, in the increased mileage of the country, and in the growth of business since then. The whole revenue from passengers alone is now almost double what it was at that period. I want for a moment to refer to the development of the rail- way traffic, to show what the Administration has had to grapple with over a series of years ; and any member who takes former Railways Reports and the present one, and who takes the trouble to go through the series of tables at the end - which cannot be imported into the body of a Railways Statement by a Minister-will find all the details available for any person who chooses to take the trouble to obtain information from them, upon which he can ascertain the real position as regards rolling-stock and every other detail of expenditure. Now, what is the increase in traffic? At the end of the year 1887 the tonnage carried on our rail- ways was 1,747,000; at the end of the last period the tonnage carried was 3,339,000- almost double. The number of passengers car- ried in the period to which I referred was 3,426,000; the number of passengers 9.0. carried at the end of last year was 6,243,000-almost double again. Now, surely there is not an honourable member in this House but must know perfectly well that if you very nearly double your traffic over a series of years, add enormously to the mileage of railways available for the use of the country, you must necessarily acquire fresh rolling-stock for the convenience of the people; and you cannot do it without an enormous expense by comparison with former years. It goes without saying that if you go on adding to the mileage of the rail- ways of this country and increasing your busi- ness you must increase your engine-power, your carriages, and your wagons. In addition to that the railways of New Zealand have been virtually converted into a heavier track, a heavier railway system altogether, by the laying-down of heavier rails, and increasing the strength of our bridges, and everything else, proportionately. That has gone on during the last four or five years to a degree never equalled before, and I say it is due to the enormous expansion of traffic - which information in this Railways Report to any dis- passionate person would clearly demonstrate. That is the true answer to the statement that the expenditure on additions to open lines has 