that I have "paired " with the honourable member for New Plymouth for the session, who is in London trying to start an important industry in which the colony is interested ; and I think it as well that I should say that since I entered this House I have been opposed to any increase of this nature-I took the same stand in 1892-although I have not a word to say against those members who feel that they should be paid more than they are receiving at the present time. I feel that, having entered the House at a yearly payment of £240, I have no right to take advantage of my position and increase that amount to £300 during the present Parliament. I simply make this ex- planation because I am "paired " on all Bills, and consequently my name will not appear on the division unless as a " pair." Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- There is just one point on which I wish to correct the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), and not a particularly important point either. It is in regard to the cost of elections in the city as compared with the cost in the country. The honourable member stated, in the course of his speech, that the hire of a hall in the city would pay for the whole of the school-buildings in a country electorate ; but unfortunately they are not all school buildings in the country districts. There are a number of halls in the country districts that have to be paid for just as well as halls in the cities ; and then, what about the travelling-expenses? I think if it were possible to make an accurate comparison it would be found there was very little difference between the city and the country so far as election ex- penses are concerned. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. HUTCHESON .- It is more expensive in the country. Mr. MASSEY .- I believe it is, and I am glad to hear the honourable member for Wellington City admit it. To come to the Bill itself : this is a question about which there is room for a considerable difference of opinion ; and, while I admit that there is a good deal in what has been put forward by the Premier and those who have followed him in supporting the Bill with regard to the cost of elections, and the length of the session now as compared with what it was ten or twelve years ago, and the calls made upon a member's purse, still there is another side of the question, and it is this- it has been referred to by other speakers : When members were before the electors at the last general elections in the capacity of candidates, there was no suggestion, so far as I can recollect, or that I noticed in the news- papers, that the salary of members was insuf- ficient, or that the salaries of members and Ministers ought to be increased. An Hon. MEMBER .- A good many members said 80. Mr. MASSEY .- Perhaps so, but I did not see it reported, and I did not hear it stated ; and consequently, when members became elected to manage the public affairs of the colony, I consider that it was on the understanding that they should do so at the existing salary for the to make any alteration such as is suggested in this measure, then it should come into opera- tion only after the next election, so that the electors of the colony might have an oppor- tunity of expressing an opinion thereon, and electing the best men obtainable for the salary to be offered. But, Sir, we have apparently entered upon an era of increases. We com- menced last session-the first session after the general election-by increasing the Gover- nor's salary practically by about £2,000 per annum. Then, we increased the salaries of members of the Civil service-some of them deserved an increase, and some did not. Then, we increased the salaries of Ministers : we increased the salary of the Premier by $600, the salary of the Minister for Railways by £500, and the salaries of other Ministers by £200 a year, and we increased their number by two. Now it has come to the turn of members of Parliament generally, and I do not think there is a member in either branch of this Legislature who believes that the present in- creased rate of expenditure can continue. I believe it cannot go on, and I believe history will repeat itself, and that in the near future the time will come when there will be a general cutting-down, and members and Ministers will be called upon to do as was done before-to show an example by cutting down their own salaries first. There is another point that has been mentioned in this debate-namely, the present arrangement with regard to leave of absence. The present arrangement is something like this : Members, except in the case of illness, on their own part or on the part of members of their family, are allowed five days' leave of absence. and after that period is exhausted they are fined at the rate of £2 per day for every sitting-day they are absent. Well, there are lots of members in the House representing the Auckland Provincial District, and the districts of Otago and Southland, and it takes them nearly the whole of the five days in travelling to their homes and back again, when they wish to visit their homes or have a look at their businesses during the session. I say we ough: to take advantage of the present opportunity to amend our arrangements in this respect, and introduce a sliding-scale according to distance. I think, in the case of Auckland and South- land members, leave of absence ought to be extended to ten days, and the period should run down to five days for members representing the Provincial District of Wellington. An honourable member, when speaking a few minutes ago, suggested that in the case of large country electorates something ought to be done in the way of paying the expenses of candidatos, and he instanced the electorate of Patea. Well, Sir, I say if ever there was an instance where the expenses of a candidate ought to be paid it is in connection with one of the present candidates-in the case of a gentle- man who was lately the member for Patea, and who I hope soon to see again as member for Patea. But what I was going to say was this: when a case occurs such as has occurred in connection ... 