them that would say honestly that £300 a year is too much to enable him to pay his average expenses during the twelve months he is serving Therefore the logical posi- his constituents. tion resolves itself into this : that if payment of members is to be a fair one it should be suffi- cient to enable the member to render his public services without loss to himself. I say he can- not do so now unless he is too mean to be a member of Parliament, or is so rich that all monetary consideration is of no moment to him. It is not a question of his being a profes- sional politician because he receives £300 as against £240. I say that most men, even with a honorarium of $300, would require to do some- thing in the recess to add to their income in order to maintain themselves and their families ; so I say it is not a question of becoming a pro- fessional politician at all, as was suggested by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. I do not believe, if you take a member of the Legislative Council, unless he goes into business of some kind when he goes back home during the recess, and fills in that time with some ordinary occupation so as to add to the con- sideration now given him by the country, that he can carry out the duties of a Legislative Councillor without loss to himself. And yet I believe the average man who is selected to represent the working classes in the Legislative Council, or the man who represents the farmers of the country, or even the man sent to repre- sent the mercantile section of the community -unless he is a man of considerable means or private resources to make him indepen- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 dent of remuneration altogether from his posi- tion, he will find that in the recess, to ade- quately reimburse him or help him to add to the honorarium he receives for devoting him- self to the service of the country he must engage in some occupation. And, holding those views, Sir, I am myself inclined to think that, upon mature consideration, although some honourable members may, from the best of motives, be opposed to the proposal, I think that there are not many people in New Zealand who would grudge the payment of £300 a year to any member of this House, or $200 to any member of the Legislative Council, who con- scientiously, assiduously, diligently, and faith- fully carries out the duties appertaining to the position -- especially considering the grow- ing demands, and the increasing require- ments of the country on their representatives. Again, I say, take the case of the adjacent colonies and contrast the position of the present New Zealand legislator. I think the New Zealand legislator ought to be paid at least as much as is given in the individual State Par- liaments, to say nothing of the fact that in the Commonwealth Parliament £400 has been laid down as the remuneration. The details of the measure may require some consideration. Some honourable members, I understand, are anxious to reduce this amount to £200 per annum. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I am against that. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am glad to hear the Sir J. G. Ward honourable gentleman sitting on his right, whom he is in the habit of calling his mate, has, I think, an amendment to propose to make it £200. An Hon. MEMBER .- He stands alone. Sir J. G. WARD. - No; the honourable member for Hawke's Bay has said that he is prepared to see £200 a year paid to members of this House. Well, I have heard it said here that when the amendments come on it would be carried if it were made to apply to the three honourable gentlemen. But, now that Mr. Atkinson's friend is opposing it, he and the member for Hawke's Bay will be found almost alone. Perhaps the singular distinction may be sufficient recompense to my honourable friends for the House to ticket them off as £200 a year men, and the rest at the rate of £300 a year. However, I take no exception to the honourable members entertaining their own view in this respect ; they should be the best judges of their own value. I rose for the pur- pose of stating my belief that the proposals contained in the Bill are not unfair, and that the country is not averse to members of the House of Representatives, and also members of the Legislative Council, being reasonably paid for the services they render to the State. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I feel, Sir, in that happy position of being not in any way com- mitted to this question. I am thankful to say that my constituents returned me with a per- fectly open mind. I can act or vote as I like in matters of this kind; but I feel I must be governed by my sense of taste to my con- stituents and by my own opinions on matters as they come up before me as to the manner in which I should vote upon them. I had strong opinions about the £40 being granted to mem- bers, because of the amendment to the Public Revenues Bill, which enabled the Govern- ment to grant that £40. I did think that wrong; but in this case, if the House should carry this measure by which members are to receive £300, I shall feel it is legally obtained. I do not think we are under any necessity to go back to our constituents and ask whether we shall take that money or not; but I have the opinion that I cannot fall in with the con- ception of taking any more than that which I am now receiving. And I have a very good rea- son for having that strongly impressed upon their minds, because I have for years repre- sented a constituency which I know requires every pound that could be granted out of the Public Treasury for its actual necessities. I have such communications as these : " Good job if Parliament were sunk in the sea ; it would be a good job, and there would not be the waste of money, while we are in mud and cannot get our roads made "-"A good thing if all the legislation that has been passed in the last seven years were swept away, as it will only lead to trouble and embarrassment in the future." An Hon. MEMBER .- They are pessimists. Mr. MONK .- No; they are some of the soundest thinkers I know, and I would not 