mind, the suggestion was impracticable. He did not think it was possible to arrive at a minimum and maximum valuation of any property ; there could only be one valuation, and that was its fair market value. As to the District Valuer having a basis to come and go on,. he did not think if such a suggestion was carried into effect it would have the result an- ticipated by the honourable gentleman, because the basis at the present time was the right one -it was on the fair market value of the land. In regard to the second part of the question, the rates leviable to defray special loans, being a charge upon the land, already tended to de- preciate the capital value, unless these special loans had been wisely expended ; but even then they were taken into account by buyers and valuers alike before fixing the capital value of the property. If there were any very heavy loans raised in a district which necessitated the owners of property having to pay heavy rates, there could be no doubt that they had the effect of lessening or otherwise the value of land, and that all these matters had to be taken into account. Mr. McGUIRE .- Is not the value raised on account of roading ? Mr. MILIS said, No, not always. For in- stance, he believed that around Oamaru the local rates were very high, and tended to depre- ciate the value of property very much. Mr. McGUIRE .- That is a different thing. Mr. MILLS said that the same circumstances might arise in other cases. He could assure the honourable gentleman that, so far as the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 department was concerned, all it wished to arrive at was a fair valuation of property. He had pointed out to the House before - and his statement was on record in Hansard-showing the instructions sent out to every valuer, which clearly proved that the department only wished to obtain fair valuations-nothing excessive, but even a little under the true market-value. BALCLUTHA-OWAKA RAILWAY. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will extend to the Balclutha-Owaka line the scale of fares on the Invercargill-Bluff line, the fare for a second-class return on the former being 3s. 6d., whilst on the latter it is only 1s. 6d., the differ ence of 2s. being apparently too much for the extra length of the Balclutha-Bluff line, which is only two miles longer than the Invercargill- Bluff line ? His attention had been drawn some time since to the difference in the fares between the two lines referred to. The second- class return fare between Invercargill and the Bluff was 1s. 6d., but the return fare between Balclutha and Owaka was 3s. 6d. It was true that the distance between Balclutha and Owaka was two miles more than between Invercargill and the Bluff, but 2s. for these additional two miles seemed to him too much altogether. He hoped the Minister would see his way to ap- proximate the fare on the Owaka Section to the fare on the Bluff Section. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said Mr. Mills the Owaka line which would justify the Govern- ment in making exceptional rates for that line. The traffic was small, and the line was on the same footing as all other branch lines in the colony. The traffic on the Bluff line was of a suburban character. It was a port line, and there were special rates existing on every line between the port and the chief town ; but that was no reason why they should make that system apply to such towns as that referred to by the honourable gentleman, and he was sorry to say the Government could not do that. The rates on the Bluff line were not even yet low enough as compared with some other port lines. WHANGAREI-KAWAKAWA RAILWAY. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Minister for Railways, Why the member for the Bay of Islands was not notified last year of the Minister's visit to open the ex- tension of the Whangarei-Kawakawa line from Whakapara to Hukerenui ; and what was the nature of the one-sided information he received at Whangarei which caused him on his return to Wellington to induce the Cabinet to consent to the extension of the said railway to Grahams- town in contravention of the previous determi nation of the Cabinet in 1891 that no further extension should be made south ward from Wha- ngarei until the connection with Kawakawa was completed ? As the line so nearly approached the confines of the district represented by the member for the Bay of Islands, he thought that an invitation should have been sent to that member to attend the ceremony he had re- ferred to. He did not blame the Minister. There were other persons concerned in the matter. With regard to the latter part of the question, he felt sure that it was the one- sided representation made to the Minister which caused him to come to the conclusion he did-a conclusion which was in contravention of the arrangements which the Cabinet came to in 1891, which arrangement must have been known to the people in Whangarei, or to those who came in contact with the Minister when he was in the district opening this particular part of the line. He thought that very unfair treatment had been meted out to the member for the Bay of Islands and to the inhabitants of the Bay of Islands district in connection with the matter. He felt satisfied that if both sides of the question had been put to the Minister when he was in the district, and before he re- turned to Wellington, the Cabinet would have taken different steps than those they did take. He might say that he felt a considerable amount of annoyance over this matter, and he did not think that such treatment should have been meted out to the member for the Bay of Islands in connection with the opening of this railway. If the arrangement made by the Cabinet in 1891, in connection with this line, was not carried out he would feel in duty bound, in the interests of his district, to oppose any vote on the estimates for the ex- tension of this line to Grahamstown until the connection with Kawakawa was completed. 