so ; but let me ask, What was done in New South Wales a few years ago? They gave the Railway Commissioners two millions sterling of loan-money to expend upon works, of which none was to be provided for out of revenue, but the whole of which was used for repairs, for the renewal of the rolling-stock of that colony, and for maintenance works. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was to strengthen the lines generally. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, at any rate, two millions sterling were given to the Commis- sioners practically to do as they liked with : no doubt, to restore the railways to a workable condition. Now, let us suppose we had two millions given to us in New Zealand a few years ago to renew our lines and relay them in the same way. Would it not be a proper thing now to do exactly as they are doing in New South Wales? I say that if two millions had been given us for the renewal of our lines, we would be very glad to take all our relaying now out of revenue ; and therefore the comparison of New South Wales will not stand looking into, and it was solely for that purpose that I alluded to it. Then, take the honourable member's reference to the post-offices which are dealt with in Return No. 6. The whole position is entirely different to what the honourable mem- ber says it is. All over the country there is a Where the railway business is dual system. not large enough to warrant a Stationmaster being put in charge of a railway-station, and where the postal business does not warrant the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 appointment of a Postmaster, there is an ar- rangement made between the two departments that each will contribute to the cost of the post- office and the railway-station. Captain RUSSELL .- But it all becomes the capital of the railway. Sir J. G. WARD .- No ; it does not become the capital of the railway unless the expendi- ture has been made for railway purposes. If any outlay has to be made on the part of the Post Office the Post Office has to find the money in every instance. Captain RUSSELL .- And when the post- office goes out of the railway do you credit the railway ? Sir J. G. WARD .- The Railway Department would charge the Postal Department if they were sustaining any cost. Captain RUSSELL .- They gain the office. Sir J. G. WARD .- The whole matter be- tween the two departments is properly arranged ; and I may inform the honourable member that only within the last few days I have, with the General Manager for Railways and the Secre- tary of the Postal Department, been engaged on the allocation of the charges to be met by the two departments, and it runs into some very If the honourable member sup- large figures. poses that the Railway Department will let the Post Office Department or the Postal Depart- ment allow the Railway Department to get the best of it in any allocation of the kind he is not aware of the keenness that exists between these two important departments of the service. The ! Sir J. G. Ward service it renders the Railway Department, and the same remark applies to the Railway Depart- ment, and in next year's Statement that fact will be clearly set out in the figures. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I do not propose to review the speech of the honourable gentleman, neither do I intend to deliver an address upon the Railways or Public Works Statements. I think the House has come to that period of the session when the less one talks the more highly one is appreciated ; but. the honourable gentleman, having given an emphatic denial to my statement that he is paying £150 each in England for the English wagons that are being imported- - Sir J. G. WARD .- There is not much in your statement, because I put the whole facts on record myself earlier in the session, and you are only quoting from my previous statement. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL-I propose to tell the honourable gentleman what was the cost of the wagons, because I do not like to be flatly con- tradicted in the Parliament of the country when I know I am right. The Minister pur- chased two hundred and fifty wagons for £36,254, from Brown, Marshall, and Co .; and from the Ashbury Railway Car and Wagon Company, two hundred and fifty, for £37,525. Sir J. G. WARD .- Sir, I rise to a point of order. I want to know if the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton is in order, having extracted from my speech in Hansard of this year figures as to the cost of making railway carriages, et cetera, in England, in now reading them to the House. I say these figures are all to be found in my speech, or in information fur- nished by me. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable gentlemen is not entitled to quote from Han- sard, and he has no right to make any refer- ence to a previous debate. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am quoting from figures supplied to this House since the begin- ning of the session. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- If it is from a previous debate you cannot quote it. Sir J. G. WARD .- It is from my own speech. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Does the Hou. Minister wish to interpose a point of order to prevent me putting on record the figures he himself has used ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I do not intend to be catechised as to what I wish to be done when I rise to a point of order. The honourable gentle- man knows he is quoting from a speech delivered by me in the House this session, and, accord ing to Mr. Speaker's ruling, that is not in order. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - The point I wish to make is this: that a thousand wagons pur- chased in England by the honourable gentle- man have cost this colony £150,061, and that is his own statement-a thousand wagons cost- ing over $150,000, is £150 per wagon. Sir J. G. WARD .- Does that include freight to New Zealand ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- No ; certainly not. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is from my own speech. 