pany to get it reduced they would not do it. It was wisely stipulated by the Minister for Rail- ways that the reduction was only to take place provided the consumer got it. But when the Minister made this offer it was found that the coal company would not dispose of the coal at a reduced rate, so that the public would get the benefit of it. With regard to the mineral de- posits, it seems to me that the Government has no right to sell into the hands of private owners buried wealth, and if a man buys land he has only a right to the surface; but the deposits buried down at great depth below the surface belong to the community, and not to the indivi- dual. It was never contemplated that the sale of land included the gold, the coal, and other deposits that lay below the surface. That be- longs to the community. An Hon. MENBER .- It always does with gold. Mr. ELL .- And it should be so with regard to coal-that should be reserved as public pro- perty. We have this question of interest again cropping up, as we have it in regard to what we have to pay for the purchase of land for settle- ment, and it crops up here again in the way of working this scheme successfully. I notice that in the Bill the Government propose to take power to raise an amount of money through the foreign money-lender, or through any bank or monetary institution. Well, now, the Bank of New Zealand, in connection with the Ad- vances to Settlers Department, have advanced and created credit in favour of the Government to the extent of £230,000, and have charged 4 per cent. interest. Now, if a private bank https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 can do that, it is a solid argument why the State should create credit and pay it to itself. The Bank of New Zealand is practically a State man- aged institution. Most of the important officers of that bank are appointed by the Government. It is nearly all public capital the bank is working on, and if a bank with State appointed officers and practically State capital can create credit in favour of a State department to the extent of #230,000, and charge 4 per cent. for it, I say that is a strong argument why the Government should establish a State bank in the country and create credit in favour of industries of this description, for the purchase of land or for the purchase of a coal-mine. If we had a State bank managed on business lines, in the same way as private banks managed their business, there is no reason why that bank should not advance credit to the extent of $150,000, which is the amount mentioned in the Bill. Sir, I shall always press this matter on, be- cause it seems to me that it is one that should engage our attention as the representatives of the people. We are loading and loading the people of the country with interest, and yet we are not making any common sense move- ment in the direction of ridding the colony of the necessity of going to the private money- lenders, who only create credit in favour of the State. This is a question that undoubtedly cropped up in connection with the purchase of a State coal-mine, because the Government proposed to take power to pay 4 per cent. for Mr. Ell view of the hardening of the money-market we 1 are not likely to get it for less than 3} per cent. I hope honourable members will not stand by and see only two or three of us talking about this matter. It is a question that not only affects the town members, but the country 1 members-the question of the State establish- ing a State bank, and of that bank creating credit in favour of the Government. The honourable member for Kaiapoi laughs. Mr. BUDDO .- What has that got to do with a State coal-mine ? Mr. ELL .- It has a great deal to do with the coal-mine. The Government propose to raise \------- £150,000 at 4 per cent., and if we could raise that money from a State banking institution, instead of going to a private banking institution for it, and get credit for that amount at a lower rate of interest, it would help to make the ven- ture a success. So I say it has a great deal to do with this question. Now, the Premier prac- tically appoints four or five officers to the Bank of New Zealand. \- - Mr SEDDON .- What on earth has that to do with a coal-mine ? Mr. ELL .- I say it has a good deal to do with it. Let me put this question to the Pre- mier : The Bank of New Zealand, with four or five officers appointed by himself, has practi- cally two millions of capital belonging to the people. It is practically managed by directors appointed by the Government. Now, the Go- vernment go to the directors appointed in an institution like that and ask for a loan of £150,000 to purchase a coal-mine, and are charged 4 per cent. I ask, Is that not a connec- 1 tion ? I say, if that bank was purely a State : bank, instead of what it is now, the Premier 1 could go and get the money at a lower rate of interest than what he is likely to get it at from What did the a private trading institution. Premier tell us this session ? That he went to the Bank of New Zealand- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- A past debate must not be alluded to. Mr. ELL .- I am not referring to any parti- cular debate ; I am alluding to a general state- ment. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That is not in order. Mr. ELL .- Then, I will refer to the fact that in the Budget of the 1889 session the Premier states that he has gone to private banks, and 1 the banks have cashed his Treasury bills, and that the colony has paid for the cash received for these Treasury bills £210,000 in interest I suggest that if the banks can create credit in favour of the Government to such & large extent, and the Government have paid £210,000, there is a connection here, showing that if we had a State bank the State bank could do the same thing and save the country the interest. Mr. SEDDON .- You are killing the State bank. Mr. ELL .- I am not killing it at all. It is only by pegging away at these questions that anything can be done. 