to the conclusion that the debenture-holders would be generously dealt with by the colony if they received £110,000, and the shareholders- for whom the Public Accounts Committee had some sympathy, but who have no claim on the country-if they received £20,000. I think the recommendation of the Committee is generous in the extreme; and, considering the course taken by the debenture-holders in London, I say it comes from the House and the colony as a magnanimous mark of what we are prepared to do in justice to ourselves and to the other side as well. Mr. FISHER .- It will only induce them to come again next year. Mr. J. ALLEN .- At any rate, we can provide pretty safely against any attempt in the future. I say the colony is doing a generous and a mag- nanimous action, and that notwithstanding the fact that those whom we propose to treat thus generously have treated us in an entirely opposite spirit. And, Sir, if they do not accept what is proposed to be offered in the spirit in which it is given, then I say that the colony will be justified in refusing to give anything ; and, in either case, if we had to go to the London market, or any other market in the world, to obtain our full requirements, we could point to the action we had taken, and no reasonable man could ever possibly take any exception to it. We have to guard ourselves against any pos- sible action that may be taken detrimental to our own immediate requirements. We propose to do what seems to me a generous thing, and I take it that those who are to receive this money will accept it in the same spirit in which we freely give it, feeling that we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 are not bound to give it. If they do this I hope the whole thing may be ended up, and that the colony may eventually come out of the business without so much loss as one might probably believe would take place. I think it is quite true that the action of the debenture-holders in London has to a certain extent damaged the credit of the colony. They petitioned the Stock Exchange not to quote our loans. I do not know what effect that had. Some contend that it had a considerable effect. I had a communication from a member of the Stock Exchange, who said that it had but little effect on our loans in the London money- market. I understand the Stock Exchange absolutely refused to be influenced by the re- presentations of the debenture-holders. I am quite certain, however, that the action we are taking will be such that the Stock Exchange will in the future not permit itself to listen for a moment to the petition of any share- holder, or debenture-holder, or the whole lot of them. I believe the colony is doing right in any case in giving something, and giving it generously. I think the property which has come into our hands will be of some value, and, even although extensive works will have to be undertaken at considerable cost to the colony to complete the line, I believe we are doing the right thing, and that the country will approve of our accepting the report of the Public Ac- counts Committee and authorising the Govern- Mr. J. Allen ment to bring in a Bill to deal with the matter on the lines recommended. There is one point that I omitted to mention. It was stated by the honourable member for Wellington City \- (Mr. Fisher) that a good many of the original debenture-holders had got rid of their deben- tures, and that these were now in the hands of people who did not originally hold them. That question was asked of the Receiver-Mr. Coates -by Sir Joseph Ward. The questions and re- plies were as follow :- " Regarding the debenture - holders, Mr. Coates, there have been statements made-I do not know whether it is within your know- ledge-that many of the present debenture- holders are not original debenture-holders ?- It has been so said. "It is a material point. Do you know whether it is so ?- I have not a list of the de- benture-holders. I believe some of the deben- tures have been sold, but not very many. Most of the original debenture-holders are still on the list. " So if relief is given it would be a relief to the original debenture-holders ?- To the ma- jority of them." Then, with regard to the shareholders, a similar question was asked of Mr. Dalston, who represents the shareholders, and practically the same answer was given by Mr. Dalston on be- half of the shareholders-namely, that the bulk of the shares are still held by the original shareholders ; so that the statement of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), that the money we are proposing to give would not go to the original debenture- holders or shareholders, is not sustained so far as the evidence goes. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) .- If we have done any injustice to the debenture-holders or the shareholders of the company, or if we bad treated them in a way that was not uprigh: and honourable, I would be prepared to carry out the recommendation of the Committee. and pay over to them, under conditions. the £130,000 as recommended by a majority of that Committee. But we have not done them an injustice. They have undertaken to carry out works which they failed to carry out; and why should we pay this £130,000? The Right Hon. the Premier has just said, if we pay them this money it will be a gift. Will they receive it as a gift ? We should be just before we are so generous. Why should we make a gif: to the bondholders and debenture-holders? They have brought their case before the Courts, they have been defeated, and they finally submitted it to the Privy Council, and the decision giver in our favour was upheld. If we make this pay- ment they will think we have something to fear. We deny having done anything wrong. Then. why should we give them this money as the Premier has said? Why should we try to settle as the honourable member for Bruce has said ? Can we better our position by making this payment ? No, Sir, we cannot ; but it will ap- pear that we have done something wrong, whe !! all throughout we have acted straightforwardly and honourably. I say that the payment of 