allowed to refer Mr. Speaker to Volume 105, page 688, of Hansard, in which he (Mr. Tanner) brought up a report of the Public Accounts Committee. Hansard showed that " The report was read by the Clerk as follows," and then followed the full body of the report. An Hon. MEMBER .- That was ordered by the Speaker. Mr. TANNER said there was apparently no indication in Hansard that any direction was given. There may or may not have been a direction. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he had stated what the usual practice was. If the Speaker thought the matter was of sufficient importance he exercised his discretion, and gave his in- structions to have it inserted in Hansard ; but, as the Premier had moved that this report ap- pear in Hansard, the question had better be settled by the House. He would put the Pre- mier's motion. Motion agreed to. The report was as follows :- Report on the Petition of Herbert E. Easton, of Dunedin. I. In this case the petitioner asks that legislation be passed in order to prevent what the petitioner alleges are acts of commercial immorality in mining companies. II. Your Committee have very carefully in- quired into the complaints made by the peti- tioner. The inquiry was confined to seven of the companies floated by Messrs. Cook and Gray. There was some evidence adduced to the effect that the commercial immorality al- leged to have taken place in these companies was typical of what had taken place in some other companies. Although a great deal of evidence was given in regard to private mat- ters between petitioner and Mr. Cook, your Committee wish as much as possible to dis- regard everything except the public aspect of the case. III. The following is a summary of the charges made by petitioner :- (1.) One person or firm being (a) the promoter, (b) broker, (c) secretary, and (d) director ; and (e) the registered offices of companies being in his or their office. (2.) Transfers being accepted and passed with moneys owing from sellers. (3.) Shares being "dummied," and commis- sion received on them. (4.) Signatories to articles of association not being shareholders. (5.) The articles of association being so drawn as to override what may be classed as the safety clauses of the Act under which they are framed, thereby allowing a few holders of shares to ob- tain almost absolute control of the companies, and the articles of association being so worded as to allow unqualified shareholders to vote. (6.) Lees Ferry Company's vendors' shares being used for voting to prevent liquidation, for benefit of promoters ; and that out of twelve companies, with an aggregate capital of £100,000, floated by Messrs. Cook and Gray, action taken by the holders of vendors' shares. (7.) Promoters receiving secret profits. (8.) That minute-books show that directions were given to the secretary to invoke the law against bona fide shareholders when promoters and others were owing large sums. (9.) One promoter being also a director and receiving director's fees, yet not attending meetings. (10.) The Ngahere Company's brokers taking commission on shares on which no cash has been paid. (11.) That the Ngahere Company's claim is not situated where stated in prospectus. (12.) That, on the grounds of misrepresenta- tion, Mr. Gray, one of the promoters of the Golden Grey Company, and others, repudiated payment of calls on shares upon which the firm of Cook and Gray had received brokerage. (13.) The formation of secret rings for speculative purposes only by promoters and directors at a time when the public were being asked to subscribe money to be used for mining purposes. (14.) Shareholders voting and directors act- ing when their allotment-money and calls were unpaid. (15.) Vendors making a profit on liquidation on shares which have cost them nothing. (16.) Improper auditing. REVIEW OF THE CHARGES. IV. In all of these charges the onus of proof must be on the petitioner. Some have not been proved, and others are matters that should be dealt with by the law-courts, for where the law provides an ample remedy that remedy should be taken, as it is not for this Committee to take up the functions of the law-courts. Your Committee will therefore dispose of these latter charges first, namely :- (1.) " Promoters receiving secret profits " : This charge must refer to (a) salary for office and secretary, and (b) directors' fees. In regard to (a), Mr. Holsted was simply Cook and Gray's servant, and managed the companies, and had nothing whatever to do with the flotations. Mr. Holsted managed fourteen companies for Cook and Gray, and received on an average £75 a year each, or a total of $1,050 a year, and in the books of the companies he debited the com- panies with owing these amounts to Cook and Gray, and credited the companies with having paid the various payments thereon to Cook and Gray. Therefore any profits made out of this by Cook and Gray were not secret profits, but were known to the shareholders, all of whom could have known that Mr. Holsted was only the servant. Neither were the directors' fees secret profits. Therefore this charge has not been proved at all, unless it refers to brokerage, which is dealt with hereafter. (2.) " One promoter, being also a director and receiving director's fees, as per table attached, vet not attending meetings ": Mr. Cook drew director's fees, and attended in some cases only one meeting, and in others no meetings ; but if there is any wrong in this the remedy is with 