ment,-not when the dispute was being heard, but owing to the altered circumstances, and also owing to the trade becoming slack,-it was a slack season of the year, and the freezing- works were also running slack times. It was not a fact at all that they were dismissed for being unionists. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON. - Can the honourable member give authorities for his statements ? The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Yes. In regard to Milne, who was spoken of, his case was before the Court of Arbitration for being dis- missed. This is a statement given to me by the employer, who, I venture to say, is respected by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson and by every member of Parliament who has met him since he has been here :- " Milne's case was heard and dealt with by Mr. Justice Cooper, and the case was dismissed. During the hearing of the case it was stated that there were other cases of dismissal of unionists during the dispute, and we asked that definite charges should be made against us in each case, so that the charges might be proved or disproved. The representatives of the union have not up to the present time laid any charges. Some of the men referred to were put off because of slackness of trade ; others were dispensed with owing to the introduction of machinery, rendered necessary by the com- petition of imported goods. The balance of the curriers kept on were for a time on ' broken time'-i.e., there was not sufficient work to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 keep them all going, and they had to take turn about." Now, Sir, the Hon. Mr. Rigg withdrew one of the names mentioned by him as being dismissed when he found out from the person mentioned that he had been misled. That honourable gentleman may have been misled in other in- stances also. I know in the case of the Allan- dale miners, and in the case of the Waihi miners, and also in the case of some printers connected with the Auckland Typographical Soiety, the provisions of clause 19 which we have put into this Bill, imposing a penalty, were absolutely necessary, because these men were dismissed when a dispute was being heard before the Board and Court. That clause, in my opinion, is very necessary, and I supported it in Committee as strongly as I could. I say, when a dispute is before a Board or before the Court of Arbitration, if an employer at such a time dismisses a man, then he should be sub- ject to such penalties as the Act provides for. But I honestly believe, in regard to many of these other men my honourable friend Mr. Rigg named, that they have been the victims of rearrangements necessitated by employers finding that labour is becoming much dearer, that they have to employ more machinery, and therefore a certain number of men have to go out. It is a fact, as all economists prove, that the more costly labour becomes the more employers will be driven to improve their output by better organization and more machinery employment, so as to have a greater Hon. Mr. Jennings knows that is precisely the case, owing to the linotype and monoline machines being intro- duced into the printing trade in this country, and that persons employed before the introduc- tion of these machines have been dismissed their employment, not because they were unionists, not because the employer wished to get rid of them, but because competition and other conditions compelled him to avail him- self of the very best means of furthering his industry. Sir, the remarks of the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson and the Hon. Mr. Bolt, given, in my opinion, in a calm and rational manner to- night, were such that, if I was open to convic- tion at all, I would have altered my opinions after hearing the way those honourable gentle- men spoke to-night. But the Hon. the Minister and those honourable gentlemen who have spoken on the question have burked and shirked the point I touched on in a previous debate. I contend that this Bill, which, I hope, will be placed on the statute-book, will not do away with Boards of Conciliation at all. The Boards of Conciliation will still remain, and, if any new unions are formed, I be- lieve these new unions in the first instance, in order to get experience, will go before the Boards, and they may afterwardstake further steps to go to the Court of Arbitration. Not one of the honourable gentlemen who have spoken have answered my statement that the old-established unions who have had an experi- ence of going before the Board, and who do not accept the recommendations of the Board, but take the case for final settlement before the Court of Arbitration ; at the expiration of the Court's award do not want again to go before the Board for a second rehearing upon one or two points. The unions, with their past experience, simply wish to have these few points settled be- fore the Court of Arbitration, and therefore power should be given to these unions, if they so wish, to go straight to the Court, so as to avoid all the harassment, expense, and incidental troubles that would be caused to these unions through going before the Board on a second occasion. In regard to the special Board of Conciliators, as proposed by the Bill, the strongest argument used in the debate in favour of that clause being sustained was, to my mind, used by the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith. That honourable gentleman stated what actually occurred with himself in settling disputes with his own men. Sir, I appreciate the action of that honourable gentle- man, as he is a man at the head of a large industry, and employs a large number of men. That is the spirit I have advocated, and I would like to see that honourable gentleman's action more common in this colony, rather than that unions should rush on every conceivable occasion before the Board or Court of Arbitra- tion. If the action taken by my honourable friend in meeting his employés was more general, the irritation that has been occasioned in industrial pursuits would not have happened. We should have, instead, a better feeling be- tween men and master than that which exists at the present time. As another reason for 