pastoral society's show-ground by warrant pub- lished in the Gazette of the twenty-ninth day of November, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-four, and it is no longer suitable for such show-ground : Be it therefore enacted as fol- lows : -- " The said land may be sold, and the proceeds of such sale used to purchase or to assist in purchasing parts of sections numbered 111, 112, 113, and 121 of section numbered 1 of the said parish, and the Governor may grant such land, when so purchased or acquired, for an estate in fee-simple to the Franklin Agricultural and Pastoral Society, incorporated, without power of sale, in trust for use as a show-ground by the said society : Provided, however, that if at any time the Society ceases to exist, or the Governor is of opinion that it is not using the land for the purposes hereby intended, he may resume it, and it shall thereupon become Crown land available for sale or other disposal." Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved to strike out the words from " The said land " to the end of the clause, and to insert the following :- "The said land may be sold, and the pro- ceeds of such sale used to purchase or to assist in purchasing parts of sections numbered 111, 112, 113, and 121 of section numbered 1 of the said parish : Provided, however, that, if at any time the society ceases to exist, the Governor may demand the repayment of the amount of the proceeds of the sale of the aforesaid section numbered 125." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788261 agreed to. Clause 32 .- Authorising an investigation into the ownership of Section No. 71, Omaka. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) moved to strike out the clause. Motion agreed to, and clause struck out. Clause 36 .- Power to surrender present lease and for grant of new lease, New Brighton Tram- way. Mr. TANNER (Avon) moved to strike out the clause. Motion agreed to, and clause struck out. Clause 40 .- Reserve, Waikari Survey Dis- trict, declared Crown land. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) moved to strike out the clause. Motion agreed to, and clause struck out. Clause 41 .- Road-line, Pigeon Bay Survey District, may be closed and sold. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) moved to strike out the clause. The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause be retained." AYES, 26. Allen, J. Fraser, A. L. D. Massey Mckenzie, R. Fraser, W. Atkinson Hall O'Meara Carncross Heke Russell, G. W. Carroll Colvin Herries Russell, W. R. Hornsby Duncan Symes. Tellers. Field Hutcheson Fisher Lawry Lang Lethbridge Fowlds Rhodes. Allen, E. G. Smith, G. J. Kaihau Arnold McGowan Tanner McNab Thompson, R. Buddo Ward Meredith Collins Millar Willis Flatman Witheford. Mills Graham Guinness Monk Tellers. Hall-Jones Palmer Ell Parata Hogg Laurenson. Houston Seddon Majority against, 2. Motion agreed to, and clause struck out. Clause 49. - Authority to erect cairn in memory of late Sir John Mckenzie. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) moved to strike out the clause. Motion agreed to, and clause struck out. Clause 52 .- " Whereas Section No. 93, Tari- ngatura Survey District, Land District of South- land, containing by admeasurement two acres, more or less, is a quarry reserve, but it is not required for such purpose, and as the Wallace County Council desires to deviate the road giving access to such reserve, it is desirable that power to sell such land should be granted : Be it therefore enacted :-- "The reservation of Section No. 93, Taringa- tura Survey District, Southland Land District, as a quarry reserve is hereby cancelled, and the said section may be disposed of as Crown lands freed from any reservation." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out the word "sell," and to insert in lieu thereof the word " lease." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON moved to strike out the words "disposed of as Crown lands freed from any reservation," and to insert in lieu thereof the word " leased." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 53 .- Validation Court may inquire into and validate certain dealings. Mr. DUNCAN moved to add the following to subclause (d) : "and the Public Trustee may by counsel oppose such application " ; and also the addition of the following subclauses :- "(g.) In cases where the Public Trustee has granted a lease of any of the said sec- tions, the title shall be issued subject to such lease, which is hereby vali- dated in all respects as if such lease had been granted by the person to Rents whom the title is issued. thereafter accruing from the said lease shall be paid by the lessee to the purchaser, and not to the Public Trustee. "(h.) Where the purchaser has acquired a portion only of any section the title to such portion shall be issued to him subject to any lease then in force over the whole section, and the Vali- dation Court shall assess what por- tions of rents from such lease shall be paid to the purchaser and the Public Trustee respectively. 