the "Tagus " also refused to take his ship to the Bluff, although there was plenty of water at that port. There was 26 ft. of water at Port Chalmers alongside the wharves at dead low water, and there was 31 ft. on the bar at dead low water. Then, again, with regard to the visit of the flagships of the Australian Squadron, they had never had one of those vessels in the harbour either at Port Chalmers or at the Bluff, although there was any amount of water to accommodate ships of that description. In fact, it was only seldom that they had visits from war-vessels even of a smaller class. He thought they had every right to expect a fair share of visits of these warships. He did not know whether this was due to ignor- ance or obstinacy, or whether it was the result of red-tapeism ; but he knew that justice was not done to the ports he had mentioned. He hoped the Government would communicate, through His Excellency the Governor, with the Admiral on the Australian station, with a view of insuring that these ports should get an equal share of visits from the warships when they came to New Zealand waters. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister of Marine) said every opportunity was taken of distri- buting information which reached the Marine Department in connection with the harbours of New Zealand-that was, as to the depth of water, the wharves, and all matters concerning them. This information was published in the Gazette under the heading of " Notices to Mari- ners," and these notices were sent to the Ad- miralty, the chief Marine Boards, the Board of Trade, and to the Admiral in charge of the Australian station. Then, any alterations would be embodied in the new edition of the "New Zealand Pilot." It was ten years ago now since the issue of the last edition of the " New Zealand Pilot," and the department had ex- pected to have received the new edition before this. All the necessary information had been sent on to the Admiralty, but so far it had not been published. However, he had given in- structions, pending the issue of the revised " New Zealand Pilot," that all the informa- tion published in the notices to mariners in connection with the different ports should be collected, printed, and sent to the Board of Trade in Australia, and also to the Admiralty. He thought the department had done all it could to advise the shipping world of any changes that had taken place in our waters ; and he could not understand why the com- manders of the vessels referred to refused to visit the ports mentioned by the honourable member when there was an ample depth of water for their accommodation. AUCKLAND OYSTER-FISHERIES. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Marine, Whether he has received any report from the Inspector of Fisheries re- garding his recent inspection of the Auckland oyster-beds ; and, if so, will be state what steps he proposes to take in order to conserve the said oyster-fisheries? He understood the Inspector of Fisheries not long ago paid a visit of inspec- | from fees for licenses and so on should be paid tion to the oyster-beds in the Auckland Pro- vince, and he would like to know from the Minister whether he had received any report from the Inspector as the result of that visit ; and, if so, whether he would lay the report upon the table, and what further steps he pro- posed to take in order to conserve the said oyster-fisheries. He understood that about twenty-five years ago these beds were capable of supplying, and did supply, a very large quantity of oysters, but that during recent years they had been almost denuded. He be- lieved some of them had been closed for a good many years, and yet, notwithstanding that official closing, the beds were still being stripped instead of recuperating. He saw re- cently in the Auckland papers an account of the arrival of some excursionists from the coast, and that a good many of them had sugar- bags full of oysters with them. Unless some steps were taken the oyster-beds would be very soon cleared out altogether. He was perfectly satisfied that this was an industry capable of almost indefinite expansion, but it would never be extended until a new method was adopted in reference to the treatment of these beds. He would suggest that the fisheries should be let in sections to people whose interests it would be to preserve them, and also to attend to their pro- pagation. It was quite an easy matter where a place was suitable to propagate oysters, but that would never be done until a radical change was adopted in the method of dealing with them. He would be glad to hear what the Minister proposed to do. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said, Some time ago he had instructed Mr. Ayson, the Inspector of Fisheries, to visit Auckland and report on the position with regard to the oysters. The report had reached him since the House had been sitting, and he had not had time to properly look into the question. However, Mr. Ayson had made several re- commendations of a radical nature. For in- stance, his recommendation on the question of leasing the whole of the oyster-beds, while it might be satisfactory in some directions, would lead to a lot of friction in others. The most im- portant suggestion he had made was to reduce the open season from eight months to six months. Then, under the present regulations the oyster- fishing license-fee was 10s. for the season, and he recommended that it should be increased to £2; also, that all boats should be registered and numbered. His (Mr. Hall-Jones) main object in sending the Inspector to Auckland was that we now have large subdivisions for oyster districts, which are open or closed ac- cording to the condition of the oysters in each subdivision, and it had been considered that it would be very much better to make further subdivisions, so that the beds would be better controlled, because where in one subdivision the oysters might be very plentiful the fishing could be continued, and in another subdivision, where they were scarce, the ground could be kept cleared until they became more plentiful. An- other suggestion was that the revenue derived 