ments, a fixed annual subsidy of $20,000 be paid, provided that one British-owned steamer, registered in New Zealand, be employed in the service. " (i.) That the time between San Francisco and Auckland shall not exceed seventeen days. " (c.) That no bonus shall be paid for early arrival, and a penalty at the rate of E4 an hour shall be enforced only when late delivery ex- ceeds forty-eight hours. " (f.) That all mails tendered to the con- tractors at Auckland and San Francisco by or on behalf of the Postmaster-General of New Zealand shall be conveyed by the contract vessels, and sufficient and secure accommoda- tion provided for the same. " (g.) That suitable accommodation and light- ing shall be provided for the purpose of sorting the mails on board the contract vessels, and first - class accommodation provided, without charge. for a mail agent and an assistant, or, if required. two assistants. "(h.) That, during the continuance of the contract, and so long as the same shall be faithfully carried out by the contractor, no charge for harbour dues, dock dues, or other rates shall be made or levied under 'The Har- bours Act, 1878,' or any amendment thereof, or under any special Act in that behalf, at the Port of Auckland, for any of the steam-vessels employed in carrying out the contract. "( .. ) That any agreement entered into be- tween the Postmaster-General of New Zealand https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and the J. D. Spreckels and Brothers Com- pany shall, where applicable, follow the pro- visions of the agreement entered into between the Postmaster-General and the Union Steam- ship Company of New Zealand (Limited) on / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero the 14th day of August, 1895, and the renewed agreement made on the 11th day of April, 1899. " (j.) And that the terms and conditions of clause 7 of the agreement of the 14th day of August, 1895, providing for the detention of the vessels at San Francisco for the mails from Great Britain, shall be given effect to as far as may be consistent with the contract subsisting between the J. D. Spreckels and Brothers Com- Company and the United States Government. ## " Vancouver Mail-service. "2. That, in the event of it being found im- practicable to arrange a contract for the three- weekly San Francisco service on the foregoing terms, this House authorises the Government to enter into negotiations for establishing a three-weekly or a four-weekly Vancouver mail- service, subject to the following conditions :- " (a.) That the contract shall be for a term of not less than three or more than five years. "(b.) That the payment shall not exceed 920,000 a year. " (c.) That the service shall be performed by vessels of not less than 6,000 tons, having first- class passenger accommodation and fitted with all modern improvements, and also refrigerating chambers, and chilled chambers for fruit and dairy produce. days between Vancouver and a New Zealand port, the selection of which to be at the con- tractor's option. "(c.) That the terms and conditions of con- tract in respect of the San Francisco service shall be applied to the Vancouver service so far as they can be adopted. " Federal Mail-service. "3. That the Government shall also negotiate for a fortniglaly intercolonial service to provide prompt connection with the Federal mail-service at Melbourne and Sydney,- " (a.) Between Wellington and Sydney ; or " (b.) Between Melbourne and the Bluff ; and, in addition, in the event of the San Fran- cisco service not being arranged, "(c.) Between Sydney and Auckland." Sir, I think it would be more convenient to the House if, in moving, That Mr. Speaker do leave the chair, in order to go into Committee, that I should do so in order to have the benefit of the Standing Orders, which give me half an hour to speak upon the resolutions which I now propose. In moving the resolutions sub- mitted to honourable members, I desire in the first place to refer to the altered conditions of the mail-services, and to endeavour to explain to honourable members why the proposals have been submitted in the form in which they are. I should like, in the first place, to deprecate very strongly the attempted cry which has been raised in connection with this matter of North versus South. I do not think that any- thing more uncalled for, anything more unfair, anything more unjust, or anything more cal- culated to prejudice the resolutions which the Government are submitting could possibly be done by the Press of Auckland, and by some gentlemen who profess to have the interests of the San Francisco mail - service at heart, than what has been done in connection with this matter; and I would like to refer for one moment to an article which has been placed in my hands just this moment - an article published in the New Zealand Herald. Anything more discreditable by way of sug- gestion in relation to a question of this kind I have never read; and I say the worst friends of the Fr'isco mail-service are the men, prompted by unworthy motives, who have inspired or written that article. I deprecate again, in the strongest possible terms, the base insinuations con ained in the article in question, which are absolutely untrue, and therefore unjust and uncalled for. And here I may state that no such thing as an arrange- ment or understanding of any kind was made by the Government with any person, direct or indirect, in reference to the Vancouver mail- service resolutions. They were not submitted to anybody, or discussed with anybody, before they left the Cabinet, and circulated amongst members of the house. I may now explain why the Government have found it impos- sible to submit resolutions to the House on the basis of the existing arrangement of 10s. 5d. per pound on letters, with the other subsidiary rates. 