in the Public Works Department was put on for night duty, which relieved the warders to a very considerable extent. What he wanted to point out now, however, was that the Gaolers in their annual reports, with only one exception, reported favourably on the warders under their charge, and that one exception was the Dunedin Gaol. Now, he believed that a month or two ago the Gaolers of the colony met in conference in Wellington, when it was decided, so he was informed, that in consequence of the attitude taken up by him (Mr. Arnold) last session, something must be done to punish these warders, and that punishment was to be found in the report, where it was stated that there was a desire on the part of the Dunedin warders to be off duty, and that they showed a spirit of indifference regarding duty. He believed that in both Wellington (Point Halswell) and Auckland (Fort Cantley) an officer was also appointed to perform night duty, and so relieve the warders of that work. The warders in the Dunedin Gaol had onerous duties cast upon them when the prisoners were working at Taiaroa Heads, and on returning to Dunedin they were called on to perform night duty. He hoped the Minister would see his way to allow this officer of the Public Works Department to continue to perform the night duty at Dunedin. Re- stecting the question of Sunday work, the Minister of Justice promised him last year that if it was found impossible to let the wanders off every other Sunday, they would be given a day or two every month, as in the lunatic asylums. Now, in the Dunedin Gaol https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 there was one warder who had only had one Ssl:bath off in twenty-four weeks, one had three in twenty-four, one had four in twenty-four, three had seven, one had eight, and one had / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero eleven. Honourable members would admit that these men-and a number were married men-should be allowed to return to their homes and spend Sabbath with their families more frequently than they were now permitted to do. The expense to the colony would be a mere bagatelle. Another difficulty had cropped up since last year : Each warder was allowed an annual leave of fifteen days, and it was the custom of the department to get an extra warder for that period from the Public Works Department. In March last, however, the In- spector, when in Dunedin, gave instructions that for the future the remaining warders should also take the work of the man who was off. He (Mr. Arnold) trusted the Minister would look into these matters, and rectify the grievances the warders undoubtedly laboured under. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said there was a system in Dunedin under which prisoners were taken from Dunedin to work at Taiaroa Heads, and there was a slight injustice in the working of that scheme, in this way: the married men who were taken down to the Heads to guard the prisoners were obliged to pay for their food, and at the same time they had, of course, to keep their families and their homes going in the town. He thought something extra-say, 1s. a day-might be allowed to men who were placed in such cir- cumstances. The officers in charge of the prisoners tree - planting were, he understood, allowed their rations. As to the hours of the warders, there was a system under which attendance in the evening did not seem to be counted in the hours of work, so that a man who went on at eight in the morning, and left at ten at night, was said to have done only eight hours' work. In that way the book that re- corded the hours of work done could hardly be said to be strictly correct. Again, the officers at the Heads, if off duty, should be allowed to come home on Saturdays and Sundays. He knew of one man who in twelve months had spent only about three months' evenings at home. There was another matter : the officers did not get a proper opportunity of answering charges that were brought before the Visiting Justices, and many times it seemed to him the fines that were inflicted were altogether out of proportion to the offence. There was, for in- stance, such a thing as a fine of 10s. for being five minutes late. He trusted the Minister would ascertain whether these statements were correct, and if they were, he hoped the honour- able gentleman would do something to remove the grievances. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) said, He felt that he must join with the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) , in deprecating the attack made by the senior member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) on Mr. Garvey, the Wellington Gaoler. It seemed hard to fathom the reason of such an attack. It was not a fair way to attack a man who had no opportunity to reply. You might as well tie a man's hands behind his back and then punch him in the face. It was not manly. For himself he had not the necessary knowledge of the details of the charges to enable him to speak in defence of Mr. Garvey, but he could, at any rate, say this : that Mr. Garvey was a man who was as capable as any gaoler in New Zealand. He was a firm disciplinarian, he was a kind and humane man, and he knew from personal observation that men who had to pass through his (Mr. Garvey's) hands, had nothing but eulogium for that gentleman. Mr. Garvey was absolutely just to all who came under his care. And it was wrong for the mem- ber for Wellington City to damn by suggestion without proof. It seemed to him that, no matter what answer the Minister might make, the injury was done, and some people would always imagine that there was something in the charges made by the honourable member. Mr. Hutcheson had only to father charges of the kind, and, no matter how unjust these : charges were, and how unfounded, some of the mud was bound to stick. However, as long as Mr. Garvey remained in the colony he would be surrounded by friends who would never believe these entirely personal reflections that had been made against him by the honourable gentleman. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) said that earlier in the evening he referred to the dis- \--- 