MAORI LANDS ADMINISTRATION BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- This is a sort of amending Bill of that of last session. When the Act of last session was brought down it was introduced with a great fanfare of trum- pets, as if it was going to make the Native lands administration the most perfect administration in the colony. What is the result ? We find, after passing that Act, that the land administra- tion is no further advanced than at the begin- ning of last session. It is true we had in His Excellency's Speech from the throne the follow- ing words put into his mouth-and I am sure he never tested their truth, or he would not have uttered them :- " I am pleased to inform you that the con- stitution of the Councils and Boards under the Maori Councils Act and Maori Lands Admin- istration Act has been proceeded with, and, with the exception of one part, the colony has been subdivided into districts. The outlook is very promising, and there is reasonable expecta- tion of waste lands owned by those of the Native race being thrown open ere long for settlement." And we in our Address, which I must confess I agreed to without looking at, say,- " We are pleased to hear that the Maori Coun- cils Act and the Maori Lands Administration Act of last session are working satisfactorily,. and that the outlook is very promising." I did not look at what I was agreeing to, but I certainly do not agree to the suggestion that the Maori Lands Administration Act is working satisfactorily, or has done so, because it has never worked at all, so far as I know ; and this very Bill is a proof that the words put into His Excellency's mouth are not in accordance with fact, and that the Address we agreed to is en- tirely erroneous in its words as regards this question. I do not see how any one who knows anything about Native legislation as a whole, or who has studied last year's Bill, could come to any other conclusion than that it is utterly unworkable, and would have to be amended before it could be brought into working-order. Any one who is conversant with the Maoris would know that the Act is an experiment. I think nearly every member who spoke on the second reading of that Act expressed the opinion that it was crude and unworkable, and it is proved to be so from the fact that the Native Minister has to bring down an amending Bill to amend all the machinery ; and not only an amending Bill, but also a new policy Bill, be- cause in one section it takes us back to the 1894 Act, and reverses the policy of last year's Bill. I should like the Minister to explain -and I think he should have explained-why all the districts supposed to be constituted under that Act have not been so constituted. And why was it that, after some of the districts were constituted and gazetted, and after the elections were held under the provisions of last year's Act, that the Crown appointees were not appointed ; and why was the Act not put into working-order ? We have heard nothing from the honourable gentleman who has introduced this Bill, and who is now in charge of it, as to why this Act was not put in working-order ; but he told us that it needed remedying in certain small defects. He did not put it that they were very large ones, and that this Bill was introduced to cure them. But the defects must have been very large-they must have been enormous-when the districts constituted last year were not even attempted to be worked. The elections were held, the Natives were sum- moned from all parts, expenses were incurred, and yet here is the outcome-that nothing has been done. Not even Crown appointees have been appointed, and the consequence is, everything is hung up, and this Bill is brought in as the Deus ex machina to remedy everything. I doubt myself whether it will remedy anything. Next year we shall come to the same conclu- sion, and we shall find another amending Bill brought in. We shall find the districts are not in working-order, and that the whole thing is hung up again for twelve months. Now, I should like to make a few remarks with regard to the Bill of last session. The great crux of the whole Bill was clause 22, and honourable mem- bers know that that clause was repeatedly amended both in this House and in another place, and that Conferences were held in respect to it. When the Premier brought down the last amendment of the clause to which the Con- ference from both Houses had agreed, I think it was in the early hours of the morning, when we were going through our business at a very rapid speed, and at the end of the session, and my opinion is that he misquoted the effects of the amendment arrived at by the Conference, and that he put a different complexion on it from what it really was when it came to be printed, or else he would not have got it agreed to. Now, Sir, the great point of that clause 22 was whether the Maoris were to be allowed to alienate their land except by way of lease or not. It was pointed out by the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkin- son), on the third reading of the Bill, that Mr. St. Clair, who had something to do with the drawing up of the Bill, had put in the Bill the words, " by way of lease," after the word " except," and that that was not in the Bill as brought down. The Premier said he would take a note of it, and that he would see that that was put in in the Upper House. I was opposed to that, because I had never been in favour of the land being exempted from sale. I will come to that presently, when I am deai- ing with the general policy of the measure. But the finally amended clause as it came down. clause 22, read as follows, and this is a quota- tion from Hansard, Volume 115, page 499 :- " A message was received from the Deputy Governor, transmitting certain amendments in this Bill. "Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the amend- ments made no material alteration in the Bill, and moved, That they be agreed to. "Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked how clause 22 read as amended. "Mr. SEDDON said it was as follows :- "' Immediately upon the coming into ope- ration of this Act, Maori land shall not be 