Urewera Commission, set up in 1896, composed of seven members, five of them Maoris. I chal- lenge the Government to go to Mr. Percy Smith, Judge Butler, and Mr. Scannell and ask what progress has been made since 1896 by that Com- mission. Why, the whole thing is a farce. If you had competent Judges or Assessors better work would be done. But this Commission has now been sitting for three years, and is no further ahead with its work, with these five Native Assessors. Mr. CARROLL .- They have got their title. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- They have got no title yet. Mr. CARROLL .- They have. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- When the honour- able member comes to reply he can show the title. That Commission is an absolute failure. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What is your alter- native ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I will come to that. Now, in the few remaining moments 7.30. at my disposal I wish to reply to an interjection made by the Native Minister, when he asked me what Acts similar to the measure now under consideration had been passed in Parliaments of years gone by, and which had been repealed. I wish to place on record the Acts that come under that category. They are: "The Native Circuit Courts Act, 1858," " The Native Land Act, 1862," " The Native Land Act, 1865," " The Native Land Act, 1873," sec- tion 73, "The Native Committees Act, 1883," section 14, " The Native Land Administration https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Act, 1886," "The Native Land Court Act, 1894 " (corporations), and " The Native Land Laws Amendment . Act, 1897 " (corporations). And specially would I refer to the Act of 1894, for in that Act it was provided that, if the Natives wished to form a corporation in which they could deal with their land, they could do so under that measure. But, Sir, although that Act has been on the statute-book for the last seven years, only one case is re- corded in which the sections of the Act have been brought into operation. I wish also to reply to an interjection made by the honourable member for Riccarton, who asked me, " What is your remedy for all this ? " and to that of the honourable member for the Northern Maori District, who said, "He has none." Honour- able members may take that retort for what it is worth; but I wish to say, without egotism, that I have fully explained my ideas on the Native question in the Wellington Evening Post, which newspaper did me the honour to give me three columns and three-quarters in the expression of my views upon the subject. The only point upon which there might have been a misapprehension-it was certainly not the fault of the newspaper-was that I was in favour of free-trade in Native lands. I am not in favour of free-trade; I am opposed to it ; and, though I do not advocate that the Govern- ment should wet-nurse the Natives, I say they should see that, outside any special alienation, the Native alienating has sufficient land for his maintenance. That is my remedy for the as much power to deal with their lands, as long as they have sufficient land for their main- tenance, as the Europeans have. As a body they should be allowed to lease their land in any area they choose, so long as we have the safeguard of the Trust Commissioner, who would make jealous inquiry as to the bona fides before granting confirmation. When that is done we have no reason to fear for the pro- sperity of the Natives. The Premier has said on several occasions that we have only five millions of acres of Native land left, and that it is barely enough for the remaining Natives in New Zealand-about forty thousand in number. Now, I ask the common-sense of the House, of what benefit those five million acres are to people who do not own it. That land belongs to the few who have not sold. Now, who has denuded the Natives of their land ? Isay-and I realise the seriousness of what I am saying- that up to 1894 there was not a landless Native in New Zealand unless his land had been con- fiscated by the Government. Mr. HEKE .- In the South Island the land was gone long before 1894. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I am not speaking of the South Island. I say that up to 1894 every transaction with regard to alienation had to go before an authorised Commissioner. He was an officer appointed by the Government. He was responsible for his actions. He had to inquire jealously into all transactions ; but im- mediately the Act of 1894 came into force we found landless Natives. And now, go to the old-age pensions officers, and you see swarming in, day after day, poor broken-down derelict Natives. Broken down by whom? By the present Government, who made no inquiry as to whether or not a man was selling his last acre. They took the land and gave their own price for it. In 1893 they passed the Native Land Acquisition and Purchase Act, a most just provision, which provided for a competent tribunal settling the price of Native land proposed to be purchased by the Crown-similar, in fact, to the Land for Settlements Act ; but, would the House and the country believe it ! not a single acre has been bought under that Act. The Government have ignored it, and made their own price for the land they have bought by their powers of pre- emption under the Act of 1894. It is a fact that Natives were offered £2 or £3 an acre for land which the Government subsequently ac- I could quired from them at 10s. an acre. quote numerous cases. In one instance the Government gave the Natives from 6s. up to 10s. an acre, and subsequently when one of the non-sellers died, and probate of the will was ap- plied for, it was discovered the same Govern- ment put a value of $1 2s. 6d. an acre on the land for probate duty. I repeat with regret that the Natives have been most unjustly treated by the legislation and administration of the present Government. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member's time is up. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) .- Sir, I de- 