It is we who will have to pay for the gratifica- tion of the Premier's vanity. In the few words I addressed to the House on the second reading of the Bill I mentioned that I had in former years studiously perused the whole of the literature relating to the Polynesian Islands. The honourable gentleman sneered in his illi- terate way. The honourable gentleman was not familiar with the parliamentary and poli- tical history of the subject. His education was When the Polynesian by no means perfect. scheme was submitted to Parliament the honour- able gentleman was not a member of this Legis- lature. He had not then learnt to toy with Governors and with visions of "extension of Empire." The question had not dawned upon him in any form or shape. Mr. SEDDON. - Oh, yes, it had. Mr. FISHER .- I will show the House pre- sently whether it had or not. Now, in moving the second reading of the Bill the honourable gentleman foreshadowed the system of govern- ment which he thought it necessary to intro- duce, and the works which he suggested should be carried out. He did not quite say that he would submit a public works policy and a railway-construction scheme for the Islands, but he did indicate that road-making would be necessary, and that a plan would have to be de- vised to improve the state of the fruit-crop, and especially to arrest the progress of some form of blight with which the oranges and lemons of the islands had become afflicted. Then, I look at the Bill again, with its complex provisions, and I ask whether, in the case of these simple, primitive islanders, it is compatible with com- mon-sense, with logic, or with any form of reason to apply to them a Constitution such as was given to the people of New Zealand in the year 1852? Why, the whole thing is an anachron- ism, an absurdity, a fit subject for laughter. What is behind it one cannot exactly say. We tell ourselves so, and we tell each other, but we whisper it softly, for we know the Premier is suffering from a severe attack of megalomania, and we observe how adroitly the Governor humours this form of malady. To a person not familiar with the subject it is interesting to read in the Bill of the " Federal Parliament," and the "Native Councils " which exist in the Islands. One would be led to believe that they had a Parliament in miniature somewhat re- sembling our own. But what is their " Federal Parliament "? It corresponds to the local bodies which the Native people of this country have amongst themselves, and which they very properly designate Native Committees. Mr. HERRIES .- But with more power. Mr. FISHER .- They have more power, but they resemble our Native Committees more than anything I can think of. And we speak of a "Constitution " and of a " Parliament " to manage a handful of simple, good-natured, harmless aborigines, as if we were proposing to govern an advanced and a civilised people. I object to it ; and I object on the more serious ground of the expenditure which the govern- ment of the Islands, as proposed in this Bill, VOL. CXIX .- 43. Zealand. The Bill provides for periodical visits from Judges or a Judge of the Supreme Court. The "Tutanekai " and the "Hinemoa " will prove extremely useful. Without doubt there will be periodical visits by His Excellency the Governor, and by the Premier ; and without doubt there will be periodical visits by George Fisher too, for I take an absorbing interest in the welfare of the simple islanders of Raro- tonga. Here we are again. Annexation is in the air. In the newspapers of Saturday last there is an announcement to the effect that the warship "Pylades " has annexed an island in the South Seas called Ocean Island, and I have no doubt that in course of time we shall be asked to establish a form of govern- ment and give a Constitution to this island. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many people are on it ? Mr. FISHER .- Exactly the same number as on Atiu and Mitiaro, of the Cook Group-none. Now, Sir, the honourable gentleman in moving the second reading of the Bill, said he had had this scheme under consideration for some con- siderable time, and after hearing what I have to say I will ask the honourable gentleman to state in his reply now whether that is so or not. I wish at this point to make one special remark : The honourable gentleman, in his reply on the second reading of the Bill, said that logically I had argued against myself in saying that it would have been a wise and a proper thing to annex the New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, and the Cook Group-which formed one great archipelago-but that it was a mis- take to annex the islands of the Cook Group. The honourable gentleman's power of analysis is defective. Let me point out to him the difference. It was originally proposed by Sir George Grey, Mr. Coleman Phillips, and others that all the islands, including the New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, and the Cook Islands, should be annexed to New Zealand. What a grand concep- tion ! What a future was before those islands ! What advantages they would have conferred upon this colony! That would have been a possession of which the English nation might have felt proud. But now that Fiji and Samoa have absolutely gone from beyond our control it is proposed to acquire these Cook Islands, which might be covered on the map with a thimble, which are the least valuable of the whole group of islands, and which are two thousand miles away from the Colony of New Zealand. I say that an examina- tion of this map now before me will convince any sane person that the proposal is not one that should be adopted by the people of New Zealand. And in connection with the whole subject I wish to point out that it is extremely unjust to Mr. Coleman Phillips, the originator of this Polynesian scheme, that to this mo- ment he should not have been rewarded for his untiring labour in connection with that scheme, and for the great services he rendered to this country. Finding that his brains had been appropriated wholesale by men who wished to make themselves famous at his expense, and 