House. But we must not go too far with it. niteen or twenty years ago we might have con- We must not intimidate or prevent the Natives gratulated the Minister on bringing it forward, but I am afraid it has been left to a very late from carrying out works of carving and mat- hour for us to endeavour to conserve the making. If it is made mandatory that they valuable relics and historical reminiscences we are not allowed to sell anything in the way of bave of the past. Before saying a few words on carving, then it is only a matter of a few years the Bill, I would like to remark that it was when it will become a lost art. At the pre- very pleasurable to listen to the speech of the sent moment we have artists-no other word honourable member for Waitemata. It was not can I use-in the Maori race making most beautiful things. Possibly they may be in only that he dealt very carefully with the measare, and offered very feasible and far-see- imitation of historical weapons, historical ing suggestions for its amendment, but he also mats, historical patus, but still they are re- gave us a pleasant twenty or thirty minutes of miniscences of the past, and if we cannot get the original we should certainly keep a Maori history, and I only regret that there were not more members present, and that the replica if we can purchase it. We should not in any way deter the Natives from making others, galeries were not packed to the doors. I am not saying this in any satirical way; I am in but give them encouragement to preserve the earnest in my remark, for it would have been art of their ancestors. The view I take is that a revelation. especially to members from the the Government, in instituting this museum, or South Island, if they could only realise the at- whatever the Minister may propose to call it-I traction there is in the subject, even for those suppose it will be a national gallery of Native who have only touched the hem of the garment history-should have the right of refusal. That of Maori history. It would also attract those is to say, if any person has a Maori curiosity he who have not had that intercourse with the wishes to sell, either inside or outside the colony, Natives that those who have come from the the Government should have the first right of North Island have, and it might have caused purchase or refusal. Honourable members will them to take a little more interest in the Native notice there is no provision made as to deciding legislation that is year after year brought before what is a fair price as between the Government the House, and with regard to which, I regret and the owner of the property. That will, no doubt, have to be provided for by regulation. to say, a satisfactory horizon is not yet visible. I would here say that honourable members have perhaps been interested in the measure buy. by some of the stories that were told by the Those honcurable member for Waitemata. reference in section 3 to the effect that Maori are stories that have been handed down from relics must be first offered for sale to the Go- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 vernment. I presume that the inference is that the arrival of the migration, and previous to that the Government has power to buy them, though were handed down generation after generation by the historians of sunny Hawaiki. And, when it is not so specifically stated in the Bill. we have this Maori museum, I trust that side by side with the Maori relics will be placed volumes chronicling the folklore of the Maoris, which I ment in that direction will be accepted by the Minister in Committee. Now, in section 4, understand is now being collected by an expert from what the Minister has told me, there is on behalf of the Government. If those books a word which is not intended. It says, in the were printed, I believe that members would pre- event of the Governor in Council declining to fer to go to them, to revel in them, to delight in purchase such Maori relic, "it shall not be law- them, rather than to very many of the books ful to remove the same from the colony." It now on the shelves of our library. The stories should read "it shall be lawful." However, told by the Maoris are beautiful in conception. that is probably a printer's error, and will be Their ideas, their proverbs, are classical, and it corrected. Now, this Bill, when placed on the is no exaggeration to say that it cannot be statute-book, should simply give the Govern- imagined by the European what he has lost by ment the right of refusal, not an absolute not being better acquainted with the Maori, pre-emptive right over the whole of the Maori and with the unwritten history of the race. I curios. That is to say, if I have a collection venture to suggest that the honourable member of Maori curios, before I can sell to any for Waitemata, who has a marvellous flow of other person I must give the Government language, a marvellous diction, owes much of the right to purchase any curio I have. it. as does the Native Minister himself, But those are amendments that can be made to the fact that he has spent much time when we get into Committee. The honourable with the Maoris, learned their language, member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) was conversed with them, and inhaled with their afraid the Bill was too drastic, as it would pre- poetic legends the picturesqueness of their vent people from selling curios outside the expression and mental ideas. I believe we colony. But many of our laws are drastic. For would have the most euphemistical way of instance, we do not allow certain goods to come speaking that any educated person could pos- into the country until the Customs duties are sibly dream of if we were but to study the paid, which is drastic though necessary ; and, Maori language and the Maori expressions. in a different way, we must have a drastic Sir, as to the Bill, I wish to say that its object remedy for this danger which is threatening is undoubtedly a good one, and I am sure it An Hon. MEMBER .- There is no authority to Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, there is a An Hon. MEMBER .- It should be stated. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Possibly an amend- 