sly-grog dealing were sheeted home to them they would be disqualified from further employment. The department, therefore, was doing its best to deal with the question the honourable gentle- man referred to. THE MISSING STEAMER " MONOWAI." The Hon. Colonel PITT begged leave to ask the Hon. the Minister of Education, without notice, Whether, in the event of the steamers " Mokoia" or " Corinna " reaching Hobart without tidings of the steamer " Monowai," the Government would make application through the proper channel for one of His Majesty's warships from New Zealand and one from Tasmania being sent in search of the missing vessel. He did not wish to raise unnecessary alarm in this matter. He under- stood the Union Company were taking very energetic steps to ascertain what had become of the missing vessel, but he thought it was only right that a couple of warships should be sent in search, in the event of the two steamers he had mentioned reaching their destination without tidings of the "Monowai." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the honourable gentleman might feel certain that no step would be omitted by the Government to deal with the urgency of the situation. The Government steamer "Tutanckai "' was already leaving to go down the Coast, and take the first share so far as the search was concerned ; and if it was found necessary to ask the Naval authori- ties to send one or two of their ships on the same errand, the Government would do their duty and see that the request was made through the proper channel. INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBI- TRATION BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, I should like to draw the attention of the Council to the return which has just been presented. It is incorrect, in one instance. The return states that in the Auckland District, six cases were settled by the Board-namely, tailors, saddlers, flourmillers, tanners, Hikurangi coalminers, and painters. I know, as a fact, the saddlers' dispute was not settled by the Auckland Board. The recommendations were not accepted, and it was taken before the Arbitration Court. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND. - When I yesterday asked for the post ponement of the consideration of this Bill, I said I wished for time to see the amendments and also the evidence. We have had time since then to look at the amendments in the Bill, and I need not take up more time over them, except to say that I agree that the amendments made are in the right direction. But in regard to the evidence, we are still in the same position as we were yesterday-we have no evidence. I understand the Com- mittee did take evidence on the part of the subject to which I wanted to call attention- the administration of the affairs of the Con- ciliation Board in the District of Wellington. I am told the Chairman of the Board was Hon Mr. W. C. Walker the head of the Department of Labour; but I have no knowledge of what took place, and am unable to say whether the inquiry was of an exhaustive character, as it ought to have been, considering the allegations and statements cur- rent in the City of Wellington during the session on the management of business by that Court. It is quite proper at this stage to say it has been a matter of common report in the City of Wel- lington that the business of the Conciliation Board in Wellington-I cannot speak of other places, because I have not heard of any similar reports as to the proceedings there-but the Conciliation Board in Wellington has been characterized by this very undesirable circum- stance : that some of its members have been persons who have made it their business, have been living practically upon the moneys they derived from the sittings of that Board. I have heard it from numbers of respectable citizens in this town that some of those persons have, to their knowledge, been in the habit of going about fomenting cases outside which they themselves were to hear, that that has been their common practice, and that in that way the Wellington Board has been sitting and has been employed to a very much larger extent than any other Board in the colony. I believe myself that these statements have a good deal of truth in them, and I have them from persons of undoubted repute, and they have been matters of common belief in this City of Wellington. If they are true, they must have reached-as I feel sure they have reached-the ears of the Government, and, in my opinion, they ought to have been the sub- ject of the most careful investigation, so that if there was truth in them the Government might have proposed such alterations in the constitu- tion of these Boards as would have led to an obviation of such scandals in the future. I can conceive nothing worse, if it be true what is commonly reported, that it has been the practice of some of these members-two or three of them, at any rate-to go about while they were hearing cases, fomenting business for themselves to hear as judges, and so keep them- selves in employment. Nothing could be worse than that, and the whole conduct of the Con- ciliation Board of this city, so far as I have heard, has been in entire opposition to what Parliament was led to believe would be the characteristic of these Boards when we agreed to pass this measure. If these reports be true, we have had a most important body in this colony so conducting its busi- ness as to be making up disputes for itself to hear. Could anything be worse ? If there be any truth in these reports-and I sav they are generally believed, and they are looked upon as a common scandal -- the most exhaus- tive inquiry ought to take place into them. I am unable, in the absence of the evidence, to say how far this inquiry has been exhaustive, but it ought to have been of the most searching character, and it ought to have been the busi- ness of the Government to have seen that the evidence was forthcoming to dispose of such 