the House that the Government had offered £4 10s. per acre for the land. He believed the highest offer the Government had made was $4. They found now that the Court had awarded $5 10s. per acre. This would argue that the Assessment Court knew nothing of business, or was out of its reckoning to the extent of 25 per cent .; and, that being so, that it might be similarly out of its reckon- ing in connection with the purchase of land in other districts. He did not approve of the manner in which the land was being acquired at the present time by the Government for settlement when there were thousands of acres of good Crown land only waiting for proper roads and bridges to be made to insure very much better settlement than could be got by the pur- chase of estates. That was not a good policy or a wise policy in the interests of the colony. If the members of the Government would only spend a little of the time wasted in careering around the colony in going into the back blocks over the supposed roads, and studying the manner in which the land - settlement was being carried on under existing circumstances, he was sure that, instead of spending the amounts in the Imprest Supply Bill on public works, the money would be spent in opening up lands for settlement by the construction of the necessary roads. As the honourable member for Egmont had said, the Ministers only went to these localities in summer ; but to that there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was an exception in favour of the Minister of Lands, who last year made a valorous attempt to see something of these settlements, and who, when he (Mr. Pirani) saw him, was riding a horse that was endeavouring to carry him through what was, by courtesy, termed a road, but over which there was something like 3 ft. 6 in. to 4 ft. of mud. Resolution agreed to, and reported to the House. The Bill was then introduced and read a first, a second, and a third time. TRUSTEE BILL. A message was received from the Legislative Council insisting on their amendment in this Bill, and transmitting the following reasons for so insisting :- "1. That, under the law as it now stands, any person becoming entitled to a share in a company in any way other than by transfer, may elect to have some person, to be named by him, registered as a transferee of such share. "2. That the effect of new clause 6A is only to allow a trustee or executor to be placed on the share register of a company in respect of any share, but with no greater exemption from liability than he has now whilst not registered as owner of any such share. "3. That, inasmuch as the new clause 6A provides for the consent of the directors being necessary to the registration of any such trustee or executor as the proprietor of any share, the expense of an application for an order of a Judge of the Supreme Court or of a District Court Judge should not be required." Council did not seem to have struck the point the House had taken exception to-namely, that a trustee or an executor should not become a shareholder in this particular class of pro- perty. However, it was a somewhat remote contingency, and he did not know that it was worth while holding a Conference. He there- fore moved, That the House do not insist on its reasons for disagreeing to the new clause. Motion agreed to. SUPPLY. IN COMMITTEE. PUBLIC WORKS FUND. CLASS XX .- PUBLIC WORKS, DEPARTMENTAL. Public Works, Departmental, £13,250. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) presumed that on the first item a general discussion would be allowed on the public works esti- mates. The ACTING- CHAIRMAN said, No ; that rule only applied to the main estimates. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked whe- ther the salaries of the persons engaged in the various centres were included under the heading of " Salaries " in this class. If so, he would like to know which was the salary of the Engineer on the Otago Central Railway. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the salary of the 'Engineer on the Otago Central was not on the estimates. The salaries of officials in the head and district offices were in this class. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) referred to the item " Extra clerical and drafting assist- ance, £2,000." That seemed to be a large ex- penditure. The salaries of the rest of the staff, excluding the Under-Secretaries and the Engineers, came to about $4,000. Com- pared with that sum the amount for extra assistance appeared large. He also would like the Minister to give the items of the vote for contingencies. Mr. HALL-JONES said the extra clerks were employed in the head and district offices throughout the colony. The amount appeared large, but, when divided up among so many officers, the amount was reasonable. The items of the contingencies vote were :- 11 18 4 Cadette Periodicals and supplies for drafting 79 17 11 room Lands and Survey Department litho- 199 7 6 graphic work, &c. Telephone Exchange connections .. 60 14 5 31 12 Typewriters and requisites 0 .. 5 7 Freight 2 Payment to Chief Clerk for extra services during absence of Under Secretary in England .. 0 50 0 G. Fitzgerald, for removal expenses 30 0 0 Law expenses 0 7 7 Fee for attending inquiry, Inch Valley 1 1 0 .. 3 Sundry supplies 7 . . £481 8 11 