the finance of the country, and it seemed to own district where the Government actually him it would have been wiser if the passing of could not get sufficient applicants to take up the land they had purchased under the Land the Imprest Bill were postponed to enable the for Settlements Act, and they had given one ap- Government to bring down their Appropriation Bill and to get the authorisation of the expendi- plicant the right to take up land although he was not qualified, because he held more than the ture of the moneys in detail. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) would like to area of land prescribed by the Act. But it was impossible for the land to be taken up in any correct the honourable gentleman who had just other way; for the simple reason that, while at spoken in his reference to a settler who, he the time the Land Purchase Board inspected it alleges, was permitted to take up land illegally. it was splendid land to buy, but the Land Pur- Now, the disposal of lands acquired under the Land for Settlements Act was in the hands of chase Board forgot that in the winter time there the Land Board, and, happening to be a mem- were rains and floods. He quiteagreed with the ber of the Wellington Land Board, he knew honourable member for Riccarton that those who lived in the locality, and more especially positively that there was no selector who was those who represented the district, knew more permitted to take up any land other than of the circumstances all the year round in re- strictly within the four corners of the law. gard to such land than any official who merely Therefore, the honourable gentleman's state- visited it for the purpose of inspection. ment was erroneous in that case. He had heard of persons who were capable of removing An Hon. MEMBER .-- You opposed members of Parliament being put on the Board. mountains, but here was a person capable of Mr. PIRANI still opposed it, but he thought removing a river. The honourable gentleman referred to the Greenaway Estate as being in the Government ought, at any rate, to give his district, and if it was in the honourable members an opportunity of opposing any un- desirable land-purchase. He did not say that gentleman's district then he must have moved the Oroua River. land ought to be purchased on the recom- mendation of a member of Parliament, as that Mr. PIRANI .- It is in your district. would only open another avenue to what had Mr. STEVENS said, Quite so ; but if the honourable gentleman's first statement went been so strongly condemned in the past ; but if a member representing the district could show without contradiction, like many other state- ments made by him, it would lead the House to a reason why the land should not be acquired, suppose that the honourable gentleman's state- he should have an opportunity of doing so. ment in this respect was perfectly correct. With But, as a matter of fact, members of the House respect to the acquisition of land for settlement knew nothing about these land - purchases. They were done secretly, silently, and surrep- purposes, let him say that, although he was not in any way connected with the Land Purchase titiously in regard to lands not purchased com- Board, nor did he know anything about it be- pulsorily ; and the first information about a transaction was the fact that the land had yond the fact that before any purchase was made by the Board a valuation was made by been acquired. In his own district there had one of the most independent valuers that could been a petition got up lately to ask the Govern- be got - he referred to Mr. Ewan Campbell, ment to purchase an estate known as Mr. who could not be said to be in any degree what- Greenaway's Estate. It was a magnificent piece of rich land, and well worth the money ; ever connected with the Government politically. but if the Government purchased that land This gentleman was one of the most competent valuers that could be found ; although, of and thought they were going to put small set- tlers on it, they would find a great mistake had course, mistakes might be made by the Land been made when the floods began to arrive. Purchase Board as well as by private in- Under these circumstances the request of the dividuals. With respect to the flood which honourable member for Riccarton was a very was going to devastate this Greenaway Estate reasonable one -- that the Government before if purchased, let him say that, when the proper drainage was completed in all the finally concluding a purchase of the kind should tract of country which lies below, the estate consult somebody in the district who had been would be practically free from danger by resident there for some years, and who knew generally the circumstances. The Bill before flood, and, even supposing that there were the House was of rather an extraordinary periodical floods every two or three years, the nature. They were told that Parliament was quality of the land was such that it would going to end its session this week. Friday even bear still water lying upon it for several next was the exact day which had been fixed days without serious danger to the occupants. for the Appropriation Bill. Under these cir- He said, if such statements as were made by the honourable member for Palmerston were cumstances, as Friday was the first of the to influence in any way the Land Purchase month, he did not see any necessity for an Imprest Supply Bill at all. This was the fifth Board, then he was very sorry for the Land Imprest Supply Bill of the session, and the Purchase Board, because the whole of that result would be that practically the whole of country near Greenaway's Estate was suitable, the funds-three-fourths of the funds - placed in his opinion, to be cut up into 100-acre farms. at the disposal of the Government for the year With respect to the Morrison Estate, to which the honourable gentleman referred, admittedly would be at their disposal, irrespective alto- gether of the Appropriation Bill. He did not floods did go upon that, but every year the risk of flood was being lessened. think that was a proper method of carrying on 