trading with a European without permission, about going from one village to another on the Sabbath, preventing tattooing, against crying over a dead woman that is not a relative, and we have one which, I think, is very significant, and one which we might well copy with advan- tage in this country, and if the money realised was applied for local purposes local bodies would be in a lucrative position : "Any person con- vieted of slandering his neighbour may be fined not exceeding ten dollars." If that were applied to some of the members of this House, what a revenue there would be. There is another law to provide for the rating of land in the occupation of foreigners ; and I notice that the Maoris have adopted the same prin- ciple that they should rate other people, but have taken very great care to exclude them- selves. Well, we did that for them in our colony, so I suppose they have taken a lesson from us. I may say that these laws only apply to the Cook Island Group. There have been some amendments, some have been repealed, and it was no use my getting them published in printed form until I could have them com- plete and up to date, showing the law as it now stands. If I had had them printed as they are, I might have been giving to the world laws that are non-existent. I may say that these laws have been passed by the Federal Parlia- ment, and, having been sanctioned by the Go- vernor of New Zealand, we may, I think, with safety re-enact them, until the opportunity arises for our passing laws dealing with the several questions for the Islands ourselves. The https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 member for Waitemata will be pleased to hear that they have a law giving a flag for the Islands, known as the "Federal Flag." They have an Act dealing with births, deaths, and marriages, and also a divorce law. This divorce law is, in my opinion, much superior to what we have in this colony. There the parties seeking relief have to go before Parliament, and the names of these parties appears in the schedule to the Bill ; and I presume in these cases inquiry is made, and that they will not place persons divorced in the schedule of an Act of Parliament unless they are satisfied that there is necessity for the sepa- ration. Now, I will leave this part of the Bill and come to the business part of it, which mem- bers will require to have some information upon. Turning to section 3, the gradual introduction of our Acts of Parliament by Order in Council, exception may probably be taken to that ; but, really, I see no other way, and on making inquiries I find that practically that is what has been done in respect to other islands, and through, of course, the Commissioner of the Western Pacific. It will be necessary for us to settle upon our Courts of justice and the administration of our laws in the Islands. That is provided for in section 4. But before I deal with that, I think I might go into the adminis- tration or business part of the question as affecting the Islands. I have here some advice that has been tendered by the British Resident. He says, with respect to Customs,- " That Rarotonga shall be proclaimed the VOL. CXIX .- 20. duty on all goods intended to be landed at any one of the following islands : Mangaia, Mitiaro, Atiu, Mauke, Aitutaki, Penryhn, Manihiki, Rakahanga, or Pukapuka, and that a heavy penalty be provided for any breach of this order. That all goods intended for Niue, Palmerston, or Suwarrow shall pay duty either at Rarotonga or at Niue before landing." Then, in respect to the introduction of taxation, or a tariff, he says,- " If it is intended to introduce the New Zealand tariff into the Cook and northern Islands, the free list will be so large and there will be so much trouble over small parcels- which it will be contended have already paid duty in New Zealand-that we should be authorised to impose an octroi of, say, 5 per cent. on all goods that would otherwise be duty-free. Also, in aid of revenue, we should be allowed to use the Cook Islands stamps for some time to come, as a simple permission of this description means at least $300 a year to us. The revenue received under the Traders License Act-namely, $250 per annum-is a form of taxation common to the Pacific." The Resident Agent advises strongly 8.0. that this should remain in force, not only for the purposes of taxation, but also that only persons of integrity and good character, and those who will deal fairly with the natives, and will not take grog to the islands, shall be allowed to trade. He looks upon this licensing of traders as being very necessary. Then, on the question of our laws, he says,- "I submit for your consideration that the circumstances under which these Islands exist differ so greatly from those of New Zealand that it would be disastrous to introduce the laws of that place unless actually required for the wel- fare of the community or any section thereof." I wish members to bear that in mind when I ask them to support this measure. In respect to local self-government he advises,- " A modification of the old provincial system of New Zealand might probably suit the Pacific Islands ; but any such system, if it is intended to be palatable to the Arikis, should have no element of election. The Councils should be nominated, for the reason that the real leaders of the people will not submit to election, and therefore a law of this nature forces them to nominate inferior men, who are elected whether the people like it or not, and are mere mouth- pieces of the real rulers, the Arikis." An Hon. MEMBER .- How can you keep that out ? Mr. SEDDON .- This is what the Resident Agent suggests : - "Under these conditions it seems preferable to use the ancient hereditary power at hand, and appoint the Arikis and Kavanas to the Council, with a European officer as President, when possible." That is the form of government he suggests. It will be noticed that I have not seen my way to adopt that suggestion ; but we have provided in this Bill for a local Council. Then, there comes a difficulty we have to contend with. 