Sir, to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentleman seemed to gather the impression that I wish to lower wages. I have no desire to lower wages, but what I do wish to see is that similar labour in the country and in the towns should receive the same rate, and if the country industry cannot afford to pay town wages, then it is evident that they are kept up artificially, and at the expense of the general consumer. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton). - Mr. Speaker, it is almost a subject for regret that the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) should have delivered the speech he delivered to-night, as the Bill might otherwise have gone through without debate at all. I regret very much this discussion has taken place. A Committee, con- sisting of members representing every shade of opinion in this House, has been occupied for some ten or eleven weeks going through every clause of the Bill now under discussion, and striking out every clause which we thought would be injurious to the farming community, the employer, or the worker, or to any one engaged in spending money and improving the wellbeing of the country-in fact, in doing its very best to make the Bill acceptable to worker and employor alike ; and, in view of the discus- sion which took place on the second reading and while the Bill was in Committee, it would have been. wiser to have allowed the third reading to go through without any discussion. However, the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) has seen fit to start a discussion, and the discussion has waxed loud and long, and it has travelled https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 over every conceivable subject under the sun. The honourable member for Waihemo has just devoted himself to showing how we were en- deavouring to set town against country. I do not think there is a single man in the House who would for an instant attempt such a thing. What does this present Bill provide ? It is simply a focussing-a gathering together of all previous Acts on this subject. The only new clauses that I can remember in the Bill are, first, the clause affirming that a week's work in a factory for an adult man shall be forty- eight hours, and for women and children forty- five hours, and that any one working over that time shall be paid time and a quarter for over- time, and it also limits the amount of over- time. Then, in one or two of the other clauses there is provision for better sanitary arrangements, and it also absolutely prohibits the employment of women and children in certain dangerous trades, which are specified. Now, Sir, those are almost all the new 11.30. provisions in the Bill Why, in 1874, twenty-seven years ago, a Factory Bill was passed that provided that women and children in factories should not be allowed to work more than eight hours a day, and should not work . after six o'clock in the evening or before nine o'clock in the morning, that they were to have a half-holiday every Saturday and four full holidays in the year, and that they should be paid for these half-holidays and full holidays. That was twenty-seven years ago. This Fac- efforts ; and no man, except one going in for the veriest claptrap, and trying by false means to raise himself on to some pedestal, would say that this was a setting of the town against the country. The honourable member for Wai- hemo contrasted the farm labourers receiving £1 10s. a week and the labourers in the town getting 10s. a day. I come from a town where the wharf labourers get 10s. a day, and what are the average earnings of those labouring men ? about £1 18s. 6d. per week. One honourable member says they ought to work a full week. That they would gladly do if they could, but they cannot, because of the intermittent cha- racter of the work. If a steamer comes in, and there is not an ample supply of labour, the cry is raised that the men are making a close cor- poration of the work, and pressure is brought to bear on them to increase the number of men in their union, and the result is that the wages again fall below what is a living wage. Men in the country getting £1 5s. a week and found are infinitely better off than the man in town with intermittent labour at 10s. a day, and the member for Waihemo knows it; and yet he talks as he has been talking about the towns trying to rob the country. He is simply trying to play himself off against the town members for an object. During the recess, if I have time, I shall go into the country, and I shall show the farmers how the facts in this matter really stand ; and I am proud to say that some of the most enthusiastic friends we have in favour of advanced legislation are amongst the farming community. They are not all Conservatives, many are as liberal as many of the advanced Liberals in this House, and are as anxious to see that justice is done to the poor man in the town as to see benefits accrue to themselves. But I regret to say that the honourable member for Waihemo is not one of these men. He is trying to use the farmer as a means to climb into power. He is trying to use this Farmers' Union - this resuscitated "National Ass." for political purposes. But during the recess some of us will pull the horse-cover from the Farmers' Union, and we shall see the "National Ass." under it in all its hideous deformity. He quotes the price at which wheat can be grown in the Argentine, and then he tells us that is because of the low wages that are paid. Not at all, it is because of the reasonable price of the land. He also said that sheep used to be sold by the farmers at 3s 6d., and that now they were getting 14s. for them. Who is reaping the bene- fit? Only one person-the man who owns the land of the country. That enhanced value of the sheep is not added on to the earnings of the farmer, who has got to pay rent, or to the earn- ings of the country worker, the shearer, and the shepherd, who ought to get a share of it, but on to the unearned increment ; and it is the unearned increment that we will get at yet. But that is outside the question that we are dealing with at present. I regret that members who have spoken about this Factories Bill have gone so wide of the mark. Speaking for myself, 