PRISONERS. Mr. HUTCHESON asked the Minister of Justice, Whether the Visiting Justices to the Wellington gaols have inquired into the recent escape of prisoners from Point Halswell Gaol ; if not, why not ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said, In answer to the first part of the question, he had to say, No. As to the second part, the recent escapes of prisoners had been inquired into by the Inspector. In all such cases an inquiry was held by the Inspector if he was available, and, if he was not available, by the Visiting Justices. # CHARGES OF DRUNKENNESS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) 3.30. asked the Minister of Justice, Whether his attention has been called to the following passage in the annual report of the Commis- sioner of Police : "As stated in my previous reports, I think the increase in the number of charges of drunkenness is attributable to the continued prosperity of the colony"? In all their references to the beneficial legislation of this Government the Premier and other mem- bers of the Ministry had said that the prosperity of the colony was due to the legislation of this Ministry. The Government were themselves, in fact, the makers of that prosperity. Mr. Tunbridge said the prosperity was the cause of the increased drunkenness. Therefore, the drunkenness was distinctly traceable to the action of the Premier and his Government. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that, however ingenious the deductions of the honourable gentleman might be, he had no hesitation in saying he could not indorse them. Experience had shown that the general prosperity of the colony did increase the amount of drunkenness. He agreed with Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge in regard to the pro- sperity of the colony. # ENGLISH SUNDAY CLOSING-HOURS, ETC. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether he has carefully studied the following statement contained in the annual report of the Commissioner of Police: "I reiterate the remarks made in former reports on the question of the law being amended on the lines of ' The Intoxicat- ing Liquors Act, 1872,' in force in England, which renders any person who is neither a lodger nor bona fide traveller found on the premises during prohibited hours liable to a prosecu- tion "? And whether the Commissioner of Police has at any time called the honourable gentleman's attention tosection 24 of the English " Intoxicating Liquors Act, 1872," which is as follows : "Subject as hereinafter mentioned, all premises on which intoxicating liquors are sold or exposed for sale by retail shall be closed as follows : that is to say, on Sunday, Christmas Day, and Good Friday, during the whole day before one of the clock in the afternoon, and between the hours of three and six of the clock the clock at night "? And, also, whether the Minister of Justice has any intention of ap- plying the English Sunday closing-hours to licensed houses in the Colony of New Zealand ? It was now two months and ten days since he put this question on the Order Paper, and, that being so, the House would not wonder that all interest in it had died out. At the time it would have been of interest to know whether the honourable gentleman or the Government had any intention to introduce the clauses of the English Act into the colonial Licensing Act. He knew from a close study of the English Act how desirable many of its provisions were, and he had therefore deemed it advisable to put this question to the Government. As a logician of some standing, the Minister must see that one must follow the other. If the clauses sug- gested by his colleague Mr. Atkinson were viewed in an affirmative light in one case, the answer must be in the affirmative in the other. The Commissioner of Police, in his annual report, recommended the Government to bring in one of the clauses recommended by Mr. Atkinson, and he (Mr. Fisher) now asked the honourable gentleman whether, having un- bounded confidence in his Commissioner of Police, he intended to bring in the clause he (Mr. Fisher) referred to. The one was the necessary corollary of the other. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) thought the honourable gentleman would hardly blame him for the delay that had taken place in answering the question. As for the honour- able gentleman's explanation of the question, it really confused the matter still more : at any rate, the honourable gentleman had not made it very clear to him (Mr. McGowan). In regard to the introduction of the new clauses suggested by the honourable member, he had no intention at present to give notice of any new clauses in the Licensing Act. The honour- able member had himself given notice to move four new clauses. Other honourable members had also given notice of several new clauses, and he (Mr. McGowan) had no intention of pro- posing any additional clauses until he had seen those that were being brought forward. Pos- sibly the clauses the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) was going to introduce were the very clauses he (Mr. McGowan) himself wished to introduce, and until he saw them he declined to say what his intentions were in re- gard to the Bill. # AUSTRALIAN LOTTERY ADVERTISE- MENTS. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Justice, If he will give effect to the recommenda- tion of the Public Petitions A to L Committee to remit the fine imposed on John Grant, Wood- ville, for publishing Australian lottery advertise- ments in the Woodville Examiner ? He hoped the Minister would give the question the con- sideration it deserved. He knew it was almost impossible to get a Minister of the Crown or the Government to alter a decision once it had been arrived at, no matter what the justice of the 