light eyes, evil eyes-the eyes that fascinated and the stare that makutu'd ; but they did not know of wax-eyes .- \-" and adorned with figures of ferns and creeping plants in the background. But His Excellency, though very sensible of the compli- ment to himself, refused to take the donation as a personal gift, deeming it to be 'unusual and improper for Governors of colonies to accept such valuable presents for their own use and advantage.' Nevertheless, with the consent of the donor, he undertook that it should be deposited in the Government House as public property, and as a lasting memorial of interest to the colonists and to visitors from abroad ; for it had always been his opinion that the Government House should illustrate the natural products and resources of the colony and the advance of its inhabitants in the use- ful and ornamental arts." And in appreciation of this graceful action of Sir George Bowen I should like to add to what I have just quoted my own experience when on a trip to the Old Country. I had a few hours at Malta, and I had the pleasure of visiting the museum at Government House, and what was most interesting there were the relics asso- ciated with the past history of that island. For instance, there was part of the dress worn by the intrepid Turkish general who fell in striving to retain that historic island for Moslem rule. There were specimens of the weapons and fire-arms that were used centuries ago ; and in the crypt of St. John's Cathedral I gazed with feeling interest on the actual armour worn by the two great warrior knights who did much to relieve Christendom from the scourge of the Turk. There were also the actual keys of Jeru- salem, which belonged to Godfrey of Bouillon. Any student of history and lover of liberty feeis a thrill of delight to look at and handle the relics of historical individuals of centuries ago. What would I not give, for instance, Mr. Speaker, if I could only have the very mere and the skin and bone of the tuatara which figured in the first great battle betwixt the Ngatiwhatua and the Waiohua, who a hundred and fifty years ago were the tribe occupying all the country about the City of Auckland, ending in disaster and slaughter to the latter. It took place close to Titirangi, a short distance west of Auckland. A chief of the Ngatiwhatua went out reconnoitring very early one morning. He was perfectly nude and well covered with shark's oil and ochre, shippery to the grip of a foeman. Suddenly he met the chief of the opposing sido-his enemy - bent on similar errand and equally prepared, and instantly they met together in deadly struggle, and the thud of their clashing limbs was heard afar, when, suddenly, the Ngati- whatua managed to impress with his mere a light tap ou the forehead of his antagonist, causing him to reel somewhat, to be quickly followed by a cloven skull; and, as the dying chief opened his mouth in the last gasp, a tuatara, a species of lizard, sprang from his mouth into that of the conquerer, who swallowed it, and so, possessed of that which had belonged to the Waiohua. An honourable member near says "Rubbish." I ask you, Mr. Speaker, how is it possible for me to maintain the fervour of my reliance on what was intrusted to me by an old tohunga as a great historic fact, amid the murmured scoffs of these unbelievers around me? I would give almost everything for that mere, and to see the veritable creature that was swallowed. Now, there are special features about the antiquities of New Zealand. In the first place, perhaps honourable members have not realised that the continuous scroll of the Maoris is a specialty of the race, and in that way I take exception to the honourable gentle- man who has previously spoken, and who con- sidered that we could get from the stores bequeathed by the ancient Maori evidence of the gradual progress of the human being from the Stone age to the more advanced period of man. I take it that the Maori race affords evidence in the opposite direction. If anybody claimed to have discovered proofs that the Maori race belonged to the ancient Egyptians I should be ready to believe it. The Maori race are the possessors of a perfected cerebral development. No better evidence of that can be supplied than by the fact that, when we took the sons of cannibals and educated them, they developed a taste for mathematics, and when they left the schools were still students of one of the most advanced sciences in which the human mind can revel. And if there is anything which honourable members who feel an interest in the Maori race should regret it is that they had not a literature, and therefore the means of storing their history, poetry, and imaginative creations. All that they had was the trifle transmitted by oral tradition ; and yet the poetry that remains is all akin to the principles on which rest the beautiful conceptions of Shakespeare. They have for themes the thrilling impulses of human passion, the conceptions of the human brain, struggling with the trammels of a meagre phrase- ology to give impressive expression to ideals of beauty and a patriotic endearment to country and kainga. All these are special themes of the Maori song and the framework of their lore ; and the pity is they had not a literature in which they could store it, each generation, as with us, building on the intellectual structures of preceding ages. But for them it sprung up spontaneously, as if indigenous in the heart and brain of the Maori. Honourable members may not have realised the importance that attaches to the continuous scroll, that is an inseparable feature in Maori art. There is only one spot, I believe-and upon this I had the assurance of Sir George Grey-only one spot in the world where there is any resemblance to the continuous scroll, which the art of the Maori claims for its own, and that is in Mexico ; and we know there have been lately made very remarkable discoveries in that part of Mexico known as Yucatan, showing the ruins of Cyclo- pean structures that may have been the pro- ductions of the ancient Egyptians, who may have reached America by travelling over the 