preferential trade within the Empire. Then, there was the late Sir John Macdonald, of Canada. Every one knows that he was an empire-builder, and surely the remarks of a man occupying that position must be worthy of consideration. And we also have Sir Wil- fred Laurier, the present Premier of Canada. Then, we have Lord Rosebery, an Imperial Liberal of the truest type, and this is what he said in that connection : " It is, as I believe, impossible for you to maintain in the long-run your present loose and imperfect relations to your colonies and pre- serve those colonies as part of the Empire. . I wish to say that, on the ground of commercial interests alone, the question is worthy of the consideration of our great commercial com- munities." That is the question of the Imperial zoll- verein. That was a speech delivered by Lord Rosebery at Leeds. And then we have the opinion of the Right Hon. Joseph Cham- berlain, and I think the honourable member for Auckland City would admit that the Hon. Mr. Chamberlain is a Liberal at heart. Mr. FOWLDS. - Certainly not. He is a traitor. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Of course the honour- able gentleman may say so, but that will not have much weight. I think that in his work he has shown to the British Empire that he has the interests of the Empire at heart. The honourable gentleman surely will admit that, whether or not he approves of the principles of the party with which he is now identi- fied ; and, if he admits so much, the odious term "traitor" was highly reprehensible. Mr. Chamberlain said, referring to sentiment shown, - " All these things have naturally created a certain bond of amity between the different parts of the Empire; but something more is necessary for the security and maintenance of that world-wide dominion, that edifice of Imperial rule, which has been built up for us by those who have gone before " Now, he gave another opinion emphasizing that. This is what he said upon another occa- sion, referring to the question of commercial federation : - " If it be a dream, it is a dream that appeals to the highest sentiments of patriotism, and even to our material interests. It is a dream that is calculated to stimulate and to inspire every one who cares for the future of the Anglo- Saxon people. I think, myself, that the spirit of the time is, at all events, in the direction of such a movement. How far that will carry us no man can tell; but, believe me, upon the temper and the cone in which we approach the solution of the problems that are now coming upon us depend the security and the mainten- auce of that world wide dominion, that edifice of Imperial rule, which has been slowly built up for us by those who have gone before." These are some of the opinions expressed by leading men. I have others which the time- limit will not admit of my quoting. And then, Mr. T. Mackenzie ference in Canada some little time ago, when, I suppose, the leading Liberals of the world were present. At any rate, this Government sent Mr. Lee Smith there, and no one would doubt he was a Liberal. And what were the resolutions that were arrived at, at Ottawa, in that connection. Here are some of the resolu- tions, for I will not quote them all :- "That provision should be made by Imperial legislation, enabling the dependencies of the Empire to enter into agreements of commer- cial reciprocity, including power of making differential tariffs, with Great Britain or with one another. " Whereas the stability and progress of the British Empire can be best assured by drawing continually closer the bands that unite the colonies with the Mother country, and by the continuous growth of a practical sympathy and co-operation in all that pertains to the common welfare : And whereas this co-operation and unity can in no way be more effectually pro- moted than by the cultivation and extension of the mutual and profitable interchange of their products : Therefore resolved, That this Con- ference records its belief in the advisability of a Customs arrangement between Great Britain and her colonies by which trade within the Empire may be placed on a more favourable footing than that which is carried on with foreign countries." "Further resolved, That, until the Mother- country can see her way to enter into Customs arrangements with her colonies, it is desirable that, when empowered so to do, the colonies of Great Britain, or such of them as may be disposed to accede to this view, take steps to place each other's products, in whole or in part, on a more favoured Customs basis than is accorded to the like products of foreign countries." It is impossible for me in the brief time at my disposal to give other authorities, but the point I wish to work up to is this: In connec- tion with our trade relations that we should en- deavour as far as possible to confine them to our own people, unless we obtain such conces- sions from other countries as will be satisfac- tory to us. I am firmly persuaded that unless we succeed in establishing a wider interchange all our interests will suffer. I would like now to refer just for a moment to the question whether or not this service is carrying out what we hoped it would carry out. We find that the delays that are occurring are most serious. I need only refer to the evidence contained on page 16, where the late arrivals are recorded by the Agent-General at Home as being most serious. Then, we have, again, Mr. Reeves's letter, which I am unable to quote for lack of time, in which he complains about the serious interference with trade by the delays of the Fr'isco mail. Then, we have the opinions of the various Chambers of Commerce in this country as to the propriety of endeavouring to establish a 1 fortnightly Federal service. A resolution was carried by the Conference to which representa- tives of the whole colony were sent, and these 