rapid a rate of the Midland Railway line. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the following sums had been expended in the Auckland Dis- trict for roads and bridges alone: In one electorate, £84,000 - new money, £36,000; in another district, £82,000 - new money, £37,000; in another district, £84,000 - new money, £33,000; in another district, £164,000 -new money, £47,000; in another district, £12,000-new money, £6,000; in another dis- trict, $6,000-new money, $2,000; in another district, #27,000 - new money, £15,000 ; in another district, £36,000-new money, £21,000. It was impossible to make this provision for roads and bridges and have money for railways in proportion. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said the Premier's figures were misleading, as the moneys ex- pended had been expended on the Govern- ment's own property. He wished to know whether he had understood the Minister to say that the only men discharged from the north end of the Main Trunk Railway had been those convicted of drunkenness or connected with sly-grog selling. Mr. HALL-JONES said he would not say that all the men discharged had been con- victed of drunkenness ; some of them may have completed ther contracts. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said there were apparently no hopes for railways or roads in Hawke's Bay. He would like to get some information in regard to the vote of £100,000 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 for the Midland Railway. They ought to know something more about the position of the rail- way before anything was voted. For instance, was a tunnel to be made, and, if so, how long would it be ; or was the whole traffic to be hauled over Arthur's Pass by the Abt system or some other system ? If they were going to have a tunnel it should be put in hand at once. If they were not going to have a tunnel he did not think it would be possible to carry the traffic without loss. He was afraid that by no means could it be carried without loss. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) agreed with the last speaker that it would be unwise to proceed further with the work till they had more infor- mation as to its nature. It could not be con- sidered a work of urgency, and he saw nothing to justify its prosecution. If a tunnel were constructed the railway could never compete with water carriage. He was sorry to see on the estimates a miserable $500 for the Rimu- taka deviation. Was it now proposed to break faith with Parliament and the people interested ? Two or three years ago $5,000 had been placed on the estimates in connection with this work, and the settlers in the Wellington and Hawke's Bay Districts had been led to believe that it would be prosecuted. The dangerous nature of the incline, the discomfort of a trip through tunnels in which lights were extinguished and passengers and live-stock almost suffocated, and the large and profitable traffic, were all solid arguments why the deviation should be started at once. He wished to know whether it was really intended, when the £5,000 was placed on cuted, because according to all appearance now it had never been so intended. Mr. HALL-JONES said, With reference to the Rimutaka survey, he thought it had been under- stood by the House that first of all a careful and exhaustive survey should be made. That survey from the Upper Hutt to Woodside had only been completed within the last two months. De- tails of the plans were not yet in hand, and if they had desired to start the work it could not have been done. The honourable member for Masterton had railway communication to this district that, with care, was as safe as any in the colony. The condition of that district con- trasted very favourably with the districts on the West Coast. When the survey was first started he was told that a better route could not be got, but one had been found, and clearly the line ought to have been made by this route in the first place. With respect to the vote for the Midland Railway, the question had been asked what they proposed to do with the money. They had no work in hand on the West Coast line, which had been completed to the Otira Gorge, and they had to face the question of carrying the line on a heavy grade by some system similar to the Rimutaka, or of tunnelling. He believed the tunnel would be best, and, from a commercial point of view, the most economical, because they could carry heavy goods through a tunnel on a good grade which could not be done by an incline. They did not, however, propose to start the tunnel at present. They had received reports from their own engineers, and arrange- ments had been made for an expert-a man of very high standing, recommended by the best authorities in America-to report as to the best way of dealing with this section, whether by tunnelling or similar to the method adopted in the Rocky Mountains. The country had been well explored, and he did not believe they could find in the world any man better able to report upon the subject than the gentleman who was coming from America, and was ex- pected to leave for New Zealand in the course of a week. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not get him to re- port on the Rimutaka ? Mr. HALL-JONES said that idea struck him as a very good one. He would be glad to give effect to it. When they had a gentleman of standing and ability they ought to make the best possible use of his services. On the eastern end of the Midland Railway they had work from Springfield towards Staircase Gully, and, when that was completed, instead of it taking two days to get from the east to the west coast, people would be able to go through in a day. They must consider this gestion, for it was one of much importance. There had been no extravagance, and the proposals made were based upon common-sense, and would re- sult in benefit to all concerned. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) would rather base the claim for the Rimutaka line to con- sideration on the saving which could be effected than upon a contrast with any other line in the colony. A return that had been laid upon the 