all the work they had done, after an experience of two or three years, had to be done over again by the Native Land Court. The large hapus generally got the land awarded to them ; and when the Government came to look into the matter they had to cancel everything that was done, and after enormous expense had been in- curred for advertising and different other things. Now, these Maori Councils that were proposed to be established were, in fact, established by the measure of last year, and this Bill is for the purpose of amending it, because the Govern- ment found, after the Bill was passed last year, the Act was unworkable, and I have no doubt, even with the amendments of this year, it will still be unworkable. But the Natives wish to be allowed to deal with their lands in their own way after the land is put through the Court. I have always advocated a system by which the Government would put the land through the Court, and give to each Native or family their own land, so that they could work on it. At present they do not know what belongs to them. They get a block of land containing ten thousand or twenty thousand acres put through the Court, and with perhaps one hun- dred or two hundred people on the block, and the various individuals of the tribes do not know where to settle on the land. Perhaps two or three families would take up a portion and would work it for the first and second years, and perhaps in the following year another family comes in and a quarrel starts about the fences which the first family have erected, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 I have seen them fighting with spades and other implements for the land which each party claimed. Until the Government takes the land and puts it through the Court and in- dividualises it, and puts each Native or family on their portion of land, so that they can be settlers, I have no hopes of this Native-land legislation reaching finality. An Hon. MEMBER .- And may he sell it if he likes ? The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY. - No, I would not allow them to sell an inch of their land until the family was located ; then they could dispose of their surplus to Government. The land should be put through the Court, and they should be enabled to live upon it and work upon it; and if they had an excess of land which they did not require for their own use, the Government should have the first offer to purchase that land from them. If the Govern- ment would not purchase, let them sell to the best advantage. That is what I have strictly adhered to since I have had anything to do with politics. It is very difficult to get the Government to take up this matter, except in the manner they provide for themselves, by Acts such as the present. We have been told that when the Native Minister came into power he was one of those who had the welfare of the Natives at heart, and I believe he has ; and when I heard him make his first speech on Native matters in the House of Representa- tives, I thought that something good was going to emanate from him. He said he was going and for the Europeans. But since then that is changed, and there has been nothing but turmoil amongst the Natives. I have a list of the Native Bills that have been passed since the present party came into power. In some years several were passed, and one year only one passed. In the other years they ranged from five to two. Twenty-seven Native Bills have been passed, and, although some of them have been repealed, still it is very difficult to know where you are when dealing with Na- tives. As far as I know, the Government has been about the worst friend the Natives have had for many years. They have been pur- chasing land from them, and giving such a low price for it that they ought to be ashamed to offer. I know Natives who have been com- pelled to sell their lands to the Government because of their pecuniary circumstances, and the Government Land Purchase Commissioner offers them a price of, say, 2s. or 2s. 6d. an acre, the land being worth 7s. 6d. or 10s. They are not prepared to take the low price offered ; but the Commissioner, knowing the position of things, in a short time gets the land, because they cannot sell to any one else but the Go- vernment. The Government have not looked after the interests of the Natives in a proper way for some time. I would like to see the Government take a different stand in connection with the Natives. These Councils will never work, and it is practically keeping back large areas of Native land in the North Island. They attempted at one time to hand these lands over to the Waste Land Boards of the colony for them to deal with ; but that is practically done away with, and they are commencing in this Bill with a different system. I would like to see this Bill worked, if it is possible for it to work ; but my opinion is that it never can work. The Natives have sent me several letters, the Arawa Tribe especially, stating that they know where the land will go to in the end. The expenses that will be incurred when the Council is established are so heavy that it will eat the land up. They have to pay survey, roading, interpreters, and members of this Council ; and we are told to-day by the Hon. the Native Minister that they intend to have as the head of these Councils the Native Land Court Judges, and the expenses that will be incurred will probably swallow up all the land. I should have liked to see the Native Minister introduce a different Bill altogether-one simpler in its nature, and one that would practically put the Natives on their own land and allow them to become settlers. Until that is done the Natives must remain in their present false position, by having their land adjudicated upon by a Council of seven paid officers instead of a Native Land Court Judge and an Assessor. The Hon. Mr. WILLIAMS .- I expressed my disapproval of certain clauses in the Bill in the Native Affairs Committee, which I wish to have put on record. The fundamental principle underlying a satisfactory settlement of the Na- tive-land question is that suitable and sufficient blocks of land should be set apart for each indi- 