crushing plant should be erected by the Govern- ment unless in connection with a School of Mines. and under the supervision of the instruc- Instead of tors of Schools of Mines. erecting testing plants, I would recommend to your favourable consideration the advisability of granting subsidies to the local bodies to assist prospectors to pack, sledge, cart, or crush from 1 to 10 tons of ore to or at the nearest crushing-mill available to the place where the ore is obtained." Under these conditions, he was sorry to say, he could not comply with the honourable gentleman's request. The experience in regard to the erection of these batteries, unless in con- nection with Schools of Mines, had not been of a very favourable character. LAND AND LIVE-STOCK AUCTIONS BILL. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If he intends to proceed with the Land and Live-stock Auctions Bill this session ; and, if not, why not ? He trusted to have a favourable reply from the Minister. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he had already introduced that Bill, and it was now before the Joint Stock Committee of both Houses : and he intended, when the evidence was finished and the report was made by that Committee, to proceed with the Bill, and give honourable members an opportunity of passing or rejecting it. Mr. FLATMAN asked, Would the evidence be printed ? Mr. DUNCAN .- Yes. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 # SHEEP-DIP. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter for Agriculture, If he does not think the time has arrived when manufacturers of sheep- dip should be compelled to label all vessels con- taining dip, showing the strength of the dip so contained ; and, if so, will he introduce a Bill this session to enforce that being done? This was rather an important question. The ves- seis that contained sheep-dip might have " 100 to 1" on them, meaning that the mixture should be 100 gallons of water to 1 of dip; but that did not show the strength the dip con- tained, and if there was not sufficient strength in the stuff to mix with 100 gallons of water, then it was not the fault of the farmers who mixed it. It was time that it should be speci- fied on each vessel the strength of the dip which it contained, and then any blame in regard to the mixture would rest with the farmers. At the present time prosecutions were going on, and he had been informed that Inspectors had actually ordered sheep to be dipped which were Dear lambing, which was a dangerous practice. But, at any rate, he did not say that the In- spectors were wrong. The owner of the sheep was wrong for taking them into the saleyards in a dirty condition. He hoped that some pro- tection could be given, and that the sheep-dips would have a formula attached so that they could be analysed on the application of any one concerned. thought a certificate had to be given at the present time as to the strength of the dip sub- mitted for sale; but he believed, as was stated by the honourable gentleman, that it would be better to have that appear on the vessel that contained the dip. But to do that, he pointed out, it would be necessary to have a Bill passed so that a penalty could be imposed, but he questioned whether there would be any time this session to do so. # EDUCATION BOARD RESERVES. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If any complaints have reached him regarding the administration of reserves held by Education Boards, or university au- thorities, and if he does not consider that such lands would be more advantageously managed under direct control of the Lands Department ? Complaints had reached him that lands had not been dealt with fairly, and he knew, himself, in some instances that no provision was made for allowing for improvements on the expiration of the lease, and he had with his own eyes seen a house bolted together so that it might be taken away at the end of the term. He thought, both in the interests of the lessees and land- lords, that such leases should not be in exist- ence, because they did not encourage tenants to make improvements, for the reason that they may lose the money which the improvements have cost them at the end of the term. There- fore he thought these lands would be better managed than as at present if they came under the management of the Lands Department. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said it was scandalous the way some of these reserves were dealt with by the Education Commissioners in the past and at the present time. He could give case after case where the administration at the present time was enough to make one annoyed, as it were. The member for Hawera could give a case in point where a man had spent ₺1,500 in substantial improvements, and he would be turned out in two years' time without a single shilling for those improve- ments. Mr. PIRANI .- That was the law. Mr. DUNCAN. - It was the law ; but it was not necessary they should go past the laws, as many of them had done. At any rate, he thought it was a bad state of things that caused a man to lose his money in that way. It had a very bad effect upon those reserves. In many cases the land had been disposed of at a very low price, and the proceeds had not been dealt with according to law. # LIME. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Minister of Lands, When the return re cost of producing lime, ordered by the House on the 19th Sep- tember, 1900, will be laid on the table ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this return would be ready very soon, and when it was ready it would be laid on the table. 