moved the second reading of the Bill. He told us it was not fitting that persons should be able to grossly libel others with impunity, and said they had no protection under the existing law. That is one side. The other side is, whether you are going to propose very drastic penal provi- sions aimed at what may be but very slight libel indeed - hether you are going to have the criminal law invoked for what is really no criminal offence. The Premier's second re- mark was that it was desirable to restore the previous law of New Zealand, that which was existing before the Criminal Code Act of 1893. In the first place, this Bill does not restore the law ; and, in the second place, it should not. It proposes to restore a good deal of it that it is undesirable should be restored, and it does not, when dealing with the subject, introduce certain necessary amendments which the advance of our civilisation has made desirable. It is, of course, a mere absurdity, an absolute mis- nomer, to speak of the Bill as anything like & codo of the law of libel, or even a criminal code of libel. It is the veriest piece of patch- work and botch-work ; and it is not to the credit of the draftsman employed to advise the Government as to the form of their legis- lation that a Bill on a very important subject like this, creating in some cases new crimes, should be introduced with so little considera- tion and so little care, and introduced in such a way as to make the subject rather more diffi- cult to understand by the lay mind than it was before. Now, the idea of a code is that it shall be complete in itself, and that it shall be in- telligible to the layman without paying 6s. 8d., or even more, to somebody else to tell him what it means, or how much he has to read in between the lines, in the fashion with which we are familiar in the Solicitor-General's opinions. Now, take the very first line of the interpreta- tion clause : "A 'defamatory libel' is matter published without legal justification or ex- cuse "; and then it goes on to define it further. Now, is that designed to guide the Judges or to guide a layman? In either case I submit the clause is an absurdity, because the Judge does not need a detinition of libel, and for the same reason he can interpret the meaning of "legal justification and ex- cuse." The layman who is in need of a de- finition of libel is just as much in need of an interpretation of "legal justification and ex- cuse." As I shall point out later on, under the head of legal justification or excuse there are embraced six different grounds, all of which were in the law as it was in this colony before 1893. Well, they are not discoverable in the Code, and there will be no absolute guide to the layman in this Bill on account of its failure to define them. And I say for that reason the explanation is useless to the layman, and is certainly useless to the Judge, although I shall point out that in one respect it does make one important alteration in the definition of libel in the Code as it was before 1893. An Hon. MEMBER .- What will be the criminal procedure if this Bill passes ? indictment under the Criminal Code, and in the ordinary form. There was some discussion about that in the recent case in the Court of Ap- peal-Rex versus Mabin. It was that case which necessitated this Bill ; but there is a complete misunderstanding, a very general misunder. standing, as to what the effect of the decision is. Tue honourable member for Wairarapa, for instance, related that clause 4 contained a very savage provision ; but the greater part of clause 4 not only was the law before 1893, but is the law at the present moment, though it is quite clear that the draftsman of this Bill is not aware of it. I think he misunderstood the purport of the first part of clause 4, which is simply a clause aimed at blackmail, and not libel pure and simple. It is the threatened publication of a libel with the view of extorting money that is aimed at. The honourable mem- ber will find that the words "with a view to ex- torting money," or its equivalent, really govern the whole section ; so it is really the black- mailer that is aimed at, and not the libeller pure and simple. But there it is actually less savage than what was undoubtedly the law of the colony in 1893, and what I submit is also the law at the present time. The first part of clause 4 of this Bill does not go quite so far as section 3 of the Act of 1843 - Lord Campbell's Act-by which the threatened publication of any matter with a view of extorting money was made an offence, whether the matter was defamatory or not. I fail to see any hardship in that clause. Deliberate blackmailing should be got at very severely, whether it is a libel or not that the blackmailer threatens to publish. I am not surprised the honourable member for Wairarapa was indignant at the Bill. No doubt any decent journalist who wishes to keep out of gaol should scrutinise very narrowly the provisions of the Bill, and a gentleman like my junior colleague, who is anxious to see all journalists, whether decent or indecent, in gaol, of course salutes the Bill with enthusiasm ; but he does so, like some of the opponents of the Bill, under a misapprehension. He says he would never take a Civil action for libel. Pro- bably he is well advised, because in a Civil action the truth is a sufficient answer, and decent journals-and most journals are decent -if they libel anybody, libel them by telling the truth, and such a libel is not punishable civilly, but criminally it is. An Hon. MKMBKR .- Where do you get that provision in statute law with regard to the truth of a libel-criminal libel ? Mr. ATKINSON .- There is no such provi- sion on our statute-book ; but I say that in a Civil action the truth of a libel is a complete answer. This Bill has proceeded on a totally erroneous opinion that the decision of the Court of Appeal in Mabin's case was that Lord Campbell's Act, which was in force in the colony until 1893, was repealed by implication by the Criminal Code Act of 1893. Now, that was not the decision at all: The decision of the Court of Appeal was that a particular sec- tion, or, rather, a particular offence, which is 