that the right honourable gentleman gave us, but it appears from that, that a considerable number both of European and pakeha pen- sioners have certainly got property, and, not- withstanding, are holding pensions. Now, with regard to the details of the Bill, I think it is de- sirable that the Deputy Registrar, as represent- ing the Crown, should have power to appear and examine and cross-examine applicants. That appears to me to be a desirable power ; but I would like to point this out : that the Premier's objection last year was that he did not care to have the old people worried by cross-examination in Court. Now, there is a risk of that, of course, and there is something to be said for that view; but I wish to point out that the inquiry could be inoffensively con- ducted out of Court altogether, and the inquiry should, therefore, be intrusted to some special officer, not the Deputy Registrar, who, unfor- tunately, has got his hands full already, and who gets an extra $25 or 950 for his old-age pension work on the top of some regular salary. But I would suggest that the proper course would be to have some officer whose sole func- tion it was to investigate these claims and report upon them to the Magistrate. In nine cases out of ten, no doubt, the report would be acted upon by the Magistrate. Honourable members, of course, will remember that convic- tions for certain classes of offences constitute a disqualification for an old-age pension. Well, of course, that is a matter within the cognisance of the police, and upon which https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Inspector or sergeant in charge would always be able to report to the Magistrate as to the nature of the conviction recorded. Now, the Magistrate, sitting as Judge in the Old-age Pensions Court, has not even that infor- mation before him now. There is no police officer, there is no other officer, who is under an obligation to report to him with regard to the criminal record of any possible applicant who may be before the Court. It is utterly impos- sible, of course, for a Magistrate or counsel for the Crown to elicit by any cross-examination from the applicant himself as to whether or not he has been criminally convicted within the last five or ten years, or whatever the period may be for the particular offence fixed by the Act. Inquiry beforehand and out of Court is necessary for this, and the procedure of the Probation Officer or of the Charitable Aid Board offers a good analogy to what is re- quired. A Charitable Aid Board which does its work properly conducts a vigorous and searching inquiry into the cases that come before it without any publicity or any offence. I submit to the Premier this is the true solu- tion of the difficulty. I disagree entirely with the honourable member of Hawke's Bay, who says that section 3 gives too wide a power to the Deputy Registrar. It seems to me any ap. plicant for the pension may legitimately be asked in reference to his bank account, and that any officer of the bank may be asked to answer ques- tions bearing on the case, and I say that for the purpose of inquiry under section 4 the same Mr. Atkinson so far as it goes, but I should like to see it go further. The Premier stated-though it is new to me-that the Victorian Bill gave absolute power to inquire into the circumstances of all the relatives of an applicant for a pension, and I fail to see why this clause should not go just as far. The marginal note says "Circumstances of relatives may be considered," but the body of the clause limits it to children. The Pre- mier is entitled to credit for clause 6, which provides that if, on the death of a pensioner, it is found that he has drawn more pension-money than he was entitled to, the excess shall be deemed a debt due by his estate to the Crown. I would suggest that it is desirable not merely that the money paid to the pensioner should be recovered from his estate, but also that the estate should be penalised, otherwise there is no deterrent on fraud. Mr. SEDDON .- The income-tax, I believe, ie trebled. Mr. ATKINSON .- Yes; and under the Cus- toms, I believe, there is a provision to meet similar cases. I hope when we get into Com- mittee that this question will be dealt with. The only other point I wish to touch upon is the provision in respect to the Maoris. It ap- pears to me that a pakcha tribunal cannot possibly satisfactorily conduct the necessary investigations with respect to the claims of Maoris for old-age pensions. I do not say that the members of the tribunal must necessarily be Maoris, but I do suggest that we have the Native Land Court ready to hand as the only competent tribunal to judge these questions. Take a man like Judge Mackay. He is a perfect encyclopedia and a registry office in himself, in his knowledge in respect to hundreds and thousands of Natives. He can tell you what land these Natives pos- sess, where it is situated, and what it is worth. A man like that could very well conduct these investigations. But I do not see that we can appoint a pakeha tribunal of any kind which will be satisfactory in con- ducting these investigations. I submit that point to the Premier for his consideration. Mr. SEDDON. - We can deal with that, I think, by providing that the nearest Judge of the Native Land Court should sit with the Magistrate. Mr. ATKINSON. - Perhaps a great many Maori claimants would not appear if such a provision were made. I heartily approve of the Bill so far as it goes, and when it is in Committee I shall assist to make it more effective, and, where necessary, more drastic. Mr. LANG (Waikato). - The Premier, in moving the second reading of this Bill, gave as a principal reason for its introduction the large amount of fraud which had taken place in connection with the Act. He said that "it shakes confidence in the whole structure." I think that until the pensions are made universal there will always be fraud in the way the Pre- mier has indicated. If the pensions were given to every one who is sixty-five years old and has been twenty-five years in the colony we should 