palm of his hand. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- There is one other remark that should be made. In addition to the member for Franklin, the Maori vote has on this occasion, as on previous occasions, altered the destinies of this country. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- I think it is rather unfortunate that after a very fine debate, and a contest carried on with the very best of spirits, an element of friction should be introduced on this occasion. I have had occasion to oppose the resolutions' so far, and was just about to congratulate myself and honourable members on the friendly feeling that has been manifested, and I think we might well have agreed to the resolutions without introducing a disturbing element. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Following the strain of the last speaker, Mr. McNab, and in order that we should adopt the suggestions made by him, I now move, That this House, as it has done on former occasions, rise and conclude by singing " Hail, Columbia !" or perhaps the " Star-spangled Banner." I think that would be a fitting conclusion. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I think the member for Riccarton has made a very unjusti- fiable attack on our friends of the Maori race. The three Maori members who voted for the San Francisco service are Auckland members, and, like other Auckland members, they voted solid for the mail-service which is the best for the colony. The other Maori member, belonging to the South Island, voted with the South Island people against the proposals. I say it was quite right of them to feel the same in regard to this matter as did the other members from Auckland Province, and to vote accordingly, and it is unfair to make attacks on them. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I think, beyond simply expressing the feeling so well expressed by the member for Mataura, we might let the matter end. I feel sure that the Maori mem- bers will understand that the general opinion of the House is that they have freedom to vote and speak and act as well as any other member in the House. We might as well say that the southern Maori member, who, as honourable members well know, is a Government supporter -he voted with the other side and opposed the resolutions ; and if some one had mentioned that, what would have been said by the mem- ber for Riccarton and other members about it ? I think, myself, that all members have been well canvassed, and this matter has been well thought out, and members had made up their minds as they believed was in the best interests of the colony. I am satisfied in my own mind that a mistake has been made in altering the term of years, but the opinion of the House was that it should not be so long as we originally proposed ; but that having been done, and as the contract now stands, we must do the best we can, and the Government will endeavour to do that. I felt a little sore over it at one time during the evening, but, under the circum- stances, I do not think we are justified in look- ing round to see who we can blame for our disap- Mr. Fisher I regret that the honourable member for Ric- carton has made the remarks he has about the Maori vote in this House. They were made in a very ungenerous manner, and in such a man- ner as would never be reciprocated by the Maoris. The Maori members for the North Island belong to the Auckland Provincial Dis- trict, and have just as much reason in respect of their vote on this question as the Euro- pean members. I am extremely sorry that <!-- PageHeader="\--" --> a fair fight such as this has been, which has resulted in a fair compromise between the parties, and which has been carried on in a fair spirit from beginning to end, without any personal element being imported into it, should have been so marred by the tone of the honour- able gentleman's remarks, which I can hardly find words to describe. I hope that on future occasions he will see that he has more ground to support any statement he makes than the one on which he has based this statement. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- May I be per- mitted to say that all through this debate I have sat silent, but have voted, as I believe I ought to have done, in the interests of this <!-- PageHeader="\--" --> colony and in the interests of the patriotic feelings I have in regard to the nation to which I belong? I should not have risen to speak except for the unfortunate remarks of the member for Riccarton, and I say it gives me pain to hear any member of the House trying to bring into this country the very thing the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) deprecated in regard to the American people- that racial difference which has caused much misery and trouble in that country. We have admitted the Natives to equality with our- selves, and it stands recorded in the history of our nation that the Maori race is the only native race which is admitted to the fullest equality with the European; and it is to the credit of the British people that this is so. We admit them into this House by virtue of the votes of their own people, and we are here all equal as representatives of the people. It matters not what is the colour of his skin or what his origin, the moment a man takes the oath of allegiance to His Majesty and takes his seat in this House he is entitled to all the rights and privileges of membership. I hope the day will never dawn in New Zealand when we shall cast any aspersion on a member of the Native race simply because he happens to be an aborigi- nal native of the country. The reflection is one not only on the Maori members who voted on the side of the Government, but a reflection on Mr. Parata, the member for the South Island, who voted against the Government, and I hope and trust the member for Riccarton will reconsider his words and express regret that he has been led into the expression of such a sentiment in this House. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) .- Sir, I think I have a right to reply, on behalf of the Maori members in this House, to the ungenerous remark made by the honourable member for Riccarton. I consider the honourable mem- ber's remark was quite unjustified in its appli- 