Maori Councils Bill. THIRD READING. Maori Councils Bill. PRIMARY EDUCATION RESERVES. On the motion of Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands), it was resolved, That this House approves of the lands proposed to be reserved as endow- ments for primary education, as classified in Paper No. 256 of 1901, being permanently set aside as endowments to primary education. # A CORRECTION. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked per- mission to make a correction by way of personal explanation. When he was discussing the meat- export trade some time ago he alluded to classi- fication and standard. His argument was in- tended to show that the Wellington brand stood as high in the North Island as the Eclipse brand did in the South, but in the Hansard report he was made to use the term " faulty grading " instead of "error in description " when referring to a quotation from the Aus- tralian Pastoralists' Review relative to a case of claim. The question of faulty grading was not at all involved in the point he was bringing out, and he could not understand why the term "faulty grading " was reported. It had since been explained to him that the claim to which he alluded was made simply because the mar- ket value of meat had fallen, and it was another instance of the impropriety of the method of assessing adopted in the Old Country. He thought it was only just to the Wellington Meat Export Company that he should make this clear. He could perfectly well understand how the claim came to be made, and, until the present wretched mode of assessing was re- formed, whenever a decline in market oc- curred c.i.f. sales would always be subject to the same injustice, and the primest standard qualities might be declared to be not up to standard, and the reputation of any company might suffer. RESERVES AND OTHER LANDS SALE, DISPOSAL, AND ENABLING, AND PUB- LIC BODIES EMPOWERING BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting a draft of this Bill, which was referred to Committee of the Whole, agreed to, and reported to the House. On the question, That the resolution be agreed to, Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said, Before the question was put he thought it was right that the Premier or some other Minister should assure the House that they would make themselves responsible for the propriety- "honesty " was almost the proper word-of the provisions in the Bill. It was quite im- possible for the House at any time to know that all the numerous alterations, additions, and changes, consequent upon such a Bill as this, were fair and proper. He only raised the ques- tion in its general aspect, that the responsi- Bill such as this, with large powers and great ramifications involved in it. Before the B :. passed he thought they ought to have the as ur ance from some particular Minister that th- departmental officers had approved the varicz. clauses of the Bill, and were absolutely certa of the propriety of its passing, so that if ar misfeasance was discovered after the Bill b. passed the responsibility would be taken fre honourable members and placed on the Miras. ters. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) desired to saveL most of the clauses of the Bill had been bei ... the House for a very long period, and it Az some years since they had had a Bill of tb :. nature. Ministers had carefully gone threat every clause in the Bill. Of course, the. might be local circumstances which it was i. possible for them to know; but most of th clauses were the result of petitions that ba! been presented to the House, and the Bill ga .. effect to recommendations made to the (- vernment. In this and every other meas ... that was introduced by the Government Mic- ters must accept a certain amount of respas bility. When going through the Bill. if mer. bers had a doubt about any clause, or wo! ! opinion that any clause was unjust or ing .. table, the Government would not press :!- passage of any clause that required forb .: consideration. To have a separate Bil 5: every one of the clauses in this Bill would !e an undue loading of the statute-book, and 1 some instances private members, if they in .:: - duced the necessary Bills for the clauses 5 .... ing their own district, would have little pro-g. : of getting them through. He could only se this, as far the Government were concern :. that there was nothing in this Bill, so it - Ministers knew, the passage of which would . detrimental to the colony. Resolution agreed to, and Bill read a :: time. TIMBER EXPORT BILL. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Trade :"? Customs) .- Sir, in moving the second red .:: of this important Bill at this late bour ef .. session it will be impossible for me to give it amount of information I would like to [ .. before the House so that the members r . fully understand the position of the tic: industry of this colony, and how necessary i for us to have a judicious conservation of : timber at the same time that we carry on i large timber industry. There is no ans: - policy question that can be entertained a : thought out by this House than the que : of the timber interests of this colony, and I quite sure that every member must agree that : is one of our largest and most valuable patiti assets. The Government have for some : ! " considered it necessary, in the interest of tin conservation, to have a measure passed wt. will, at any rate, prohibit the raw mat!" leaving this colony to be worked up in ot ..: : places. During the past month a temr-rit measure has been passed by the Parliam .:: 