Parata Lang Arnold Russell, G. W. Lethbridge Barclay Tellers. Massey Collins Herries Meredith Hall Millar. O'Meara Hornsby Kaihau NOES, 26. Fraser, A. L. D. Palmer Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Seddon Bennet Smith, G. J. Heke Buddo Stevens Houston Carncross Ward Lawry Carroll Witheford. McGowan Colvin Tellers. McKenzie, R. Duncan Rhodes Field McNab Symes. Mills Flatman Majority against, 11. Motion negatived. Vote, £180,000, agreed to. CLASS XXXII .- LANDS IMPROVEMENT. Vote, Improved - farm settlements, £3,800, agreed to. Lands, Miscellaneous, £3,250. Mr. COLLINS called attention to the item, "Waimakariri - Ashley Water-supply Board, further contribution, £1,000." He would like to know what that was for, and what previous contributions had been made. This was a time when that vote might very well be withdrawn, and unless a satisfactory answer were given he would be forced to consider the advisability of moving that the item be struck out. It was well known that this Board was opposing the electric-power scheme of the Christchurch City Council, and, if this vote was given it, it would further strengthen their hands in oppos- ing the interests of Christchurch in connection with the scheme referred to. He had no desire personally to oppose the vote, but he was anxious that nothing should be done which would pre- judice a scheme in which the social and indus- trial interests of the people of a large city were involved. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, Al- ready the Government had given about £2,000 to the work this Board had in hand, and this amount was to complete it. He understood there was a large area of the very poorest land in Canterbury there, and this money was voted for the purpose of bringing in water for the stock and other purposes. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said the position was that, if the Government continued to subsidise this Board, it was being put in a stronger position to oppose the Bill promoted by the Christchurch Council. Would the honourable gentleman leave this matter over until the question in dispute between the two bodies had been settled? He would like the Minister to say whether he would give him that assurance. Mr. DUNCAN said he would not give any assurance. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said, If the Board had the right to the water, the ques- rights to the water one way or the other. Vote, £3,250, agreed to. Vote, Government Loans to Local Bodies Ac- count, £46,577, agreed to. Resolutions reported. The House adjourned at four o'clock a.m. (Wednesday). # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 30th October, 1901. Second Readings-Third Readings-Imprest Supply Bill (No. 5)-Apology-Cadet Corps of Collegiate and Secondary Schools - Whakapuaka Block - Chemists' Rota of Attendance Bill-Borough of Mornington Tramways Bill-City of Auckland Loans Consolidation and Auckland City Borrow- ing Bill-Borough of Mataura Loan Validation Bill - Gore Cemetery Reserve Vesting and En- abling Bill-Templeton Domain Board Empower- ing Bill-Lyttelton Borough Council Empowering Bill-Hokitika Harbour Board Endowment Bill -Ocean Beach Public Domain Bill-Canterbury College Empowering Bill-Egmont County Bill (No. 2)-Inch-Clutha Road, River, and Drainage Bill-Patea Harbour Bill-Dunedin Waterworks Extension Bill-Kiwitea County Council Offices Bill-Masterton Public Park Management Bill- Palmerston North Reserves Bill - Wesleyan Church Reserve Vesting Bill-Kairanga County Bill -Local Bills-Aid to Public Works and Land Settlement Bill-Old-age Pensions Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. SECOND READINGS. Greytown Reserves Vesting and Disposal En- abling Bill, Featherston County Bill. THIRD READINGS. Greytown Reserves Vesting and Disposal En- abling Bill, Featherston County Bill. IMPREST SUPPLY BILL (No. 5). This Bill was read the first, the second, and the third time. APOLOGY. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- Sir, I wish to make a statement with reference to a remark I made yesterday. I then made some reference to a certain Bill which was rather offensive to the Minister of Education. The statement was of an offensive character, and I wish, Sir, now to be allowed to withdraw it, and to apologize for the occurrence. I further desire to say that if there is any one man in this Parliament I respect more than another it is the present Minister of Education. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I can only say it is always a matter of exceeding regret when anything is said in Parliament which should not be said, and it was a great deal more than the personal reference to myself that I resented yesterday. I felt Parliament itself was injured by such remarks. I am, however, exceedingly gratified that the honourable gentle- man has so amply withdrawn and apologized 