ferred to chemists in such a way as to neces- sitate an amendment of this sort, surely we might be pardoned for adding the amendment to the Bill. The Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, with whose opinions he generally agreed, had ex- pressed opinions on this occasion with which, he was sorry to say, he could not agree. He did not see that it was necessary to go to the expense of keeping these shops open and lights burning, and therefore he could not understand why chemists should be subsidised. They, like all other tradesmen, must take the bad with the good. In order that medicine might be got when it was required, all that was necessary was to have somebody on the premises at night who could dispense if anybody ap- plied for medicine. He knew for a fact, because he had had to go through the ex- perience himself, that there were occasions when medicine was wanted very badly, and it could not be got without very great difficulty. He had that lesson taught him in Auckland, and, although he had not, fortunately, been placed in a similar dilemma since, yet he could quite understand that a case might occur in which, as the Hon. Mr. Walker said, life might be lost. Now, if we were going to pass a Bill which would give chemists a close holiday during certain hours, we ought to pass a mea- sure which would prevent people from getting ill during these hours. That was the only remedy as an alternative to what was now pro- posed. Honourable gentlemen laughed, and he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 admitted that, with all our magnificent powers, and with a Premier supposed to be omnipotent, we could not pass a Bill which would have that effect. And therefore the next best thing to do was to keep chemists' shops open, so as to have medicine available at all hours for those who wanted it. The Hon. Mr. BOLT said, in his opinion, if the object of this clause was to have chemists' shops open at all hours of the night and day on certain days, it did not go far enough. The clause provided that one of these shops should be open during all hours of the day and night on such days as were specified by notice in the Gazette. Now, if it was necessary to have them open on days specified in the Gazette, surely it was necessary to have them open on other days as well, because possibly people might take ill on the days of the week that were not specified. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- Every day will be specified in the Gazette. The Hon. Mr. BOLT said that was not ac- cording to the clause, which only provided that chemists' shops should be kept open all hours of the day and night on the days mentioned in the Gazette. It should be specified in the clause that these chemists' shops should be kept open every day of the week if that was what was intended. Now, there was another difficulty. The Hon. the Minister of Education said, regard- ing the rota, the proposal was a very sound one. It might be sound as applied to a city, and more especially a large city, but at the present time we were legislating not only for the cities but for the boroughs and small townships in the VOL. CXIX .- 19. there was only one chemist, and if that chemist was compelled to keep his shop open every day and night he would never be able to get to bed. It was quite evident that they must discrimi- nate in some way, and he thought the honour- able gentleman should have drawn a clause so that its provisions would have been suitable for the large cities only. The Hon. Mr. BONAR said he would sup- port the proposal of the honourable member. He thought it was a practical proposal, and one which was likely to be good for all districts. It provided for Sundays, and he thought, as he said, that its effect would be beneficial. He thought the difficulty mentioned by the Hon. Mr. Bolt would be very easily got over in country districts, because there the chemists were always available ; but in towns they were not always available. For these reasons he would support the proposal of the honourable gentleman. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said that, as to the question of this provision being inserted in the Pharmacy Act, it seemed to him that the sub- ject was entirely foreign to that Act, and that it should be dealt with in the Act in which the hours of closing were regulated. He did not see why the Pharmacy Board should be dragged into this matter. On looking at the Shops and Shop-assistants Act of 1894-which was the principal Act-he found that it provided for a conference of local bodies to be held for the purpose of fixing the holidays and other things, and he thought that such a conference could very well establish a rota-they could consult with the chemists, and the chemists could hand in a rota drawn up by themselves, and the local authorities could gazette it. He found also that, in the event of the local authorities failing to hold the conference, the Governor had power to do things by Order in Council. There was no reason, also, why the Governor by Order in Council should not gazette a rota of the chemists in a town. He saw also that an Inspector of Factories had been drawn into the Bill ; and that officer might exercise his functions in that direction. He thought the whole subject was foreign to the Pharmacy Board and foreign to the Pharmacy Act, and that it should be kept under the ad- ministrators of the Shops and Shop-assistants Act, and those were the conference of local bodies, the Governor in Council, and the In- spector of Factories. So far as he could see by a cursory glance at the Act, those were the functionaries who were to arrange these matters and do everything under the Act ; otherwise he thought the proposal was a very good one. Very often an accident happened, and it was desirable to have a chemist at hand. If you shut up all chemists' shops he thought the chemists would go away and enjoy themselves about the country, and you would have nobody to give you the medicines or other things necessary in case of accident or sickness. For these reasons he would support the motion to go into Committee, and he hoped the Council would take into consideration whether the 