commissariat, or a proper transport. With regard to the increase of the Permanent Militia, he knew the Premier had many diffi- culties, because so many returned contingenters were trying to get into the Force. As far as Wairarapa boys were concerned, they had gone back to their farms and stations, and he wished the Premier could tell all the ablebodied men to do so. Mr. SEDDON said reference had been made to a salary of £400, Commanding Officer, Wel- lington. That officer was Colonel Newall, who was next in command to the Commandant. He had fought for us in years gone by in our troubles with the Native race, and had been in the service of the colony for forty years, and he did not think that $400 a year was too much to give him. The next on the list was Colonel Webb, who was one of the best officers they had, and after twenty-five years' service he got $325. The next was Colonel Robin, who had been put in charge of the Otago District, and he did not think £300 was too much for that. Then, there was Colonel Davies, who was in charge at Auckland. He was a surveyor by profession, and, moreover, was one of the best of the officers New Zealand had sent to South Africa, and he did not think that he was re- ceiving too much when he got £300, for surely at his profession he could have made more than that. The total salaries for officials paid in Auckland was $775; in Welling- ton, £1,076 ; Nelson, $300 ; Canterbury, #875; https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and Otago, £1,000. His opinion was that in the past the officers commanding the districts, instead of getting out into the country and doing the drilling had practi- cally been kept at clerical work in the office. His desire had been to have the Defence 4.0. Force self-contained, to have their own Commandant and every officer of their own training, but that could not be done without Would sufficient inducement was offered. members tell him that the salaries on the esti- mates were extravagant ? They could not pay less than they were paying at the present time for these services. For years the commanders of the districts had been kept without any in- crease, while increases had been made in the other departments all round. It would be seen that right along these estimates there had been an increased expenditure, owing to the fact that there was an increased number of Volunteers. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) admitted that they must have permanent officers in the dif- ferent districts in order to carry on the Volun- teer system with efficiency. That was not complained of ; but what was complained of was that the matter of the Head Office staff and Permanent Force was being rather overdone. There was an increase in the chief department of no fewer than nineteen officers, and the Per- manent Militia had increased from 328 to 414 in one year, an increase, with the Stores De- partment, of 119, being nearly 33} per cent. Then, there was a matter of nearly £2,000 a year for sixteen drivers. Where were they to be sta- tioned ? Why they should be kept in Welling- stand, and approved of, the expenditure in connection with rifle clubs and Volunteers ; that was reasonable. And it seemed to him it would be better to provide good drill-sheds for the Volunteers, instead of compelling them to collect subscriptions, and granting £1 for £1 on those subscriptions. It was the increase to the head establishment and increase of a permanent force, and consequent increased expense, that ho objected to. Mr. SEDDON said there were only six per- manent officers and seventeen Volunteers. The estimates showed that this was Permanent Militia and Volunteers. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said the Kai- koura corps had been organized and was in a first-class condition when the wave of militarism passed over the country. It was only right, therefore, that this corps should be given the same position as any other corps in the country. He approved of the Volunteers as citizen soldiers. That was the only form of militarism he believed in: Then, the Amuri Mounted Rifles was one of the crack corps of the colony, and each man in that corps had contributed, on the average, about £50. He was not going to say what salaries ought to be reduced. It was for the Premier to make the reduction. It was futile for the Premier to say he did not believe in a standing army, when he was creating a War Department and abnormally increasing the expenditure. The expenditure upon rifle clubs, Volunteers, and cadets would make up a total of about £59,741, and, if they allowed £20,000 for the Permanent Force and officers, and #21,000 for ammunition and guns, that would bring the amount up to £100,000, to which sum he would like to see the vote reduced. Every young man who belonged to a mounted corps was put to an expense of about £10 a year, which formed a gift to the colony of about £220.000, all told. Now, no enemy was ever likely to come to the colony to trouble us, and even if they did our Volunteers would be able to cope with them. Therefore there was no necessity for the amount of money that was put down under this head. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said the honourable member had not indicated where this proposed reduction was to be made, but pro- bably, if the honourable gentleman had done so, he would have indicated the head-quarters staff. Still, that only involved about £4,000. Now, the honourable gentleman's figures about the strength of the Permanent Forces in the other colonies were misleading. He had said nothing at all about the fact that in these other colonies there was a partially paid force, the members of which received about €12 a year, and which was quite distinct from the Perma. nent Force. New South Wales had a partially paid force of 5,104 men ; Victoria, 3,560; Queensland, 2,945; South Australia, 1,320; West Australia, 1,801 ; while in New Zealand the partially paid force was non-existent. He could not understand why this strong attack should be made on these Defence estimates. References had been made to the Boers, but no 