waters. I think we ought - not as a matter of reprisal, but as a matter of sentiment-I think we ought to make such arrangements as will be in conformity with the best interests of the flag under which we live. The honourable member for Franklin gave us a most extraordinary illus- tration last night of the advantage of having the Messrs. Spreckels Company carrying our mails across the Pacific in time of war. He said that we should have the protection of the American flag. But the honourable member seems to forget that the mails would have still to be carried across the Atlantic ; so that I do not think there was any great point in that contention of the honourable member. Then, it was held out as a great inducement why we should continue this service that it would assist in developing the tourist traffic. I may point out, however, that between the years 1891 and 1900 the average number of passengers carried by this line was 298, the lowest number in any one year was 250, and the highest number 319. There has only been an increase of sixty-seven during that period. I would, therefore, ask, what is the good of running this service for the sake of such a small increase in the number of pass- engers carried ? I notice - and I say it to their credit-that the Auckland members are essen- tially loyal ; and I may say that I would not give a button for any man who was not loyal, for the man who is not loyal, in my opinion, is a renegade, and I am very pleased to see that there is not a single renegade amongst the represen- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tatives from Auckland. Honourable members will find that the Auckand members will vote straight on the ticket. Of course, in supporting this Fr'isco service they are supporting a service which runs under the flag of a coun- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero try in which a black man cannot travel in the same railway - carriage as a white man. Mr. J. D. Spreckels is one of the great multi- millionaires, owners of steamboat lines and sugar-refineries all along the Western Slope of America. Honourable members may be sur- prised to learn that he had a father whose name was also Spreckels, and that father was asso- ciated with men whose names will be handed down to undying fame : to wit, Boss Croker, of New York, and Leyland, the great shipowner- the man who sold one of the great British lines to an American company. Now, I ask honour- able members of this House, why should we cast ourselves into the hands of the son of one who was associated with men who are inimical to the best interests of Britain. In the sixties the father of the great J. D. Spreckels, or the Spreckels Brothers, was a shipowner, and, when a strike took place at the railway works on the Eastern Slope of America, these enterprising democrats went to China and brought over a shipload of Chinamen and supplanted the men on strike. Are these the men we are going to bring here, or the men who are to be forced upon us ; men who have no higher sense than dollars, for that is all they want? I say we do not intend to give them any of our dollars- at least, if the people of New Zealand are wise they will not. Now, I may say I have very little feeling in Mr. McLachlan What do my constituents care whether they get their mails by Fr'isco or by Suez via the Bluff ? It is a matter of the utmost indifference to my constituents. In fact, down there we scarcely know-unless we see it in the news- papers that the Fr'isco mail will be despatched on a certain day-that there is a Fr'isco mail at all. Now, I am sorry my friend the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), whom we look upon as one of the most intelligent members representing Auckland City An Hon. MEMBER .- The most intelligent. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- Yes, the most intelli- gent. He saw me the other morning in the shade of the vestibule, and asked me to consider this matter as a rational individual and as a Free- trader. He said, " Is it not to your interest to buy your goods in the cheapest market?" I said, " On general principles it is ; but on this occasion I am going more by sentiment than by logic." The honourable gentleman tried to persuade me that it was absolutely necessary that we should have the quickest mail-service because of the great expense entailed on the commercial community owing to the increased cost of discounts in the transmission of money. I believe that is a very good argument, for it is only the monetary argument that appeals to the commercial man at all. They do not know anything about sentiment. But I believe the commercial community have got more than they could expect by the penny postage. They, and almost they alone, get all the advantage, because it is they who buy the cheap stamps. It is the duty of every member of Parliament to read the morning paper; and this is what I found in the New Zealand Times of Thursday, 17th October :- "Mr. W. J. Napier, the senior member for Auckland, sent to the Mayor of Auckland yesterday the following reply to a telegram with regard to the mail -services : 'Thanks for resolutions. Your meetings and telegrams give us great encouragement. Glad to see all Aucklanders united to resist the latest attempt to injure the Empire and colony- Why, only Auckland and Great Britain con- stitute the Empire-the most remarkable piece of presumption on the part of the honourable member with the " mailed fist "! Then it goes on,- "'-and further despoil Auckland by abolish- ing the San Francisco mail-service." As the honourable member for Wellington City said, " Poor Auckland "! This is their ewe lamb, and if you destroy that ewe lamb it is dead. What a horrible position to be in. If Wellington or Canterbury only had that for their ewe lamb, where would the Colonial Treasurer get his revenue from ? The telegram proceeds,- "-Continue to display the unanimity of the people of the province by meetings and resolu- tions of public bodies. The help of the people so given will sustain and strengthen Auckland members in doing their duty unfalteringly. Any weakening by a member in face of clamours of Auckland's enemies in the Press should be 