Let me mention the time-table of the mail just leaving here, and the mail to arrive here in a day or two. The mail leaves Auckland on the 19th October, and arrives in London on the 16th November. The return mail leaves London on November 23rd and arrives in Auckland on the 23rd December. The actual time en route is fifty-eight days ; the time for getting a reply is sixty-five days. The inward mail which left London on the 21st September reached Auckland on the 21st October ; but there is an interval of eighteen days before the return mail leaves Auckland on the 9th November, and it arrives in London on the 7th December. Thus, in this case, it takes a correspondent in London seventy-six days to get a reply. Taking the average of the two return journeys, the result is seventy days and a half, as against seventy- four days to and from Dunedin by the Federal route. Now, I may be permitted to say that Dunedin has just as much right to be considered as Auckland, and communication with Dunedin would be es- tablished by that route in thirty-seven days. Of course that route would be greatly prefer- able, as it would be a weekly instead of a three- weekly table, and the time it would take to get an answer by that route would be thirty-seven to forty days as against thirty-five to thirty-six days by the Fr'isco route, instead of the eight or nine days' difference as suggested by Mr. Fowlds. Now, I have endeavoured not to tra- verse the ground which has been previously https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 covered ; but I would like, in conclusion, to summarise the points which seem to me of im- portance in regard to the service. The honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) really departed from his usual fairness and can- dour when he put all sorts of ridiculous sugges- tions into the mouths of the opponents of this service : such as that if the mail came this month or next month it would not matter, or if it came by some sailing vessel it would be all the cheaper. Now, nobody has been absurd enough to say that, other things being equal, speed was not of enormous importance. What we urge is that regularity - absolute regularity -and precision are of more importance than mere speed, especially in the case of Spreckels's line, where the speed is right enough on the journey, but on account of the long intervals between the mails the period is really very much longer. Now, I am not going to discuss the question of the value of extra speed in regard to our mail-service from England, but I want to point out that these are the points to be considered, and put them in what appears to me to be their order of importance : First, regularity ; second, frequency; third, speed ; fourthly, speed, not only in the single journey but in the return; fifthly, a trade route to be preferred where practicable; sixthly, a path- way through our own Empire to be preferred, other things being equal ; and, seventhly and lastly, that our own boats should be preferred, other things being equal. Now, upon these grounds which seem to me of public importance, and matters of business and not of sentiment- VOL. CXIX .- 34. are business as well as sentiment ; but I think on the bare question of interest and business we ought to reject the proposal for the San Fran- cisco service and make the best arrangements we possibly can for one of the other alternatives still open to us. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at twenty minutes to two o'clock a.m. (Friday). LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 18th October, 1901. First Reading-Third Readings. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Chemists' Rota of Attendance Bill. THIRD READINGS. Money-lenders Bill, Cornwall Park Duties Exemption Bill, Opium Prohibition Bill, Charitable Institutions Rating Bill. The Council adjourned at twenty minutes to three o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 18th October, 1901. First Readings-Pacific Cable-Payment of Mem- bers Bill - Patea Election - Gore Cemetery Reserves Bill-Money-lenders Bill-Ocean Mail- services. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Land-tax and Income-tax Bill, Government Railways Department Classification Bill, Wai- mate Hospital District Bill (No. 2), Govern- ment Railways Superannuation Bill. PACIFIC CABLE. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said he wished to ask the Postmaster-General, with- out notice, whether the cable message con- tained in this morning's Times from Melbourne, dealing with the Pacific cable, had been brought under his notice, and if there was any truth in the allegations therein contained. The matter was of such urgent importance, in view of the debate now before the House, that he thought the question should be dealt with at once. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said he had seen the cable referred to, and the state- ments generally were incorrect. The message said :- "It is patent that there is a desire on 