of the Bill confine their attention to it in dis- cussing the matter. Nobody cares twopence about the abstract phase of the increase, as- suming that the Bill is not going to come into operation until after the next election ; and if that was all the Bill provided it would have a very easy progress through the House. I will Wellington member not say the average is not worth as much as four figures, but in regard to some of those who, never having attended on a debate, come in and upset the decision of those who have been attending to the debate, I think if we had counters their work would be done as efficiently and much more cheaply. If we are going to have a classi- fication scheme in the way my colleague sug- gests, he may perhaps prepare a classification scheme during the recess. It would certainly be a difficult thing to work it out on the spur of the moment. There is a proposal to discriminate-I think there are two Wellington members who will not profit by this Bill in whatever form it is passed-but I would sug- gest that we should discriminate, if at all, in the matter of residence, and not penalise a constituency in any way. The test should be residence in or near Wellington. That was actually the case in the Act of 1887, which was repealed by "The Payment of Members Act, 1892." There is no reason why Wellington should not, as it has occasionally done, elect some member not resident in the locality, and sometimes other constituencies have members resident here, and that ought to be made the test, and not the constituency. I should also suggest as an additional test, whether that par- ticular representative was of the right " colour " https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 or not, because I think, in all seriousness, that a representative of Wellington of the right "colour " has probably a harder time than any other member of the House. I can speak im- partially upon the point, because I am not of the right "colour," and I am just thinking how the time of my junior colleague Mr. Fisher and of the member for the Suburbs and the member for Otaki is taken up. I do not believe that, however exacting other honourable mem- bers' constituents may be, they have the same opportunity of worrying them as the consti- tuents of these three unfortunate gentlemen have all the year round. Now, the real point, of course, is whether this Bill is coming into operation for the personal benefit of those who pass it. A good deal has been said about impu- tation on one side or the other, but honourable gentlemen will see that this imputation would not apply on one side of the argument or on the other but for the fact that they will get a per- sonal benefit through the Bill passing in its present form. I regret exceedingly that Stand- ing Order No. 187 does not disqualify a mem- ber voting for this Bill to come into operation in the present Parliament. The Standing Order reads :- "No member is entitled to vote upon any question in which he has a direct pecuniary interest, either in the House or Committee ; and the vote of any member so interested will be disallowed." Mr. Atkinson And, in view of the fact that if we vote for this Bill in its present form we actually have an addition of £5 to our very next cheque, it is difficult to understand how, at any rate, the spirit of that Standing Order is not violated by members who support and vote for the Bill as it stands at present. If the amendment of the honourable member for Lyttelton were carried the only difficulty would disappear, and there would be no ground for friction on either side. In deference to the able argument of the Minister for Railways on my amendment, I propose not to press my amendments for re- ducing our salaries on the House. They were proposed at a time when I took a gloomier view of the finances of the colony than I do now, and proposed with a view of showing how, if we desired to alter the salaries at all, it would be more reasonable and more legitimate to alter them; and I hope the proposal will have the moral effect of making these honour- able members so grateful, if I do not pro- cced with the amendment, as to be con- tent to allow the Act to stand as it is at present. Now, the point was raised by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) as to instructions from constituents. There are two theories of representa- 1.0. tive government - the trustee theory and the delegate theory. I submit whichever theory you adopt -- and I hold very strongly to the trustee theory-you cannot with consis- tency support this Bill. As delegates we had no mandate on the point, no instruction,- no intimation even,-from those who returned us here; we have had no consultation with them, and therefore to support this Bill would be absolutely ultra vires in so far as we are delegates. Now, as trustees there is a cer- tain sense of the word "trust " under which we might vote for the Bill. In English law & trust represents the most sacred obligation-the obligation of the trustee to look after the in- terests of others without consulting his own. That is the meaning of the word in English law and in common usage in ordinary speech. In the usage of American commerce it has different meaning: it means the combination of a privileged few with a view of fleecing the people at large for their own benefit. I contend that we are forsaking the English conception of a trust and giving our sanction to the American meaning of the word if we are to support this Bill. Allow me to call to my aid the " Pious Editor " of the " Biglow Papers." After expressing his belief in " special ways of prayin' an' convartin "-and the Premier, by the way, judging by his recent cablegrams, has been doing some praying lately ; but the Pious Editor spells it in a different way, of which also the Premier knows something, and ex- plains,- I mean in preyin' till one busts On wat the party chooses, An' in convartin' public trusts To very privit uses. We are converting the public trust reposed in us by the electors of the colony to the private use of increasing our own pocket-money if the 