now ? Mr. CARROLL said it was in the Public Accounts. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do the rents come from Maoris or pakehas ? Mr. CARROLL said, From pakehas; but the Government could not pay it out, and could not settle this question until they gave power to the Native Land Court, as was proposed to be given here, to investigate that land and ascertain the title of the Maoris, so far as the two tribes mentioned in the Bill were concerned. He thought the Government were taking a proper course in saying that the £600 should be paid to them. It should have been paid to the Natives long ago, but the Government did not know who to pay it to. They knew the tribe, but could not pay the money to the tribe ; they had to pay it to the individuals, and they proposed to give that money to them imme- diately the Court had performed its part of the work and found out the individual ownership. With respect to the occupation licenses, which appeared a new phase of these matters to the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, he might tell the honourable gentleman that "occupation license " had an interpretation under the West Coast Settlement Reserves Act ; and he might tell the honourable gentleman also that the Public Trustee, in the administra- tion of these reserves, had leased under occupa- tion licenses to Natives alone an area of 15,203 acres out of the lands under his control, so it was no new form of tenancy. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 An Hon. MEMBER .- For what term ? Mr. CARROLL said, For various terms, ac- cording to the circumstances necessitating the action. The Public Trustee had to see, at any rate, wherever the Natives wished to occupy land for their own use and benefit, and, where it did not interfere with the European tenants, that they should have some ; therefore he gave them land under occupation licenses, the re- venue from which was redistributed among them according to their interests and shares in the land so occupied. In regard to the sug- gestion of the member for Napier, that some provision should be made in this Bill whereby the descendants might succeed after the present owners, he would suggest that the interpretation of the word " Maori " would come better in a general Bill than in this, and when the Maori Administration Amendment Bill was before the Committee the honourable gentleman then would have an opportunity of moving in the direction indicated by him. He did not dis- agree with the principle himself. He thought it was a right one, provided, of course, proper safeguards were added, so that no injustice should be done in matters purely affecting tribal interests. The promise made by the late Sir Donald McLean was made publicly before an assemblage of the whole of the West Coast tribes. It was made in the light of day. Records were kept of some of these promises that were made, but unfortunately, in the inter- ests of the Natives, he was sorry to say that records had not been kept of some of the very had found sufficient evidence to assure them that the promise in regard to this particular piece of land was absolutely made by Sir Donald McLean. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER asked if the Minister would tell them if there was going to be a " Washing-up " Bill. Mr. CARROLL might inform the honourable gentleman that they had in hand not a " Wash- ing-up " Bill, but one that was called a " Native Equitable Claims Adjustment Bill," which would be introduced this week. It had taken some considerable time to sift out such matters as should go into the Bill and those that should not. The work had not been an easy one, and the honourable gentleman himself admitted that accumulations of about five years of equi- ties had been going on and required to be dealt with now; and all he could add was that ac- cumulations of equities in connection with Na- tive affairs for five years would require a very stupendous Bill to deal with the same. He could assure the honourable gentleman, how- ever, that the Bill was almost ready, and would be introduced, he thought, this week. Bill read a second time, committed, and re- ported. INSPECTION OF MACHINERY BILL. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) asked the Minister for Public Works, before taking the committal of the other Bills, to take the second reading of the Inspection of Machinery Bill, which stood at No. 33, and allow it to be read a second time, so that it might also be committed. It was an important Bill, and affected an important industry. It was found that the Act passed last year did not really meet the needs of that industry, and, in fact, it made it almost impossible for a dredging com- pany to comply with it without inflicting great hardship to the men in charge of the engines, and involving that industry in needless ex- pense. He would ask the Minister to allo:v that Bill to be taken out of its order and com mitted with the other Bills. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister of Marine) quite recognised that the Bill mentioned was what might be called an urgent Bill, and if it was the wish of the House he would do what the honourable gentleman wished. Consent given. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works), in moving the second reading of the Bill, said that the Bill was required for the purpose of removing some objections to the Act of last session. Since the foundation of the colony it had been open for any person to drive an engine on land without holding a certificate ; but last year the House decided that all engines over a certain horse-power should be in charge of the holder of a certi- ficate. There had been some little difficulty, inasmuch as some of those entitled to certi- ficates who had been driving for a time were not aware of the law, and had not had time to make application for certificates within the time prescribed by the statute. 