consider a proportionate increase to other teachers, and also by those who will get no increase at all, or who suffer a reduction ; whereas the great majority of teachers, who get a substantial increase, have simply maintained . silence. They have not come to the House and proclaimed their acceptance of the suggested scale : they do not appear; consequently the outside public, who do not belong to the teach- ing profession, may be under the impression that the scale does not give so much satisfac- tion as it really does. With regard to the small schools, they will suffer in Auckland, and to a small extent in Otago ; but it must be borne in mind there are about nine.hundred teachers in Auckland, and only a small percentage of them will suffer reduction. At present the Auckland Board does not give house allowance. There are 113 schools, with an average attendance of twenty, in connection with which there are no residences for the teachers ; but these teachers will now be paid house allowance, which will mean a substantial increase to their salaries. As has been pointed out by the member for Palmerston, after the Bill is passed, and a colonial scale is adopted, the £4 capitation will entirely disappear. Provision is also made to meet the case of side-schools. There will be a difficulty in regard to the mistress with the side- schools in Christchurch, but that will be a matter for the North Canterbury Education Board to arrange, and there is sufficient latitude allowed to Education Boards to adjust their staffs so as to meet the provisions of this Bill. The main idea in arranging the scale was, in the first place, to adapt it as far as possible to the varying schemes throughout the education districts of the colony ; and, in the second place, not to prejudicially affect any of the occupants of the positions they now hold. Therefore, any of those who will be seriously affected-and they will be but few-will have two years in which to arrange with their Board for pro. motion or for transfers to other schools or other districts. With regard to the second assistants, I have to say that in a few instances they will suffer ; but, as honourable members will see in a footnote to the suggested colonial scale, there is a provision under which a Board, instead of appointing an extra pupil- teacher, may increase the salary of the assistant-teacher who will be prejudicially affected to the extent of £45. As far as the instruction of pupil - teachers is concerned, honourable members will realise the fact that in some of the education districts a subsidy is now paid to headmasters for the instruction of pupil-teachers. In other districts that is not so, and it is proposed now to abolish that pay- ment. Then, there is this point : a pupil- teacher does not come in until the average at- tendance reaches ninety. Hitherto the pupil- teacher was the first addition to the staff, whether at thirty-five, forty, or fifty, as the case might be; consequently, in schools of under fifty, there are now to be found a head master and a pupil-teacher, and it is the duty of the headmaster to instruct the pupil-teacher, for which he will receive payment. When the Mr. Gilfedder attendance gets up to ninety he will be re- ceiving a very good salary himself, and will be expected to instruct the pupil-teacher without With these few re- further remuneration. marks I will reserve other subjects I wish to deal with until the Bill gets into Committee. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I desire to express my very great pleasure at the manner 1 in which the Public-school Teachers' Salaries Bill has been received by honourable members. The promotion of this measure has been to me a labour of love, and members will realise that when I state that both my parents were school-teachers in the Mother-country. There, as here, the responsibility and labour was great, the emolument niggardly in the extreme ; in fact, worse than in this colony. 1.0. Taking the payment of teachers in the colony now, I say that, considering the respon- sibility that is cast upon them, considering the training they themselves have to undergo to fit them for the position, and knowing, as I do, how conscientiously and well they perform their duties, to me it has always been painful to know that the emoluments received have been so small. I therefore say that to remove that reproach is a labour of love, and I am glad to have had the opportunity of bringing down a measure giving fixture of salary, and at the same time increasing the salaries of the teachers. Although scale No. 1 is now the scale adopted, as I said earlier in the session, and I again repeat, what the Government have in view is that there shall be an increase in the amount paid. I do not say it shall be in accordance with scale No. 2 as submitted by the Commission. I hold myself that, even under the Bill as it stands now, even with scale No. 2, there are certain anomalies respect- ing the salaries of assistants in mixed schools, as compared with the higher salaries paid to assistant teachers in separate schools, that re- quire to be removed. But we have now, as between the cost to the colony of No. 1 and No. 2 scales, a difference of £10,800, and what I 1 have said is that I think the colony can afford 1 later on to give that £10,800. We shall have the experience of the working of the Bill when it is passed, and we shall be able to see how best to distribute that £10,000. I may say at once . that I contended last session, and I contend now, that in some of the larger schools- in some of the schools in the more favoured dis- tricts- the amount received and that will be received under this Bill, whilst not at all too high, yet it is high when compared with what it is proposed to pay to teachers in the country schools in scattered districts. It is in . the smaller schools of the colony that I think an increase should be made, and that is where I should be quite prepared to give a more liberal allowance out of the £10,000 which is available. We may also, probably, in the working of the system, see our way to improve the position of some of our female teachers. These are matters which we must take into 1 consideration. Now, coming to the statements made as regards the small schools, as members will see, the heading "20" is slightly mis- 