will show there was no necessity for this amend- ment of the law. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh, yes. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Honourable members are on the horns of a dilemma. If they do that, then why amend the law ? There is no answer to that. At all events, there are only a few months to go, and we will see what the working in the meantime may be. My own view of the matter is that, if you are not to have the moral support of the thousands of workers in the colony, neither the award of the Board nor that of the Court will have any effect. You must carry the thousands of workers with you, and if you defy them they will appeal to the right of all Britishers and let you know what you may expect. Honourable members may laugh, but they will laugh on the other side if they go too far. It is not wise to go too far. Now, I wish to say I have been from the start a strong supporter and promoter of this labour legislation. The world's favourable attention has been drawn to our labour legislation, and, as between employer and employed, the posi- tion in our colony to-day is superior to any- thing else within the Empire, or in any other country. If you disturb that condition of things it is, to my mind, a serious departure. How- ever, the departure will be made, in so far as section 21 is concerned ; but I believe the result will be that, although the machinery is here for the employers to ignore the Conciliation Board, they will not, in their own interests, ignore that tribunal. They will see it is the part of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 machinery that clears the way. If there is no- thing but the Court to go to the cost will be considerable. In the past the Conciliation Boards have kept down the cost very much, be- cause they have settled many of the points and left only a few to be determined by the Courts. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why say the Act is being run to death ? Mr. SEDDON. - Sir, drowning men will grasp at a straw, and there are men who hate this legislation, and if they had the chance to kill it-not in a manly and straightforward way, but in an indirect way, and in a way that would not bring them face to face with public opinion -they would kill it. There is another im- portant departure in the Bill: I allude to the amendments made on the motion of the mem- ber for Palmerston. There, again, I say we were not treated fairly in respect to the matter. " Why so ?" members will ask. It was in this way : that in agreeing to the proposal-namely, that either party should nominate a Board of experts-I thought that when that was carried there would be no attempt made to go the length that was gone by the member for Wanganui. I may say I believe that in some cases, where absolutely expert know- ledge is required, there may be an advantage in the proposal. The other amendments made in the Bill are minor amendments. The two important amendments made are: (1) That either party can call in experts to act and form the Conciliation Board, and (2) that under sec- tion 21 either party to a dispute can ignore the Conciliation Board and go direct to the Arbitra- VOL. CXIX .- 67. 1 tion Court. In respect to the first amendment, I think a great concession was made, and after that amendment had been agreed to I did not think we would have been pressed to the extreme course contained in the motion of the member for Wanganui. That honourable gentle- man has stated that I was aware of that particular amendment. I never sawit. It was drafted by the member for Grey, and added to by the honourable member himself. After that was drafted I never saw it at all. The honour- able member did come to me with an amend- ment, and when I looked at it I laughed. Mr. WILLIS .- You did not laugh after- wards. Mr. SEDDON .- I laughed at the one you showed me, and I said it had not the slightest chance of being carried. It was preposterous ; and the honourable member knows as well as I do that when it was shown to other members of the House they told him the same thing. Mr. WILLIS .- No, they did not. Mr. SEDDON. - Well, I have my own opinion, and I say that every member of the House who reads it will come to the same con- clusion. What I object to is that the honour- able gentleman should have the temerity to state that he showed me the amendment he proposed to move as in clause 21 of the Bill two hours before it was proposed. I challenge him to say I ever saw it. He admitted he had never seen it himself till it was handed to him by the honourable member for the Grey. I say the honourable member had the idea to remit the question to either party to go to the Court. I like to be fair, and I say that is the view he held ; but the amendment he showed me was such that I feel I made a mistake in not accept- ing it. I should have accepted it. It was such a piece of nonsense that if it had gone into the Bill it would have done no harm at all. It would have been absolutely inoperative; but it was converted into something tangible by the honourable member for the Grey. The honour- able member for Wanganui had another amend- ment which he submitted, and we know how that was treated. It was never considered seriously, but was rejected. That is a state- ment of the situation. Well, Sir, I am not speaking with any hope of changing members' opinions upon this point. I have accepted what is the will of a large majority of the House on this question, although my opinion differs there- from. There has been no question of party introduced into the matter at all. There are labour members of the House who are more particularly affected by this matter, and I may say that I obtained their views. After discus- sion with them, the conclusion arrived at was that to set up a stonewall would be futile, and, there being no hope of changing the situation; the best thing to do was to let the matter go for the present and see how it worked, and then to bring it up first thing next session if we found it was not working in the best interests of labour and in the best interests of the employers of the colony. There were two courses for us to take-one the course adopted, the other to disagree with the amend- 