been said by the honourable member for Napier that that embargo cannot be removed. Sir, I do not know of any such word as "cannot " to a Britisher, and, if we have tried and failed, there is no reason why we should not try again, and in time succeed in getting the embargo removed. But, whether or not we get the em- bargo removed, I say there is another considera- tion, and a sentimental one, which to me is as strong as any argument we have heard this evening. The Pacific is the ground upon which the East and West will no doubt meet, and upon which they are nearly meeting now. Upon the west of the Pacific you have Russia and China, upon the east you have Canada and the great Continent of America, and upon the southern part of it you have the great Australian Contin- ent and New Zealand, and I say that before long the meeting of the East and the West will take place somewhere in these Pacific seas ; and when they do meet the clash will be great, and the clash will be the result of a feeling that has been growing for centuries. And the meeting will be a severe one, and who is to come out of it successfully ? Are we, Canada, and Australia and Great Britain, to go into that fight by ourselves, or are we to look to a greater federation even than the federation of the British nation-a federation that some people dream of-of the English-speaking peoples ? And I say, Sir, that the action some honour- able members are taking in this House to-night is an action opposed to the federation of the English-speaking peoples. It is an action op- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 posed to those who speak our own tongue and are of our own blood ; and I say, Sir, there can be no stronger argument-no stronger senti- mental argument, at any rate-in favour of holding on to this San Francisco service a little longer to see if our fellows will come into line with us. I hope eventually the whole of that eastern coast of the Pacific -Canada and America-and Australia and New Zealand will be united together as one great federation, speaking one tongue, and fighting out the domination, I believe, of the world and of the Pacific. Therefore, let us not do any- thing rashly to-night, even for the sake of a paltry $15,000 a year, for a matter of sentiment such as the embargo which is now placed on our shipping, and which I hope will be removed- let us do nothing which in the future may have a detrimental effect on the federation that yet may come about. I know that in the American Continent there are many hostile to the British nation. But, Sir, that hostility may grow, and it certainly will grow if we fan the flame, and that is the ten- dency of the action that some honourable members desire us to take to-night. But, in view of this great struggle of the future, instead of fanning that flame we should endeavour to do something which will prompt those who are in sympathy with us in the great American continent to increase, and year by year show to the world that at any rate they are eventu- ally to become the great majority in that land, and, when they have so increased, will join | debate was concerned, by giving arguments in Mr. J. Allen and come into a federation which will have a flag-it may be the British flag-which shall be the sign of liberty to all English - speaking peoples. I believe that federation yet may come about, and I hope that nothing will be done this evening to injure the possibility of it so coming. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- I desire to make a personal explanation. The last speaker unwittingly has done me a certain amount of He said in his speech that I had said wrong. that I had been converted against the San Francisco service because of the attitude of the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). I did not say that. I said I had been convinced yesterday by the speeches delivered in opposi- tion to the service, and also by studying the figures of the Postmaster-General in connection with the different mail-services. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I regret I misunderstood the honourable gentleman. I thought he had referred to the telegram of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), and that he had been induced by the strength of that telegram to vote the other way, Mr. LAURENSON .- I did not say that ; but I may say that that telegram certainly had a hardening effect, as far as I was concerned. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- It was not my in- tention to deliver any speech on this subject to-night, but really after the remarks of the last speaker, and his eloquence in finishing it, I cannot restrain myself, and I now desire to say a few words to the House. I would like to commend the honourable member, because it is plain he spoke under considerable disadvan- tage. It requires no great stretch of one's imagination to tell who the honourable mem- bers were who had been converted by the honourable member for Franklin, and, when I run my mind over the names of those honour- able members, I have no hesitation in placing the last speaker as one of the converted men. It requires no stretch of imagination, I say, to state that in the honourable member for Palmerston (Mr. Pirani), the honourable mem- ber for Wakatipu (Mr. W. Fraser), and the honourable member for Bruce (Mr. J. Allen), we have the three converts of the honourable member for Franklin (Mr. Massey), who have saved the San Francisco service for the City of Auckland. Every one of them practically ad- mitted the source of their conversion, and I was pleased to see the way they brought it out. They did not forget their party and refrain from attacking some of our men, and every one of them also gave credit to the member of their own party who brought about their conversion. The honourable member for Palmerston evi- dently had his speech prepared before his con- version, and that part of it was a denunciation of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), who took an important part in connection with the negotiations for the Fr'isco service. After he had delivered himself of that speech he said a few words in favour of the service. But, so far as contributing to the 