that the piano was the gift of the Premier, and Zealand Contingent, £25," be struck out. He did this subject to any explanation he might hear from the Premier. He understood the circum- stances were that the Fourth Contingent were supplied with a piano by the Brough Company, and that when the Premier went on board the steamer of the Fifth Contingent and found them without a piano he decided, out of the generosity of his heart, to give them a piano, on the under- standing that somebody else paid forit. It was his present, but somebody else was to "reim- burse him for the expenditure," to use the phrase they had applied to the Governor's ex- penses in connection with the Royal visit. The Premier's statement about it at the farewell lunch to the troopers was that he had given the Fifth Contingent a piano, and " somebody had got to pay for it." In the course of time the More Men Fund Committee was asked officially by the Defence Department to pay $25 for the piano. and they declined to do so, because there was absolutely no authority to impose that lia- bility on the Committee, and, besides, they did not consider that money held in trust for the widow and the orphan should be so used. He objected, as at present advised, to this #25 being put on the estimates. There would not have been the slightest difficulty in raising the $25 if the citizens of Wellington had been ap. proached on the matter. The Premier, whose generosity was always at the cost of other people, had accused them of meanness ; but they had raised nearly #4,000 for the More Men Fund, and would gladly have raised another £25 if the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 matter had been properly put before them. Mr. SEDDON said, If there was an item on the estimates for which he took credit it was this £25. He would explain the circumstances. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Shortly before the steamer sailed notice was given him that there was no piano on board this boat for the Fifth Contingent, whilst every other contingent had been provided with one. It was too late to make arrangements with the More Men Fund Committee, but he said, under the circumstances, he thought there would be no difficulty in the More Men Fund Committee paying for the piano, or by other arrangement. The Dresden Company considered that quite sufficient warrant on which to risk £25, and the piano was placed on the steamer. He mentioned the matter at the lunch that day, and said jocularly to the Mayor that he supposed the Committee would not object to paying for it. Months passed, and he never heard anything more about it until he heard that the More Men Fund Committee declined to meet the liability. He then told the Defence Depart- ment that it was a fair charge to put on the estimates, and, having done what he believed to be right, he did not think the colony would refuse to pay that £25. He said it was a portion of the equipment of the contingent, and that that equipment would not be complete without one. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would like to ask the Premier what had become of this piano, seeing it had been bought with public money. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said that, inas- much as it was reported in the southern papers in another paper that it was a gift of a mem- ber of the Premier's family, it was as well that it should be made clear that the piano was not a gift of the Premier, but was paid for by the colony. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said that it was telegraphed throughout the colony that the Premier had generously given this piano. Mr. SEDDON challenged the honourable member to show him a single paper which stated that. Mr. HERRIES said the Premier took the credit of the statement ; and now the House was asked to pass a vote for it. The general impression throughout the colony was that the Premier had given the piano, and that accounted for the surprise of members at seeing it on the estimates. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he did not say that the colony should not pay for the piano, or that it was not a proper charge on the colony, but he did say that this matter had been presented in a most extraordinary and unofficial fashion, and that whatever discussion had arisen the Premier had only himself to blame. If the Premier had presented the piano on behalf of the Government, or put it on " Unauthorised," there would not have been a word said about it. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said it was perfectly clear that the present was not made either on behalf of the colony or the committee. The Premier had stated that it was not charged to him; but the honourable gentleman was unable to repudiate the statement that he had been universally credited with being the donor of this piano, for which, after applying in vain to the committee, he now asked the country to pay. The Premier had mentioned the Mayor's name, but did not pretend that the Mayor or any other member of the committee had been consulted, though it would not have taken more than a minute or two. Most members appeared to think that the expenditure would have been legitimate if made in a proper way ; but he was not sure that public money should have been spent in this way, any more than on a banjo, or bagpipes. At any rate, he was quite clear the country should not be asked to frank the generosity of the Premier ; it would be better to have the hat passed round the lobbies and raise the money that way. Mr. SEDDON said he would challenge the honourable member, or any other person, to produce a paper with the statement contained in it that he was the donor of the piano. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said he had looked up the New Zealand Times of the 2nd April, and he found that the Premier was reported to have said that he regretted to find that the Fifth Contingent had not got a piano, and that, as the other contingents had had a piano, he thought they ought to have one as well, and therefore he had taken the liberty of ordering one to be sent on board, and if the Mayor did not pay for it he would have to see what could be done in the way of getting some other people to pay for it. 