unanimously is proof positive that we are all satisfied with the labour laws of the colony and our own labours to-night. Motion agreed to. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes past four o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 4th October, 1901. First Reading-Third Reading-Blackwater River Gold - dredging Company-Mortgages of Land Bill-Money-lenders Bill-Horses imported by the New Zealand Government. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. THIRD READING. School Attendance Bill. # BLACKWATER RIVER GOLD-DREDGING COMPANY. On motion of the Hon. Mr. REEVES, it was resolved, That the petition of the Black- water River Gold-dredging Company (Limited) be referred to the Government for consideration. MORTGAGES OF LAND BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Sir, I beg to move that this Bill be committed. The Bill has been before us recently, and I think the Council is pretty well familiar with it. It was first sent to the Statutes Revision Committee, in order to do what the Hon. Mr. Bowen proposed-to take the evidence of the Registrar-General of Land. I do not want to take anything out of the Hon. Mr. Bowen's mouth, but still I think I am entitled to say the evidence of that officer was entirely in favour of the forms and schedules of this Bill. His view was that the schedule of implied covenants was a great deal more satisfactory than the schedule of implied covenants that now attaches to deeds under the Land Transfer Act, and that if he had any suggestion to make it would be in the direction of altering the Land Transfer Act so as to incorporate with it the schedule of implied covenants drafted in this Bill. That shows that the Bill is an improve- ment so far. The Committee sat more than once on the question, and it was referred to the Law Advisers to see whether it was possible to put into this Bill a clause dealing with land-transfer conditions ; and it has been reported that it would be exceedingly inconvenient, and, in fact, not a proper thing to do, to alter the Land Transfer Act under the guise of an Act bearing a different name. I undertook in the Committee to submit to the Government the proposal that the Land Transfer Act should be Mr. Seddon implied conditions into line with this Bill when it is passed. And, so far as that goes, I think, Sir, the Council ought to be satisfied. They have the highest technical authority on the question, which is to the effect that the im- plied conditions attached to this Bill are better and more satisfactory than the conditions at- tached to the Land Transfer Act, and the Go- vernment is, by expert authority, advised to alter the Land Transfer Act to that extent. Of course, it is my duty to submit that to my colleagues, and, if possible, to have the Land Transfer Act amended in that direction. Then, I must refer to the amendments on the Order Paper. The first amendment which the Hon. Mr. Bowen has given notice of was approved of in Committee. It is purely a matter of direc- tions as to the proper filling-up of a form. It was brought before the Committee that there are certain societies- co-operative societies and others-where interest is not charged. The first amendment simply applies to that. Where there is no interest this line can be struck out ; but still the societies will have the opportunity -and it will be of advantage to them-of making use of the schedule in this Bill. The second amendment is also one that, I believe, is quite right, and that is to bring the matter of default into line with the other law on the subject. Instead of it being one month it is to be two months. I beg to move, That the Council go into Committee on this Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN. - The Hon. the Minister has explained what has been done with this Bill by the Statutes Revision Com- mittee. I think the Council will see that it was advisable that the evidence of the Regis- trar-General of Land should be taken on the matter. The Bill deals with a technical sub- ject, upon which it was right to take the opin- ion of a man who has the largest experience in the working of the Land Transfer Act. Mr. Davy did say, as the honourable gentleman has explained to the Council, that in his opinion this Bill would not interfere with the Land Transfer Act in any way, but that it was ad- visable as far as possible to bring this measure into conformity with that Act. The first amendment proposed is merely a formal one, to except certain societies which are subject to special legislation from the provisions of para- graph (h) of the First Schedule. The second one is practically to make the seventh implied covenant, recited in the Seventh Schedule, the same as the provision in the Land Transfer Act. That is, in short, the substance of the amend- ments proposed. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Mr. Speaker, with regard to this amendment on the Order Paper, giving power to alter the form, I have reason to believe it is dangerous, and the reason I say so is on account of the evidence that was given before the Mines Committee the other day. There are regulations in the Companies Act drawn up, but there is power given to vary and alter those regulations, and they were varied and altered in such an extraordinary way that it allowed persons who had no shares in the 