accepts the Board's recommendation. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Very well, let us as- sume that it will entail a much larger expense upon the Court. But I ask honourable mem- bers, supposing the settlement of all disputes in the future is dependent entirely upon the Arbitration Court, whether the annual cost is likely to exceed the sum of money expended last year on Boards and Courts -namely, about $3,500. The cost for all the cases finally decided by the Court last year was only $1,659 9s. 9d., as against £1,811 11s. 11d. for conciliation. Now, the honourable member for Dunedin City sought to score a point from one of the previous speakers in saying that he was justified in concluding from the arguments the honourable member mentioned that in order to get at that one particular Board the whole system was assailed, or words to that effect. Mr. MILLAR. - " Sacrificed." Mr. HUTCHESON .- Well, it is not so with me. I have no such desire, because I hope to see conciliation carried on in the true spirit-the only conceivable spirit in which conciliation can be carried on-that is, where both parties are mutually agreed to endeavour to compromise, and give and take, and settle the dispute with- out an appeal to the force of the Court. Only under those conditions has the term " concilia- tion " any meaning whatever. I may be par- ticularly crass and stubborn, and I know very well that if anybody compelled me to do a thing I would have a spirit of hostility to- wards that compulsion, and would resist it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 as long as possible, and it is human nature to do so. The only means of bringing the parties together in the present state of the law is to bring one of them at least by the hair of the head. It is impossible to conciliate under those circumstances. It is true that one particular Board has demonstrated to the House what abuses are possible under the law. That Board has been a finger-post to show us what can happen. The Wellington Board has settled fewer cases than some of the other Boards, and yet it has cost three times more than the Auckland Board, five times more than the Otago, ten times more than Canterbury, sixty-four times more than Westland, 106 times more than Taranaki, and two and a half times more than all the other Boards put together. Now, that is a pretty bad record ; but that only shows what a really bad Board can do-it does not kill the principle of the Act. I distinctly believe that the Legislature has done the right thing to maintain the permanency and utility of the Act. I feel certain that no great hard- ship will be imposed upon anybody. The Bill provides that the parties may go to the ordi- nary Board, or to a Board of experts from the particular trade, and they may elect to go direct to the Court; and I fail to see where any hardship can obtain. When the Pre- mier said to-night that it is a radical amend- ment of the Act, and that it was made in a surreptitious manner in the small hours of the morning by a House excited out of its ordinary reasonable frame of mind, and from employer or employé, I could not help being struck with the audacity of this fresh evidence of his well-known capacity as an exponent of the art of misrepresentation. Why, he himself has been importuned, and the per- manent expert of the Labour Department has been importuned by every interest in the colony, time and again, for those two privileges- namely, for a Board of experts with a practical knowledge of the technicalities of the trade, and for the right of direct appeal to the Arbi- tration Court. I will give one or two instances. A deputation from one of the labour unions, headed by Mr. Allan Orr, waited on the Pre- mier on the 6th August, and here is part of what the right honourable gentleman said on that occasion :- "The same evidence was repeated ad nau- seam, and the business of the Board was clogged by unnecessary repetitions. In the meantime business was paralysed, a fact which seriously affected employers and employés alike. The result was that both sides were getting sick of it. The employers did not want to be everlastingly in a turmoil. The unionists would have to act with great circum- spection, or they would destroy the usefulness of the Act." On Labour Day, at the Basin Reserve, the Premier told the unions in very much the same terms that the employers were the cause of all the failures on the Board; so that the honourable gentleman is between the devil and the deep sea in the haphazard way in which he is endeavouring to administer the Act. The fact of the matter is that the honourable gentleman's policy in regard to these labour Bills, is very much the policy of the "Pious Editor " in the " Biglow Papers " :- It aint by principles nor men My preudent course is stidied : I scent which pays the best, and then Go into it bald-headed. It is the vote-value that controls his attitude in regard to these labour laws. It is not a question of principle, it is a question of votes. If he had not counted noses by this time, do you think he would have moved a resolution agreeing to the amendments made in this Bill ? But he has counted noses, and he knows that the numbers are against him, and therefore he has made a virtue of necessity, and with great sound of trumpets, and with many threats and warnings, he has told us he is going to bow to the will of the Legislature. Now, I do no: share the pessimistic views of the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) regarding the pos- sible effect of these amendments. It may be quite true that it would be possible for us to rub along with the present Conciliation Boards -that is, if the right men were always elected. Give me a bad Act and good administration, and I will make the very worst Act tolerable to the people. With regard to the evidence taken by Judge Backhouse, I am inclined to think that what the bulk of the employers recommended was that there should be some preliminary tri- bunal for the clearing-away of the technicalities 