wool, that particular commodity with respect to which so much was expected from the United States, we sent only £7,750 in value -- a very small amount, considering that these particular commodities are worth quite as much in the Old Country as in America, and that America charges heavy duty; and the freight would benefit our direct steamers, and, I believe, assist us in lowering the freights on our exports to the United Kingdom. Other members have already spoken of the fact of the passenger traffic by this line being very small. Only 319 passengers came to the colony by this line last year, and there has only been an in- crease in imports of some 4,000 tons during the past nine years. The export side of the ques- tion is even worse, because we sent from Auck- land to San Francisco 601 tons in 1891, and we only sent 1,395 tons during 1900, which is hardly a reasonable increase for so well sub- sidised a route, more especially when we con- sider that up to the last few years we have given £26,000 a year as a mail subsidy. This particular line of steamers is practically State- owned by the United States. They receive $52,000 a year by way of subsidy from the United States Government. They are built according to plans approved by the United States Naval Department, and according to the conditions imposed by that Government they must carry one apprentice for each thousand tons of carrying capacity. Apprentices rank as petty officers. The American Government practically uses this line of steamers as training- vessels for their navy, and it is to be regretted that we do not follow this example and use our trading steamers in New Zealand as training- ships for our boys. There are other features with regard to this particular route which show how much favour it receives. For instance, the Agent-General instructed the Imperial Post- master-General to send all postal matter in- tended for this colony via San Francisco except that posted for one week after the Fr'isco mail left. Notwithstanding this we find that of the letters sent from the United Kingdom to this colony there are practically as many by the Suez route as by the San Francisco route. Personally, I consider the proposals are unfair to the colony as a whole, especially as we desire in this colony to foster our trade ; we must give our support to a mail-service by some British line. The Spreckels line of steamers will be used by the American Government as cruisers in the event of war ; and in that eventuality how is our mail service to the United Kingdom We are practically flouting to be carried on ? the British lines, and in time of difficulty be- tween the United States and any other Power it might be the means of those steamers being withdrawn from the service, and then our mail- service will be at the disposal of the Australian Commonwealth, and we will have to pay them what terms they choose to demand. We ought to be patriotic even in our postal relations with our own people. If we encouraged a mail line via Australia we will show a reciprocal spirit at least. Taking the case stated by the Postmaster- to the Federal mail-service we might possibly get an improved service. In fact, a fortnightly service will be obtained by the Federal line. I do not think we should stoop to beg any foreign steamship company to carry our mails, for these proposals are practically cringing to them, and there is no other Australasian State that offers a subsidy to a foreign line of steamers. Mr. MASSEY .- What about the Messageries line ? Mr. BUDDO .- They take the Australian mails only by poundage, and at a very small sum ; no subsidy or increased rates are given. Our trade is almost entirely with Aus- 9.30. tralia and Great Britain, which prac- tically takes nine-tenths of it, and it is only right that we ought to use our subsidies for the purposes of trade, and not for the sake of one or two days' shorter service use foreign-owned steamers to carry mails for us. I wish to draw the Postmaster-General's attention to another matter which is perhaps trifling in itself, but which shows how much interest the United States Government take in our tourists who go through their country to see it on their way to the Old Land. Every passenger going across America has to pay duty on his luggage if it is dutiable, and he does not get the duty returned to him at the other side. If he says he will not pay the duty, his lug- gage is put into bond at a cost of £2 10s. per hundredweight, or at the rate of €56 per ton, an extravagant charge that shows a hos- tility that Americans do not meet with in this colony. At all events, that is the charge put on all luggage carried over the American Con- tinent if there is anything dutiable among it. That is the sort of treatment we are getting, and it is the sort of treatment we have no right to expect. The fact of the matter is that our reciprocity with America must be confined to after-dinner speeches ; and until America holds out a different system on which to do business with us we may well think they consider it is the Pacific for the Americans, and now New Zealand is asked to pay the bill. New Zealand does a great deal already for the United States owing to the fact that we use a large quantity of agricultural machinery which is manufac- tured there. At the present time we take in almost everything of that class duty-free. As a matter of fact, more than one item of the kind carries no duty whatever - such as reapers and binders- and there is only 5 per cent. on oil- engines and agricultural implements. Kero- sene is also free of duty here. The return we get is that they will use our mail subsidies for the purpose of exploiting our trade, and the interests of our colony are going to be put last, and yet we propose to give them a large subsidy, amount- ing to the sum of £28,000 a year. Personally, I think we ought to be more businesslike. The present proposal is costly, and of no advantage to passengers, except to the few who can afford to travel by a costly route. Our own settlers are interested in getting a cheaper passage to the Old Country, and we are not going the right way to secure that for them by subsidising an 