IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- " (1.) All lands set apart as afore- said, and all lands and mines resumed or ac- quired under the provisions of sections fifty- nine and sixty of the principal Act, shall be deemed to be subject to this Act, and shall be held and dealt with thereunder and not other- wise. " (2.) The Governor may from time to time, by notice in the Gazette, exempt any of the said lands or mines from the operation of this Act, and thereupon the lands or mines so ex- empted shall cease to be subject to this Act, and shall be disposed of as the Governor directs. "(3.) The Governor may permit any lands subject to this Act to be disposed of by way of lease subject to the condition that the lease may be determined at any time by the Gover- nor without compensation to the lessee, in the event of the land being required for coal-mining purposes under this Act." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, in subsec- tion (3), after the word " lease," the insertion of the words "under ' The Land Act, 1892."" Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add the following proviso :- " Provided that, with respect to the lands comprised in the First, Second, and Third Schedules of ' The Westland and Nelson Coal- fields Administration Act, 1877,' subsection one of section forty-four of 'The Mining Act, 1898,' shall apply." Proviso added, and clause as amended agreed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to. Clause 8 .- "Section sixty of the principal Act is hereby amended by repealing; all the words from and including ' Provided that ' to the end of the section ; and in lieu thereof it is hereby declared that every resumption of land under section fifty-nine and every contract under section sixty of the principal Act shall be subject to the approval of Parliament, and for that purpose the following provisions shall apply : - "(1.) The Minister shall lay before each House of the General Assembly full particulars of such resumption or contract ; and, unless within ten days thereafter a resolution disap- proving of the same is passed by either House, the same shall be deemed to be approved by Parlia- ment. "(2.) If such resolution is passed by either House within the ten days as afore- said, then the resumption or contract so disapproved shall not be proceeded with or. be given effect to, but shall be deemed to be void for all pur- poses." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out subsections (1) and (2), with a view of inserting the following subsection in lieu thereof :- "The Minister shall lay before the House of Representatives full particulars of such re- sumption or contract within ten days after such resumption or contract is decided on by within ten days after the opening of the next session of Parliament ; and, if a resolution ap- proving of the same be not passed by the House within thirty days thereafter, the resumption or contract shall not be proceeded with or be given effect to, but shall be deemed to be void for all purposes." Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved, as a prior amendment, to insert after the word "repeal- ing," the words, " the proviso thereto." Amendment negatived. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved, in subsec- tion (1), after the words " The Minister shall lay before," to insert the words, "both Houses of the General Assembly," so that Mr. Seddon's amendment, if agreed to, should include those words. The Committee divided. AYES, 18. Allen, J. Smith, G. J. Lawry Atkinson Massey Symes Bollard Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. Monk Collins Tellers. Fowlds Parata Guinness Fraser, W. Russell, W. R. Russell, G. W. Gilfedder NOES, 38. Allen, E. G. Hall Mills Hall-Jones Arnold O'Meara Hardy Bennet Palmer Herries Buddo . Pirani Rhodes Carncross Hogg Hornsby Carroll Seddon Colvin Thompson, R. Hutcheson Duncan Lang Ward Ell Wilford McGowan Field McKenzie, R. Willis. Flatman McNab Tellers. Fisher Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Graham Millar Tanner. Majority against, 20. Amendment negatived. Mr. Seddon's amendment agreed to, and ' clause as amended agreed to. Clause 13 .- " Accounts to be kept as to each coal-mine, and balance-sheet prepared." Subsection (4) .- " Within twenty-eight days after the close of each financial year the Minister shall cause the balance-sheet and statement of accounts for the year to be submitted to the Audit Office for audit." Mr. SEDDON moved to add the following words : " and when so audited the same shall be published in the New Zealand Gazette." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 15 .- " If at the close of any financial year it appears in the case of any mine that the net surplus profits for the year, computed as aforesaid, exceed five per centum on the total capital expended, then during the following year the Minister may reduce the price of the coal from such mine to such extent as, on the basis of the previous year's operations, will pro- duce a net surplus profit of five per centum on the total capital expended." 