sand pounds' worth of coal-and this being a country teeming with coal-it must appear that there is something wrong. I am told it is obtaining Newcastle coal that has prevented the price of coal being raised on our consumers, and some manufacturers have told me, when the question came up as to imposing an import duty on Newcastle coal, " Oh, for Goodness sake, do not do that. Bad and all as Australia has treated us, if you raise the price of Newcastle coal, and put an import duty on it, it means you will raise it on us and on the industries. Newcastle coal is the only means we 9.0. have of keeping within a reasonable price." Well, there is a great deal of force in a contention of that kind ; but it is, I think, to our discredit that in a country such as this, where there are large tracts of coal easily ac- cessible, and the working of which requires no very large capital, there should be the present state of things existing. Now, the reports the Government have received, in respect to one case at least, are simply astounding. There are no shafts required, simply adits ; and there is already a railway partly made; and, in another case, a large area of coal, and every- thing in the hands of the Government at the present time, and at a very small cost, and you have the whole thing going. But, as I have said, I am not going on with the Bill in Com- mittee until the reports are in the hands of members, so that they may read them for themselves. The inquiries have been made in one part of the colony, but I have no doubt https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 if reports were made in respect to other parts of the colony we should find the same state of things existing. Under these circumstances we must do something, otherwise our in- dustries will be stifled owing to the very high prices demanded for coal. I say, dealers are taking from the people an unfair amount for coal for household purposes. What creates the difficulties in respect to obtaining a living- wage is that house rents on the one hand and the price of coal and fuel on the other makes the cost of living so high that the work- ing-man, if he is to live at all, must struggle for a higher wage. Now, if you give those necessaries at the lowest possible price you give greater comfort, and the present wage, at all events, will suffice. Honourable members will recollect that for years past this matter has been before them, and it cannot be said that the step we are asking the House to take now is being taken hastily. It has been done de- liberately and after the fullest information has been obtained. I have been met with the argument that this means more patronage to the Government. It means that both private enterprise and private coal-mine owners can obtain their coal at a given price, while, so far as the Government are concerned, there will be extravagance, and the coal will cost double what it could be purchased for from the pri- vate mine-owners. My answer to .hat is this : that the men who will be working for the Government in the State coal-mines will not be receiving any more than they are receiv- Mr. Seddon 1 no objection in this case, if it will facilitate <!-- PageHeader="1" --> mattters, in saying that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act might apply to the State coal- mines, rather than that we should lose the experiment I am asking the House to agree to make. Rather than impede the Bill's progress I would concede that, within reasonable limits. Mr. ELL .- You are coming on very well. Mr. SEDDON .- I am meeting an argument that might possibly arise. Then, so far as the railways are concerned, the railways that will carry the coal will belong to ourselves, and we should not charge ourselves more than we charge other people. We should, therefore, pay to the railways the same rates as are now being paid by the private coal-mine owpers. I then come to the carriage of the coal by steamers, and I say that as the State is taking at least 100,000 tons a year, we shall be in a position to obtain as reasonable terms from the shipowners as others- just the same terms as are now obtained by the pre- sent coal-mine owners. I do not, therefore, see how it is possible that it is going to cost the State any more than a private coal-mine owner. As I said, the State will not pay more than the private owner for hewing, or for the other work connected with it. It will not cost us more on the railways, and it will not cost us more on the steamers. Then, we come to the question of paying for management and administration. We shall pay the manager of our mine the same salary as is paid by private coal-mine owners, and he will, of course, have the same responsibility, and it will be, in the same way, to his credit to work the mine econo- mically and on commercial lines, and to take as deep an interest in it as would the manager of a privately-owned mine. I cannot see, there- fore, where there is any reason whatever to suppose that there will be a loss. There may not be much profit now in respect to bituminous coal-mines, and I shall probably be told that there are only two or three coal-mines in the colony that have given fair returns to the shareholders, and that are working at a profit. I admit that is so; but I would state also that though they have not, in some in- stances, given a direct return to the share. holders, there has been a large increase in the value of the properties. I know one particular coal-mining property where thousands and thousands of pounds have gone to the capital account out of the profits, and to-day the pro- perty is, I suppose, one of the most valuable in the colony. But there have been great mis- takes made in respect to some of our mines, and those mistakes have been made at the initial stage. First of all, the companies have not had sufficient capital, and there has been a good deal of capital sunk; and for this there never can be any return, because it is simply lost money. Some of the companies had not enough capital to start with, but here, under the Bill, we are asking for sufficient capital to allow us to start in such a way as to render mistakes almost next to impossible. An Hon. MEMBER .- You say "sell and de- 