regard to the limitation of overtime, which may be adversely criticized by some, that the hours that are being worked by young people and females-for they are the only ones of whom we have any record-have increased to a very large extent, and from the evidence that has been brought before the Labour Bills Committee, and which no doubt honourable members have read, it has been strictly neces- sary to limit these hours still further. In 1898 4,342 persons worked 107,516 hours ; but, in 1900, 5,090 persons worked 138,169 hours, and in 1901, 7,247 persons worked as much as 211,725 hours. From the evidence also, as I have previously stated, it is found that this overtime is proving detrimental not only to those who have not employment, but to the health of those who are compelled to work over- time. I was delighted to hear the speeches of some of those who spoke upon this measure a few nights ago, because of the amount of praise bestowed upon the various Factory In- spectors in New Zealand. It must be admitted that the success of the working of this Act de- pends to a very large extent upon the class of Factory Inspectors we have-by the amount of wisdom that is shown by them ; and when we have members of this House in their places stating that the various Factory In- spectors are working most fairly, so that both the employers and employés are satisfied with their efforts, I think the Government may be complimented on their selection. And it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 may be a lesson to these Inspectors to continue on the policy they have followed. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) .- I cannot let this Bill pass its third reading without making a few remarks. There is a great deal in the Bill I approve of, especially the principle establishing an eight-hours system for a day's work. I have always been in favour of that principle, and I am glad to see it is adopted in this Bill, which is now becoming law. But there are many things that I entirely disagree with in regard to this Bill. The Bill as now under consideration is certainly a great improve- ment on the Bill as introduced by the Govern- ment. I admit this is owing in a great measure to the labours of the Labour Bills Committee in so altering the Bill as to make it more ac- ceptable to the House; but, as a country mem- ber, I must raise my protest against certain principles contained in the Bill which affect mos; injuriously the country districts. I am sorry to say, Sir, in the discussion of this Bill, that a majority of the town members entirely opposed anything that might be con- sidered in the interests of the country districts. I refer more particularly to the mem- 8.0. bers for Auckland City. There were two of the members for Auckland City who supported the principle that I pointed out would act most injuriously against the country districts. When I proposed an amendment of the Bill to meet that matter those two members voted with the Government for the establish- ment of a principle which, I say, cannot but act most injuriously to the country districts. The Mr. Arnold with respect to clause 10 of the Bill, whereby those who were conducting small industries in the country could be summoned before the Court and rendered liable to a fine not exceeding £5- for having carried on an industry without being a registered factory. I consider that a. most injurious provision. It is one I cannot agree with. There is also the principle esta- blished in the Bill that every private house in a country district is a factory. I do not think for a moment that those who compose the Labour Bills Committee, in considering that matter, gave it proper attention, or they would not <!-- PageHeader="1 have allowed such a principle to be established 1" --> in the Bill. Any private house where people do their own washing and ironing can be con- stituted a factory. I say that is a great injustice to the country districts, and, as a country mem- ber, I must raise my protest against any Bill containing such a clause and such a principle as that. It is impossible in many country dis- tricts to engage the services of washerwomen. In towns it is different altogether. In towns you have factories where people are engaged in this industry, and you have private individuals making a living out of it; but in country 1 districts it is almost utterly impossible to get any one to assist in this work, and the result is that the members of the household have to do it, and if they do it the house becomes a factory. An Hon. MEMBER .- What section is that in ? Mr. HOUSTON .- You will find it if you look ; it is there. I am not going to point out the <!-- PageHeader="1" --> section. But the private house of any country member of this Parliament becomes a factory under this Bill. If the members of the house- hold do the washing, whether they are paid for it or not, the house can be constituted a factory. I say that is a gross injustice to the country districts. It is coming to this more and more every day in this House : that it is a question of town versus country; the towns wish to get everything in their own interest, no matter what the effect on the country may be, and it becomes a question of town members against country members. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. HOUSTON. - I say it is, and that we have had an example of it in the Bill under discussion. Of the three Auckland members, two voted against the amendment of this clause ; and I say it has come to this : that it is a ques- tion of town versus country, and, as a country member, I must raise my protest against it. I am sorry to have to do it, but I must do it. To say that a private house in a country dis- trict is constituted a factory-it is a disgrace to the Parliament of New Zealand to bring in such a measure as this. And not only is that so, but if any unfortunate country storekeeper gets the assistance of any one in his store to work for him his store is constituted a factory. I say, then, I would be wanting in my duty as a country member if I did not protest against this. I say it is a disgrace to impose these conditions on the country districts. I am as- tonished to find that members of this House 