An Hon. MEMBER .- Take the average. Mr. SEDDON .- No, not taking the average even. I know what I am speaking about. In a matter so important as that, we should be wanting in our duty had we not considered it, and considered particularly its bearing on the producers of the colony of New Zealand as a whole. My own opinion is that this colony will not be injured, although for a short time it might be inconvenienced, and it might suffer some loss ; but ultimately what you will have to do-what, in fact, you are bound to do now -is to seek out other markets for your pro- ducts, because it is only your surplus products that will be taken by Australia, and Australia is going exactly on the lines of this colony by cutting up her land into small settlements. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member is going altogether outside the ques- tion that is now under the consideration of the House. Mr. SEDDON .- Honourable members have been referring to it, and if it had not been referred to I should not have been on my feet now at all. All I can say is that, in respect to the bonus system, I do not think, myself-if the bonus system versus the opening-up of other markets is to be discussed in this debate-that the bonus system meets the case at all. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I did not discuss the question of bonuses versus the opening-up of fresh markets. Mr. SEDDON .-- But Mr. Buddo did. I say I do not believe the bonus system is the proper system. I believe, as regards the encourage- ment of the fishing industry, that although America competes with us in her canned fish, we should have to look for other markets, and the best way is to have arrangements made for vessels to take our products at the lowest pos- sible rates, and give us the facilities that at go on round the coasts of the colony, though present we are denied. not by any means to the extent that might take Mr. TANNER .- Cheapen the expense of place, is undoubted ; but it consists chiefly in transport. securing fresh fish for local consumption, or, in Mr. SEDDON .- That is my view; and it the case of fishermen in the South, for export would be a much better way of encouraging an to the neighbouring colonies in Australia. That industry than by offering bonuses. Of course, no large amount of it is either preserved or you can take it in another way, where it is a canned in a suitable way for export was shown question of encroaching upon your industries- by the figures given in a return for which I and I say the industries of this colony are moved last year. It is a singular commentary very much encroached upon-this industry is on the way with which members usually get encroached upon, and we ought to meet it in acquainted or not acquainted with the returns the direction I have indicated-I do not think laid before the House that several speakers it would be wise for us to commit the colony have regretted the lack of information on the definitely until the matter has received fuller subject, and yet a paper of last year- H .- 15 - consideration. I think we ought to wait until is a return showing the total amount of money we have full particulars before us, and then we paid under "The Fisheries Encouragement can go into the position. I hope in a few days Act, 1885," from its passing down to the 31st to be able to announce to the House what March of last year. It totals $9,965 for the course the Government intend to take in this fifteen years, and it is a remarkable fact that matter. The outlook seems to be far from nearly the whole of the money that was paid as cheering. That may be so or not. At any bonus on export to fish curers and preservers rate, I recognise the situation as a grave one, went to the Provinces of Otago and Auckland. and we must meet it. The whole of the amount taken by the other Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden). - In the provincial districts of the colony amounted to opinions he has just expressed the honour- not more than £650, and the figures are so interesting that I shall make no excuse present time. There is no doubt that the altered condition of the tariff in Australia is at present causing very great anxiety to the producers in this colony ; and, in raising this question of a bonus to the fishing industry, I think it might be as well not to have made an exceptional treatment of this industry, but let it stand over until we are dealing with the whole of the industries, because there is no doubt whatever that the altered condition of the tariff in Australia will compel this House to protect the producers of the colony from the Commonwealth of Australia. It might not be advisable to go into this question this session, but there is no doubt that it will force itself on the attention of the people of the colony and of this House ; and I was pleased indeed to hear the Premier say that he is watching the course of events, and intends making some proposals this session. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- Under the circum- stances, and now that the Premier has given us an intimation that the whole subject will shortly come up for review, not merely with regard to this industry, but with regard to others, I shall support the Bill. Otherwise I should have been inclined to resist the pro- posal to cancel the small amount of encourage- ment which has been given to this particular industry. Nevertheless, one is bound to admit candidly that the results of the action of the House in passing the Act of 1885 have been of a very unsatisfactory character, for it has been of very little advantage to the colony. While some members have spoken in rather 3.30. hopeful terms of the fishing industry, I am afraid they have confused the question of fishing generally with the question of the pay- ment of a bonus on the particular forms of preserved fish. That an amount of fishing does 