open lines. I say that because it seems to me that the addition to the Public Works Fund gene- rally is one that causes us to halt and to have some doubts about. The increase, as honour- able members know, has been very, very large indeed, and one finds that a very large increase has taken place during the last two years out of the public works expenditure; and it was not so very long ago that I had to draw at- tention to the fact that at the end of the financial year, together with the liabilities- including the expenditure up to the 31st March last-we had exceeded our available ways and means in the Public Works Fund by some £200,000 or $300,000. Now, that is a very desperate state of things, and I do not know that in the history of this colony it ever oc- curred before. We had an alteration proposed in the Loan Bill this evening-making the sum proposed to be raised a quarter of a million more than was originally proposed. I made no ob- jection to that alteration in the Loan Bill, be- cause I felt this : that anybody who did so- the estimates having practically been passed- if one had voted against the increased quarter of a million we might again be placing ourselves in the position which we were in on the 31st March last, a position that at the end of this coming financial year we should, together with the liabilities and expenditure, be exceeding our ways and means. If the Government are going to enter into liabilities such as they entered into last year, it is a question whether we shall not be again exceeding our ways and means at the end of this financial year. I suppose we have now got into a condi- tion of a permanent annual loan of a million and a quarter-I mean for our public works- and it may be a million and a half next year. I do not know whether there will be anything transferred from the Consolidated Fund at all, but I hope there may be something transferred, because I look on that transfer as a replacing of what we had in the past-namely, the sink- ing fund-and replacing it in a very satisfactory way, because I think it a better investment to place our money in our own public works than in the usual investments made by the Sinking Fund Commissioners. Although one hesitates to vote for the large amount of taxation it involves, yet there is some argu- ment for it; but if the transfer from the Consolidated Fund to the Public Works Fund ceases, as it may cease, and we have to rely on borrowed money for public works alone, I ask, is it not time the colony should consider whether she can bear a million and a quarter or a million and a half of borrowing each year for public works? It is becoming a serious burden, and I think we really ought to halt and consider whether in times like this we ought not to put our house in order rather than when depressed times come - if unfor. tunately they should come-for then we should have to rush into all kinds of savings, and departmental reductions and so forth, which would do a great deal of harm to the whole colony. It would be better to be careful now Mr. J. Allen us, and when we would be seized by panic, and perhaps do an amount of injustice, not only to the employés in public departments, but to our public works as well. Sir J. G. WARD .- Sir, the honourable gentleman has unintentionally misrepresented me. I am sure he would not do so willingly. I made the statement that in Victoria the re- newals, repairs, and maintenance were charged to revenue. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is what I said, and I shall show that the honourable gentleman has actually misled himself. I find in the Victorian report this statement :- # " Maintenance Branch. "The principal improvements which have been effected in the way and works may be summarised as follows :- " Extensive renewals and repairs to the per- manent-way. " Increase in the size and number of sleepers, "Relaying with heavier rails. " Regrading various important lines. " Replacement, renewal, and strengthening of a large number of bridges and culverts. "Extension of the system of substitution of road-bridges and cattle-pits for gates. " Extension of signalling and interlocking appliances for safe working. " Additional and improved residences for the staff. "Replacement of old post-and-rail fences on suburban lines with picket-fencing, and ex- tensive renewals of fencing on various lines. "A large expenditure has been incurred in providing new station buildings, platforms, sid- ings, and increased accommodation generally. "Improvement of the property as a whole by increased expenditure on repairs, renewals, painting, &c." Mr. J. ALLEN .- It does not say there what they are charged to. Sir J. G. WARD .- It says so in another place. Let the honourable member turn to the first portion of the report and he will find this :- " The capital expenditure at 30th June, 1900, amounted to £39,658,819, or an increase for the year of £602,368, charged as follows :- "Construction of new lines and 190,626 surveys Capital works on existing lines, &c. 290,656 Rolling-stock .. 112,808 .. (narrow gauge) 8,278 £602,368 " The honourable gentleman will observe from this statement that $290,656 from capital was spent on works on existing lines. The honourable member will also find that in separate items there are given the amounts expended on construction out of loan, and the amounts spent on existing lines out of capital ; but in the list read by the honourable gentle- man of the maintenance branch it does not say what the money is debited to. 