Fowlds), in giving his figures as to the trade alluded to it-in 1898 the trade we took from them amounted to £623,000, and what we took from them amounted to £800,000. And in that connection the honourable member said that it showed a reasonable profit on the part of the New Zealand merchants. I think the honour- able member in his political economy was rather astray. If it were so, as stated by him, how peculiar must last year's operations look with America, because last year's operations amounted to over a million which we took from them, whereas ours did not come to a third of that in return. Surely it cannot be said that we made 70 per cent. profit on the transactions on our goods which we sent to America. I think the honourable gentleman was really wrong in that view of the situation. The Americans take gold from us for the difference. I come now to a very important point, and it shows the way in which foreign trade is creep- ing into our imports in this country. In 1891 our total imports came to £6,500,000, of which only $500,000 odd came from foreign countries. In 1900 our imports were £10,646,000, and over a million and a half of that came from foreign countries, so that our imports, from what our Premier calls " the dear old Mother-land," are not increasing proportionately, whilst our im- ports from foreign countries are increasing altogether out of proportion. And this is a very important factor in considering the trade of our colony. You are displacing with American goods the manufactured articles of our Home-country, and taking the gold we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 get from our goods in England to pay for the American goods, while America will take com- paratively nothing from us. I wish now to refer to what the honourable member for Hawke's Bay stated in this connection. He said that it did not so much signify the country from which we got our goods so long as we get our goods cheaper from one country than another ; we should take them from the cheapest. I would agree with him if he had added to that expression the word "quality " as well. But what is our position with regard to our trade with America? First of all, we are displacing the goods of the British manufacturer. Take the article of fencing-wire. Last year we took £59,000 worth of fencing-wire from the United States, and we took just double the quantity that we took from Great Britain. Our British wire imports were #28,000. Is the quality of that fencing-wire as good as what we get from Great Britain ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Better. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - The honourable gentleman is entirely wrong in making a state- ment of that sort, and I venture to say he has made it in the haphazard manner he is so noted for in this House. The honourable gentleman, if he knew anything about the matter, would know there is no comparison between the quality of British and American fencing-wire in favour of American wire. The British wire is the best in the world ; then comes 12.30. the German ; and the poorest rubbish of wire that comes into this country comes from the United States. Take their galvanised ! wire : they have a process of putting on the spelter which makes the article look good ; but expose it to the weather and where is it ? British wire is three times as good. These goods are brought down in bottoms at 7s. 6d. a ton, and are landed here and sold by firms, displacing British - manufactured goods to the detriment of the people here, because no person, not even those who sell the goods-no : person in the iron-trade would dare to say that the quality of American fencing-wire is equal to \- the British, which will last three times as long. Mr. MONK. - What about their axes ? .Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The honourable 1 member for Waitemata, Sir, rises here in a very whole - souled style when he is talking about the flag, but when it comes to trade where is he ? I was not talking about axes ; I was talking about fencing-wire, which is dis- placing the British article. But take seeds and other articles : they are not equal to the British goods they are displacing in this coun- try, and I venture to say they are not to the advantage of the farmers or the people who take them. Mr. NAPIER .- The farmers are the best. judges, and they buy them. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The honourable member for Auckland City is an authority upon all subjects-defence, and law, and even upon "the mailed fist "-but he should know what the relative merits of the goods are that come' to the country before he gives his em- phatic opinion upon them. Before leaving the question of trade I would like to say that our policy towards the Americans has been one of the utmost generosity in the matter of trade. Every tariff revision that has oc- curred in this country has extended conces. sions to the American manufacturers. Last year the duty was taken off kerosene; and the agricultural implements that come from America are free. Fencing-wire is free, and seeds are free, and cotton piece-goods, and these constitute the bulk of our imports. But whilst we have been extending year after year concessions on these goods, every occasion on which the Americans have revised their tariff they have put increased duties upon the goods we have to send them- as much as 5d. per pound duty on our wool, as much as the value of the article. I therefore think that if we were to meet them as Canada did they would meet us in a similar manner, and extend to us what they have extended to the people of the Argentine. Last year I alluded to a subject that I take a great interest in, and that is the closer relationship of trade within the Empiro. On that occasion I was sorry to see the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) said that the question of closer Imperial trade rela- tions was really advanced only by the Conserva- tives of the Old Country ; and, in connection with that, I would like to say that this excel- lent movement is not at all confined to Conser- vatives. We have in its favour, of course, Mr. Rhodes, of South Africa. No one can say that he is at all a Conservative, and he has been one 