Hall-Jones Mckenzie, R. Stevens McNab Symes Heke Mills Tanner. Hogg Napier Hornsby Tellers. Houston O'Meara Parata Fisher Kaihau Russell, G. W. Lawry Seddon NOES, 22. Russell, W. R. Laurenson Buddo Thompson, R. Collins Lethbridge Thomson, J. W. Ell Massey Mackenzie, T. Willis. Graham Meredith Hardy Tellers. Herries Monk Palmer Hutcheson Atkinson Pirani. Lang Rhodes PAIRS. For. Against. Duncan Fraser, W. Allen, J. Hanan McLachlan Bollard Millar Morrison Pere Bennet Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 9. Motion to report progress agreed to. Progress reported. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN had to report to the Deputy-Speaker that a resolution had been come to by the Committee that the ruling of the Deputy-Speaker be taken upon a point raised by the honourable member for Palmers- ton. In the Payment of Members Bill the Short Title read as follows: "The Short Title of this Act is ' The Payment of Members Act, 1901,' and it shall come into force on the first day of January, in the year one thousand nine hundred and two." The attention of the Pre- mier, who was in charge of the Bill, was called to the fact that at a previous stage he had intimated his intention to alter the wording so as to bring the payment into force from the time of the passing of the Act, and the right honourable gentleman moved to excise all the words after "1901." The question was then raised as to whether, seeing that this would increase the appropriations, the amend- ment could be made without a message from His Excellency the Governor. He (the Chair- man) held that the amendment could not be made. Exception was taken to that ruling, and by a majority of the House he was directed to take the opinion of Mr. Deputy-Speaker upon the point. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the question submitted to him was, he thought, open to some little doubt ; but, in the short time at his disposal to consider the point, he had been forced to the conclusion that the ruling of the Chairman was incorrect. The increase in the appropriations proposed by the Bill must be consented to by the Crown, and that consent may be given by the Minister or by a Governor's He understood from the Chairman message. of Committees that the Right Hon. the Premier, the Minister in charge of the Bill, proposed an amendment which would have the effect of - amendment by the Premier was ruled out of order, because the Chairman of Commit- tees decided that it would have the effect of increasing the appropriations. After the clause was finally passed in Committee, it would have again to come under review of the House before the House finally passed the Bill a third time. If it was then reported that the consent of the Crown had not been given to the clause, then the consent of the Crown could be given, either by a message from the Crown or by the Minister on behalf of the Crown, before the third reading. He therefore declared that it was in the power of the Com- mittee to alter the clause in such a way as it thought fit. He declared the House again in Committee on the Bill. # IN COMMITTEE. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out all the words after " 1901." Progress reported. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN. - I have been asked to request you to resume the chair, to make more explicit your ruling as to whether the Bill could proceed with this alteration in it to its third reading, without any message from the Governor at all. You were understood to rule that the alteration might be made in Com- mittee on the motion of the Minister, but that if it was found to increase the appropriations a Governor's message would be required before the third reading. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- May I put a ques- tion to the Chair? The position is this: I proposed to strike out the words "and it shall come into force on the first day of January. in the year one thousand nine hundred and two," leaving it then simply open, with the usual Short Title that this Act is " The Pay. ment of Members Act, 1901." If those words are struck out, do you rule that before the third reading there must be a Governor's message to enable us either to restore those words or strike them out ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I gave my rulice in view of two positions. One is, if the clause were so altered in Committee as to have the effect of increasing the appropriations, or if it was found as originally brought down to be an appropriation clause, then the consent of the Crown could be given by a Minister ; if that con. sent were not given it would be necessary to bring down a Governor's message before the third reading. The authority on which I bax that ruling is found on page 3 of the " Notes cf Procedure in Committee of the Whole in the House of Representatives, 1900": "Consent ci Crown to motions to bring in Bills involving public expenditure, and to amendments to such Bills, is given by the Minister." That is s quotation from May, page 423. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, Sir, I give the con- sent, and there is an end to it. Mr. PIRANI .- I would like to direct your attention to the quotation from May, because if you will look at page 423 of May you will xe this :- 