desire to obtain fair treatment for the British flag." I thoroughly agree with the passengers in that. In writing the letter they say they are desirous of strengthening the hands of the Government in negotiating with the Oceanic Company and the United States Government. I only hope the Government have used the letter in the direction for which it was in- tended, and that they have negotiated with the United States with the object of getting an amendment of their shipping laws so that British ships or Australian-British ships might be included in our mail-service. Now, one of the signatures to that letter was that of Mr. John Duthie, a well known merchant of this city, and formerly M.H.R. In an interview with a representative of the New Zealand Times, which interview was published in Wednesday morning's paper, Mr. Duthie is reported as saying, - "Mr. John Duthie thinks the present San Francisco service is the best the colony has ever had, and that whatever arrangements we make otherwise, we should not be so parsi- monious with Mr. Spreckels as to drive him out of the running. Treat Mr. Spreckels fairly, and retain the service, was the keynote of his remarks." That is the opinion of Mr. Duthie with regard to the San Francisco service. Then, there was another prominent Wellington merchant who was interviewed, and this is what Mr. Beau- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 champ says :- "To insure close connection with New Zea- land by means of the Federal service would cost much more than the San Francisco service. Besides, mails going via Australia in this way would take five or six days longer in reaching their destination, and we would lose the oppor- tunity of corresponding readily with our Ameri- can cousins; and at this particular juncture no opportunity should be lost of extending our outside markets, and of keeping in touch with any place where we could place our goods. Our imports from America, Mr. Beauchamp re- minded the interviewer, amounted to slightly over a million sterling, while our exports are only $400,000. The latter are, however, slowly but surely increasing. Each steamer that has left Auckland for San Francisco for months past has taken considerable quantities of hemp, and the high prices which have of late ruled for that article are largely due to the demand which has been created in the American market for it. Again, America is far and away our best cus- tomer for kauri-gum, and also takes from us large quantities of pelts, hides, et cetera." These are the opinions of two prominent Wellington business-men-not Auckland busi- ness-men, by the way-and I venture to say that they are voicing the opinion of the commercial community generally. Then, Sir, the Minister went on to compare the cost of the Federal service with the cost of the San Francisco ser- vice, but I do not think the Minister was quite fair in the way in which he put it, because, re- ferring to the Federal service, he calculated the fore we could take part in the Federal service on a population basis, we should have to obtain the consent of the Federal Government. Does any one imagine such a state of things is pos- sible, seeing the attitude of the colony on the Federation question, seeing that we actually interfered between the Federal Government and the Imperial Government at a most inoppor- tune time ? Can we imagine such a state of things is possible, when new tariff pro- posals-proposals hostile to New Zealand-are now being considered by the Government of the Commonwealth, and when we also, in retalia- tion, propose to impose duties on articles im- ported from, and some exported to, Australia? I cannot imagine such a state of things being possible, and if we depend on a Federal service it will cost us, not £19,000, as is stated in the parliamentary paper I hold in my hand, but something more like from £25,000 to £30,000 annually. Then, Sir, I come to deal with one or two statements made by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar). That honourable gentleman, in the matter of speed, compared the Federal service with the San Francisco service. Now, I want to say that the honourable member was not quite fair in his arguments, because, so far as the San Fran- cisco service was concerned, he took the average for last year. Why, Sir, during the greater part of last year the old contract was in ex- istence; we had a service which, between Auck- land and Fr'isco, was two days longer than the present service is, and I venture to say the average for this year will be at least three days shorter, and, consequently, the com- parison is really very much more in favour of the San Francisco service. The honour- able gentleman told us that every letter sent from this colony to Europe goes by way of the San Francisco service unless it is specially addressed. I can only say that I be- lieve the statement to be absolutely incorrect, and if I am wrong I hope the Postmaster- General opposite will put me right. The posi- tion is this-and I have been assured, I will not say officially, but semi-officially, that letters are always forwarded from this colony to Europe by the mail which will arrive in Europe first. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why do they advertise ? Mr. MASSEY. - I do not know. I simply say that if I am wrong the Postmaster-General will correct me, but I believe I am right. Then, the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) went on to say that this San Francisco service was of no value to the country, and that the boats belonging to this service did not spend £2,000 a year in Auckland. What is the actual position ? The position is this : on the average every time the mail-boat visits Auckland the company spend £600 -that is, $1,200 on every trip-or, as nearly as possible, $20,000 a year. Mr. MILLAR .- What on ? Mr. MASSEY .- There are lots of things on which steamers require to spend money, as the honourable gentleman should know. At any rate, the figures I have put before the House are correct. 