and is accompanied by- "(1.) Satisfactory evidence of the registration or incorporation of the company ; " (2.) Two copies of its articles of association or rules ; " (3.) The situation of its registered office in New Zealand ; and "(4.) A copy of the power of attorney under which such agent is acting." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add the following subsection :- "(5.) A statutory declaration that such power of attorney has not been altered or re- voked." Subsection added, and clause agreed to. Clause 9 .- " Section eighty - eight of the principal Act, relating to the application to be made to the Court to extend an award to certain persons, is hereby amended by insert- ing the word "trade-union " next after the words "that section, every," in subsection two thereof. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved to add the following : "and section ninety-four of the principal Act, subsection six, is hereby amended by inserting the word ' trade-union ' after the words 'industrial union,' wherever they occur in the said subsection." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the follow- ing new clause : - "24. The definition of 'worker' in the principal Act is hereby repealed, and the fol- lowing substituted in lieu thereof : - " Worker " means any persons of any age, of either sex, employed by any employer to do any skilled or unskilled manual or clerical work for hire or reward, but does not extend to any person employed in any agricultural or pastoral pursuit." " Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) moved to strike out all words after "reward." Amendment agreed to, and new clause added. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the addition of the following new clauses :- "4A. The notice of the names of the mem- bers and Chairman of the Board shall be in- serted in the Gazette by the Registrar ; and section forty of the principal Act is hereby amended accordingly. "5A. The oath required by subsection eleven of section fifty-three of the principal Act to be taken by members of the Board may, in the absence of a Judge of the Supreme Court, be taken before a Stipendiary Magistrate or such other person as the Governor from time to time authorises in that behalf." New clauses added. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " Any award made prior to the coming into operation of the principal Act shall, notwith- standing the expiration of the currency of such award, continue in force, and shall have been deemed to have been in force until a new award shall have been made under the principal Act, except where, subject to the provisions of sub- section two of section twenty of the principal workers bound by such award has been can- celled." New clause added. ‘ Mr. SEDDON moved the addition of the fol- lowing new clause :- " With respect to any award made before the coming into operation of the principal Act, the Court may, upon notice to any person, in- dustrial union, or industrial association not an original party thereto, extend such award and its provisions to such person, industrial union, or industrial association." Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved the insertion of the following words after "industrial asso- ciation" : " within the district and engaged in the industry to which the award applies." Amendment agreed to, and new clause added. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the addition of the following new clauses :- "The Registrar may, in any matter arising -in or out of the performance of his duties, state a case for the advice and opinion of the Court." "The Board may, in any matter coming be- fore it, state a case for the advice and opinion of the Court." "Where workmen engaged upon different trades are employed in any one business of any particular employer, the Court may make one award applicable to such business, and embrac- ing, as the Court may think fit, the whole or part of the various branches constituting the business of such employer. Before the Court shall exercise such power, notice shall be given to the respective industrial unions of workers engaged in any branch of such business." New clauses added. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) moved the addi- tion of the following new clause :- "Section eighty-six of the principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion of the follow- ing additional paragraphs :- ". (4.) The Court may, in any award made by it, limit the operation of such award to any city, town, or district being within or part of any industrial dis- trict. "'(5.) The Court shall in such case have power, on the application of any em. ployer, industrial union, or industrial association in any industrial district within which the award shall have effect, to extend the provisions of such award (if such award shall have been limited in its operation as afore- said) to any person, employer, in- dustrial union, or industrial associa- tion within such industrial district. "'(6.) The Court may, if it thinks fit, limit the operation of any award heretofore made under the principal Act to any particular town, city, or locality in any industrial district in which such award now has effect. "' (7.) The limitation or extension referred to in the preceding paragraphs five and six shall be made upon such notice to and application of such parties 