still even here there are abuses, and it is only right that we should have the power by law of checking abuses whenever they occur. And the fact that there are abuses is very evident from matters that crop up every day in our Courts and assignments made in our Mercantile Gazette. I am quite satisfied that the Bill is a good Bill, because it is founded on an Im- perial statute which was proved at Home to be required by a parliamentary Committee. Of course, some persons contend that to interfere with money-lenders is an endeavour to make a Utopia. To some extent this is true. If there are fools in this world, by some inscrutable providence there are some people who take advantage of the fools, and probably no legislation we can bring in can prevent some fools suffering at the hands of some money- lender. The terror in this Act is the fact that a Court can review any transaction that is un- scrupulous, unreasonable, or usurious. But how many people there are, after all, who might under certain conditions prefer to pay up to the last penny rather than seeb the protection of the Court, which would investigate into their private transactions. That shows how difficult it is to get to the bottom of a matter like this, and how zealous we ought to be to see that the profession-if I can use the word with respect to the three-ball community-is properly looked after, and regulated on proper lines. So long as the Council recognises that this is a fair and honest attempt to deal with a live question I am perfectly satisfied ; but at https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the same time I do not see any good in re- ferring this Bill to the Statutes Revision Com- mittee. That Committee is set up for perfectly different objects. My idea of the Statutes Re- vision Committee's functions is to revise legis- lation which is being altered or consolidated- old legislation, rather than the consideration of new principles, new departures. The ma. chinery part of legislation is much more their function than new endeavours, and for that reason I have sometimes been inclined to think that that Committee has occasionally gone out- side its functions; they have sometimes been a little inclined to step over the border-line and deal with questions of principle and policy, when really it was their function to do nothing of the kind. But that is by the way. I only desire to state that I do not think the Bill will be in a better position if referred to the Statutes Revision Committee. The Council is quite able to judge of so simple a question as this Bill submits : Is it reasonable, right, or proper to regulate the money-lending business ? If it is, the Council can deal with every clause on its merits. If a clause is not strong enough it can be added to, and if they think a clause is too strong it can be struck out or amended. The whole matter is in the hands of the Council, and I trust it will give me a second reading. Bill read the second time. On the question, That the Bill be committed on the next sitting-day, The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I move, That this Bill be referred to a Committee, for the reason a Committee were set up to deal with the ques- tion, papers and books could be produced to show that nothing of the kind exists in New Zealand as has been proclaimed by the Hon. Mr. Jones. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- The grounds on which the honourable gentleman has moved his amendment is that it reflects on certain people in Wellington. I have read the preamble, and it does not mention Wellington, nor does it mention any other part of the colony. What it mentions is that "certain persons trading as and known by the name of ' money-lenders ' inflict by harsh and unconscionable bargains great injury upon those who borrow money from them." It is only certain money-lenders, not all; and I think there is not in this Council -I do not believe the honourable gentleman himself would stand up here and say there is nobody in this colony who does extort more interest for money lent under certain circumstances than he ought to. I have known, myself, very hard cases of this nature. I remember long ago-and it turned my attention to the rate of interest for the first time-a case where a farmer borrowed £100 on his crop. He first went to a lawyer, who charged him 2} per cent. procuration-fee and other fees, and the money-lender charged procuration-fee, and then he charged 10 per cent. It went on, and before the harvest was reaped the £100 had become £300. You will find this in the columns of the Timaru Herald, of which I was then a reporter. This is not an isolated case; there are any number of them. And it is no good for the honourable gentleman to say such things do not occur in this colony. Perhaps they do not occur in so aggravated a way as in the case quoted by the Hon. Mr. Jones ; but still these things do go on, and it is no use to say they do not, nor to try and make out that people in this colony are more moral than other people. They are not, and, conse- quently, when we know the evil exists it is our business and our duty here to regulate it, and to prevent, as far as possible, the existence of such an evil. I think the honourable gentle- man, who usually takes a very broad view of things, and looks at things from a good-natured point of view, has in some way gone astray, as we all do sometimes to a certain extent. I remember the time when I was all alone in this Council, and, although the whole Council was against me, I believed then, and I believe still, that I was right. I am under the impression the honourable gentleman is labouring under some misapprehension in this respect, and that he ought to withdraw the amendment and let the Bill go on, as is proposed by the Hon. the Minister. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- In support- ing the amendment of my honourable friend I would like to assure the Hon. the Minister op- posite that it is with no desire to delay the Bill in any way ; but I really think, from what I have heard from so many who have spoken on the proposed measure, that they do not really see the gravity, in the wrong direction, of some 