some attention to the representatives of these large unions, who say that by passing this clause it means that it is practically cutting conciliation out of the Act altogether. As I said before, when we come to look back and find what honourable gentlemen said who were in opposition to the measure at the time of the passing of the Act in 1894, they prayed for voluntary conciliation only. Now their action is the reverse, and they are going to cut con- ciliation out of the Act altogether. It convinces me, at any rate, that their sole object is to kill the Act. They think that the Conciliation Board is the weak point of the Act at present, because in some newspapers, and among a number of busybodies, there has been an at- tempt to raise a scandal against Conciliation Boards. There is one other part of the evi- dence regarding clause 21 that I want to draw attention to for a few minutes, and it is the evidence given by a very large employer, a very fair employer, and an employer who has had a very great deal of experience of the Con- ciliation Board as it is constituted in Welling- ton-I refer to Mr. Hutson. He said,- " Mr. Hutson : In saying I would sooner go to the Court of Arbitration, I would also like to state that I believe conciliation is the best if it is a properly constituted Board, and the first thing, I take it, is that the Conciliation Board was intended as a guidance if the dispute reached the Arbitration Court. But there are no records kept by the Board. If the evidence was all tabulated and printed there would be some guidance for the Court. And, then, if you had a good Chairman, who would be able to control the witnesses. It is nothing to be insulted if you get up before the Board here. You are asked all kinds of ridiculous questions, and you are deliberately insulted, and in that case conciliation is done with. I maintain that if there was a proper Board, and evidence was taken, and copies kept of that evidence, if they could not agree at that Board there would not be so much time lost when it reached the Arbitration Court. " Hon. Mr. Jenkinson.] Under those cir- cumstances you think it would be better not to pass this clause ? - [Mr. Hutson :] If both parties agreed to it. But there is no finality to it at the present time. Take the last case that was stated : the money was wasted there ; it was of no use at all. If the lower Board was made operative, and there was a finality about it so that the evidence could be used at the higher Court, the case would be different. It is of no use as it is at present here." No doubt when the Hon. Mr. Twomey ex- pressed his regret that he had voted for that clause he was perfectly honest at the time, so far as he went, because he had an idea that he could amend the clause in Committee. I re- gret that the honourable gentleman did not make sure that he would be able to amend it before placing himself in a false position with respect to that clause. Mr. Hutson said he believed conciliation was the best, and recourse should not be made so often to the Court. He VOL. CXIX .- 60. If the evidence was all tabulated and printed there would be some guidance for the Arbitra- tion Court. And here I would like to mention that I am in full accord with his views on the matter. He says that there were no records kept by the Board. I would urge that if an amending Bill comes here in the future we should take steps to compel the Boards to have their evidence reported, so that it can be used by the Arbitration Court ; and, although it might extend over a great many pages, especially in Wellington-for they seem to be a little prolix and long-winded, they seem to take evidence upon every possible point that happens to arise in a dispute ; but, even if they did so, and even if the expense was treble, I think it would do a great deal of benefit, and that it would also help the working of the Act and help to allay bitter feeling, if the evidence given before the Board was taken down in shorthand, so that it could be used by the Arbitration Court. We would then find that, instead of the witnesses giving evidence which extends sometimes over hours, and even days, they would condense their evidence, because they would not be able to make such random statements as I believe they do now sometimes. Mr. Hutson also says,- "There are no records kept. If you had a good Chairman, who would be able to control witnesses. It is nothing to be insulted ; you are asked ridiculous questions, and deliberately insulted, and conciliation is strained." Perhaps Mr. Hutson was right when he said that. We know that in dealing with a clause in Committee we sometimes tread on each other's corns, but after all is done we part good friends. In these disputes no doubt the parties quarrel a little sometimes. It has been re- ported in the newspapers lately that when a certain case came before the Board, where the Chairman was a mild man, he had the greatest difficulty in quelling the riotous feelings of those who took part in the meeting ; but when the employer invited the representatives of the union to come to his factory and see how the work was done, they came back a perfectly happy family. So that Mr. Hutson was per- haps right when he said that he was asked all sorts of ridiculous questions, and was sometimes insulted. But, as I have said, I think we can say the same thing even in Parliament ; but, after all is said and done, we part good friends ; and so it is, or should be, in the case of the Conciliation Boards. Mr. Hutson goes on to say,- "I maintain that if there was a proper Board, and the evidence was taken down, and copies kept of that evidence, if they could not agree at the Board there would not be so much time taken up by the Court." I think, in view of what I have stated, it should be enough to induce the Council to recommit this Bill for the purpose of providing that the evidence given before the Boards be taken down in shorthand. If that is proposed it will have my hearty support. I pointed out at the time that the supporters of clause 21 might 