anything about the circumstances which had led up to the present position, but he did say that the position, so far as the people of the Patea district were concerned, was a most unfair one, seeing that they were practically disfran- chised at the most important part of the session. Let him remind the Premier of what took place on an almost similar occasion, when Mr. Shepherd Allen was unseated for Te Aroha. In that case the certificate and report from the Court was read to the House by Mr. Speaker, and, on the motion of Mr. Ballance, directly afterwards, it was ordered that Mr. Speaker be at once directed to issue instructions to the Clerk of Writs to prepare a new writ for a fresh election for the district of Te Aroha. That was in the year 1891. Mr. SEDDON said there had been amend- ments of the Electoral Act since then. Mr. MASSEY said the position was exactly parallel with the present one. No amend- ments that had been made in the Electoral Act since had anything to do with it. This matter was reported to the Speaker last Saturday morning ; it was now Tuesday, and they were informed by the Premier that it was intended to still further postpone the issue of the writ. Was it any wonder members were suspicious ? Sir J. G. WARD said it was only to be post- poned until Friday. Mr. MASSEY understood that. Supposing the motion for the issue of the writ were moved on Friday, how soon after that would the writ be issued ? Could the honourable member tell them that ? Sir J. G. WARD said it would be issued forth- with-on Saturday. Mr. MASSEY asked, How soon after that / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero would the election take place. Mr. SEDDON said, It must take place in about fourteen days from the issue of the writ. Mr. MASSEY thought the Premier was wrong. Mr. SEDDON said the writ must be back in twenty-one days. Mr. MASSEY thought that was the position. He did not want to labour the point, but he did hope the writ would be issued on the earliest possible day, so that there might be a possibility of the new member taking his seat this session. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) wished to reply to the last speaker in a very few words. He would like to remind the honour- able gentleman and his party that it would have been much better for them if they had shown a little more solicitude towards the con- stituents of the Patea electorate when a former member, who belonged to their own side in the House, retained the seat for a whole session while he was away from the colony, and thus allowed these electors to be disfranchised. The Government had no wish whatever for them to be disfranchised ; but, in view of the sudden impatience of the Opposition on this matter, he just wished to point out that not so many months ago there was no solicitude at all felt, or expressed, by members of the Opposition about these people being disfranchised, and the remark : When the member for Hawke's Bay was leader of the Opposition, one of his first lieutenants offered to provide $50 towards de- fraying the expenses of a candidate to keep him (Mr. Mills) out of the House; and it was in- correct to say the Government had paid can- vassers out of public funds to canvass in districts against the Opposition. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay), as a per- sonal explanation, said that he was unaware of the fact referred to ; but the money would have been absolutely squandered, considering the strength which the honourable gentleman brought to the Government. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) wished to deny the allegation of the member for Hawke's Bay as far as his district was concerned. He said, without any fear of contradiction, that no paid canvasser was ever in his district. He objected to the appointment of a man as Returning Officer who was unable to attend to his duties. The Postmaster at Patea, who had been ap- pointed, was, for instance, quite unable to attend to his duties as Postmaster and also as Returning Officer. He did not think there need be so much fuss about disfranchising Patea, as it had been disfranchised for the past twelve months, which had not only entailed a great deal of work upon him, but he had also incurred the displeasure of the Government by trying to help settlers who had no one else to help them. He wished to join with the member for Palmerston in drawing the Colonial Secretary's attention to the system of preparing the rolls. The Registrar at Stratford had everything in such order that within five minutes of the receipt of the telegram he could have the roll in the printer's hands ; and, if every Registrar adopted the same system the whole thing could be done within two days at the outside. In his opinion no Government officer should be appointed a Returning Officer. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) could say, without fear of contradiction, that the Govern- ment had paid no canvassers to help him into the House. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) said, In regard to the Patea election, if the Government wanted a really good man as Returning Officer, they should appoint Mr. C. E. Horner, who had always given satisfaction in that and similar capacities ; and had the Government retained his services there would be no necessity to have another election on account of any irregulari- ties on the part of the Returning Officer. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) had some per- sonal knowledge of the canvassing which went on in various electorates : but it was incorrect to say that paid men were sent round by the In his own electorate the Regis- Government. trar had an absolutely free hand in the appoint- ment of persons to get names on the roll in 1899, but amongst those appointed there were active canvassers on the side of his opponent. The Government, however, had nothing to do with that. The Registrar was instructed to put men on to make the roll as complete as possible, and engaged the men personally. Be- 