way, any more than we would allow any one to interfere in the making of our laws to govern our own business. But that this exclusion of stand that we are approaching the matter fairly British-owned steamers from the trade between Honolulu and San Francisco has militated against the service I think every one will admit, and I say that, under these circum- stances, we ought to strive for an abroga- tion of the navigation laws excluding British anything in the shape of feeling, which, I am vessels, so as to allow of free-trade by British- owned steamers between Honolulu and San Francisco. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Stop the subsidy and Spreckels will howl. Sir J. G. WARD. - Well, I can tell honour- able members that the Government are anxious to continue this service on fair lines. I believe we cannot get a better service, if you want a fast service, between New Zealand and Eng- land. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Why not have a Direct service ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, as to the Direct service, if honourable members will look at the proposals I submitted to the House in 1888 they will find that was the alternative I sug- gested - a subsidised Direct service between New Zealand and the Old Country. I believe, how- ever, you could not get a more suitable service for anything the colony could afford to give which would be as acceptable to the travelling public than the San Francisco or the Vancouver service. At all events, the efforts that have been made from time to time to induce a fast Direct service https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have always proved a failure. At any rate, that was the alternative I suggested in 1888, at which time I was fighting with others to bring about a material improvement in the rates paid for the continuance of the San Francisco service. We succeeded in our object, and now we are asked by Mr Spreckels, and are urged by some other people, to pay more for the service than by the British in the time of trouble between we were paying at the time the alteration was made, and I say the country is not prepared to pay it. Mr. MASSEY .- What was paid in 1888? Sir J. G WARD .- It was either £24,000 or $26,000 that the San Francisco service alone cost the colony at that time, and it was alto- gether too much. We succeeded, however, in effecting a useful reform, under which the service has been continued until the un- fortunate matter of the exclusion of British steamers cropped up -a matter which has changed the whole aspect of the position ; and it is in view of that change we desired to alter our policy and say that we should bring all the moral suasion we can on those who are concerned to make provision that a British owned steamer should be included in the service, even if it takes a few years to bring that change about. It is, at any rate, worth striving for, and what we ought to work for. I have now given honourable mem- bers the cost of the respective services, and I have said why ve should have an alternative route. I have said that we should not be left entirely in the hands of the Messrs. Spreckels service, and that in dealing with this subject we ought to let the owners of that line under- and as a matter of business concerning the colony. If we go on with that line I have no doubt that with a fair and reasonable basis the House will realise that the proposals of the Government are just, and are not actuated by sorry to say, has been imported into the subject in consequence of certain uncalled - for and utterly unjustifiable strictures which have been made in the North. Sir, speaking for myself, and with a fair knowledge of what is going on in the South, I say we have no objection to Auckland being the port of call ; we do not envy them in any way in connection with this or any other matter. What is good for Auckland is good for the people of the colony. and if a mail- service can be brought about with Auckland as the port of call we shall support it as long as it is done on fair lines. Now, speaking for the Go- vernment, I say that one reason that actuated us in asking the House to assent to the pro- posals for the continuance of the San Francisco mail-service on a reasonable basis is that such a service will give us a connection with from seventy to eighty millions of people, who, though cosmopolitan, are, at all events, largely a British people, and are a friendly disposed nation towards Britain ; and with that aspect of the case before us it is well we should consider what is the position of our colony with regard to other places. We have now against us in Australia a Federal tariff, which, of course, has yet to be seen how it will operate, but which may greatly change the condition of the trade of this country. Then, no person can tell what years may bring forth in the way of complica- tions - Eastern complications, for instance. We know that not so long ago a good feuing was brought about owing to the help offered the Americans and the Spaniards. We know there was at that time a splendid feeling created with America, which for some years previously had been somewhat strained. The result of that feeling was that, when British interests appeared to be at stake in certain directions, America showed that assistance would, if re- quired, be given to us. We saw the splendid feeling displayed by the Americans only lately when they were prepared to stand shoulder to shoulder with our own men, and not allow others to interfere in affairs with which we were concerned. No one can tell what diffi- culties might in the unknown future arise. Eastern difficulties will in all probability take place. Who can foretell what troubles may crop up between the British and the Japanese or the Chinese ? There may, and doubtless will be, great national problems that will require to be solved by the men who follow us in the govern- ment of our country ; and when we have the opportunity of maintaining at a moderate cost a connection between ourselves and the power- ful country of America, even although the pre- sent laws do not allow one of our steamers to be 