persons who do not want it to pass. Some of the objectors to the measure come from the Eastern Maori electorate and some from the Western Maori electorate, and I ask the House this : How am I, as a member from the South Island, to discriminate and decide to my own satisfaction whose wishes I should support ? I feel myself put in a false position. I do not desire, Sir, to give my support to any measure which may result in misfortune to the Maori inhabitants of these Islands. Personally, I should feel satisfied if I could feel certain that this Bill would insure the welfare of the Maoris. But, Sir, I cannot but feel this : that I am justified in anticipating that the ultimate outcome of this legislation, or any other legislation, must result in the same thing -that we will find it is necessary in the long- run that the land will have to be individual- ised. We find that the rising generation is learning more and more of European habits and ways of looking at things, and the results which 1 prophesy must come about. I have no desire to delay the House further on this debate, but, in conclusion, I must say, with re- gard to the history of the canoes as given to us by the member for the Western Maori District, Mr. Kaihau, that I do not think this was the proper occasion to treat us to a dissertation on the history of the canoes. That might be ap- propriate in a Maori meeting, but it has no- thing to do with the Bill, and I do not think it should have been brought into the debate on the Bill to-night. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- The https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 honourable member for Masterton seemed to be dealing with this subject as he deals with many others which are entirely foreign to him. On several occasions last session, and on several occasions this, he has risen up in his wrath, and, with that far from musical voice, maligned a class of persons in this country whom he designates "land-sharks." There can be no such thing in the colony under the present Native Land Court Act. Land-sharks may have been in existence when the honourable gentleman himself was dabbling in Native lands, but it has been done away with ever since-every Native transaction has to go before a Government officer and be confirmed. It is absolutely futile for those members who know nothing about the subject to speak about Europeans mopping up the land. Since 1894 one could not purchase from the Natives more than 640 acres of first-class land, 2,000 acres of second-class land, or 5,000 acres of third-class land, and where does the land shark come in ? Yet the honourable member for Masterton, in his wisdom, says, "If the Act passed last session is not upheld, and the proposed amend- ments, we shall have once more the land- sharks." I think that honourable members will agree with me, when I say that when the honourable member for Masterton speaks on this question he does not understand the legislation now on the statute-book. Sir, leaving the honourable member for Masterton, I have only just one word in passing for the Mr. Parata ever we may differ from him on many political questions, he has been entirely consistent, and I have carefully followed him for many years, on the Native question ; and I venture to suggest that if he had been Native Minister for the last ten years the Natives would have been better off to-day, and so would the Europeans, and so would the colony. I suppose there are no greater friends to the Natives than the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay and myself, and I say the only duty of the Government is to conserve to the Natives land sufficient to main- tain them, and beyond that they should be able to eliminate their lands in restricted areas, by sale if you like, but let them lease them as the Europeans or any other member of society would do. Now, when the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was speaking, the Native Minister interjected that there are only five million acres of Native land left, and not enough to go round, or very little to go round. I cannot conceive how the Native Minister, with a logical mind, with an educated mind, can possibly say such a thing. Mr. CARROLL said he had not said any- thing about five million acres. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - Well, the honour- able gentleman said there was not too much to go round. There are forty thousand Natives and only five million acres of land. But does this five million acres belong to the forty thousand ? It does not. It belongs, possibly, to twenty thousand of them ; and what have the remainder got to do with it? It is the absolute duty of the Government, having pauperised the Natives, to provide land for them. Supposing I owned fifty acres, can the Government call on me to supply a landless Native with an acre ? Certainly not. The five million acres belong to about half of the Maori population. The Government has' to look after the interests of the landless Natives; the colony is responsible for it, and the Parliament, because it is this Government that have made so many landless Natives. They are the party in power, and we are responsible for it, so we must find land for those left destitute. If the Govern- ment had purchased the land under the Act of 1893 we should have had no landless Natives ; but they ignored it, and went on their own way, and now it becomes their duty to find land for them. Now, coming to the honourable member for Wanganui : He is on all occasions amusing; he tickles the ears of honourable members ; he pleases himself, and I hope he pleases his constituents. But I venture to say that, if he stands at the next election, and the Europeans realise what he has done for the dis- trict by voting for this legislation, we shall not have the pleasure of seeing him here again. Mr. WILLIS .- You are not a good prophet. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - I should like to know what "profit" the honourable gentle- man has had from the Natives owing to the pre-emptive right. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay lightly touched upon Wanganui. To my knowledge-I speak from the first time I visited it with the Native Minister in 1886- 