of, perhaps, the Manawatu Railway Company. We have to deal with this class of labour-with the whole of this class of labour in the colony. Now, where there is one employer, and that employer the State, what reason can there be for interference ? The reason the State, by the Court, interferes in connection with the em- ployment of labour generally is that we have to deal with private employers-that is, that we have to deal with other parties-and that we can only deal with them in this House by legis- lation. We give our power, by statute, to a Court to deal with employers ; but when we come to deal with the State as an employer there is a direct relationship. The employés of the State are the employés of the people of New Zealand, and the Parliament of New Zealand is the Court or the governing body which acts on behalf of the people of this colony ; and if we were to set up a Court to regulate the wages of the employés of the State, that would be to put ourselves in the position of being second to that which we would occupy by our- selves forming the Court, because the Court which would have to decide the question would be the creation of Parliament itself, and would to that extent be subordinate to this Parlia- ment. We are above the Court we could set up, and, I say, so long as we are dealing with the State employés, the Parliament of the coun- try ought to deal directly with them ; but when we are dealing with the employés of private individuals the only way we can carry out our https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 functions with regard to them is by legislating, either directly fixing what their wages are to be, or by appointing a Court to control their wages, and the Conciliation and Arbitration Court does that. I fail to see how it can be argued that we are acting inconsistently in not including the employés of the Government in the Act. I would have liked to deal with other aspects of this important question, but as it is now nearly four o'clock in the morning, and some other members wish to speak, I do not intend to take up any longer time. Mr. PIRANI .- As a matter of personal ex- planation, I wish to state that I did not, at this late hour of the morning, want to elaborate to any great extent the question of right of the member for the Bay of Plenty to move the in- struction to the Committee, because I spoke on the point of order, and I put the aspect of the case as I saw it fully then. If the honourable member will take the trouble to look at my Hansard proof he will see that I there men- tioned that it was in order to move the instruc- tion with a proviso to the same effect as last year, and if he will look at the instruction he will see that it is an instruction merely to amend the principal Act in the direction of bringing in the Crown; but it does not say bringing the Crown under the Arbitration Act without qualification, and I maintain I was per- fectly fair to the Minister in saying that the amendment which could have been brought in under this instruction was brought in last year. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- As further explana- tion, I may say that when I referred to the Mr. McNab I referred to the remarks which he made im- mediately preceding my own remarks. I did not refer at all to his statement of the point of order which had been decided earlier in the evening. I referred to that statement which he made, and it will be found in his reported remarks in Hansard, which must have been de- livered about two minutes before I spoke, and in which he made no reference to the proviso. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, with re- gard to the statement made by the honourable member for Mataura, that the financial con- dition of the railway servants could be im- proved at any time at the will of this House by the representatives of the people, it is well known by this House there is a barrier which I should imagine, from the long experience of the honourable gentleman in this House, he must be aware of, and this should have convinced him that there is a power above this House, and shown him that it is impossible to do what he suggested. An Hon. MEMBER .- We passed a resolution this session. Mr. ELL .- Precisely ; the honourable mem- ber knows that as well as I do. Why, we could not increase even the wages of the messengers of this House by one sixpence without the con- sent of the representative of the Crown. Sir J. G. WARD .- Hear, hear ; quite right, too. The Crown being responsible must con- sent to any and all increases. Mr. ELL .- I am merely mentioning what is a fact-that is all. Now, with regard to the vote that was taken by the railway servants, the honourable member for Palmerston, I think, has hit the nail on the head when he stated that he considered the result of the vote was largely due to the fact that the railway servants voting on the question did so under the impression that if they came under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act they would have to yield up privileges which they now have. Sir J. G. WARD .- They believe they are far better off as they are. Mr. ELL .- Well, that is not according to the statements I have heard from the railway servants. At any rate, looking at the con- ditions under which the vote was taken, the Government are not responsible, the Minister is not responsible, nor are his officers respon- sible in any way for influencing the vote of the railway servants. But an officer of the Rail- way Society-this I know of my own personal knowledge-went round influencing the opin- ions of the railway servants throughout the whole of New Zealand, and warning them against coming under the provisions of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, because he said if they did so they would lose privileges which they now enjoyed ; and that had an effect, I firmly believe, in influenc- ing the men to give their votes in the direc- tion they did give them. I cannot speak for Dunedin, or Wellington, or Auckland ; I can only speak of the knowledge I gained through coming into contact personally with 