The formation-works on the first four miles of this line are approaching completion, and similar work is now in hand beyond that mileage. The rails, &c., for the permanent- way of the first section have been provided, and as soon as the formation is complete the platelaying will be put in hand. The expendi- ture on the line last year amounted to £7,764, and this year an authority for £12,000 is asked for. # Midland. Honourable members are aware from the report of the Midland Railway Commission, which has already been presented to Parlia- ment, of the result of the inquiry into the cost and value of the railway-works constructed by the Midland Railway Company, and of the contributions made thereto by the Crown. Coming to the question of construction, the section of the line between Jackson's and Otira, which was wholly constructed by the Govern- ment, was formally handed over to the Railway Department for regular working in November last, but goods trains had been running over it for nearly a year previously. At the Canterbury end of the railway, where the works are of the heaviest description, good progress has been made. The cuttings and banks on the first four miles and a half are nearly completed, and the tunnels on the same section are approaching completion. Tenders were invited for the completion of the viaduct https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 over Paterson's Creek, and that of Messrs. Scott Brothers, of Christchurch, accepted for the work. Plans for the larger viaduct over Stair- case Gully are now being prepared. The extension of the Nelson Section of the line to Tadmor, authorised last session, has been commenced, and the earthworks are making satisfactory progress. Plans were pre- pared for the large combined road and railway bridge over the Motueka River, and tenders for its erection have recently been received and declined. The Engineer-in-Chief is now re- considering the design of the bridge, with the view of effecting some economy in its con- struction. The survey of the proposed extension from Reefton towards Inangahua was put in hand as soon as a suitable officer could be spared to take charge of the work. The line has been permanently pegged for a distance of about eight miles, and longitudinal and cross sections completed for about five miles. We hope to be able to resume construction at the Reefton end of the line during the present year. The first work to be put in hand will, of course, be the bridge over the Inangahua River. Considerable work has been done during the year in making the necessary surveys in con- nection with the proposed long tunnel between Otira and the Bealey. Before definitely under- taking the construction of a work of such great magnitude, however, the Government has con- sidered it desirable to call in further expert advice, and in pursuance of this decision we are now in communication with railway authori- the view of obtaining a report from an American or Canadian engineer of eminence, and of experience in the construction of mountain railways, on the different proposals that have been made in reference to the construction of this particular section of the railway. The total expenditure on the Midland Rail- way last year amounted to £41,328. This year it will doubtless be heavier, owing to work being in hand at the Nelson end, and the probability of work being started between Reefton and Inangahua, and possibly between Otira and the Bealey. The proposed authori- sation is therefore £100,000. Greymouth-Hokitika : Extension to Ross. This extension originally formed part of the Grey-Hokitika and Midland scheme, and & trial survey was made of it. It is about fifteen miles in length, running through level country, and taps over half a million acres of the finest forest in the colony. Four sawmills are now in operation, and there is a vast quantity of silver-pine timber suitable for railway sleepers available. The estimated output of sawn timber is 6,000,000 ft. per annum. The main road from Ross to the Waiho and the Francis Joseph Glacier is completed, and a great tourist traffic would eventuate if the line were made, for the mountain, lake, and forest scenery of south Westland is unsurpassed. The present population-consisting of settlers, miners, sawmillers, and bushmen - which would be served by the railway numbers 1,000, and there is a vast area of good land suitable which would be settled if this line were con- structed, and the mineral deposits well known to exist were developed. The amount asked for the current year is #2,000. # Ngahere-Blackball. The selection of a suitable site for the pro- posed bridge over the Grey River has proved to be a work of much difficulty, as great changes in the river-bed in the neighbourhood of the proposed bridge have taken place in recent years, and similar changes may take place in the future. A good site has now been selected, however ; but it is evident that the cost of a substantial structure will amount to a large sum, and the question seems to require further consideration before any definite undertaking is entered into. Total Appropriations for Railways. In addition to the sums already mentioned, smaller authorisations, totalling to $7,500, are proposed under various heads, and £76,000 for permanent-way and other materials, thus making the total authorisations for railway- construction purposes $601,500, on account of which a vote for the current year of £561,000 is proposed. ROADS, ETC. Roads and other Works under the Control of the Minister of Lands. The amount authorised last year for roads and other works was £651,717, and the amount 