show that the contention of the honourable member for Dunedin City was wrong. The whole thing came back to this : it was the object of the member for Dunedin City to get the Government to appoint ten or fourteen miners throughout the colony to do certain work, and to pay them to act as Inspectors of Mines ; and because he (Mr. McGowan) had refused to do this, because it was unreasonable and illegal, the honourable gentleman took up his present attitude. Now, the fact of the matter was that if one wanted to destroy the proper inspection of mines one could not do it better than by paying men to do the work who were already in the mines. If the present In- spectors were not qualified for the work they should be turned out ; but, at any rate, the idea of appointing men who were engaged in the mine should be abandoned. The hour of half-past five o'clock having arrived, the DEPUTY-SPEAKER left the chair. # HOUSE RESUMED. The DEPUTY-SPEAKER resumed the chair at half-past seven o'clock. ROYAL VISIT EXPENSES BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- "There shall be paid to His Ex- cellency the Governor, without further appro- priation than this Act, the sum of two thousand two hundred and fifty pounds, being the amount of expenses incurred and disbursed by him for and on behalf of the colony on the occasion of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the recent visit to New Zealand of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York." On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), the word " expenses " was struck out, and the word "liabilities " substituted therefor; and the word "moneys" was inserted before the word "disbursed." The words "at the request of his Re- sponsible Advisers " were inserted after the word "colony." Clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported. On the question, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- Sir, I desire to take this opportunity of saying a few words touching this Bill and its career through the House, and, first of all, I would like to preface what I have to say by remarking that the loyalty of a number of members of this, House has been called in question. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. HORNSBY .- Yes ; and in a very ques- tionable manner. Sir, loyalty with me does not mean mere lip service, or the shedding of every drop of our brother's blood. Loyalty, in my opinion, requires of every man who possesses it, if need should be, to make some personal sacrifice in the matter ; but we are beginning to be taught in this country that so long as you wave a flag and beat the drum, and talk about "the dear old flag" and " the dear old Motherland," that spells Loyalty ! ! Mr. McGowan ism. I think if we could get the details of the expenses which have been incurred, and which this Bill proposes to reimburse the Governor for, we should find not only that a good deal of it has been spent in flunkeyism, but also in furbishing the wearers of the costume of the flunkey. Now, Sir, because some members of this House dared to give expression to their thoughts they were told that it was proof that they were the enemies of organized society-Nihilists-because they would not speak with bated breath about the Governor and his position in this colony, or about this request that came down to us in this House to "foot the Bill." It is not unusual, I may say, for this kind of thing to be said about members of the House. For example, last session one member of this House-my honourable friend the member for Christ- church City, who sits beside me, was compared to Antonio Bresci, and this session one of the members-the member for Riccarton-has been referred to ---- Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - You cannot refer to a previous debate during this session. Mr. HORNSBY .- I say last session the mem- ber for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) was re- ferred to as Antonio Bresci Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- If you are going to say something about a reference made to the member for Riccarton this session, that is out of order. Mr. HORNSBY. - Very well, Sir. Then, I will say that last year the honourable member for Riccarton was referred to in very " handsome terms," and this session also. We are told that we should not even dare to question the doings of the Premier in matters concerning the welfare of the colony ; and because we have attempted even to criticize some of the expenditure that has been entered into, and which principle we believe to be wrong, we have been told that the decadence of Parliament has undoubtedly set in. Think of it, that because of what has been said the decadence of Parliament has been made manifest ! The Premier bas taken his cue, I suppose, for that utterance from the sycophantic journal of Wellington- a newspaper that one day beslavers the Government with praise and the next day pelts it with mud. Yet on the authority of that sort of newspaper we are to be told that the decadence of Parliament has set in. Decadence, Sir ! Why, if we think back to the time when that sturdy man from the West Coast came here as a democrat, and as the representative of all that was best in democracy-the protégé of the finest Liberal who ever stood in this House, Sir George Grey- and look and listen to him now. I say, if there is any decadence at all, the decadence is very marked in that particular instance. Fuming and fretting in his place in the House because members of this House dare to differ from him, and dare to express their opinions! Sir, I have been marked out for destruction. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh ! Mr. HORNSBY .- Yes, marked out for political extinction - pointed to by the Pre- 