RIFLE CLUBS. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether it is true, in responding to the toast of "the Defence Minister " at a recent function, the Right Hon. the Premier said he was in favour of an increase of ammuni- tion being served out to Volunteers and rifle clubs for practice, and that it only re- quired pressure being brought to bear on the Defence Minister, when he had no doubt there would be no trouble in obtaining a further in- creased supply of ammunition, so that Volun- teers and rifle clubs might make themselves more proficient in shooting? He had no doubt the Minister of Defence would be able to give a satisfactory answer to this question, and that he would favour the increase of ammunition to our Volunteers and rifle clubs, as suggested by the Right Hon. the Premier. Good marksmen had done more effective service in South Africa than the artillery with all their big guns. The Premier, who was an ardent student of passing events, had evidently made a mental note, and hence the suggestion. Lord Roberts, the present Commander -in - Chief, had also spoken very highly of good shots. Should this country ever be attacked or invaded by an enemy, our expert riflemen, he was satisfied, would give a good account of themselves. The Premier saw the necessity for supplying more ammunition to our Volunteers and rifle clubs, and he had already stated that, if a certain amount of pressure was brought to bear, he had no doubt the Defence Minister would see his way to grant an increased supply. He would like to know from the honourable gentleman, when replying, what amount of pressure would be required in order to obtain this very desir- able concession, so that our own Volunteers and rifle clubs might make themselves more pro- ficient. He trusted it would be sufficient to bring the matter under his notice in order that he might consult with the Defence Minister, when an order would be given to increase the supply, so that our men might have an op- portunity of becoming experts with the rifle. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the mind of his colleagues and himself was made up some little time ago to grant an increased amount of ammunition to Volunteers, but he was still hesitating, because he dreaded the consequences of what was to be brought before members in respect to a reduced defence expenditure. It was with fear and trembling that he now an- nounced to the House, despite that proposal for reduction, that they did intend to give in- creased ammunition to the Volunteers and rifle clubs of the colony. At the same time it was disheartening to hear the remarks they did after they had increased the Volunteer Force of the colony beyond their most sanguine ex- pectations, and after they deemed it necessary that these men should be well drilled, and were doing what they believed to be in the best interests of the colony. Members had pressed the Government to establish corps in their dis- tricts, and to give increased facilities for Volun- teering, and to establish rifle-ranges ; and when tion, and they must and ought to have rifle- ranges spotted all over this country, because a great deal depended upon straight shooting-a good deal more, he believed, than on riding or drill-and they could not expect him to have this done without it costing the colony some money ; and it was with pleasure, as he said, despite fear and trembling, after carefully re- considering the position, the Government still thought the country could afford the extra ammunition being given both to Volunteers and rifle clubs. PARLIAMENTARY LIBRARY. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, Whether they will favourably consider the propriety of enlarging the scope of the parliamentary library free list, so as to include ex-members of both branches of the Legislature? He thought the Government might favourably consider this question. He was of opinion that ex-members should have the privileges of this excellent library ; and when one considered the value of the library and the little use it was put to, and that the privileges were largely confined to a few outsiders, it seemed to him that the library ought to be more widely used than it was at present, especially by students and others. Regarding ex-members, he would point out that members were occasionally defeated, and afterwards re- elected ; yet during the interval they were deprived the advantages of studying political history. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) admitted that there was a great deal of force in the honourable gentleman's contention. Of course, hitherto there had been regulations under which the library had been opened, and if there was to be an extension of the privileges of the library he thought that should come from the Library Committee as a recommendation to the House, and then the House should decide the matter. He might say he would be happy if the Com- mittee took this matter up, and if they recom- mended it he would be most happy to meet the decision of the Committee in that respect. As the House was in session, he thought the first action should be taken by the Library Com- mittee. He would suggest to the honourable member that he should move the Committee in the direction he had indicated. SOUTH AFRICAN WAR. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether his attention has been called to a pamphlet entitled " An American View of the South African Situation : How Australasia might help Great Britain," which has recently been extensively circulated throughout Aus- tralia and New Zealand; and whether, in order to counteract the influences insidiously sought to be instilled by the circulation of this pam- phlet, he will cause to be reprinted and cireu- lated the pamphlet entitled " The British Case against the Boer Republics," and the pamphlet containing the speech delivered by Mr. Drage, late member for Derby in the House of Com- 