so it may be called, which Mr. Seddon made in the House of Representatives on Wednesday, was of a kind scarcely calculated to restore confidence in those tribunals. The Premier seems to have regretted his outspoken criticism of a few days previously, when he declared that the ' unions were riding the thing to death,' and he is now apparently anxious to placate those to whom his words may have given of- fence by ' rubbing it in ' to the other fellows." Mr. SEDDON .- I do not know, Sir, whether this is to go on or not. The honourable mem- ber now is reading a newspaper criticism of what I stated in the House on a Bill this session, or what I am reported to have said. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- If the honour- able member is doing that he is clearly out of order. Mr. FISHER .- This statement of the Pre- mier was not made during a sitting of the House. Mr. SEDDON .- It says so there. Mr. FISHER .- That is so ; but the Premier made the same statement afterwards. Mr. SEDDON .- You have just quoted what I am alleged to have said in the House. Mr. FISHER .- Very well, I will not further allude to that criticism. Then, the Sydney Telegraph of the 7th August, in commenting on the statement by the Premier, says :- " Mr. Seddon's decision not to proceed further with labour legislation is one of the most signi- ficant events in colonial political history. Pro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 bably the applying of a brake happens none too soon for the community to weigh and test the reforming and experimental legislation of which New Zealand had such an abundance, and for the public capacity of assimilation, which was much more limited than some politicians perceived. New Zealand had gone full speed ahead so long in this respect that she may well slow down. There were purely political reasons for the course too." Following upon this comes the Review of Reviews for the 20th October, which says,- " Labour troubles in New Zealand increase in volume and grow more bitter in temper. It is admitted that the Conciliation Act does not conciliate, and the Arbitration Courts are congested with disputes. Mr. Seddon has spoken on the subject with characteristic frank- ness. He told a deputation of trades-unions at Wellington that he 'deprecated the whole- sale summoning of employers, as there was no necessity for doing so. It was riding the Act to death, and in time both the men and the employers would get sick of it. That was what was going to happen. The employers did not want to be everlastingly in a turmoil. The law was a good law, but of late it had been brought into disrepute. Great care must be taken, or there would be a revulsion of public opinion on the matter.' Later, speaking in Parliament, Mr. Seddon told the House that ' something would have to be done to put an end to the incessant strife prevailing between workmen and employers. He condemned the Concilia- tion Boards for their unbusinesslike methods, in their personnel and constitution. Parlia- ment,' Mr. Seddon added, 'would probably be asked to do something in the matter this session.' " Will the representatives of labour unions who criticize members of Parliament tell me what they think of that? Well, we have been asked to do something this session, and we have this admirable Bill. But I want to drive that point home: who said the labour unions had been "riding the Act to death "? This statement has got up the backs of the workers, and they calmly turn round and say, " What have these members been saying about us?" and I want the labour representatives to go to the Premier and ask him point-blank what he meant by say- ing that they were "riding the Act to death." They ask the Premier to protect them ! Well, I intend to protect myself. But these tactics of the Premier are neither new nor novel. On the 21st March, 1896, Mr. Seddon, in receiving a deputation of workers in Wellington, " stated distinctly that the country had had enough of labour legislation for a time, and that, until the Acts already on the statute-book had received a fair trial, it would be inadvisable to proceed further with such experimental legislation." Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. Mr. FISHER .- The honourable gentleman says " hear, hear." Then I have no more to say. I feel now that we are in entire agrec- ment. I agree that that statement is justified by every practical experience. It is justified by the working of the Acts we have passed. We, that is, all of us who are interested in the welfare of the working-classes-we who wish to protect them against themselves, have taken that course which the honourable gentleman himself outlined in 1896, and which he has again outlined in 1901. If the honourable gentleman adheres to those two statements made in those two years-and he cannot depart from them-then I say that he and I on labour questions will be found in entire agreement. I compliment the honourable gentleman on having made both statements ; but I will not depart from them whatever the honourable gentleman may do. I believe that we should not pass any labour legislation of an oppressive character ; that we should rather devote our energies and our intelligence to perfecting those Acts which we have already put on the statute-book, and I hold that those who do so are the best friends of the labouring-classes. This Bill will do that. The Government are entitled to credit for having introduced their labour Bills, and they are entitled to equal but not greater credit than those who have endeavoured to perfect them in their passage through this House. I ask the representatives of labour organiza- tions to be a little more guarded in future in their comments upon the action of members of Parliament who have studied the question of labour legislation much more closely than they possibly could have done, and who know what is best for them. They should remember that we are charged with the duty of weighing both sides. And if members of the. House, as the 