sense, he had none in another. The resolu- tion was one of the Joint Library Committee, and the question was whether the Council would uphold its decision or treat it with con- tempt. The question of withdrawing the mo- tion was beyond his control. Reference had been made to the Standing Orders, and a strained interpretation had been put upon them. It was contended that the Standing Order of the House No. 436, which provided that " All fines are applied to the Library Fund," referred only to the preceding rules, Nos. 433 to 435, which referred to fines imposed on members of Parliament. Why was the in- terpretation of rule No. 436 confined only to certain rules which preceded it ? Standing Order No. 244 of the House of Representatives was as follows :- "In any case, the neglect or refusal of a witness to attend in obedience to an order of the House, or of a Committee having power to summon witnesses, or in obedience to a warrant of Mr. Speaker, will be censured or otherwise punished, at the pleasure of the House." This rule also preceded Rule 436, and it was in accordance with this rule that Mr. Watson had been fined ; then, why was an interpre- tation invented to make Rule 436 apply only to fines on members of Parliament. He held the interpretation placed on the Standing Orders of the House was an unfair one, and the Library Committee were justified in claiming https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the money as a right to which they were en- titled. With regard to the $500 special vote of last session : at the time it was voted the Watson fine was probably not thought of at all ; it had dropped out of sight ; and that sum was voted for certain purposes-principally to fill up the blanks in the different classes of literature in the library, because complaints were made that many sections were not at all complete, and they could not be completed out of ordinary revenue. The question of the Watson fine was never taken into consideration at all on that occasion. If honourable members looked at the resolution of the Joint Committee they would see it was a very modest one ; it simply asked the Premier to give Parliament the op- portunity to say whether or not the Committee were to have the money. There was surely nothing unreasonable in that, and therefore the motion should commend itself to the Council. At any rate, he would remind the Council that it was for them to say whether or not they would uphold the decision of the Joint Library Committee or reflect upon its discretion by re- jecting the motion. The Council divided. AYES, 19. Arkwright Smith, A. L. Jones Kelly, T. Bolt Swanson Kelly, W. Taiaroa Bonar Twomey McLean Bowen Pinkerton Feldwick Walker, L. Rigg Williams. Gourley Jenkinson Hon. Mr. Rigg Baillie Jennings Shrimski Barnicoat Louisson Smith, W. C. Harris Reeves Walker, W. C. Majority for, 10. Motion agreed to. ROYAL VISIT EXPENSES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I hope this Bill will not trouble the Council very much. Within the last few months the colony was, partly by its own wish, and partly by the desire of our present King, following out the wishes of his late mother, favoured with a visit from the Heir-Apparent and his wife. It was undoubt- edly a case where the colony had to rise to the occasion, and where it had to do all it could to receive the Royal pair in a proper manner. Parliament last year expressed its willingness to meet all necessary expenditure. His Excel- lency the Governor was asked by Ministers to act as host on the occasion, and Ministers assured him the colony would recoup him the extraordinary expenditure he was put to on that occasion. Bill read the second time. MONEY-LENDERS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3. - Reopening of transactions of money-lenders. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved, That progress be reported. The Committee divided. AYES, 13. Shrimski Arkwright Kelly, W. Barnicoat McLean Swanson Feldwick Pinkerton Taiaroa Gourley Reeves Twomey. Kelly, T. NOES, 10. Louisson Smith, W. C. Bolt Harris Walker, W. C. Rigg Smith, A. L. Williams. Jenkinson Jennings Majority for, 3. Motion agreed to, and progress reported. The Council adjourned at five o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 10th October, 1901. First Reading - Second Reading -Central Otago Railways- Government Lime-kilns at Mabeno- Accommodation for Select Committees, &c. - Midland Railway-Ammunition for Volunteers and Rifle Clubs-Parliamentary Library South African War- Walter Delaney - New Zealand: Colony or State - Disfranchisement of Welling- ton-Opposed Returns - Public Service: Particu- lars re Names, &c .- Legislative Council Appoint- ments - Departmental Land and Buildings - Morris Tubes - Rifles for Ride Clubs - Forest Planting-Precedence-Railway from Avondale to Karaka Bay-Temperance Wall-sheets-Na- tive Birds of New Zealand - Lunatic Asylum Attendants - Harbours - Auckland Oyster dish- eries-Free Railway-pasees for School-children -Graduated Receipt-stamp and Cheque Duty- 