CHEVIOT-KAIKOURA ROAD. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister of Lands, What steps, if any, are being taken to preserve the scenery and native bush on the road from Cheviot to Kaikoura, especially through the Hundalee Settlement and on the Beach Road? This question referred to the road running from Cheviot to Kaikoura, past Hawkswood ; and down the Conway River and along the Hundalee Road there was some native bush growing. He and other settlers in Canterbury considered this would be the main road to Kaikoura and Blenheim, owing to its being a much more easy grade than the higher road leading past Greenhills. He believed that steps had already been taken to preserve the scenery along the higher road, but he was not aware that anything had been done in this direction along the road he had referred to. The Board of Education had sent two of its members along this route to make arrange- ments with the tenants of school reserves with the view of preserving the bush on their sections, and he hoped the Minister would see that the proper steps were taken by the Lands Department. There were considerable areas on the Hundalee Settlement, and also along the Conway River, which contained many of the elements of our best bush scenery. Although it could not be compared with the luxuriant growth in the North Island, the bush standing there was a relief to the eye when people were travelling through the country, which was to a very large extent without forest-trees. If the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Minister would look into this matter and have something done it would be a great pleasure not only to the people of Canterbury and the Marlborough people, but also to the many tourists who would soon travel between Canter- burs and Marlborough by what was known as the Seaward route. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said there had been great difficulty in dealing with this matter. One of the small grazing lessees in the locality mentioned in this question, despite warnings, had started to burn his bush, and the probability was that all his bush would be de- stroyed : so that the honourable member would see the difficulty the Government would have to experience in endeavouring to save the bush on the adjoining reserves. It was the wish of the Government that the bush should be pre- served, more especially in Canterbury, where patches of it were so few and far between. The Government were doing their best in the matter, and were considering the question of directing the Ranger of the district to protect the bush which some of these vandals were attempting to destroy. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said the Ranger had assured him that he was doing his best, and he urged that the bush land should be absolutely reserved. The Ranger also said that, so long as the settlers were allowed to go on as they were doing, there would be little possibility of preserving the scenery. Mr. DUNCAN said the Marlborough Land Board should take the matter up, and keep a any of the beautiful patches of scenery that were now left. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) pointed out that the country referred to was under the control of the Marlborough Land Board, and that the Ranger mentioned by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) had no juris- diction in the matter, as he was under the Canterbury Land Board. The settlers along the Hundalee Road had taken steps to remove the scrub and scanty bush with the view of laying down English grass; but there were reserves along the line which he would ask the Minister of Lands to request the Marlborough Land Board to exercise a little more vigilance in preserving. CROWN TENANTS' RENT REBATE ACT. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Lands, Why settlers who have taken up land under the small-grazing-runs clause of "The Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act, 1900," are excluded from the benefits of the Act ? Various and strong opinions had been ex- pressed with regard to the indecent haste with which the Premier had rushed this Bill through the House last session, and the country looked to the Minister of Lands to explain the Pre- mier's action in the matter. The Act of last session in reality made the large holder of land a present of one-tenth of his holding, while the poor small settlers of the country, whom the Government professed to protect and defend. were left without any rebate upon their leases whatever. Did the Minister consider the holders of small grazing-runs were fairly treated under the Act passed last session ? The Minister of Lands alone could explain, as he was an agriculturist, while the Premier was not. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, although he was answering a question that should have been put to the Premier, he would explain that those to whom the rebate had been allowed were paying 5 per cent. on the capital value, while the small - grazing - run holders were only paying 2} per cent., and some of those runholders were very well off. Then, again, their leases were not so long as were the holders of leases in perpetuity, and when the terms of their leases expired, if the rates were found to be too high, the rates could be reduced. It would be seen, therefore, they were not on all-fours with the others. How- ever, the matter would be considered, he hoped, later on ; but the trouble over the Rebate Bill was not forgotten, and the opposition shown at that time would likely be repeated when the matter came up. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member had made a great reflection on him. He wanted to know whether it was in order for one member to ask another member to explain the conduct of a third member. If that was not in order, why should a member ask one Minister to explain the conduct of another Minister ? He might ask the member for 