the unfit are cast out, and the best men are employed by the employer. Well, then, what will happen now wherever any industry comes under the Arbitration Act ? We shall find that only the best men are employed in it. Where, then, are the unfit, the aged, and the feeble to go? They will gradually go to the Government for employment. Is that a proper state of things ? Is it a right state of things that the Government service should eventually be manned by those who are cast out of private employment ? An Hon MEMBER .- Would you have them poleaxed ? Mr. HERRIES .- No; I would have some- thing done for them. I quite agree with that. An Hon. MEMBER. - With their being pole- axed ? Mr. HERRIES .- No ; of course not. I agree that some steps should be taken to assist them, and the old-age pension is a step in that direc- tion. This question of the aged and infirm has generally been admitted to be one fault of the industrial legislation as it is at present. I say they ought not to be foisted into the active departments of the Government in that way. The working departments of the Government should have the best men em- ployed. as well as private individuals. If aid is to be given to the aged and infirm, as no doubt it should be, that should be done in a separate way. They should not be employed in Working departments of the Government ser- vice unless they are giving the best value for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 their wages, otherwise it ought to be admitted frankly that a great part of the Government service is in the direction of charitable aid. If the employés were put under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act we should find out more about the circumstances of the Government employés than we know now. Cases would be brought before the Court, evidence would be heard, and the representatives of the people would understand more of the way the Govern- ment servants are treated than they do at pre- sent, when everything is concealed from them. Now, why do not the Government allow their employés to come under that Act ? That we cannot find out. No arguments have been ever advanced by the Government against the Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act. They cannot advance such arguments, because to do so would condemn their own legislation. But the argument that some of us think must always weigh with them is that by having them under their control they are able to in- fluence them whenever they want to. That is what seems to us to be the reason for the Go- vernment always steadfastly refusing to give them the advantages of the Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act. It always seems to me that, if the Act is good for private individuals, therefore it ought to be equally good for the Government, and equally good also for the Government employés. I should like to have heard, if I had been able to move my instruction, the arguments that would have been used by honourable gentlemen on ments, surely, to bring forward for so steadily refusing to allow the Government employés to come in, and for steadily blocking any motion to that effect. If I can only succeed in eliciting some arguments from either of the two honourable gentlemen who are now filling the Ministerial benches I shall feel that I have not spoken in vain. It astonished me to-night in Committee to see many professed Liberals sitting on the Government side of the House who have been voting steadily for this Act when they thought it only applied to other people, but when it dawned upon their intelli- gence that it applied to the farmers and agri- culturists of the colony, as the Act of 1900 certainly does, they got up in alarm and said it would never do to subject the agriculturists of the colony to the friction that now exists wherever the Industrial Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act is in force. Mr. PIRANI .- Or the domestic servants. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes ; or domestic servants. Now, I have noticed the continual use of that word " friction " during the debate in Com- mittee, especially used by Government sup- porters. I always understood that the object of the Act was to avoid friction, that it was to put oil on the wheels of industry, and that, therefore, they would roll smoothly ; but in the course of the debate that has taken place this evening we have heard a good deal of this friction which is said to exist. Then, if there is this friction, surely the Act must want something to make the wheels go round. And, Sir, I hope that the Bill we are passing to-night is in this direction, though I must say that the amend- ments have been put in so fast, and we have had so little time to consider them, that I rather doubt whether it will have the effect that the right honourable gentleman hopes it will have. The right honourable gentleman's attitude in Committee has been so peculiar, first opposing thon agreeing to amendments, that I doubted whether he knew what he was doing ; and, with regard to the last amendment put on, the Premier strongly opposed but was beaten, which it must have been a rather bitter pill for him to swallow, and I should not be surprised to see the Upper House invoked to alter that. I shall not detain the House any longer. If I can elicit some explanation from Ministers why the em- ployés of the Crown are not brought under this Act I shall feel that I' have not spoken in vain. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .-- The speech of the honourable member, I think, is a very extraordinary one. During the course of the honourable gentleman's remarks he pro- fessed that he was a friend of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and yet the utterances to which he gave expression showed clearly that he was an enemy in disguise to the system of which he professed to be an upholder. The honourable gentleman, right throughout the whole course of his speech, was condemning in the strongest possible form a system which, it has generally been admitted, has prevented a great deal of industrial strife, and, conse- 