understood from what took place at a meeting pass the Shops and Offices Bill first. But the of the Joint Statutes Revision Committee the Shops and Offices Bill, he held, was m the posi- other day that there was a possibility of its tion it occupied at the bottom of the Order being necessary to amend the Land Transfer Paper because of the opposition of such Act; and, knowing that that Act required honourable gentlemen as Mr. McLean. He amendment. it would, he thought, be of value would always do anything he could to lessen the burden of the workers so long as no hardship to have this return, with a view of including the question of reducing the contribution to was inflicted on the public. the Land Assurance Fund Account in any amending Bill. able member who moved the amendment was Motion agreed to. not present on the second reading of the Bill, for, had he been, he doubted whether he would SHOPS AND SHOP - ASSISTANTS BILL. have taken the course which he had now On the motion, That this Bili be committed, taken. This Bill had passed through the other The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said he was absent branch of the Legislature. It was promoted when the second reading was taken, and he by one of the members for Dunedin City, at w .- bed to congratulate the Hon. Mr. Jones on the request, he believed, of the representatives the part he took when opposing the measure. of chemists throughout the colony. All that I: was a very serious measure, and it was all was done by the Bill was to put the law back very well for them to take things just as they to what it was in 1894. In 1895 the word "chemist " was inserted, excluding chemists Wer at the present moment, but in the case of unforeseen circumstances, especially in a large from those who had to close, and this Bill put cit., it might be very dangerous to life to have the chemists back to the position they occupied all the chemists' shops closed. No one would previously to that amendment. The Bill safe- be able to obtain medicine, and all because of guarded the danger the honourable member a few employes in the druggists' shops. The feared, of a person taking suddenly ill. A whole of the inhabitants of the town were to chemist could open his shop at any time. he subjected to all kinds of sickness and pain for the benefit of those few people. It was a cannot find the chemist. very serious step they were taking. On the all the chemists chose now to shut up their Continent a druggist would not have a license granted to him if he were to close his premises shops, what was there to compel them to on Sundays or holidays. Moreover, take Willis open ? Nothing whatever. This Bill was Street, in this city : There were five or six merely providing that chemists should enjoy the half-holiday the same as anybody else, and, driggists in that street, and if they chose to as he had pointed out, provision was made for cose by rotation no one would have any objec- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 cases of emergency. He ventured to think tion ; but to shut up on Sundays and holidays that there was no difficulty in meeting cases of was an unheard-of thing. It was not in the urgency. The Bill merely provided for putting Interests of the people, nor was it in the the law back in the position it was in 1894, and interests of humanity. He would therefore / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero was promoted at the instance of all the chemists orpose the Bill going into Committee, and in the principal towns of the colony. It re- would move, as an amendment, That the Bill be ferred only to boroughs and town districts, and Committed this day three months. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said he would take not to places in the country. In reference to what had been said by the Hon. Mr. McLean, that opportunity of saying that he did not think he ventured to submit that if this Bill was a this kind of legislation should be brought down desirable one in itself it would not be fair to in this manner. The Government had a Bill of postpone it on the chance of the Shops and a similar nature on the Order Paper, and this Offices Bill passing this session. Having regard matter should be dealt with in it. He thought to the period of the session, the chances were they should postpone the Bill until the Govern- that the latter Bill would not get through ment Bill was dealt with. He hoped the another place this session. He trusted the amendment would be carried, so that the Bill Council would agree to the Bill going into would be put out of the way; and, when that was done, the matter could be dealt with in the Committee. Government Bill. The Hon. Mr. JONES said he would not like that last year the chemists, in giving evidence, stated what he believed to be an absolute fact- any false impression to arise as to the attitude that the chemists of the colony had always been be had assumed on this Bill. He had not op- careful to endeavour to consult not only their pred the Bill. He merely had said that he own convenience, but the public requirements quite agreed that shops wherein were sold in the matter of health and possible cases of perishable articles should not be closed ; and he illness. But he must say, in a city like Wel- ako said that the suggestion made by another lington, or any of our cities, he was astonished bononrable member that chemists' shops should at the chemists and medical practitioners not keep open by rotation all night long was a very forming some combination by which they good one, and should be carried out. Of course, there was something in what Mr. McLean had could assure to themselves every week any holidays they wanted. They had also had said-that it would be better not to have these evidence that for several years some of the measures brought down piecemeal in this most enterprising chemists had endeavoured fashion, and that it would have been better to The Hon. Colonel PITT was sorry the honour- i The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Suppose you The Hon. Colonel PITT said, Suppose that The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER remembered 