to the cablegram which came from the doctor, and he said it was a very serious responsibility for the Defence Minister not to accept the doc- tor's advice, and, not having accepted that advice, the Defence Minister must take the re- sponsibility. He had mentioned some cases of deaths that had occurred after the trip to the Bluff. Now, for the sickness occurring after the journey to the Bluff: There was one case that occurred at the Bluff itself-the man fainted at the Bluff, and was taken next day to the Dunedin Hospital suffering from pneu- monia, and was there sick for a long time, although he was glad to say that he had recovered now. Another was brought back from the Bluff, and sent straight into the Dunedin Hospital with pneumonia; another was sent into the hospital at Christchurch immediately on his arrival there with pneu- monia; another developed pneumonia on his arrival home in the North Island ; another also developed pneumonia, he thought, but would not be sure, on his arrival home in the North Island ; and another developed pneu- monia in Auckland on his arrival there. All these troopers had been to the Bluff. He had some letters from troopers, and he would read one or two of them. One wrote thanking him very much for the stand he had taken in this matter, and said,- "In respect to taking the troopers to Inver- cargill, my son was one of them. He has since been in the Auckland Hospital suffering from pneumonia. He is now convalescent, but will not be able to work for some time to come ; and should he take another cold it is more than likely he will go into consumption-and this through the men being sent to a very cold place after leaving a very warm one." Another wrote,- " Some of the men not in ship's hospital applied for sick certificates ; could not get them -a few did. Many of them were run down, though not exactly ill, and consequently went South against their will ; many were unfit, but the order was given, and they must go. Feel- ing was very strong amongst the men and officers. Some slept on mattresses, others had to go into the hold on straw. Arrived at the Bluff break of day-bitterly cold and hard frost. Landed, and were talked at for an hour; dis- missed, and subsequently entrained to Inver- cargill. Dined there in Drill Hall ; presented with medals on Show Ground. Streets very slushy and wet." An Hon. MEMBER .- Give the name. Mr. J. ALLEN said he would not give the names because he did not wish the men to suffer through giving him this information. Mr. HALL - JONES. - Are they genuine letters ? Mr. ALLEN said, Yes, he would guarantee they were genuine letters. Mr. SEDDON .- Did not Lieutenant Fergu- son tell you that it did not affect him, at all events ? Mr. J. ALLEN said, No. Would the Premier like to hear Lieutenant Ferguson's statement ? Mr. J. ALLEN said, Well, he would give it. This was Lieutenant Ferguson's statement :-- "No one got special leave or certificate from the doctor to say he was fit to go to the Bluff. No option was given the men-those not in hospital had to go. There was nearly a mutiny on the ship about going. They were transhipped ; some men had to lie on straw; could not say if straw was dry or wet. They felt the cold very much in Dunedin. At the Bluff they landed, fell in, and were marched to some hall, and stood outside for about an hour whilst speeches were made from the balcony ; it was very wet underfoot, and snow was on the ground. After this they were taken to Invercargill - same underfoot, but over the ankles. Ferguson went to the station and fainted. Was billeted in Invercargill for the night. Some had very good billets-some never found their billets. Went by train next day to Dunedin. Lieutenant Ferguson and another went into hospital at once in Dunedin with pneumonia. Another who went to Invercargill, had to be carried to Christchurch Hospital on arrival there." Mr. SEDDON said that statement was not borne out by what Lieutenant Ferguson had said were his replies to queries put to him by Mr. Allen. Lieutenant Ferguson's father was a friend of Mr. Buchanan, and that was how the member for Bruce had got to interview him. The honourable member asked Lieu- tenant Ferguson to lunch on two occasions, but he declined, stating that he had another engagement. The statement read out by the honourable member was evidently jotted down from memory, and the honourable member had got confused, and had put down to Lieutenant Ferguson things he had never said. Lieutenant Ferguson, as a matter of fact, stated that he himself had suffered from the Worcester hard- ships or experience, and broke down at Dunedin. So much for that. This was the information the Commandant had had from Lieut .- Colonel Davies on 2nd July :- "Total all ranks New Zealand Contingents six ninety-six. Other New Zealanders, nine. Leave to-day ; expect arrive Dunedin tenth." That was the information on the arrival of the "Tagus " at Albany, and, subsequently, on the same date, the Commandant received the cable to which the honourable member had referred. Communication had since been received through the Agent-General showing that the ship-owners refused to allow the vessel to go to the Bluff, as they knew nothing of the coast. There was never a question raised as to her going to Auckland. It had never been suggested directly or indirectly, and he chal- lenged proof to the contrary. When he received a telegram from Dr. De Lautour stating that the pneumonia was due to overcrowding, he demanded an inquiry. These were his instruc- tions :- "I wish you to furnish me with a full report in respect to the illness of returned troopers by 'Tagus.' The unusual number of cases of illness and deaths that have occurred stated 