more particularly to those people who lived near the smaller stations where the express did not stop. He would also like to ask the honourable gentleman if he could see his way to put on a second daily train from Frankton to Te Awa- mutu. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) called the attention of the Minister to the heavy charge for con- veyance on the railways of sawmill machinery. He quoted the case of the carriage of a band- saw, with working machinery, from Auckland to Taupiri-only seventy miles -- at a total cost of $42 15s., while the actual charge of the same article from New York to Auckland was £53 10s. It was no encouragement to the saw- millers, who provided no small amount of the traffic on the railways, to have to put up with such excessive charges. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked whether it was absolutely necessary for the Railway De- partment to continue to import ironbark sleepers from Australia. He was under the impression that the quantity imported was increasing. This was an important matter in view of the high tariff Australia was about to put on our timber, and he hoped the honourable gentleman would in the future adopt a policy of, at any rate, importing the least possible number of sleepers from Australia. He thought we had plenty of timber here which was quite as good as the imported timber. He complained of the strict and rigid inspection of silver-pine sleepers which recently had been started, compared to what was done for years past without any objection. Another matter he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 wished to call the Minister's attention to was the great dissatisfaction which existed among the railway employés on account of the con- stitution of the Railway Appeal Board, consist- ing of three Government officials-namely, a District Judge, and two persons belonging to the Railway service elected by the railway the employés. As at present constituted elected members of the Appeal Board might be under the control of the very officer who had disrated or suspended the employé who had appealed against his decision. The result was that these elected members of the Board could not be in as independent a position as Judges of such a Court ought to be. He would advise that the railway employés should be given the right to elect two persons entirely independent, and outside the Government ser vice, as members of the Board. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden), referring to the question of the supply of sleepers, would point out that the price offered to settlers for either totara or puriri sleepers was so low that it was impossible for the settlers to supply them. It would be much better for the de- partment to pay a more liberal price to the settlers than to send money out of the colony to import sleepers from Australia. Sir J. G. WARD might first state, in reply to the member for Franklin, that it was pro- posed to stop the trains at the stations he had referred to. With regard to the question of rail- way rates between Lyttelton and Christchurch, it was a mistake to say there was a penal charge upon that line. The tariff upon that and other lines, such as the Onehunga-Auck- land line, was arranged in view of competition by sea or land, and it was the duty of the State to, as far as was reasonable, endeavour to get as much business as possible for the railways. He was quite prepared to look into the whole matter of a revision of the tariff; and, though the department could not go on reducing rates for ever, if it was possible to adjust matters to meet the views of business people in the centres referred to, who had to compete with other centres, he would see what could be done. With regard to the train service to Waikato, the whole of the Auckland train services would form the subject of review by the depart- mental officers very shortly, and though he was advised that at present there did not appear to be sufficient reason for putting on an extra train to Te Awamutu-nor could he at the moment say whether the time for the express and goods trains leaving Auckland could be altered -- but he would promise to look into the whole matter of the Auckland service and see what could be done. With regard to the rates for the sawmilling industry, he was quite pre- pared, when the revision of the tariff was gone into, to look into that special class with a view of making a substantial reduction. As to the importation of ironbark sleepers from Australia, he might say that at present the department could not obtain sufficient hardwood in New Zealand for the railways, although he was most anxious to see New Zealand sleepers used en- tirely on the railway. Of course, where the lives of people were at stake, with a view of preventing accidents it was necessary to get the best sleepers procurable. As to the price paid for sleepers in the North, referred to by the honourable member for Marsden, the price the department was offering was 3s. 6d. for totara at Whangarei. An Hon. MEMBER. - You cannot supply totara sleepers at 3s. 6d. Sir J. G. WARD said that 4s. 3d. had been offered for puriri sleepers, and the department could not get them, and 4s. was paid for iron- bark, and 38. 6d. for totara, at Whangarei. The department was prepared to take all the sleepers from New Zealand if they could get them. He could assure the honourable mem- ber for the Grey that the Government was just as anxious as he was to obtain sleepers in the colony. In regard to the abolition of the Rail- way Appeal Board, he had had no represen- tations in that direction from the executive of the Amalgamated Society of Railway Employés, and he did not think that a Board which had done so much good throughout the colony should be abolished. Mr. LANG thought the railway freight on coal should be reduced. He wished to bring under the notice of the Minister a matter of great importance to the Auckland Province- he referred to railway freight on slack coal from Huntly to Auckland. The present freight was 6s. per ton, or about the same as that from New South Wales to Auckland. One company alone was throwing away 250 tons per month, 