Council commenced its sitting this afternoon, otherwise I should certainly have furnished him with the name. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Sir, it is with considerable diffidence that I venture to obtrude myself upon the Council again, but I find I have omitted to deal with one or two obser- vations which have been made by speakers, and which, in the hurry of the moment, I overlooked. I should like to make a few remarks : first, with regard to the Hon. Mr. Twomey. He said in the course of his speech that the change which would result from the adoption of clause 21 would be in favour of the employés. Now, the honourable gentleman did not give us any good valid reason in support of that statement, and I think it can be very clearly shown it is not in favour of the employes, any more than of the employers. But the principle of the clause will be this : that it will give birth to the possibility of a division of opinion, and by so doing excite jealousy, animosity, and will probably do away with any desire at all to go to the Conciliation Board. But, under any circumstances, the honourable gentleman shows a desire to regard with very great consideration the views of the em- ployés, which is very much in opposition to the tenor of remarks which he made during the course of his speech, which I should say- and I dare say other honourable members would think so too-were aimed at advocating a change in the Act in such a direction that the Conciliation Boards would be ignored, and therefore the employers could by this means have an oppor- tunity of showing animosities. And in the same https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 way, it might be said in other cases the em- ployés might use it, but the honourable gentle- man's argument was entirely in the direction I have stated. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Not a bit of it. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I con- cluded so, anyhow ; I may be mistaken, but that is my impression. Now, Sir, there was another gentleman who also spoke on the Bill- the Hon. Mr. Scotland. I am sorry to see he is absent, and I do not like to say anything that in the slightest degree might be con- sidered, if he were present, offensive to him, and so I will endeavour to couch my language in such a way as to avoid a thing I should be very disinclined to do. I think the honourable member, as most members well know, has been in the constant habit of speaking-I will not say offensively-in direct opposition to all classes of labour legislation. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I hope the honourable gentleman will not jump to con- clusions; I might extend my remarks and amplify them ; and in proof of that, he arrived at a climax to-night when he said, "Thank Goodness, I am not an employer of labour." And he regarded the matter in this way : that the sooner we had a strike and got all these disputes over the better. I think those are almost verbally his words. Now, I do not think that any one in this Council has said anything more in the direction of causing a Hon. Mr. Jenkinson between the two classes than that observa- tion. I do not think anything like that has been said by honourable gentlemen who have spoken against the Bill. I did not, and I do not think any one else has. I think it is a pity to hear any honourable gentleman say that it would be a good thing to have a strike and get done with the mattter ; because all the evidence of the past has shown that it means disaster, loss, and trouble to all concerned- not only to the employés, but to the employers and community at large. Now, Sir, I come to the remarks made since the amendment that has been proposed to the third reading, and I will now offer a few observations on what the Hon. Mr. Jennings has said. That honourable gentleman referred to the dangerous position that this colony was in by reason of the present outside competition by the American people in the shape of consignments of goods to this colony, and that they were underselling us ; which, of course, means, in a few words, violent opposition-an opposition which is intended to undermine our industrial system and organization. Well now, the honourable gentleman cannot have given proper considera- tion to that matter, because if he had he would have seen it is not a question of our legislation. but one dependent on the absolute and de- clared policy of the American nation to carry on their industrial system by charging exces- sive rates to their own people for home con- sumption to enable them to have a surplus, which, if it produces a price just over the cost of actual labour, will be a profit to them. because there is but little more fixed expense to them in carrying on their manufacturing operations on a large than on a small scale. It is their policy to ship away their surplus to any point they possibly can in order to get a market, and undermine that market so as to drive out the home trade and get their goods in permanently, and then establish a footing at a fair price. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is what the honour- able gentleman said. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Exactly. He may have said it ; but he did not explain the object and meaning of the adopted and uni- versal policy. How are they trying to under- mine the industrial position in Great Britain ? In this way : They are buying up steamers, and they have got now a large trust in command of an enormous capital to buy up the tobacco trade. and they are prepared to lose a million or two in order to get hold of the business of manu- facturing tobacco in Great Britain, and then to control the trade. That is their policy there. As to their policy here, it is not worth while to buy our steamers and set up factories, because. by reason of that large over-production I have explained, they have a large surplus, and they can ship that surplus here on a cheaper basis than they could supply it by operating their machinery in the colony. Well, it is the duty of this colony to provide for that ; not to throw up the sponge and try to transfer all the onus of making our country strong and rich by 