honourable member told the House that he was a "little New-Zealander." Well, I tell him that the House believes that, and I believe the country also believes that he is a little New- Zealander. I am not alluding to the honour- able member's stature, because that would be out of place, but I believe that in every sense of the term he is a little New-Zealander. This ques- tion is one of great importance. The House and the country has indorsed the extension of our boundaries so as to include several Pacific islands. We requested the Imperial Govern- ment to pass an Order in Council. They did so. We were enthusiastic. I say that we knew what we were doing, and I say we were follow. ing the policy which this House and the people of New Zealand have urged for the last thirty years. It is true that we have not got all that we wished years ago, and I still wish we had then attained our object. It is quite true that we have lost Samoa and Hawaii, but that is no reason why these other islands should also be lost. That is no reason why we should not pursue the policy laid down by Sir George Grey. And when I hear the name of Mr. Coleman Phillips intruded into this question, I simply say that he did nothing more than this : he wanted to establish a trading com- pany; he wanted to go to England and raise the capital, and to go to Germany to get Ger- man and English capital, and he was to be the general manager of the company. That was his scheme for the Islands. Perhaps I may give the history of this matter. The honour- able member wanted to make out that Mr. Coleman Phillips had been neglected in this matter, because his name had never been mentioned. I say that a grave injustice has been done to Sir Julius Vogel. I hold in my hand particulars with respect to the proposed trading company-Appendix to Journals, 1884, A .- 4, pages 80 to 83 :- " Governor the Right Hon. Sir J. Fergusson to the Right Hon. the Earl of Kimberley. " Government House, Wellington, New Zealand, 11th March, 1874. "MY LORD, -I have the honour to inform you that a joint-stock company is in course of formation in New Zealand, for the purpose of engaging largely in trade with the islanders of the Pacific Ocean, which my Advisers propose to assist by a guarantee, by the Government of New Zealand, of interest at the rate of 5 per cent. upon its share capital, retaining certain power of control over its operations. "2. This scheme was at first devised by a private individual, who contemplated an at- tempt to form a company in England and Germany. He communicated it to the Pre- mier, the Hon. Mr. Vogel, C.M.G., who deemed it to be one which New Zealand should not only encourage, but adopt and control, in con- sideration of the advantages which would accrue to her through a reciprocal trade with the Islands, and possibly by becoming, at a future time, the centre of their government." VOL. CXIX .- 44. arranging for the establishment of a bank in Fiji, addressed to me a communication in which he suggested the establishment of a company which, like the East India Company, should endeavour politically and commercially to gain ascendency in the Pacific Islands. I was much struck with the idea ; but, when Mr. Philips asked me if I would advise him to go Home to endeavour to float the company, I felt that he would have great difficulty in raising the capital. It then occurred to me, from the New Zealand point of view, from which I felt bound to look at it, that Mr. Phillips's project, supposing it matured, might or might not be worked in a manner calculated to be of much benefit to New Zealand." I say that Mr. Coleman Phillips was not patriotic, and we are not indebted to him very much He only brought this scheme forward with the view of raising capital at Home and working the business in the in- terests of those capitalists. I have the com- plete scheme here, and from first to last there is nothing national or patriotic in it. It is purely a selfish scheme for exploiting the people at Home and the people of Germany ; and I want to know where New Zealand would come in under such a scheme as that. Pro- bably that is the reason why this Parliament did not see its way at any time to reward Mr. Coleman Phillips for the services he claimed he had rendered, simply because he had pro- pounded this scheme this private company- with the view of exploiting the Islands. Now, what did Sir Julius Vogel say? Writing to His Excellency, in a sub-enclosure, page 83, ho says : - "1. The unsettled state of the South Sea Islands, especially the uncertainty which hangs over their future, is calculated to cause con- siderable uneasiness to the neighbouring colo- nies. "2. Intimately identified as the future of these colonies will be with the Imperial coun- try, of which I am of opinion it is their ambi- tion to remain dependencies, they cannot re- gard without anxiety the disposition evinced by some foreign nations to establish a footing in their neighbourhood amongst the islands of the South Pacific. "3. In New Zealand there is a strong feeling that the geographical position of the colony, the prevailing winds, the shipping facilities, and other causes, ought to enable its inhabitants to develop large commercial relations with the Islands. "4. The conditions to be met appear to be,- "(a.) To prevent, by anticipatory action, the establishment of European communi- ties with lawless tendencies, such as have been displayed in Fiji. " (b.) To develop the self. governing aptitudes of the Polynesian natives. " (c.) To encourage them to labour, and to realise the advantages which labour confers. 