Act caused an increase in the number of cases, but it was about time some of them were cleared off. It appeared to him that the hear- ing cf disputes lasted too long, owing to the duplication of evidence and too many em- ployers being cited. Some one had to stop what was going on. He had no hesitation in saying that they did not want everlasting in- dustrial war, and, that being so, he wanted, as far as possible, to bring about peace." The final quotation I make from this speech of the Premier to the Wellington unionists is as follows : - "The law was a good law, but of late it had been brought into disrepute, and great care must be taken or they would have a revulsion of public opinion." That revulsion has taken place, and it was created by the speeches of the Premier, who, in the pointed terms which I have just quoted, described the incapacity, selfishness, sordidness, and greed of the Wellington Board, which he evidently had in his mind 9.0. all through the discussion with that deputation. Then, after setting this flame going, and fanning discontent in the coun- try, can any one understand how the right honourable gentleman can in this House make the speech he did in favour of the Boards of Conciliation ? It is merely another instance of what we all know. After the Premier has taken a stand there are various deputations up the backstairs. The omnipotent labour party of Wellington approach him and tell him what dreadful things are going to happen unless https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 he moderates his tone, and the result is he comes to the House and delivers a speech on the lines he has used to-night. Now, with re- gard to the general amendment that has been made, I think the position has been clearly stated by the honourable member for Palmers- ton. As he said, neither the employers nor the workers are now compelled to go before the Board of Conciliation. All they have to do is to stay away, and an ex parte award is then made in the ordinary course by the Board of Conciliation. When they appear before the Court the whole dispute is gone into thoroughly. That being the case, what possible harm can there be in the amendment moved by the member for Wanganui, which provides that, instead of going through this farcical pro- ceeding of staying away, either party to the dispute can lift it right over the head of the Board of Conciliation to the Court of Arbi- tration, and there have the matter decisively settled ? It appears to me there is some under- current in the Premier's mind leading to the speech he has delivered this evening. I can only suppose that the honourable gentleman thinks the speeches he delivered in the House and to these deputations two or three months ago have gone too far, and he is now trying to put the brake on. But I do not think he will be able to put the brake on until this new method which has been passed by both Houses of the Legislature has had a fair trial. For my own part, I believe there are some employers who would prefer to go to the Board of Con- sensible and competent Board the dispute may be settled in its initial stage. In Christchurch we have a Board which, on the whole, acts fairly, and which has secured the confidence of the workers and employers. In connection with some disputes there has been an inclina- tion on the part of the employers to have the matter settled by the Court, but that, I believe, has only been in cases where the matter in dis- pute was somewhat of a colonial character, and they preferred to have an award made that would be as far as possible applicable to the entire colony. What about the Auckland Board of Con- ciliation ? Has anybody made charges against that ? What about the Dunedin Board of Con- ciliation, which, I believe, has the reputation of being the best Board in the colony ? Have there been any complaints regarding that? Not at all. Those Boards conduct their busi- ness in a proper and businesslike way ; but what has happened in Wellington has opened the eyes of Parliament and of the colony to what is possible, and, having learnt what can be done under the labour laws, Parliament has given to the employers the right to say whether they will or will not lift the dispute over the heads of the Conciliation Board. Whenever I go among the employers of the City of Wel- lington I hear nothing but contempt for the Wellington Conciliation Board. I believe it has been stated that that Board never sat more than four hours a day, and it was no uncommon thing for them to cite persons to appear at half-past ten in the morning for the hearing of a case, and for members of the Board to stroll in leisurely at eleven. Can it be wondered, in view of what I have quoted from the speeches of the Premier, that Parlia. ment should say, " We are not going to allow any more of this state of things." I do not want to discuss any more of the amendments made by the Legislative Council, and I would not have risen but that I wanted to put in Hansard that the man who said the Concilia- tion Boards were riding the thing to death was the Premier, and that he said it on two separate and distinct occasions while this Parliament has been sitting; and, further, that it was the speeches of the Premier which fanned the feeling of discontent to such a degree that honourable members took the de- termination that they would try and invent some method by which appeals to the Welling- ton Board of Conciliation might be avoided. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- Sir, I wish to say that, as one of those who opposed the amendment of the honourable member for Wanganui, I am to-day of the same opinion as I was then. I believe the House made a mis- take, and, if they had had more time to deal with the question, I doubt very much whether that amendment would have gone on the statute-book. What does it all amount to ? According to the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton and the speech of the honourable member for Palmerston, a great principle, which has been one of the policy measures of this party, is to be sacrificed simply to get at one Board in the colony. That 