was futile to attack individual salaries in the manner which was now proposed. If the sup- porters of the Government were not satisfied with the estimates, why did they not meet in caucus-as was done in 1888, when they demanded that £50,000 be taken off, and it was done-and compel the Government to reduce their estimates or tell them that they no longer had their confidence ? That was the constitu- tional position. It was not only unfair, but futile, to proceed in the manner now suggested. What would result would probably be that per- haps a salary of a man was reduced who should have been the last one on the estimates to have his salary attacked; and then the members would go home, satisfied that they had done something, and allow other men and much larger salaries to go through unchallenged. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the proposal was not to reduce a salary, but to prevent the increase of the larger salaries on the estimates. The constitutional position, as defined by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), had been altered by the fact that there were now no parties in the House, and it was impossible for any set of members to say that they alone were the supporters of the Government. Every member supported the Government-when they were right-and conscientious members opposed them when they were wrong. It seemed to him far better to make representations to the Minis- ters in the House and before the public rather than to endeavor to do so by caucus, as sug- gested. The point was that certain members of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the House considered that this was the wrong time to increase the salaries of any officers in the public service who were already getting large salaries. He would like to know whether http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero this officer had received any bonus under the vote for services rendered in connection with the despatch of Contingents. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, Not that he was aware of. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) thought the attack upon this officer was unfair. If they looked at the estimates they would find the head of this department had to do with an expenditure of nearly $92,000, and, that being the case, he surely ought to be worth a salary of £600 a year. For his part he was not one of those who favoured cutting down the salaries of officials. What he complained of was that there were more officials than there ought to be. He thought there should be fewer, and that they should be well paid. The Secretary of this department did not occupy a popular position. He was generally called upon to act when some person was doing wrong, and it was his duty to endeavour to put that wrong right ; and if he had incurred the displeasure of any of the members it was probably because he had been over zealous in the discharge of his duty. The officer in question was, in his . opinion, courteous and obliging, and did his work as pleasantly and, at the same time, as efficiently as possible. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) objected to the way these estimates had been prepared. £57,000. That was, they were asked to pass the whole of the department in one vote, with the exception of miscellaneous services. He hoped that in future the vote would be divided into reasonable amounts, so as to facilitate discus- sion. He did not think it necessary that this officer's salary should be raised by £50. He had only been in the public service seven or eight years, and other officers in a similar posi- tion had to be in the public service for twenty years before they reached the salary he re- ceived. He had evidently been pushed along. Any increase that could be given in the vote for the department should go in the direction of increasing the efficiency of the department. The Biologist, who was one of the most zealous officers in the service, and did very valuable work, was only receiving $300, and there was no proposal to give him an increase. He would like to know from the Minister how much was received from the local bodies for the services of the Government Veterinary Sur- geons. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) did not understand why members should be attacking this officer or the increase of his salary. This department was doing an immense amount of good for the settlers of the country, and it required on the part of the Secretary not only special fitness, but he had to be everlastingly on the move. Then, the altered condition of the times must be borne in mind. There was scarcely a member of the House who would be content now with the salary or the income he was getting five or six years ago. This in- crease of $50 was very carefully considered in Cabinet, and it was given because every member of the Ministry believed it was well earned and that the officer in question was doing good work. The Agricultural Department had been of immense value to the country, and it re- quired from the Secretary close attention both before and after hours. He could assure mem- bers the Government would not have given the increase unless it had been fully earned. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the estimates up to the present moment had not been reduced by one shilling, and after all the discussion that took place on them they would not be reduced by one shilling. Then why discuss them ? He had heard members say this department was in a horrible condition. If so, why did not those members make good that statement ? Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said, The other day there was a meeting of the Masterton County Council, at which a letter was re- ceived from Mr. Ritchie stating that there had been another thistle put into the Second Sche- dule of the Bill-namely, the Scotch thistle, and they were ordered to destroy this weed. Now the members of that body were all practi- cal farmers, and they were indignant at this notice being sent to them, because, as every one knew, the ordinary Scotch thistle was not a menace to the farmers at all; and to ask the farmers of any district to destroy it was to ask them to do that which was outrageous. Then, 