of the accident. So far as the evidence went, it showed that the department had done every- thing that was possible, and they were not to blame; that it was impossible to pull up the train, and that the parties who were driving the sheep had not used the judgment they should have done under the circumstances. They certainly should have sent one of the boys up the hill so that he would be able to report if a train was approaching before attempting to cross the line ; or they should have taken the sheep over the railway in small lots instead of, as it appeared they did, getting the whole of the sheep crowded across the railway. That accounted in a great measure for the accident. He had great sympathy for the unfortunate farmer who suffered this serious loss, but he thought if judgment had been used by the drovers this accident would not have taken place. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said there was just one remark he would like to make. The Minister for Railways had spoken as if the railways alone should be considered in con- nection with these matters. The argument the Minister had taken up was that people ought to be on the lookout all the time for extra- ordinary as well as for ordinary trains. Now, there was another point of view, which was that these roads were for the locomotion of cattle, sheep, and general traffic, and, therefore, the farmers had the right to take their sheep and cattle along. It was not of necessity their business to take extraordinary means to look https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 out as to when trains were coming, especially if they were not to be expected and were outside the time-table. In this particular case it was admitted, he believed, on both sides, that the ballast train came round a curve, and that the view of the engine-driver was only 150 yards to the crossing. Therefore it must be that the view of the men driving the sheep was only 150 yards along the line, and no men driving the sheep would expect at that time to find an engine and ballast train coming along. He had risen for the purpose of remarking that this matter would, of course, come before the Government for settlement, and he thought, under the circumstances, without going into details, the Government might be generous enough to admit that there was no culpable negligence on the part of the men who were driving the sheep, as they could only only see 150 yards along the line, and therefore the Go- vernment might, in the special circumstances, treat the claimant generously, and pay a part of the damage that had been done. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said it was as much the duty of engine-drivers to look ahead as the person in charge of the stock. If it were pos- sible to get on more speed at a crossing it was always done. The drivers, so far as he could see, never attempted to slow down, no matter whether it was a ballast train or not. If it took twenty minutes to take sheep over a crossing it was the fault of the crossing. They were fre- quently so badly kept that it was almost impos- sible to get across them. He thought that the Mr. McGuire wanted to get compensation, should not refer the report back ; because, if the Committee reported against that, that was the very reason why the Government would pay it ; whereas if a Committee presented a favourable report and recommended that a sum should be paid, the petitioner would never get it. Sir J. G. WARD said he had been just in- formed that the gate on the opposite side of this crossing was left closed ; and if that were so the sheep could not get in. The drovers should surely have seen that the gates were . open. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) was sorry to hear reflections cast on engine-drivers in the Govern- ment service. Engine-driving, he knew from travelling on engines, was not such easy work, and it was by no means easy to stop an engine every few yards. If any class in the community earned their money under difficulties it was engine-drivers. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) said he was a member of the Railway Committee, but as he had to attend another Committee on this par- ticular occasion he was not present when this matter was being discussed. He was astonished to hear the remarks made by some members of the House that afternoon, more especially by the honourable member for Waikato. He understood that honourable member to say that some man had his cows killed when they were trespassing on the line. Well, it served him jolly well right if he did. What about the travelling public? Were they not to be con- sidered ? When members talked of slowing down at every crossing, they must remember that the trains had to be run to time, and men had to be kept at work to keep the line open. In this particular case, it seemed to him there must have been some gross neglect on the part of this man who was petitioning if he could not get a thousand sheep across the line in safety. It was manifestly unfair both to the drivers and the Railway Committee to ask that this matter should be referred back. He believed they had done ample justice to this case, as they had done to every other. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said the last speaker evidently had only heard a part of what he said. He had explained, in the first place. that the reason these cows were destroyed was owing to the damage by fire caused by a railway-engine, which destroyed the farmer's fence. The cows got out on the line in consequence, they were killed by the engine, and the man was fined. He thought the honourable member for Geral- dine would admit that that was hardly fair or just. Mr. FLATMAN might say he was very glad he did not hear what the honourable gentleman did say, otherwise he would have gone for him much harder than he did. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) would like to add a few words to those uttered by honourable members who had defended the engine-drivers. It was within his knowledge that, taking them all through, these men were a most careful, capable, 