female on list from $29 to $40, $116 to £142, $90 to $114. When we come to the total in- creases of the allowances to provincial districts we find that in Taranaki the increases given to female teachers bring the total from $1,109 to $2.240. That is more than 100 per cent., and surely it cannot be said therefore, that the female teachers have not had some consideration. Taking the total of the vote for that provincial district it has increased from £8,174 to #11,406. Reference was made by the member for Lyttel- ton to the payment of salaries to schools in Queensland, the average being $107. Of course one cannot say how that will pan out without the details; but I find from the New Zealand Journal of Education that the salaries paid in this colony, as contrasted with the salaries paid in the several Australian States for schools of twenty and under, are, it says,- Average Salary. Attendance. Queensland. . M 90 12 to 20 F 70 .. New South Wales 68 12 to 15 . 15 to 18 80 .. 18 to 20 91 . . 72 South Australia 12 to 15 66 to 78 to 87 15 to 18 90 to 96 18 to 20 New Zealand 12 to 20 70 to 100 I think, considering all things, our district is not so much behind the adjacent colonies. It is not my intention to-night to enter largely upon https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the scope of the question, and I have risen rather with a view, if possible, of throwing some light on questions raised. I sympathize with my co-members representing country districts in their efforts to have their teachers given the very highest remuneration possible; and I be- lieve, myself, that, unless New Zealand gives to its teachers the very best conditions, New Zea- land will not be able to hold its own in the race of competition of the world. We are a small country competing against enormous disadvan- tages, and competing against countries with facilities of trade and other privileges we do not possess ; and if the people of this country are to hold their own we must have the highest class of teachers possible, reasonably paid, in order to instruct our youths, that they may devote themselves to the development of the natural endowments of this country, and pro- duce in the most efficient manner. And I, personally, will hail with delight the announce- ment next year, and, if possible, even now, of the Premier that he is able to give effect to the recommended Scale 2. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- The question of the Public School Teachers' Salaries Bill is a most interesting one ; hence so many members speaking on the question this evening. I do not approach the question in a factious spirit, but rather in a friendly manner. The object of the Bill, stated in the title, is to remove the existing anomalies and inequalities in the staffing of public-schools and in the salaries paid to public-school teachers. That is a very good object indeed, Sir ; but I venture to think Mr. T Mackenzie consideration, within the next two years there 1 will be found to arise a crop of anomalies and inequalities equal to, if not more than, those that exist under the present Act. The Premier, in his opening remarks, stated that the object of the Bill was to reduce chaos to order. That is no doubt a very good object, and I sincerely hope it will be attained. Sir, credit is due to the compilers of the Education Act of 1877, and the country is indebted to them for the intelligence, wisdom, and foresight they displayed in compiling that Act. Credit is due to the Hon. Mr. C. C. Bowen. That gentleman is looked upon throughout the length and breadth of the colony by authorities on education as the father of the Education Act; and an Act that has stood so well for twenty-four years must have been carefully thought out. I do not look upon that Act, however, as a fetish. I believe that the intel- ligence and altered conditions of the people de- CH mand some modification in that Act, and I . sincerely hope that this Bill will result in an improvement in our education system. I can- not help thinking that, while I give credit to the Commission for the amount of useful in- formation they obtained during the inquiry, the Commission might have been differently constituted. For instance, in the first place I notice that the two school-teachers on the Commission only held D certificates. In the classification - list of public teachers of the colony there are nine ranks, five grades, and five classes in each grade. The two teachers on the Commission are in the fourth rank. Sir, it appears to me that in setting up a Commission it is the duty of the pro- moters of that Commission to select the very best talent at their command. Why, then, were not some of our public teachers selected from the first, second, or third ranks ? In rank 1 there are sixteen male teachers, in rank 2 there are ninety-four teachers, and in 1 rank 3 there are 123 teachers; so that the Minister of Education had no less than 243 teachers holding a much higher certificate and more highly qualified than the two teachers on the Commission. I do not say this disparag- ingly of the two teachers on the Commission- no doubt they are excellent men in their way ; but in forming a Commission of this nature the Minister of Education should have availed himself of the highest talent and qualification within the teaching profession. I concur with members who have spoken in their contention that the women teachers of the colony, who represent 60 per cent. of the teachers employed in our primary schools, should have been re- presented on the Commission. Two women teachers ought to have been on the Commis- sion. There are four female teachers in rank 1, nine teachers in rank 2, and fifteen teachers in rank 3. So there were twenty - eight women teachers of high qualifications to select from if the promoters of the Com- mission had desired to do so, and that would have been only fair to the women teachers of the colony. If two women teachers 