man did not think the Government should reimburse the Council the £50 expenditure. Mr. DUNCAN said, If this was a new road which had been taken in hand by the Govern- ment, it should be properly cleaned up by the Government before it was finally handed over. # CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT SUPER- ANNUATION. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Commissioner of Customs, Whether he will con- sider the advisability of introducing a Bill deal- ing with the superannuation of the officers of the Customs Department on the same lines as the one which is being introduced in the in- terest of the officers of other Government de- partments ? He might say that the officers of this department considered they should be treated on the same basis as it was proposed to treat those in the other departments of the Government service, on the principle that what was good for Peter was good for Paul. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) said that all the officers of the Customs Department who joined the service previous to the year 1871 were provided for by pension, while those who joined between 1871 and 1894 had no right to a pension at all, but if their services were dispensed with received a retiring-allowance. Those who joined the service after the year 1894 had a reduction made from their salaries to provide for their insurance policy, and also for annuities when they retired at sixty-five. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The Government had not received any pressing reasons for dealing with this matter this session, but the Government had had under considera- tion the advisability of adopting some scheme whereby all those officers in the service who were not provided for by Act should come under one general scheme. TRADE WITH SOUTH AFRICA. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, If they will advise Parliament of the terms entered into between them and the shipping companies regarding the despatch of steamers to South Africa ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) pre- sumed by this question the honourable member meant an arrangement in connection with the steamers owned by the three shipping com- panies who had been alternately calling at South Africa en route to England. There had been no fixed arrangement between the steamers of these companies and the Government-that was, no agreement of any kind existed. The Government was advised it was their intention to put on one each of the three companies' steamers and despatch them alternately to South Africa from various ports of the colony ; but there was nothing in the shape of subsidy or, as he said, agreement of any kind existing between them and the Government. STEAM SERVICE BETWEEN NEW ZEA- LAND AND SOUTH AFRICA. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, Whether they are aware that no to South Africa, and that merchants, after en- tering into contracts for the shipment of pro- duce, are at the last moment notified that the vessels are taken off ; and, if so, will they (the Government), at an early date, endeavour to establish an actual regular service between this colony and South Africa ? This was a very im- portant matter to the producers and agents in this country. They understood, of course, that something like a regular service would be es- tablished between this colony and South Africa. As a matter of fact, we were really lagging behind in so far as concerned established com- munication with South Africa. Australia had got very much ahead of us, and was shipping great cargoes of produce there, and he thought the time had quite arrived when a steam service should be established upon which re- liance could be placed by shippers. Now, the steamer " Indradivi " was on the berth here some little time ago for South Africa. Although shippers were approached by agents, and urged to find cargo, and they entered into contracts with the factories for the deliver- ing of produce to be placed on board that vessel, yet, without any other notice, after they had entered into these contracts, they were quietly notified that the ship was taken off the berth. This was not fair business. If a service was to be established it must be regu- lar and reliable, and that, of course, would entail expenditure. The Government must place a sum on the estimates to recoup the shipping companies if there was not sufficient trade coming forward. What had been done in connection with the subsidising of vessels else- where for the purpose of opening up trade relations was this : As at first there was not sufficient cargo to pay the boat, they computed the cost of the voyage to the shipping company and paid any difference there might be between that cost and what the company received in freights. For instance, let them take the cost of a voyage to South Africa to be £5,000. If the cargo came to £5,000 in value, then the Government paid no bonus, but they undertook to make good to the shipping company the difference between the amount which the ship- ping company obtained from the shipments and what they estimated to be the value of the voyage; and he thought if the Government could see its way to do something of that sort a more regular trade would be the result, and our shippers would know exactly where they where. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways). agreed with the honourable member as to the importance of the matter, and he was also aware of the unsatisfactory nature . of the attempt which had been made by the three shipping companies to provide for a suitable service between this colony and South Africa by each of them laying on a steamer alternately. He had no doubt that they had done their best, but shippers in New Zealand were not satisfied at all. There had been several complaints re- ceived by the Government from the shippers in connection with this matter, and they 