was uttering a warning note that we ought to be careful as to the limits to which we should go in regard to this matter. Surely a man who has the courage to utter that warning note is a better friend to the labouring man than the one who always cries "Peace, peace, where there is no peace," and leads people to live in a fool's paradise. I do not consider, nor do I think the honourable member for Riccar- ton intended, his remark should apply to this particular Bill. I am glad to see the form in which this Bill is about to pass this House. There may be some defects, but, as a whole, I think it is a good Bill. There are businesses in the country districts that are subject to the Act-factories-as referred to by the honourable member for Tuapeka, and any one who has a knowledge of what is required to be done in these country so-called factories knows how hard it will be if they are compelled to comply with the terms of the statute. A farmer comes in, for instance, at night-time with a swingle- tree to be mended. Has he to wait until the morning before he can get it done? The far- mer could not wait for that, so the blacksmith lights his fire and does the work at once. Yet by this Act he will break the law if he does so. But, after all, that is merely a side-issue, and I have no doubt that by-and-by the House will do its best to remove these causes of discontent and friction. I rose chiefly, Sir, to say that I was glad to find members having the courage of their opinions, and uttering warning notes https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 when necessary. The member for Riccarton had the courage to do that, and I did not think it becoming in the honourable member for Christchurch City to speak so disparagingly of his colleague from Canterbury. As far as I am concerned, I will support the Bill. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- The honour- able member for Eden, I think unintentionally, was unfair to a section of the Labour Bills Committee, because he stated-and I now give him an opportunity of setting himself right- that a section of the Labour Bills Committee were fair-minded and reasonable- Mr. BOLLARD .- No. Mr. ELL .- That was the impression he con- veved, and I am very glad that he has set him- self right on that point. I may mention that the Labour Bills Committee went through the Bill very carefully, clause by clause ; and, to show how unanimous we were, we had not a single division. That shows how well and reasonably we all worked together. With respect to what the member for the Bay of Islands said, as to town versus country, I am sorry that any member should attempt to raise such a cry in this House, because in doing so he is not only doing harm to the towns, but he is doing harm to the country. I am sorry the honourable member is not in his place, but if he were put to the test to name any legislation which benefited the country and which the town members did not support I am sure he could not do so. The town members have always supported legisla- tion for the benefit of the country, and have Votes which have been put on the estimates for the benefit of the country people have always been cordially supported by the town members, and any proposals to improve the lot of the farmers have always been supported by the town members. For instance, I might men- tion the Agricultural Department, and the Dairy Industry Department : have the town mem- bers opposed them ? They have never opposed any of those departments. They have supported the cost of those departments being placed upon the general taxpayers. I am sorry that the honourable member should have been the only one to raise this discordant note in the debate. To show how fairly the country members on the Labour Bills Committee were prepared to act towards the people who are employed in factories, and who chiefly live in the towns, I may mention that the minimum wage was raised to 5s. a week with their hearty con- currence, and provision was made whereby the annual increase of wages should be 2s. per week for persons up to twenty years of age. I simply mention this to show how fair-minded the re- presentatives of the farming community on the Labour Bills Committee were. Another thing was with regard to making the District Health Officer the final Court of appeal in the event of a dispute between the Factory Inspector and the person putting up a building. Then, with regard to alterations of buildings, it was con- sidered to be unfair-and evidence was brought forward to this effect -to charge the oc- cupier, and make him responsible for the whole cost of altering the. factory. It was felt that the landlord should be the man who should bear that cost. Another im- portant alteration was made bringing premises in the immediate neighbourhood of a factory under inspection, for the benefit of those em- ployed in the neighbourhood of premises that might perhaps be insanitary. These are simply one or two points-and very important altera- tions-which were effected when the Bill was before the Labour Bills Committee. If honour- able members will compare the Bill as it came down to the House with the Bill as it left the Labour Bills Committee they will be able to judge of the enormous amount of work the Committee got through during the time they had the Bill under consideration. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- Sir, I think that very few who contrast the condition of our factories to-day with their condition a few years ago will deny that our labour legislation has been, on the whole, a pronounced success. I believe that, if tested, that would be the verdict of the country to-morrow. It has undoubtedly improved the circumstances of the worker, not merely in the town, but the condition of the unskilled labourer in the country. It has pro- tected him so that he now runs very little risk of losing the price of his labour. In the towns particularly our factory legislation has assisted a class that required protection very much. I refer to the women, and, more especially, to the young girls employed in the factories. I think our factory legislation has been extremely 