between the Islands and New Zealand, and rudely and indiscriminately to thrust upon the islanders a mass of complicated laws, will un- doubtedly lead to trouble, and the only thing we can do is to hope that, in the future, who- ever may be Premier may be possessed of suf- ficient wisdom to understand that. There must be some form of government, though the Bill itself is open to a very considerable amount of criticism with regard to the form it imposes on the people. As my name has been drawn into the discussion, I may as well say I believe the Premier has done right in extending the boun- daries of this colony to include the Islands, although he has not done it in the best possible way. What I want to call attention to is this : that the House has not been furnished with the information on the subject which it ought to have been furnished with. When, last year, the proposal was made to annex the Cook Group, the House was amused with a repub- lication of stuff from twenty-five to thirty years old copied from reports published in 1874, but compiled before that date. That was all that was available at the time in a handy form ; whereas scattered through the blue-books there is a mass of information, which might have been collected by a person of ordinary intelligence, and had it been published in a convenient form it would have been more valuable than the old material which was presented to us last session. But, as the Premier or the departments did not seem to consider this matter as coming within their own sphere, I have been compelled, during the last two sessions, to toil painfully through all the despatches in the papers marked " A," which include the correspondence with the Colonial Secretary in the Home-country re- garding the Islands of the Pacific ; and I find that some of the statements which have been made in the House with regard to the Islands -and especially to their population-are not borne out by the published figures which are available to the House. If the Premier is in possession of later information it is his duty to lay it before us, but I will put the House at the present time in possession of the information which has been collected from all the papers (legislative and political) from the year 1892 down to and including the present year. The population of the Cook Islands is undoubtedly decreasing. That is absolutely proved by a comparison of figures. For years we were given to understand that Rarotonga had a population, some reports said, of 3,000, some said 4,000, but if honourable members will look at A .- 3, 1896, they will find on page 4 a partial census of the Cook group, forwarded to the Colonial Government by Mr. Moss, Resident Agent, in which the population of Rarotonga is ascertained by actual census to be 2,454. If honourable gentlemen will look at A .- 3, 1900, page 25-I am compelled to be very detailed and precise in this matter in order to avoid contradictlon later on -they will find statistics taken of the popu- lation of the Island of Aitutaki covering four- teen years, which shows it had a population of Mr. Tanner had been previously stated at 1,400. If they will look at A .- 4, 1898, page 7, they will find there a census of Atiu, showing the population to be 826. There is a statement, also, in the census return to the effect that it had been im- possible to carry out the census of the Island of Mangaia, which seems to be an unruly mem- ber of the group, and its people not always in accord with the rest of the islanders. But a statement has been furnished showing the rates of mortality for that and the other islands, but not of the population, because no census had been taken. Assuming that the rates of births and deaths at these islands were the same as in other islands of the group, the population of Mangaia would be under three thousand, and the population of Mauke and Mitiaro, on the same basis, would be about one thousand more. The estimate for Mangaia is ample, for, in a letter by Mr. Moss, to be found on page 32 of A .- 3, 1898, he speaks of Mangaia as "having little more than two thousand all told." Takutea was uninhabited ; and as for the other two islands-Manuae and Te Anotu- which did not amount to much, they are occa- sionally visited by a fishing party or by people in search of whatever treasure-drift may be thrown on the reefs or coasts. Here I may remark that many honourable members seem to be under the impression that all the islands which were annexed belonged to the Cook Group, whereas there are other islands that were annexed divided by great stretches of ocean from the Cook Group. Several degrees to the north of them lie a few islands called Manihiki or Humphrey, Rakaanga or Reir- son, and Tongarewa, otherwise Fararauga or Penrhyn-pearl-shell islands of some import- ance. The population of these islands has somewhat increased during the last twenty years, but as the numbers are very small they affect the total to a very inappreciable Manahiki has a population of 560, extent. Rakaanga 370, and Penrhyn 466, and these figures are available to honourable members. In A .- 1, 1901, pages 31, 32, and 33, they will find the details given. There is also Pukapuka or Danger Island, which the Admiralty reports having 377 inhabitants in 1880, and another small island known as Nassau, which is re- ported to have had three inhabitants in 1880. I think we can treat that as a negligeable quantite. The Island of Avarau or Palmerston had thirty-two inhabitants ten years ago, ac- cording to the paper A .- 2, of 1892, page 11, Suwarrow is now possibly uninhabited, but it had eleven persons resident in 1888. With regard to the decrease of the population, it is most strikingly exemplified in the case of the island called Niue or Savage Island, which lies several hundred miles to the westward of the Cook Group. According to the Admiralty pub- lication lying before me, here is a statement that "the population in December, 1872, thirty years ago, was 5,124, and it is increasing. The number of females is in excess of that of the males." Well, that statement that the population was increasing appears to have been 