and Mckay-work in the section visited (north side). The air was smoky and hot at the face, being almost stagnant. " There was so little air current in the intake to this district (stone drive) that I could not obtain a record of movement on my anemome- ter. "The air at the main intake (old mine- mouth) measured 6,750 cubic feet per minute, an average of 143 cubic feet per minute for each of the forty - five men and two horses underground. This would be an adequate quantity under ordinary circumstances if con- ducted to the working faces, but in this mine the air intake traverses the old mine-workings for some 9 chains before the present workings are reached. Naturally there is an exudation of black-damp from the old workings into the intake air. "I mentioned this to Mr. McIntosh in May last year. when he informed me that he was considering the question of sinking a shaft for ventilation and second outlet. This matter now requires immediate attention, a 'creep' on the old mine is causing the intake bottom to heave badly, most of the timber is broken, and the airway throughout its entire length is so low and contracted in area that it cannot be called a travelling-way ( \\e had to go through it bent double, or on hands and knees). A double shift of men should be put on at once to lift and stow bottom, and renew timber where broken. The main engine incline has not been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 receiving proper attention. Several sets of timber knocked out have not been renewed, and the fallen stone from the reef lies where it fell on the travelling-way. "I have written Mr. McIntosh in reference to these matters, and have also required him to remedy the same forthwith. "E. R. GREEN, Inspector of Mines. " Under-Secretary, Mines Department, Wel- lington." " Dunedin, 29th March, 1901. "SIR,-I visited your mine on the 21st instant, while accompanying the Coal-mines Commission, and found that,- "(1.) There was a deficiency in the ventila- tion at the pillar face workings, No. 2 north level, off No. 2 jig, main seam. The air was not conducted to the faces, the stentons were not stopped off, and the air naturally took the nearest route to the return, leaving the working faces unsupplied. The air where Hinks and son and Wilson and Mclellan were working was polluted with black-damp from the waste, the temperature was high, and the men were work- ing under very uncomfortable conditions. " (2.) There was also inadequate ventilation in the new workings which underlie the main seam, and have only recently been opened up. Six men work in the section visited (north side) ; the air was smoky and hot at the face, being almost stagnant. There was so little air current in the intake to this district (stone drive) that I could not obtain a record of move- ment on my anemometer. measured 6,750 cubic feet per minute. This would be an adequate quantity of air under ordinary circumstances, if conducted to the working faces. "In your mine the air intake traverses the old mine workings for some 9 chains before the present workings are reached, and naturally there is an exudation of black-damp from the old workings into the intake air. " I discussed this matter with you in May last year, when you informed me that you were considering the question of sinking a shaft for ventilation and second outlet. This matter now requires immediate attention ; a 'creep' on the old mine is causing the intake bottom to heave badly, most of the timber is broken, and the airway throughout its entire length is so low and contracted in area that it cannot be called a travelling-way (we had to go through it bent double, or on hands and knees). A double shift of men should be put on at once to lift and stow bottom, and renew timber where broken. "The main engine incline has not been re- ceiving proper attention, several sets of timber knocked out have not been renewed, and the fallen stone from the roof lies where it fell on the travelling-way. "I have to require that these matters receive your immediate attention, and be remedied forthwith .- Yours, &c., "E. R. GREEN, Inspector of Mines. "Allan McIntosh, Esq., General Manager Allendale Coal Company, Shag Point." " Dunedin, April 12th, 1901. "SIR,-Re my memo. to you of the 29th ulto. : What has been done by the management to remedy the state of the mine at the time (21st ulto.) ; and what are your proposals as to the arrangements for ventilation and second outlet in the future? Please reply at your earliest convenience .- Yours, &c., "E. R. GREEN, Inspector of Mines. "Allan McIntosh, Esq., General Manager, Allendale Coal Company, Shag Point." "Shag Point, 13th April, 1901. "DEAR SIR,-Ke your memo. of the 29th ulto., I handed same to Mr. Gilianders, mine- manager, and thought that he would have re- plied thereto. However, I may inform you that since you were here four men have been em- ployed in the air-course, enlarging it to 4 ft. by 5 ft. in the clear, and expect to have it com- pleted in about a month from date, when I trust it will be to your satisfaction both for an air-course and second outlet .- Yours, &c., "A. MCINTOSH. "E. R. Green, Esq., Inspector of Mines, Dunedin." Mr. J. ALLEN said that on the 21st Novem- ber, 1900, Inspector Green reported as follows of the Allendale Mine :- "I always fourd the management careful and solicitious for the safety of employés." And then on the 21st November, 1900, he says,- 