vote. there never would be a good Civil Service in this country while the Ministers would re- tain the function of making appointments. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) ap- proved of the suggestion for a Civil Service Board. If only it would relieve the tension on members at the present time it would do a great deal. He was himself a Labour Bureau pure and simple, from morning to night, and he would approve of the introduction of a Civil Service Board if it would save members from the worry and anxiety of receiving in- numerable applicants for positions in the public service. He did not wish to object to his con- stituents coming to him; on the contrary, he was always glad to assist those who had placed him in the honourable position he to-day occupied. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) would support the amendment. He did not question the efficiency of the officer, but they had just passed a salary of £800 for him, and he did not think they should be asked for this extra £50. There was no use of comparing this colony with New South Wales in a matter of this kind ; the latter was larger and more populous, and could afford to pay larger salaries. He did not know exactly what duties attached to the office of Registrar of Consols, but they could not be very onerous. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said the colony might or might not be in a position to pay large salaries of this kind, but where were they going to stop? He would vote for the amend- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ment. Mr. SEDDON said they must take into con- sideration the ability of the colony to pay. In 1986-87 the salary for this same office was £850 a year. The class of work done now and the amount of responsibility as compared with the state of things then was worth a salary of $1.000. There were officers who had not the same responsibility and who had not been so long in the service, and they were drawing £200 and $300 a year more. Seeing that they had already, by a majority of five, practically agreed to the increase of this officer's salary by £50, to take off that increase in another way now would be wrong. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that in 1892, which was five years after the time referred to by the Premier, the salary paid to this officer was £650, so that there had been an increase of $200 in his salary since 1892. He would guarantee there were no other officers in the service who had got an increase of £200 since Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) did not think the arguments of the Premier were con- clusive in this matter. The fact that in 1887 4150 was paid for this office was no reason why they should be paying the same amount now. Their revenue might be greater, but every year the demands were growing. In these estimates almost every officer had his salary increased, and the greatest increases were in the higher salaries. Never before had the estimates been subjected to so close a scrutiny as they had close scrutiny disclosed the fact that, year after year, these high salaries were being increased. And where was it to stop ? . Members knew how difficult it was to get the salaries of the mes- sengers or the lower officials increased, and, in his opinion, these increases ought to work up from the bottom instead of commencing at the top. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item be struck out." AYES, 19. Atkinson Hornsby Symes Bollard Tanner Massey Ell Meredith Thomson, J. W. Gilfedder Monk Tellers. Graham Parata Haselden Russell, G. W. Collins Herries Pirani. Smith, G. J. NOES, 26. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Napier Barclay Fraser, W. Hall O'Meara Bennet Hall-Jones Carncross Seddon Carroll Heke Thompson, R. Colvin Kaihau Ward. Field McGowan Tellers. Fisher Mckenzie, R. Lawry Fowlds McLachlan Wilford. Majority against, 7. Item retained. Vote, £10,869, agreed to. Progress reported. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to one o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 1st October, 1901. Election of Chairman of Committees. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE moved,- (a.) A Chairman of Committees of the whole Council shall be elected at the commencement of each session on the second Wednesday after the meeting of the General Assembly. (b.) The election shall be by ballot. (c.) No member shall vote in any ballot for more than one member. (d.) If any member receives a majority of the votes of those present and voting he shall be declared by the Speaker to be elected. (e.) If no member receives such majority, an- other ballot shall be taken, omitting therefrom the name of the member who received the least number of votes at the preceding ballot ; and this process of balloting shall be repeated until 