be laid on the table. No one knew it better than the honourable member, who also knew this fact, which he was trying to stifle : that he did not want any debate on the question- he did not want anything said about this ques- tion at all. He wanted surreptitiously, and with design beforehand, to have returns laid on the table so that he might use them in his own way. He (Mr. Seddon) had every desire to lay the papers on the table for the purpose of having a debate on them, and, as far as he was concerned, they would go on the table as un- opposed returns. Of course, any question that required to be debated could not be put on the table as an unopposed return. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) wished to make a personal explanation. He accepted the Premier's challenge, and would be glad if the honourable gentleman would set apart a day for the discussion of the papers connected with the troopship "Tagus." As to putting the notices of motion on the Paper to deliberately burke discussion, he might say the notices of motion were not at the present moment on the Order Paper. He had allowed them to go off, so that he might get an opportunity of dis- cussing the subject on another occasion. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, What the honourable member had stated would prove to the House he was not sincere in asking for the What was more, the honourable mem- returns. ber wanted to take credit for forcing the hand of the Government to lay the returns on the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 table of the House. He might tell the honour- able member that he knew that he went to a trooper the other day and asked him to give him some information on the question. He could name the trooper and the place where the meeting took place; and if that was the conduct of the honourable member, and he thought he could get at him (Mr. Seddon) in that way, he was very much mistaken. Mr. J. ALLEN challenged the Premier to name the trooper. Mr. SEDDON .- Lieutenant Ferguson. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I did not go to him. Mr. SEDDON. - You went to the hotel where he was staying, and spoke to him, and asked him for evidence. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- This discussion cannot proceed further. PUBLIC SERVICE : PARTICULARS RE NAMES, ETC. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Premier, Whether there is any objection to the course followed by the Post and Telegraph, Railway, and Education Departments, of publishing particulars giving names, service, and salaries of officers and employés, being adopted in con- nection with the remaining departments of the public service ? The information was desirable in the interests of the officers of the depart- ments. It had been alleged that some of the departments were stuffed with relatives and family connections. That might or might not be the case. In all probability, the public service of the colony was as free from nepotism VOL. CXIX. - 22. Majesty's dominions ; but, if faults existed, he thought that, in the absence of information, there was a great danger of those faults being magnified or exaggerated. Consequently, in the interests of the public service the informa- tion should be given. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this matter had been receiving the attention of the Postmaster- General ; but he might say, as regards the other officers, that they were not classified as the Post and Telegraph Department were classified,. and whether or not this could be done was an open question. He saw, himself, no serious objection to it, and they would consider the matter. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL APPOINT. MENTS. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Premier, Whether, when recommending to His Excel- lency the names of those to fill the vacancies in the Legislative Council, he will take into con- sideration the claims of the Buller and Motueka electorates ? The population of the Buller and Motueka electorates were principally engaged in mining ; and, as the mining industry was not represented in the Legislative Council, he hoped that, when the Right Hon. the Premier was recommending fresh appointments to the Coun- cil, he would give favourable consideration to the claims of this important industry. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it went without saying, of course, that his sympathies were with this industry and those who followed it, and he thought that on the goldfields one found a greater amount of intelligence than in any other part of the colony. All he could say in regard to the question was that, when they came to deal with the vacancies in the Legis- lative Council, certainly the claims, if there were any, of the Buller and Motucka electorates would be taken into consideration. He might say that at the present time he had had. no claims from there. He did not know whether there was any one there who could be spared to go to the Council, but what they would do after the next election he did not know. # DEPARTMENTAL LAND AND BUILDINGS. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Premier, When the return ordered on the 7th September, 1899-that is, "That there be laid before this House a return showing the total value of buildings and land occupied by the following departments- namely, Post and Tele- graph, Customs, Marine, Defence, or by any other department which will, if New Zealand joins the Commonwealth of Australia, be taken over under section 85 of the Commonwealth Bill "-will be laid on the table of the House ? This was a very important return concerning the question of the position of New Zealand if federated. He saw in the report of the Federa- tion Commission that one or two witnesses in Australia had given valuable tables as to the financial position New Zealand would hold if 