proceedings and fair comments thereon ; fifth, publication of any fair report of such proceed- ings ; sixth, fair reports of proceedings in Court. All these six defences bar one are matters for defence at common law to an indictment for libel. The one of those six which is not is the plea of truth and the public benefit, which depends upon Lord Campbell's Act. Well, if the draftsman supposed that Lord Campbell's Act was not in force in New Zealand at all, and that the plea of truth or public benefit would no longer be available in an indict- ment for libel, then he was really putting the law back not to 1893, but fifty years earlier, before Lord Campbell's Act was enacted. Now, if the draftsman had been sent merely to copy out the Queensland Libel Act-the codify- ing law of Queensland, which was adopted in 1889-he would have found the whole matter admirably adjusted, and any layman or journal- ist who would contemplate libelling another or writing severely of another, and any public man who had been so written about, would, if he took that Act home with him, have just about as much knowledge of the libel law of Queensland as if he had consulted a lawyer and got an opinion. That Act I should like to see adopted here or adapted to this colony. Sec- tion 16 of the Queensland Act disposes of what is to a layman the most puzzling question of all-namely, whether the old maxim, "The greater the truth the greater the libel," still applies. Section 16 reads as follows :- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 " It is lawful to publish defamatory matter if the matter is true, and if it is for the public benefit that the publication complained of should be made." That language surely is simple and clear enough, and, even with his accustomed brevity, I should think the draftsman of our Bills would be able to embody that clause in this Bill. We should then have wiped Lord Campbell's Act off the statute-book altogether, so far as this colony is concerned, and we should, with one or two modifications to which I have partly referred, have had the whole criminal law of libel within the corners of this Bill. I think I have now established that the Act has not put the law where it was before 1893. Then, in the second place, I submit it is not desirable the law should go back to where it There are two important was before 1893. amendments in the English Acts of 1881 and 1888. One was referred to by the honour- able member for the Taieri, and, as he stated, was a clause in the Libel Bill he has intro- duced into this House in more sessions than one. It is a clause that compels any man, before he can lay an information for criminal libel, to get the sanction of a Judge. That is an eminently proper provision. There is another alteration in the English Act that it is also desirable should be adopted. At the present time, though the truth may be pleaded to the indictment, it cannot be pleaded before the committing Magistrate ; and, assuming the member for Palmerston used language which was designed to insult- . Mr. PIRANI .- That would be impossible. Mr. ATKINSON .- Well, perhaps it is quite inconceivable ; but if some other journalist who is not so tender as the honourable gentle- man had insulted some person, then, though it was absolutely true and for the public benefit, the Magistrate would be bound to commit him for trial without inquiry into the merits of the case. But in England a pro- vision in the Act of 1881 permits the Magis- trate to make inquiry into the truth and public benefit of such a charge, and therefore prevents a large number of trumpery cases, re- sulting in the committal of a person when the indictment could not be sustained in the Court above. At this stage of the session I think it is not possible to make a workable Bill of the measure, and it seems to me the proper course would be to let it wait. It was eight years before it was found out that the criminal law of libel was affected by the code of 1893, and we might well leave it alone this year, in- stead of putting this miserable, misconceived, botchy Bill on the statute-book. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- Sir, I think it is a great mistake in tactics for the honour- able gentleman in charge of the Bill to bring this measure before a House containing ten or eleven lawyers without first having passed it through the Statutes Revision Committee. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I may point out to the honourable member that a Bill must be read a second time before it can be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee. Mr. BARCLAY .- Yes, Sir, no doubt; but I understand the general practice is that when a Bill is to be referred to a Committee it is read pro forma, and without debate. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Not always. Mr. BARCLAY .- At all events, I think it should be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee before we get into Committee. Some honourable members seem to have doubts as to where the Bill came from, or how it was framed, and that the Government draftsman had something to do with its defects or its deficiencies. Well, as a matter of fact, it seems to me that the Government draftsman had little or nothing to do with the measure. If honourable members will look at the Criminal Code, to be found in the dropped Bills of 1883, which was introduced by Sir Patrick Buckley, they will find this measure there almost word for word. This measure seems by no means perfect. Here, for instance, is a provision-I do not know whether it has been pointed out before, but it is a provision which I certainly do not think should be allowed to be embodied in this measure. Here it says that publishing a libel may be by " showing or delivering it, or causing it to be shown or delivered, with a view to its being read or seen by the person defamed." Now, that means this : that if I am angry with a man, and I write him an angry letter which contains some angry expressions, he may pro- secute me for libel. Well, I apprehend it is not intended that a free expression of opinion 