affairs much in the same way as the Maori Councils are to administer under this Bill. I recognise the machinery is not the same, but the ten grantees were to administer the estate. And what did they do? Did they administer for the benefit of the tribe? Not a bit of it. Everybody knows that, far from that, they sold the lands and put the money into their own pockets in almost every instance, and under this Bill exactly the same thing would happen. Then, again, I have been amused to hear one or two honourable gentlemen- it does not much matter who-but the member for Egmont says, "Can we not have finality ? " I say, No, we have amendments year after year. I wonder does the honourable gentleman realiso what finality is, and what is amending from year to year. If any one will take Curnin's Index of the Statutes he will find there have been many attempts at finality, as the vast number of Acts about Native lands, all of which have become obsolete and have been taken off the statute-book, will show. There are fifty-five of them. We want finality, and it can be obtained. We do not want empiricism, but common-sense, and finality can be secured only by placing the Natives under the same con- ditions as Europeans in connection with their land-tenure, except that we must guard them against the possibility of denuding them- selves of all their property. There is nothing wonderful about it-nothing whatever. The mere fact of impressing upon the Native that he must be an individual man, not a mere https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 fragment of a tribe, and that he must depend upon himself-that he has a duty to himself and his children, is the basis on which all pro- gress must be based-the superstructure will http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero build itself in time. Think of the Natives in the South Island ; you will find lots of them in the occupation of their own farms. I know instances where they are doing good work as farmers and contractors. Are not we in the North Island equally capable as our brothers in the South Island ? Undoubtedly we are. One sees the Natives in possession of good machi- nery-I am sorry to admit it is often neglected when the harvest is over ; but they are capable of administering their affairs in every way. Then, let us aim at placing them in this position. If we do this, in a very short time, within the next few years, the Natives will be firmly established on their own lands and rising in the scale of civi- lisation. There is one other remark I should like to allude to, and that is, "Give this Act a trial." It was given a trial last year, as we know, and the result is absolutely futile. "Give it a trial again this year." I predict the result would be futile. And why do I arrive at that conclusion ? Because in 1886-and here I would say, as regards the honourable gentle- man's eulogy of Mr. Ballance, against whose memory I would not say a single unkind word -his Native policy was, to my mind, based on his desire, first, to acquire funds for the Trea- sury, and subsequently to assist his schemes of land nationalisation. Mr. Ballance passed the Native Lands Administration Act in 1886, VOL. CXIX,-64. which had taken place under it, the return re- ferring to the present Act was, " Proceedings nil." The Native, like the European, if he is to be self-respecting, must manage his own affairs, and if we can only impress on him that he is capable of doing so, and we give him proper facilities, he will rise in the social scale, and, as a race, never be dependent on our charity. Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - I do not know whether I am correct in my interpretation of the speech of the honourable gentleman ; but, if I understood him correctly, he proposes to set apart sufficient land for the maintenance of the Natives, and to allow them, when their titles are settled, to dispose of their surplus land in any way they think fit. Captain RUSSELL .- No, that is not cor- rect. Mr. HOGG. - That I understood to be the scheme he has suggested. I do not think that the honourable gentleman intended 12.0. that the Natives should be prevented from disposing of their lands either by lease or by sale. And if he does not intend to pre- vent them disposing of their land by the sell- ing of their property, then I say he was pro- posing a scheme under which every Native in New Zealand would be able to sacrifice the little bit of land which he has now to depend upon. An Hon. MEMBER .- Nonsense. Mr. HOGG .- Who says " Nonsense "? I do not pretend for a moment, and never have pre- tended to know, a great deal about the subtleties of this Native-land question. What I know is this, that in the past the Natives, by ingenious and often reprehensible devices, have been robbed of their lands, and very little of that fine heritage now remains in their possession. The old methods, by which many Natives have been rendered landless, I believe the Govern- ment are now endeavouring to put an end to. They wish to retain for the Natives the full ad- vantage of the little residue of Native land that is left, and I, for one, would be very sorry to see the Natives of New Zealand deprived of their heritage in the same way as the Europeans in New Zealand have been largely deprived of theirs. The honourable member has paid a very high, but by no means undeserved, compliment to the Natives. He considers they are susceptible of a high education. He has referred to their chivalry, to their courtesy, to their excellent qualities, and he has specified various fine characteristics which undoubtedly the Natives possess. He maintains that, on account of these qualities, they ought to have the oppor- tunity of doing what they think proper with their own property. But, Sir, while it may be argued that the Natives can take very good care of themselves, and I have heard that assertion made again and again, I want to know this : Whether honourable members will contend for a moment that, alongside the European land - grabber and land - shark, the Maori of New Zealand is able to hold his own. I do not think that can be maintained for a 