the principal chiefs of the Island of Niue, at a meeting specially convened to inform them of the proposed change of government proposed by Mr. Seddon, and that they had told him in reply " that they wished to be connected directly with Great Britain, and not with New Zealand or Rarotonga." Did Parliament understand what it was doing ? Mr. Percy Smith's letter showed the haste with which they undertook to deal with these Islands-a step which would be costly to the colony in the future, and would impose a burden upon the people which they did not ask for nor want. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said this showed a part of the price New Zealand had to pay for the annexation of these little islets in the South Pacific. It was now proposed that articles free to New Zealand should be taxed in these Islands at the rate of 10 per cent. if imported from other countries. Now, the Hon. the Postmaster-General made the extraordinary statement that this was being done in view of the tariff drawn up by the Australian Common- wealth. Sir J. G. WARD said he had made no such statement either directly or indirectly. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said he was sitting within a few vards of the honourable gentle- man, and thought he could not have been mis- taken. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able gentleman should accept the Postmaster- General's assertion that he had made no such statement. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL would, of course, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 accept the honourable gentleman's statement. Was it desirable, he asked, for the Parliament of New Zealand to attempt to squeeze from these islanders revenue which it did not obtain from its own inhabitants? It would only lead to trouble amongst the islanders. But, having taken over these Islands, they would have to foot the bill. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) might say, in explanation, that the reference to the Austra- lian tariff was made by himself. He called across the floor that this was a retaliatory mea- sure on the Australian tariff. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked, What did the Minister sav in reply ? Mr. W. FRASER said he did not hear the Minister say anything. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) desired to say that he, for one, would be no party to retaliation on account of the Australian tariff. This was not for that purpose, and the necessity for it arose in Mr. Percy Smith's recommendations. We might reduce the tariff altogether and not bring our tariff into operation at all ; because, it might be, for all that we required there, a pri- mage duty of 1, or 2, or 5 per cent. would be sufficient. At all events, it could not be more than 10 per cent. The people most interested wanted it, and there was not power in the Bill as it was passed to do this, and this was simply giving expression to what they wanted. It could not injure New Zealand ; it was in favour Mr. Fisher. Islands, they would be free there. He might tell honourable gentlemen that it was the Tongan trade that was concerned in the matter. Tonga was the nearest place to Nice. and was within two days' sail, and the traders at Niue complained of the Tongan traders. I: was in the interests of the traders at Niue that this was done, and it would help New Zealand. which was desirable, because probably we might have to pay something towards the cos of governing these Islands. If the Islands were willing to pay their own costs we should no: prevent them from doing so. The House divided on the question, " That the message be referred to the Committee si Ways and Means." AYES, 35. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Seddon Arnold Heke Stevens Bennet Hornsby Steward Buddo Symes Houston Carncross Kaihau Tanner Colvin Laurenson Thompson, R. Duncan Ward Lawry Field McGowan Willis Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Witheford. Gilfedder Millar Teliers. Graham Napier Mills Hall O'Meara Palmer. NOES, 21. Allen, J. Russell. G. W. Lang Lethbridge Atkinson Russell, W. R. Collins Massey Smith, G. J McNab Thomson, J. W. Ell Monk Fisher Teliers. Fraser, W. Pirani Fowlds Hardy Rhodes Herries. Hutcheson Majority for, 14. Motion agreed to. IN COMMITTEE. On the question, That the Committee ag ?? with the first resolution, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) called atten- tion to the fact that in this resolution tee Governor in Council had power to alter the tariff, and said that if members were to al. His Excellency the Governor to alter the CA14- tion of the country, it was a pernicious inns + tion that ought to be steadfastly opposed. T .. Governor should have no power over the pai ? purse. It was a small matter, but if allowed : go unchallenged it might be taken as a pro- dent, and he would divide the Committee on the question. The Committee divided. AYES, 34. Allen, E. G. Collins Hall-Jones Colvin Arnold Houston Barclay Duncan Kaihau Bennet Field Laurenson Buddo Gilfedder Lawry Graham Carneross McGowan Carroll Hall Millar 