mean the contraction of local products, and that means the contraction of the field of labour. Consequently, one of the things the labour party-who the honourable gentleman says is coming into the House exclusively at the next election-ought to adopt as their policy is a policy of protection. The farmers should be given some compensation, to put them in such a position as that they can get some advantages. Everything is artificial; and why should we not extend to the farmer some of the artificiality? Let us carry the farmer's grain and wool free on the railways, and give him some advantages like that. As the cost of production is being increased by these laws, so should the protective tariff be increased to enable us to produce our own goods instead of sending to other countries for them. This ought to be the policy of the labour party. I think there can be no objec- tion to going straight to the Court of Arbitra- tion instead of having to go through the expense of the Conciliation Board. People have to come hundreds of miles, and the chances are ten to one that the award of the Board is not ac- cepted. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- That is the great difficulty. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- That is so ; you are double-banking the expenses of the em- ployer by sending him first to the Board. Instead of dragging men a hundred or two hundred miles to a Conciliation Board and an Arbitration Court, why should they not have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the chances of only going once? I move the adjournment of the debate. Debate adjourned. The Council adjourned at five o'clock p.m. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 24th October, 1901. First Reading-Third Reading-Bill discharged- Dunedin City and Suburban Tramways Bill- Order of Business-New Zealand Ensign B.ll- Maori Lands Administration Bill - Pariroa Native Reserve Bill-Coal-mines Bill-Military Pensions Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Aid to Public Works and Land Settlement Bill. THIRD READING. Patea Harbour Bill. BILL DISCHARGED. Local Bodies' Goldfields Public Works and Loans Bill (Mr. Palmer's). Hon. Mr. Twomey TRAMWAYS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1. Short Title. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) moved, That pro- gress be reported. The Committee divided. AYES, 21. Parata Bennet Lethbridge Buddo Massey Stevens Duncan Thompson, R. McGowan Fisher McGuire Thomson, J. W. Gilfedder Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Hardy Mckenzie, R. Carncross O'Meara. Lang Mills Lawry NOES, 28. Allen, E. G. Russell, G. W. Graham Allen, J. Hall-Jones Russell, W. R. Atkinson Heke Smith, G. J. Hornsby Barclay Tanner Ward Collins Hutcheson Colvin Kaihau Wilford. Ell McNab Fowlds Meredith Tellers. Arnold Fraser, A. L. D. Monk Rhodes Fraser, W. Millar. Majority against, 7. Motion negatived. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) moved to add, at the end of the Short Title, the words "and Taieri Inundation." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That pro- gress be reported. Agreed to. ORDER OF BUSINESS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That, in order to facilitate the business of the House, after Friday, the 25th day of October, that por- tion of Standing Order No. 55 which relates to and prevents orders of the day and notices of motion being called on after midnight be sus- pended for the remainder of the session. He took it that members desired to complete their labours as soon as possible, and this was the usual resolution within the last fortnight of the session. It would, of course, rest with the majority of members as to what new business should be taken. He could only say he would do his best to facilitate the business of the country. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) did not rise to object to the motion, because he thought, with the Premier, that the time had arrived when all obstacles should be removed to secure the speedy despatch of business, consistent with the business being done properly. He hoped, however, that no attempt would be made to rush business through, as was done last session, and that there would be no legislation by exhaustion, because he wanted to tell the Pre- mier that if there was such an attempt it would probably do more harm than good. Motion agreed to. 