ever, the honourable gentleman did make a most important announcement in saying that the Government, before very long, would an- nounce what the intention of the Government was relatively to the Commonwealth tariff, and that possibly we might have to stay a month or two longer to discuss that subject. The honour- able member for Waikouaiti, Mr. E. G. Allen, also told the House that the tariff had not yet passed. Do you rule that to be out of order, Sir? If I am not to make reference to any of the speeches which have been made upon the second reading of the Bill, I will take it as a great favour if you will tell me what matter I may talk about. The member for Waikou- aiti, Mr. Allen, says that the Commonwealth tariff is not yet passed, and that it may not ultimately press so severely upon New Zealand. The Premier has hazarded one opinion ; I may hazard another. It is that, whatever alteration may be made in the Com- monwealth tariff as outlined in the telegrams received, it may be taken as certain that it will not be altered in its bearing upon New Zealand. Whether the honourable gentleman can make good to the people of New Zealand what they will lose in consequence of the adoption of a policy of isolation, of holding aloof from the Australian Federation, we shall see; but I say there is a distinct loss, which I think the honourable gentleman will not be able to make up either by trade bonuses or in any other way. Mr. HALL JONES (Minister of Marine) .- Sir, I little expected when I moved the second https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 reading of this Bill that we would drift into a discussion of the Australian tariff, and much less that honourable members would want to launch forth into the larger question of federa- tion with Australia. An Hon. MEMBER .- Perhaps you did not hear the Premier. Mr. HALL.JONES .- Oh, yes, I heard the Premier ; and I think the Premier is to be complimented upon his foresight in predicting that the Australian tariff would be somewhat higher than the tariff of New South Wales and lower than that of Victoria. It is now proved that the Premier's prediction was quite correct. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is quite wrong. Mr. HALL-JONES .- No, it is not wrong. The present proposed Australian tariff, taken as a whole, is under that of Victoria and higher than that of New South Wales, and when we get the details it will be seen that it is so. An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes, 20 per cent. lower. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It may not be 20 per cent. lower-I do not say that, but it is lower. Coming to the matter of the Bill, if we cannot sell our fish to Victoria and New South Wales, surely we can find other markets for them. do not like to hear such pessimistic views ex- pressed as I have heard on this question. I have every confidence the Government and this House are competent to deal with any question that may arise in connection with the Australian tariff, and we can still keep our colony in the proud position it has occupied for so many years. If members will assist the Government Mr. Fisher mentioned by the honourable member for Avon, the results of the granting of a bonus to this industry have been disappointing. The bonus was first proposed in 1885, and there was then a limit fixed of seven years, and it was expected that upon the expiration of that period the industry would be self- supporting. Ac- cording to the speeches made at the time, it was expected that at the end of seven years there would be fishing-villages around the coast-that land would be taken up by the fishermen-and that the export trade in fish would be very much larger than it is at the present time. Strange to say, when the first period of seven years expired the amount paid as bonus during the last year of the currency of the Act was less than was paid during the first year. Then it went down to as low as £271 11s. 10d., the highest being the second year after the passing of the Act. An Hon. MEMBER .- That does not represent the industry. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It represents the export trade, and shows the amount paid as bonus. There is, of course, a large local consumption which does not come into account ; but this shows what was paid for the export of fish. When the first seven years expired, the Act was further extended for a term of five years, and then at the end of the five years there was a request to extend it for three years, and again for one vear ; and now this year we are in the same position as when the industry first started -- that is, that the industry, I am sorry to say, is not self-supporting. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is there any industry that is self-supporting ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- Yes, I think there is. I would advise honourable members to stick to the Bill, to take the Bill as it is, and to let the fishermen for the next four years know what they are to receive as a bonus. The honourable member for Kaiapoi said that we should post- pone the Bill until next year, and leave the matter over till then ; but if we were to do that the effect would be that the fish-exporters would get no bonus for this year, the authority for paying the bonus having expired on the 31st August last, and that is why it is brought on now. It would be unfair to leave the exporters in a state of uncertainty as to what they would receive. I intimated my opinion in 1897 that that should be the last bonus; but it was renewed last year, and now it is pro- posed to adopt a tapering-off policy, and that, I believe, is the wisest course. We should pay the full bonus for this year, and then gradually diminish it ; but if anything occurs in the meantime it will be for us to reconsider I the question. I hope the House will not adopt the suggestion of the honourable member for Auckland City to vote the bonus for one year, and to leave out the remainder of the section. The honourable member for Avon said that Canterbury received no bonus under the Act. I am very pleased to inform him that Canter- bury is in the running now. The respective amounts paid up to the 31st August last are 