at Huntly. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) said he would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Railways to the high price charged for carriage of wool on the railways, and would instance the Law- rence line. He expected the charges would be the same on all the lines. The wool was carried by the bale a distance of sixty miles, and was charged 5s. 5d. per bale, and, as the bales would not weigh more than 3 cwt. per bale, the cost would be about 30s. to 35s. per ton from Law- rence to Dunedin. The cost was thus more now by the railway than it was by the teams before the railway was made ; and the teams carried it at the same price as the railway and took goods back, so that the Railway Department was losing the freight both on the wool and goods. He thought there must be something wrong when the teams were carrying as cheaply as the railways ; and as a good deal of the wool had to be carried long distances on teams to the railway, and wool was now only worth about from 3d. to 4d. per pound, it would barely pay the expense of transit to the seaboard, and on that account he hoped the Minister would reduce the cost of freight. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) said he did not find fault with the number of sleepers im- ported last year-namely, 32,000 out of a total of 410,000 used during the year. He con- sidered the number imported was necessary for use on bridges and curves. But this year he was told the department were importing sleepers wholesale from Australia, and he could assure the Committee there was no necessity whatever for it. There were plenty of timbers in the colony that were suitable, and he sug- gested that the Minister should use creosoted black-birch, or even black-birch in its natural state. It had the necessary strength and an average durability of from ten to twelve years' life, and was suitable and cheap and procurable in any part of the colony. He thought the scarcity of sleepers complained of by the depart- ment was owing to the too rigid inspection that prevailed -at all events, on the West Coast- in regard to silver-pine sleepers. There were stacks of sleepers cut on the West Coast which were suitable, but which the Inspectors would not pass. He thought if the General Manager looked into this question he would see that there were numbers of these sleepers that could be used. He knew that at Totara Flat recently, where many thousands of sleepers had been rejected, a deputation waited on Mr. Hudson, the late Assistant General Manager, about the matter, and as the result most of these were found to be of first-class quality and were passed. Let the department apply the same rigid inspection that it applied to the New Zealand produced sleepers to the im- ported Australian sleepers, and he ventured to say few, if any of them, would pass, as they were mostly sap and bark. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) thought there should be more shed accommodation provided at country stations. The Minister promised last year that increased shed accommodation Mr. Lang farmers had had to stack their grain outside, thus running the risk of the grain suffering on account of bad weather. He would also like to know the amount expended on Westing- house brakes, and if there was sufficient plant in hand to fit the whole of the rolling-stock <!-- PageHeader="1" --> with these brakes. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) desired to draw attention to the position of the fell- mongery at Wakatu, about eight or nine miles from Napier. At present the railway lost the whole of the traffic from that establishment because the goods could be carried cheaper on wheels than by rail, as the tariff was the same as that from Hastings, five miles away. He would like the Minister to state what was the percentage of every £1,000 which was spent out of capital and out of current expenses for the ordinary expenses, renewals, and the necessary small additions to our rail- ways. It was impossible to say from the accounts how much was expended in main- tenance, how much from the ordinary account, and how much in renewals from Capital Ac- count. He maintained that the whole system of our railway accounts required to be recast, and that, as to the railways, instead of earning a nominal 3 per cent., there should, in addition, be at least 2 or 3 per cent. on the capital value expended in repairs, maintenance, re- newals of rails, et cetera. Sir J. G. WARD said he could say emphati- cally that there was no loan-money taken by the Railways Department and expended upon the maintenance of the railway-lines. There was no such thing in the Railways Department as charging to capital what ought to be taken out of revenue. With regard to the Wakatu fellmongery, which was referred to by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, he de- sired to say that he would look into the matter. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) said, with ro- gard to the rate charged on coal on the Waikato line from Huntly to Auckland, it was quite as high as that charged to bring coal from New- castle to Auckland. If the department could see its way to reduce the rate it would greatly tend to stimulate the industry. Then, the cost of bringing slack down from the mine to Auck- land was about three and a half times as much as the cost of the slack at the mine. He hoped the Minister would bear this in mind, and have a fair reduction made. Another matter that had been brought to his notice was the delay that took place in connection with the handling of goods at the Auckland Station, and the want of a Goods Agent. On the Hurunui-Bluff line there were two Goods Agents, receiving salaries of $300 per annum, with house allowance, and it appeared there was no such officer in connection with the Auckland Section or the Wellington- Napier and New Plymouth Section. He hoped a Goods Agent would be appointed at Auckland to meet the requirements of the public there. Sir J. G. WARD said, in reply to the honour- able member for Geraldine, that about £70,000 had been spent on the Westinghouse brake. In regard to the carriage of slack coal, referred 