them another quarter of a million. An Hon. MEMBER .- There is no miscalcula- tion. Mr. HERRIES .- Then, if there is not, it is a curious thing that the Government should bring down a Loan Bill and estimates based on a loan of a million, and that a few days after- wards they should say that they want another quarter of a million. I had made calculations, which I will not now inflict on the House, but which showed that at the end of the financial year, with a loan of a million, the Government would be in a difficult position as far as the public works were concerned. My calculations must have been correct, for the Government has proved the correctness of them by bringing down proposals for an additional quarter of a million. They.would have been in great straits if they had not asked for and obtained this additional quarter of a million. The Minister for Public Works has admitted in his Statement that there would have only been the small balance of £335,000 at the end of the 31st March next, and then, of course, there would be the expenditure between that date and the 30th June, before which date Parliament could make no provision. As a partial proof of my state- ments, I wish to draw attention to the enor- mous increase in the public works expenditure in the different quarters :- £ Quarter ending 30th June, 1901 417,213 1. 603,399 31st March, 1901 . 31st December, 1900 302,705 30th September, 1900 251,645 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 £1,574,962 Or an expenditure of nearly £400,000 per quarter. Now, taking the year's expenditure, ending 30th June, 1900, the figures are as fol- lows :- £ Quarter ending 30th June, 1900 151,640 31st March, 1900 425,750 . . 31st December, 1899 190,022 30th September, 1899 174,094 £941,506 \-an average of about £250,000. So that there has been the large increase from £250,000 to ¥400,000 in the expenditure per quarter ; and we may reasonably expect that there will be a similar increase next year. The public are ex- pecting an increase, and the elections will be coming on. I am tolerably certain, therefore, that there will be a considerable increase during next year, and I say that the Minister at the end of this financial year would have found himself in a very considerable hole unless he obtained the extra amount of borrowed money he now asks for. I also wish to point out that the liabilities in the Public Works Fund have been increasing at an enormous rate. On the 31st March, 1900, they were £494,000, and on the 31st March last they were $1,292,095; so that it is not a matter for wonder that the Government should ask for another quarter of a million. Mr. Herries for such a large expenditure on roads. Mr. HERRIES .- If any one looks at the amount voted for roads for the last two or three years, he will see that roads have been treated this year worse than they have been for several years past. It is only proposed to spend this year £384,000 out of a total of £2,197,334 ; whereas last year it was proposed to spend £467,000, which is a considerably larger sum than it is proposed to spend this year out of about the same total amount voted. The year before they proposed to spend £447,000, which is also larger than the present year, and that was out of a smaller total of £1,374,000 ; so that this year, although we are borrowing more, we are actually proposing to spend less on our roads than we did three years ago. That is not right. The roads ought to be the primary expenditure. If the land-settle- ment of the Government is to be a success -- and I trust it will; we all wish that it should be-the roads must be the primary thing to be considered in the settlement of the country. And, without fear of contradiction, I say that settlement is progressing faster than roads, and that unless the roads are brought up to meet the settlement that settlement will be checked. It is no use putting people in the country where there are no roads, and the Government, I contend, is not doing wisely to reduce the expenditure on roads. As I pointed out when the additional $250,000 was intro- duced by Governor's message, the proposed ex- penditure on the roads actually does not meet the liabilities. The proposed expenditure is £384,000, and the liability already incurred is \- £447,000. There is therefore a difference of $63,000 to the debit already. The Roads Account starts this year with a debit, and even the £50,000 the Minister proposes to add out of the quarter of a million, will leave a debit of £13,000. Now, I ask any one who is acquainted with country districts if it is right to start the year with a debit, the result of which must be that the settlers will not get any fresh roads made. Mr. HALL - JONES. - There are several mere book liabilities. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes; we know what they are. Many of them are kept on year after year, and the Minister says that certain districts are getting so-much, when in reality it is only old votes revoted. The same old system is carried ou of authorising about twice as much as it is in- tended to spend. If members will look at the end of Class XXVI .- Construction and Main- tenance of Roads-it will be seen the authorisa- tion is £608,629. Out of that sum the total estimated to be required for the current year is only $300,000. But when the settlers look at the list and see the amounts put down for roads they do not know it is only put down for show, and that it will not be spent. In the first place. only half of the amount is voted, so that only half can be spent ; and, in the next place, there \-- are all the liabilities of the previous year, which for this year, I am sorry to say, amount to about £63.000 in excess of the sum proposed to be 