altered ; and it was urgently necessary that something should be done to give them the opportunity of establishing their industry. At present the Standard Oil Company were reap- ing the benefit of the rebate on kerosene. In regard to the paraffine-wax, it was asked that the id. should be reinstated for a short period. The trade-unions in Southland had urged on the Government the necessity of doing something to give this company a start. They deserved every encouragement in establishing what would be an important colonial industry. They were employing 150 men, and paid in wages at least £1,500 a month, and contributed largely to the railway and other revenue. There was a consensus of opinion in Southland that the company had not been fairly and equitably treated by the Government. Mr. SEDDON said he had told the company and the deputation that this was a matter which must be looked into, and that it would all depend on the circumstances of the com- pany whether or not it would be necessary that they should receive further assistance. He was not going to make any promise, especially when the company could work without assist- ance, and were doing very well. # BONUS FOR SHALE-OIL. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Colo- nial Treasurer, When the bonus offered for the first 100,000 gallons of shale. oil will be paid to the Orepuki Shale Company ? Mr. SEDDON said, As to the New Zealand https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Coal and Oil Company's claim for bonus on mineral oil, $5,000, the conditions as to (1) quantity, (2) priority, (3) quality, and (4) value had been complied with. (1.) Quan- tity : See Mr. McCredie's certificate of the 26th September, 1901. (2.) Priority : No other person had claimed the bonus. (3.) Quality : See Analyst's report of the 26th August, 1901. (4.) Value: See Mr. McCredie's certificate. The company notified their intention to claim bonus on the 27th May, 1901, and claimed the bonus on the 27th August, 1901. Mr. John Watt notified his intention of claiming the bonus, but had not claimed. # CLOSE SETTLEMENT AT JOHNSON- VILLE. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, If they will, without delay, consider the ques- tion of acquiring land in the Johnsonville dis- trict for close settlement ? Some time ago the Government had purchased some land near Johnsonville, known as Paparangi, which was clay-cold land, wind-swept, and bleak, notwith- standing which it was now covered with cottages, gardens, and cultivation, and was beyond doubt a successful settlement, notwithstanding all pre- vious adverse criticism. If this state of things was the case, with the present wretched service of the Manawatu Company, how much more desirable it was, in view of the Government taking over the line and instituting a decent train-service, that they should take the oppor- tunity of obtaining further land at Johnsonville for close settlement. There was plenty of land there, which, he believed, was procurable at a reasonable figure. He hoped the Government would inquire into the matter before the line was taken over, as afterwards land would go up 100 per cent. in price. Land was urgently wanted to provide homesteads for the workers of Wellington, and this opportunity should not be lost. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Govern- ment had asked a landholder in the vicinity of Porirua to sell them some land for small hold- ings, but he had humbugged the Land Purchase Officer, and transferred the property to his wife. Since then the law had been altered. The Go- vernment would endeavour to obtain land for the purpose referred to; he would make in- quiries and see if land was available. RECIPROCITY WITH AMERICA. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Premier, Whether he has noticed the most recent reports of the projected liberal trade policy of President Roosevelt, embracing reci- procity with foreign countries; and, if so, will his Government favourably consider the pro- priety of immediately entering into negotia- tions with the American Government with a view to obtaining tariff concessions on some of New Zealand's products? He said we must have markets, as our produce would be excluded from Australia, and as our dairy produce had a great market there during the months of February, March, and April-months during which we could not profitably export it to Lon- don. He would quote President Roosevelt's new liberal policy :- "The policy as outlined will be far more liberal and extensive, including reciprocity in pur- chase and sale of commodities, so that over- production in this country can be disposed of by fair arrangements with foreign countries ; abolition entirely of commercial war with other countries, and the adoption of reciprocity treaties ; the abolition of such tariffs on foreign goods as are no longer needed for revenue, if such abolition will not work harm to our indus- tries and labour." A great many articles might be exported from this colony to America-wool, particularly- which would be of importance to them, and he more particularly urged this at present seeing that there was no regular service to South Africa. This must also be attended to. As they ad- mitted nearly all the American goods free, they might expect her to reciprocate. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this opened up a large question, and it appeared reasonable on the face of it that reciprocity should be obtained ; but he did not think there was any hope what- ever for it. In view of our trade with America, he did not think any good would come of an ap- plication to them to depart from their prin- ciples. The volume of trade six years ago was about £200,000 a year, and now it was over a million, so that we had got on very well in the importation of American articles into New Zealand. He thought it was very questionable whether, if we asked them to take in our wool and meats, they would do it. However, there 