shall be experts in the particular trade under dispute (other than the Chairman) ' are hereby repealed." I suppose honourable members will under- stand the full meaning of this. The objection raised by the unionists against clause 6 in the Bill is that it provides for experts only being put on the Boards of Conciliators : that those experts must be drawn from the particular trade in dispute; that under those circumstances employés would be put on the Boards, and that these employes would be marked men, and would consequently suffer. I have great sym- pathy with that idea, and I think, myself, that there is certainly a risk of punishment being in- flicted, and that is the reason I have proposed to strike out these words so as to give trade- unionists the right to put whoever they like on the Boards of Conciliators. That, I think, would remove all the objections to the clause which they now have. Then, Sir, I propose- "(2.) The Chairman of every such Board shall be a Stipendiary Magistrate. "(3.) Every such Board shall hold its sittings in the place deemed most convenient for the parties to the dispute." Honourable gentlemen will see that that is a very desirable thing. We are every day extending the operations of this Act until it reaches every section of society, and it is cer- tainly an undesirable thing that people from all parts of an industrial district may be sum- moned at the same time to the centre in which the Board or Court is sitting. I have seen in Christchurch the employers in about a couple of dozen trades and occupations brought from all parts of Canterbury, and for weeks and weeks they were waiting for an award to be given. That is certainly a very serious posi- tion, and what I want under these proposals is the appointment of a special Board of Concilia- tors under the Presidency of a Stipendiary Magistrate, who could deal locally with local disputes. That, I think, would be a very great advantage, and that is my reason for moving these amendments. I may say that I have consulted with some of the most advanced members of the Lower House, and they see no objection to these proposals. In fact, they think it will be a great improvement. I was proceeding yesterday to speak about the limi- tation of awards. What this Bill proposes is to give discretionary power to the Board or to the Court as to how they shall deal with certain avocations. I do not suppose that trade-union- ists have any desire to crush any industry, because the more they crushed industries the more the field of labour would be contracted, and the opportunities of the labourer would be lessened. It would be altogether to their dis- advantage, consequently, to do anything that would crush out any industry, as the more means of labour there is the better chance the workmen have of getting employment. Now, then, what this new clause proposes is that the Board or the Court shall, after having heard tho evidence and weighed the matter, have discretion as to whether they shall extend or Hon. Mr. Twomey I will give you an illustration of this. Take, for instance, here in Wellington : the rent of a worker's house is something like 15s. a week. Any decent worker must pay 15s. a week here, and more, as an honourable gentleman says ; but in Temuka you can get a decent workers' house at 5s. or 6s. a week. If you want to fix a minimum wage, there you have a differ- ence of 10s. a week in the rent alone- the man at Temuka has an advantage of 10s. a week. Industry here in Wellington, too, has a better chance of growing pro- sperous. There is a large population here, and a small population at Temuka. A newspaper there, for instance, cannot possibly, under any circumstances, be so prosperous as it can be in Wellington. I am speaking of what I know best. The same will apply to any industry, but take a newspaper. If a newspaper in Temuka had to pay the same rate of wages as a Welling- ton paper it could not do it, yet there would be a difference of 10s. per week on rent alone as compared with the wages in Wellington. Why should not the Court, in taking everything into consideration, take these things into considera- tion and give its award accordingly. The ob- ject, it appears to me, of the Court is to fix a living-wage, so that nobody is so crushed down that he or she has not a decent living. That appears to me to be the object of the measure and of the Court, and I think it is fair, and right, and reasonable that the Court should have discretionary powers, and should use those discretionary powers in making an award. The Hon. Mr. Rigg said that the Act was in the interests of the good employer, and I entirely agree with him; and here I will ask permis- sion of the Council to make some digression. I have been what you may call practically a neighbouring newspaper proprietor to the Hon. Mr. Jones for nearly a quarter of a century. I have been intimately acquainted with him ; I have known all about his business, and how he has conducted it; and I say with- out hesitation that there is no better em ployer in the printing trade that I have ever been acquainted with than the Hon. Mr. Jones. I think I ought to say this, owing to my absence upon a certain occasion. It is a matter I know of, and I think it is only fair and right that this justice should be done to the honourable gentleman. But all employers are not like the Hon. Mr. Jones ; all employers are not good. All this labour trouble was brought on us originally by a man who came from Home and started "sweating" in Dunedin. It is not necessary for me to go through the history of that. Honourable gentlemen are perfectly acquainted with it, and consequently there is no need for me to dwell on it ; but that was the origin of the strikes and of the labour troubles in this colony. Now, what hap- pened then may happen again, and it is to the advantage of all that all should pay rea- sonable wages, and that when industries have to compete with each other they should compete with each other on even and honest conditions. I say, therefore, that this Act is absolutely in 