which the pensioner was by law entitled may be recovered as a debt due to the Crown from the estate so found in excess." Amendment agreed to. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved to insert the word "double," after the word "granted," and before the words " the amount of pension." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add the following proviso :- " Provided that this section shall not apply in cases where the husband and wife were living apart pursuant to decree, order, or deed of separation." Proviso added, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 8 .- " Every person who commits an offence under this Act for which no penalty is elsewhere provided is liable to a penalty not exceeding ten pounds." On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), the word "elsewhere" was struck out, and "otherwise " substituted ; and the words "in any other Act " were inserted, after the word, " provided." Clause as amended agreed to. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey), on behalf of Major Steward (Acting Chairman), moved the addi- tion of the following new clause :- " If any claimant for an old-age pension is already in receipt of an Imperial or colonial pension for or in respect of military service not exceeding two shillings per diem, such military pension shall not be calculated as part of his income when his claim for an old-age pension is under examination." Attention being called to the nature of the clause by Mr. SEDDON (Premier), The ACTING-CHAIRMAN (Major Steward) ruled that the proposed new clause was out of order, being in the nature of an appropriation clause. Clause 5 was reconsidered by unanimous consent of the Committee. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the addi- tion to the clause of the following words : " Provided that, should the excess of income as mentioned in this section cease, the pension shall be immediately restored to the original amount." Amendment agreed to. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved to add the following new clause :- " In assessing the net capital value of ac- cumulated property under section ten of the principal Act, each applicant shall be allowed, in addition to the sum of fifty pounds therein provided, to the value of a sum not exceeding one hundred pounds of any house and land bona fide owned and occupied by him." The ACTING-CHAIRMAN (Major Steward) ruled that this was exactly on the same footing as the clause which had been drafted by him- self. It would extend the amount, and with- out a recommendation from the Crown could not be put. Bill reported, and read a third time. Mr. Seddon WORKS AND LOANS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - This Bill is to meet a condition of things existing in some of our goldfield townships. Under the existing law the properties there are Crown lands and held under lease or license from the Crown, it not being advisable to sell the land owing to the gold being in the quartz underneath the township, and in some instances in the auri- ferous drift. This being the case, when money is required to be borrowed for local public works, although the title of the properties is as good as any frechold title, they are not accept- able as a security, and the local authorities cannot raise any money under the Loans to Local Bodies Act. I will take the case of Ross, in the South Island, as an illustration. Then there are a number of the townships in the Otago District ; and more particularly there is the case of Waihi, up in the North Island. Probably that is the strongest case in point, seeing that this is the finest mining town- ship, I suppose, we have in the colony, and it is a growing township. They have there the necessity for a water - supply, seeing that outbreaks of fire have resulted in the wholesale destruction of property, and the security is quite good enough, because the whole county are prepared to make them- selves responsible; but they cannot borrow money and they cannot strike a rate, and the consequence is they cannot get on at all. See- ing that, after consultation with the officers, the security is quite good enough, and that the county authorities will be only too pleased to get the opportunity of raising the money for water purposes, I say, in the interests of the health of the inhabitants, for sanitary reasons, and for fire prevention, it is necessary they should have the power to raise the money. The Bill is simply to remove technical diffi- culties in the way with respect to goldfield townships. I move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read a second time. STATE COAL-MINES BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I promised that I would give the report upon one of the mines by the Committee of experts, and I may say that report is now in the hands of the printer, and once it is printed, and before the Bill goes through Committee, I intend to place it before members. I wish, Sir, the House to affirm the principle that the time has arrived for the State to have its own coal-mines, and pass the second reading of this Bill. I know that it is a large question, and there may be something said against what is proposed. But the circumstances of the case, I think, warrant the Government in asking the House to take the course we are doing. In the matter of State services we have gone much further than older countries. In older countries you have no rail- ways owned by the State; you have no State steamers such as we have ; you have no telegraph- and post-offices belonging to the State the same as we have; and, when I tell 