preme colonial importance. Sir J. G. WARD .- What sort of a tone ? Mr. WILFORD .- I said that, to my mind, the honourable gentleman spoke in a light tone. I think that is a moderate term to use. An Hon. MEMBER. - Say " flippant." Mr. WILFORD. . No, I do not say " flip- pant " ; I say a light tone. I wish to refer to a remark the Hon. the Postmaster General made in his speech. He said it was the duty of mem- bers, not only of the members from Auckland, but of members from other parts of the colony as well, to ask Mr. Sprechels to use whatever political pressure he had to secure the employ- ment of a British-owned vessel in the trade. Sir J. G. WARD .- You did not hear what I said. Mr. WILFORD .- Well, that is the remark credited to the honourable gentleman by both the Wellington papers, and if he did not make the remark he has been incorrectly reported in both. 'The honourabie gentleman proposes that members should go, hat in hand, to Mr. Spreckels and say, " Please, Mr. Spreckels, get the Go- vernment of your country to give, out of the annual subsidy granted by Congress, a portion towards the support of our colonial boats." How absurd ! How absolutely illogical ! If there is any pressure to be brought on the American Government in reference to the subsidy-if there is any pressure to be brought on the American Government with reference to dividing that subsidy with colonial com- panies-it should be done by the Government of this colony in co-operation with the Federal Government, and not by individual members going, hat in hand, to Mr. Spreckels and asking him to influence the United States Govern- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ment. I hope the Hon. the Postmaster-Gene- ral will not treat my speech in an unfriendly spirit. Let me point out to him at once that if I am putting him in a wrong posi. tion I am at the same time giving him » chance to put himself right with the country. I am simply repeating now what was credited by the local Press to the honourable gentleman. Surely that is a generous and not an ungene- rous thing to do. I say the whole agitation and fuss that has been made has been brought about by one or two members-in fact, I may say by one member, residing in the City of Auckland. I refer to the honourable member for Auckland City, Mr. Napier. We have had telegrams of the bombastes furioso style and of the Boanerges character, putting forth various statements and making threats to influence this House by a species of braggadocio that does not commend itself to honourable gentlemen. The honourable gentleman has taken up that attitude; and we find the Auckland papers- the Star and the Hrraki-exactly carrying out the same line of conduct. Let me explain to honourable members something with regard to that magnificent mass meeting held in Auck- land, at which indignation resolutions were proposed and carried. I should like honour- able members to know exactly what occurred, and they will then see that the "Three Tailors gigantic indignation gathering. For a week before the meeting was held we find the star and the Herald giving notice of it by announce- ment, leading articles, and locals, calling upon the people of Auckland to roll up and to signify their objections to the taking-away of their "ewe lamb," the Fr'isco mail-service. For a week previous we find these announcements; and then when the time for the meeting came, when that large building in Auckland was opened to receive the mass of the Auckland people, how many arrived ? Sixty-eight alto- gether, out of sixty thousand. Of course, one would not expect them all to attend, but before the meeting was a quarter of an hour old four of the sixty-eight left. and, of the sixty-four remaining one proposed an adverse resolution. One of the leading members of the Seamen's Union desired to move an adverse resolution, but was not allowed to do it, and his proposal was never mentioned in any shape or form in the reports of the meeting The proposal that Mr. Mclachlan, the labour representative, made to the meeting did not appear in the Press the following dav, and we had a telegram sent by the Mayor of Auckland referring to the intense indignation of the people, and announc- ing the "ewe lamb" was squalling in sym- pathy with them. Captain RUSSELL .- " As a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb." The lamb, when shorn, does not squeal. Mr. WILFORD .- I do not hear . hat the honourable member for Hawke's Bay says. Then, we find that at this little meeting a lot of irrelevant discussion takes place, and on the following day the report goes out that the meeting showed an absolute consensus and unity of opinion such as was practically un- paralleled in any part of the colony before. Then, later, we mind a leading article on the subject, and the Mayor says he does not pro- pose to call another indignation meeting just yet, as it is only a week since the last one was . held. Although pressed to have another in- dignation meeting, he says he will wait a little time. Quite right ; one "frost " was enough. Then, we have interviews. There was an inter- view with Mr. Sproul, and another interview with Mr. Angus, manager of Cook and Sons, relative to the tourist traffic, and the lier .le absolutely claimed in that interview that Mr. Angus made a statement that he desired the port of call for Cook s tourist traffic to be Auck- land. Well, Mr. Angus next day calls the Herald to task for having misrepresented what he stated at the interview, and the Heraid made a kind of apology by its withdrawal the following day. This was part of the argument which was used relative to the tourist traffic, and the New Zealand Herald had to make an explanation of Mr. Angus's correction, because Mr. Angus says, " I do not care what port the tourist ships shall call at first as long as they call at some port in the colony, because the tourists will be distributed through New Zealand whether they start at the Bluff, at Wellington, or at Auck- 