Australia in the month of January this year, at the time of the opening of the Common- wealth, and the people of New Zealand were informed by means of numerous interviews which appeared in the Australian newspapers, and by dialogues between the right honourable gentleman and many foremost statesmen of the Colonies of Australia, that he was distinctly opposed to the federation of New Zealand with Australia. It was his clear belief that it would not be advantageous to New Zealand to join with Australia. Well, the right honourable gentleman returned to this colony on the 6th February, having given the people of Australia to understand that there was not the least probability of New Zealand joining in the Federation. In the meantime a Commission had been set up to investigate and report upon the question whether they ought or ought not to federate with Australia-the question which the honourable gentleman had himself already determined. This being the case, he would like to be informed whether it was at all likely that the report of the Commission, if it had been in favour of federation, would have had the least effect upon the Right Hon. the Premier or his Government, he having so strongly expressed his view previously as being opposed to federation ? Mr. SEDDON .- I did nothing of the kind. Mr. FISHER said that several Australian newspapers broadly stated that the right honourable gentleman was adverse to the federation of New Zealand with Australia, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and regretted his attitude upon the subject. The honourable gentleman had on one or two occasions endeavoured to correct what he called the erroneous views disseminated by the news- papers of Australia, which views were based upon his own public utterances. The clear deduction from all that the honourable gentle- man said in Australia was that he was opposed to federation, and therefore it followed that if the report of the Commission had been in favour of federation it would have had no effect what- ever. It would have been mere leather and prunella. Therefore the expenditure of £3,800 upon the Commission was a deliberate and sin- ful waste of public money. He came now to the composition of the Commission. He differed with the member for Waihemo, who objected to city men being selected as Commissioners. His opinion was that it did not matter if the whole Commission had been selected from the four cities of the colony, or from one city. It mattered nothing where the men were selected from. provided they were men capable of ad- judicating upon such a large question. There were men placed on the Commission, he under- took to say, who really to this moment, not- withstanding all their travel and investigations, did not understand the ABC of the subject of Australian Federation. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said it would be useless to set apart a day to discuss the ques. tion of Federation. He was as strongly in favour of federation as any member in the House ; but he recognised that, so far as the for discussing it in the way proposed by the Premier. At any rate, when the session was so near its close, it was impossible to do justice to such a subject. He thoroughly agreed with the member for Waihemo and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) in that the Com- mission was not representative of the most im- portant class in the community - the small farmers. There was not a single representative of that class on the Commission. After the end of last session a hint reached him that if he approached the Premier on the subject he would be appointed a Commissioner ; but he did not ask for the favour. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member would have made a very good member of the Commission. Mr. MASSEY thanked the honourable gentle- man for his good opinion of him. Anyhow, when he saw the names of the gentlemen who had been appointed on the Commission he could have written out their report without going to all the expense incurred. They were appointed for the reason that they were opposed to federation, and it was really nothing but a farce to set up the Commission at all. As he had said, it was useless to discuss the question. The colony had made up its mind that it was not going to federate, and had to abide by the result ; and public opinion could not be changed until it was recognised how foolish the colony had been in refusing to join the great Common- wealth of Australia. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) did not object to a proportion of city men being on the Commission, but what he did object to as far as those men were concerned was that they were not familiar with the agricultural interests. If they had been familiar with the agricultural interests it would have been all right, but they knew little about it, and to think that of the ten Commissioners only one was a country represen- tative-had the Farmers' Union then been in force this would not have occurred. That it was a foregone conclusion what the Commission would report was undoubted. Why, not only had a majority expressed their' united disap- proval of federation, but one had dropped into poetry, and in verse declaimed against federation. He referred to the otherwise ex- cellent poem by our worthy Chairman, Major Steward. And these were the Commissioners who were to approach with unbiassed minds this most important question of Federation. Every one knew what they would report, so that the thing was an expensive farce, and it was fore- ordained that we would not have the slightest chance of federating, no matter how necessary it might be in the interests of our farmers to do so. His amendment, he would like to say, was moved as a protest against the small farmers being unrepresented on the Commission and the disproportionate representation of our backbone industries; so that, as a matter of fact, agriculturists were unable to express their valuable opinions on this very important ques- tion. The exports of agricultural produce from the colony came to £10,000,000 sterling; gold, 