for having selected men of experience as mem- bers of the Commission. I know that honour- able members always appreciate important work when they find it well done. My col- leagues, I may say, were experts in their way. We had this House represented ; the inspec- torial staff and the teachers were also repre- sented ; and I believe the work done has been done thoroughly. The Bill now before the House is based on the report of the Commission, and the report is based on the evidence, occupy- ing 600 pages, obtained from the best authorities in the different education districts. If the Bill is passed, the teachers of New Zealand will realise a manifest advantage; the teaching pro- fession as a whole will be elevated; it will be made more attractive, and in course of time we will find the most competent men and women that New Zealand can produce engaged in what is undoubtedly the most important profession to be found in the colony. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I do not intend to take up more than a few minutes, because I recognise that the House is anxious that the Bill should get into Committee. However, I should like to say a word or two with reference to the question. We have just had an instance of the utter futility of appoint- ing Royal Commissions. Here is the Chairman of the Commission on Teachers' Salaries telling members that the swimming-baths of Canter- bury were paid for out of the State funds, while, as a matter of fact, they were provided for by https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 private subscriptions, and for this information we pay £762 for printing the report. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - That was given in evidence too. Mr. G. J. SMITH. - Well, evidently the honourable gentleman (Mr. Hogg) who has just spoken, having had his mind occupied as Chair- man, did not note that fact in the evidence. Sir, I would like to know what was the object of appointing this Royal Commission. I am not questioning the ability of the members of the Commission ; but we have an Education Department, we have officers in the de- partment, and if they are worthy of their position they ought to be able to give the Minister of Education sufficient information and guidance as to what the department ought to do in this matter. We have the report of the Commission, and the evidence printed. We have also in the First Schedule of the Bill a proposed colonial scale of payment to teachers. I want to know whether that scale was drawn up by the Commission or whether it was drawn up by the Under-Sec- retary of the department. If it was drawn up by the official head of the department, then, of what use were the members of the Commission so far as guiding the affairs of the department were concerned ? I repeat, I am not criticizing the ability of the members of the Commission, but simply pointing out the futility of appoint- ing a Commission to take evidence throughout the colony, and then to adopt a scale of salaries drawn up by the permanent head of the de- Mr. Hogg has adopted without understanding how it will work out. Then, in connection with the constitution of the Commission, I want to draw the attention of the House to this fact : We have a Commission appointed consisting of four members of the House, one of them belonging to the teaching profession. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who are they ? Mr. G. J. SMITH .- Messrs. Gilfedder, Hogg, Lethbridge, and T. Mackenzie. Then we have the Education Boards represented by Mr. Luke and Mr. Weston, and the Inspectors repre- sented by Mr. Henry Hill and Mr. John Smith, and the teachers represented by Mr. William Davidson and Mr. Ralph Duncan Stewart. An Hon. MEMBER. - Who represented the female teachers ? Mr. G. J. SMITH. - I was going to point out that on the whole Commission there is no repre- sentative of the lady teachers of the colony. If it was desired to do justice to the teaching pro- fession there ought to have been one or two ladies associated with it for the purpose of taking evidence. It is absurd, when we have so many lady teachers in the colony, that they should not be represented, and I cannot under- stand what the Government was about in nct seeing that the lady teachers of the colony were represented on the Commission. So far as the proposed scale is concerned, I am advised that the recommendations of the Commission are largely in the interests of the male teachers ; and it is all very well to say that the teachers of the colony are anxious that this Bill should be passed. A large proportion of them are anxious that it should pass ; but, on the other hand, members of the House are receiving quite a number of communications from teachers against it. Mr. FOWLDS .-- One or two from Canter- bury. Mr. G. J. SMITH .- The honourable member for Auckland City is quite wrong. They are coming from all over the colony ; and I say that there is a difference of opinion on the Bill, and with the proposed scale more particularly. The whole teaching profession is anxious that a colonial scale should be adopted, but they are also anxious that the scale, when adopted, shall be fair, just, and equitable in its opera- tion. In this connection I want to ask the House for a minute or two to consider this point. We have established in our Education Department a difference between the male and female teachers who are engaged in this work. We have appointed female teachers to certain positions, but the scale of pay to them for the work they do is very much less than is paid to the male teachers. I want to know why that Is not this the only department in the is so. State in which a distinction is made between male and female in the amount of remuneration paid for work done? If you find a female clerk in the Public Trust Office, or in any other office under the Government, you will find her paid for the work she does and for the position she occupies. I acknowledge at once that they 