to "any person," and not to a body corporate ; and yet a company might need to be exempted just as much as any private trustee. When he had pointed this out previously the honourable gentleman saw the force of his suggestion, and promised that something would be done in re- gard to this matter. Mr. HALL-JONES believed that subsec- tion (4) of clause 2 would do all that was re- quired. It said :- " Any person bona fide carrying on the busi- ness of banking or insurance or any business in the course of which and for the purposes where- of he lends money at a rate of interest not exceeding ten per centum per annum." He took it that that would include a company. Could the honourable gentleman point to any person who was carrying on the business of insurance? And in case of a company which did not charge a greater rate of interest than 10 per cent. it did not need to be registered. Mr. W. FRASER asked, Would "person " in the subsection mean company ? Mr. HALL-JONES said, Yes. He had been advised it was perfectly clear. If it was found not to be so, he would see that further provision was made for it. Mr. W. FRASER said that that was what he wanted the honourable member to do. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) asked, with reference to clause 2, in what way the Minister was going to give effect to his promise on the point raised by the honourable member for Wakatipu except by making amendments in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Bill now. Mr. HALL-JONES said they were dealing now merely with the amendments made by the Council. The question raised by the honour- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero able member for Wakatipu was not in reference to any amendment made by the Council. Mr. ATKINSON had understood that the honourable gentleman wanted an alteration \- made in the Bill, and that the Minister had stated that if he was not satisfied that the pro- mised alteration was there he would have it made. Personally, he thought the Minister was right in saying that "person " in this clause would include "company." With re- gard to the other amendments, it was most undesirable in principle that we should be asked at the most critical stage of the Bill, after all the precautions taken at the earlier stages, to agree to amendments wholesale and blindfold, because that was really what it amounted to. The Minister himself, while endeavouring conscientiously to inform us of the effect of these amendments, had, through an oversight, omitted one of the most im- portant of them, and but for the accident being discovered we should have consented to the whole of these amendments in entire ignorance of one of the most important of them. That was just an illustration of one of the dangers of legislating in this way. On the whole, he thought the amendments of the Legislative Council had effected a very great improvement in the Bill. The question of how to get at the usurious but non-professional money-lender had Mr. W. Fraser "money-lender " for the purposes of clause 3 ; but the Bill still remained a perfect miracle of bungling. Clause 2 defined "money-lender," and clause 3 dealt with money-lender, and covered a whole page of the Bill, and wound up by saying that money-lender in this clause meant something different from the money- lender already defined by clause 2. It was non- sensical that they should have such a contra- diction in the Bill. Now, the object could be quite reasonably attained now, if the Minister was so minded, by a very simple expedient, which would prevent the Bill being so mis- leading as inevitably it would be by the word "money-lender " meaning one thing in section 2, another thing in section 3, and meaning the same in section 4 as in section 2. However, the Minister was responsible, and he had no- thing further to say at this stage. He would like to ask if he understood the Minister read these amendments verbatim, or only gave a summary. Mr. HALL-JONES said he gave a summary first, and then read them verbatim. Mr. ATKINSON said, In regard to the amend- ment as to the limitation of time, he under- stood the Minister to say that the amendment was that the application must be made within twelve months after closing the transaction. Were these words "after closing the transac- tion " the terms of the amendment or part of the summary ? What were the actual words ? Mr. HALL-JONES said that only applied to section 3, which stated :- " Provided that a person shall not be entitled to apply to the Court under this subsection un- less application is made within one year of the transaction being closed." Mr. ATKINSON said, What was the point of having the application after the transaction was closed ? It would be more to the point to have it twelve months from the opening of the trans- action. Supposing it was a usurious loan cover- ing a term of five years, then would the Minister say that the transaction was closed on the day that the documents were signed ? An Hon. MEMBER .- I should say when he pays the last sum in. Mr. ATKINSON said that it was to be hoped so ; but he thought that could not be the mean- ing in the mind of the honourable member who moved the amendment, for this reason : Be- cause, if the borrower had paid his last penny under the contract, it was not likely that he would approach the Court at any time after that, and ask for relief from an oppressive con- tract from which he had already relieved him- self by paying the last penny. It was hardly right that members should, on the spur of the moment, be asked to accept these amendments which they had not had an opportunity of seeing in print. There was another point which he thought wanted clearing . up-namely, as to whether the amendment in the definition of " money. lender " would really give effect to the intention of honourable members. He would not like to say confidently, on the spur of the moment, that the amendment made in respect 