disorganize society than the Premier himself ; and it is not to his opponents, it is not to those who want to be careful about the finances of the colony, who want to be careful about the reputation and position of the Governor, who want to be careful that Parliament itself does not infringe on the lines of demarcation be- tween genuine loyalty and the Ministry of the day-it is the Premier himself who has done more in that respect to bring the representa- tive of the King in this colony into disrepute than any of those who have opposed the grants which have been made to him. Any honourable member who studies our estimates for the last few years, and the grants on those estimates to Vice-Royalty in this colony-grants which are really against the conditions made with the Governor when he came out to the colony-will find that the Premier has done more by those money grants to disorganize society than anything that has been yet done in connection with this subject. Personally, the Premier himself is more to blame for the free discussion which has taken place on this measure-for the open discussion-than all the rest of the members put together; and he ought to be the last to twit members because they have given expression to their honest opinions-he ought to be the last to twit them with being practically anarchists-the 8.30. expression the Premier meant to have used. But he is not always as bold as he is thought to be. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I am rather pleased to-night at the manner the Bill has https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 been received and dealt with. If any one had told me that at half-past eight o'clock I should be replying on the third reading of this Bill I would not have believed them. But if any one had said that I should be here replying to it at half-past eight to-morrow morning, I should have said " Most likely." Sir, what a wonderful change for the better ! Listen to the speeches of the three members who have spoken to-night on the Bill-what a contrast as compared with the speeches that they delivered when the Bill was before the House for its second reading. How much better would it have been, how much more to their credit, if they on that occasion had calmly and dispassionately spoken upon the question, purely on constitutional or financial grounds, and on those grounds had objected to it? Sir, that would not have pained me : it was their attack upon the King's representative that hurt me. I should have no feeling whatever if members purely on finan- cial or constitutional grounds objected to the expenditure ; but when I hear members con- tending that this colony should repudiate, and that that repudiation should be in respect of authorised expenditure that has taken place by the King's representative, it is not to be won- dered at that, under these circumstances, I should feel pained and give expression to my feelings as I did, and as, I think, I was fully justi- fied in doing. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was not authorised. Mr. SEDDON .- Now, how is it, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Pirani Courts, where they would have to behave them- selves, and would not be allowed to interrupt, should repeatedly interrupt me when I am speaking ? Mr. ATKINSON .- They imitate you. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member will have to live a long time and change consider- ably for the better before he is able to do that. At all events, I am not to be thrown off my discourse. I say, Sir, there is a change in this respect, comparing what they have said this evening and what they said on the second reading of the Bill : then the attack was on the representative of the King. To-night, Sir, the attack is upon myself, and I say that is a very agreeable change, because I am here to defend myself, which the King's representative can- not do. Mr. FISHER .- You are here to defend him. Mr. SEDDON. - Is that the reason, then? Is that the reason members of the House should attack His Excellency for the purpose of causing me to defend him ? Is it to be done for that reason, and for no other purpose ? Sir, I hope that that will never be considered the proper thing to do in this House. If it is considered the right thing to do for the pur- pose of provoking a defence -that such at- tacks should take place -then I was justified in what I said, that contrasted with previous Par- liaments there was a decadence in respect of the present Parliament. Sir, I say, respecting the debate of the other night, that when members take the proofs of some of the speeches delivered the other evening, and read in Hansard the cor- rected speeches, they will probably find correc- tions of a very extensive character ; but, whilst it is to the credit of those who have eliminated passages from their speeches that those passages should be eliminated, it was not in the interests of those members or the interests of this House that those remarks should ever have been made, and there was nothing to provoke the acrimo- nious debate that took place. As some of the members remarked, in moving the second read- ing of the Bill my remarks seemed to be laboured. It is true I was very careful in what I said ; and why was I careful ? I did not wish to say a single word that would provoke debate or hostility. I did not wish to say a single word to which exception could be taken. I wished this House to be dignified. I desired that this House should show the people our action on an occasion of this kind when called upon to pass a Bill of an unusual character which had been called forth because we had entertained our future King and Queen, who had been our invited guests. As the Governor, the King's representative, had to take the part of host for the colony, and had taken that part at our in- vitation and express wish, and having incurred these liabilities and disbursed these moneys, perforce he must be reimbursed, because we had, through His Excellency, assured the British Government that New Zealand would defray the whole of the cost of entertaining the Royal visitors. I therefore say I was careful in my re- marks ; but I say again, what did those honour- 