Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER The Standing Orders may be capable of misinterpretation. I have given an interpretation to the best of my judgment If honourable members wish to re- strain members from moving amendments, and so having more than one speech, that should be done by amending the Standing Orders. Mr. FISHER. - I join in the general regret that the honourable member for Hawke's Bay should have taken the course he did. Bu: this appears to me to be a manifest evasion of the Standing Orders. Mr DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - That is a matter of opinion. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. It seemed to be the general wish of the House-almost the unani- mous wish ; and as leader of the House, where the Standing Orders permit --- Captain RUSSELL .- This is no personal ex- planation. Mr. SEDDON .- I am explaining my action. I did the best I could, and under the circum- stances it was my duty to do my best to give effect to the wishes of the House. I am within the Standing Orders in giving effect to what the House desires, and I hope my colleague will be allowed to proceed. Sir J. G. WARD .- The reason for the tele- gram I have just read was to get the ground clear with the view of negotiating for a Federal service. Again, I would point out to honour- able members that when we are dealing with a powerful company, with a keen business-man, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 such as Mr. Spreckels, you require to deal with him upon commercial lines; and that unless you are going to treat the matter seriously and as a business matter, and not allow any- thing in the shape of sentiment to dominate you, you will find that by not being in a posi- tion of being able to control and fix matters, that matters drift along, and next year or the year after further pressure will be brought to bear to increase the payments. I say that it is in the interests of the people of the colony who desire this service that we should take steps to have an alternative service, and that is why the Government have negotiated, so far, upon the lines indicated in the re- solutions. I should like to say that there has been an impression that a portion of the San Francisco mail-matter has been diverted by the New Zealand Postal Department to the Suez route. I saw a communication from the North that the Government had diverted the mail-matter vid the Suez route. Now, I wish to say that this is not the case. We have no power over the mail-matter that leaves London. That is entirely under the control of the Imperial authorities, and, in consequence of the irregularity of the running of the San Fran- cisco steamers the London postal authorities ' selves of the powerful channels of the Im- diverted a great portion of the mail-matter via Suez. We had no control in the matter. I would point out this as a reason why it is neces- sary to have a time-table, and, when fixed, adhered to, so that the people communicating with England, who have a right to be fully con- mail-service both to and from New Zealand. That is of material consequence to this country. The diverting of the mail-matter was due to irregular running between Auckland and San Francisco caused by trouble with the machinery of the steamers, and difficulties over which the owner of the steamer had little or no control ; and I believe he did his very best under his arrangement to carry out a satisfactory service, and I am not finding fault with him. I simply say, with respect to the charge which has been made against the Government that we were diverting the mails from England to the Suez route, that we were not doing anything of the kind. Through the steamers running irregularly there has been a considerable falling-off in the amount of mail-matter from England-it fell from 450 bags to 256 bags per trip-and there is no doubt the difference has been sent by the Suez route. Therefore it is necessary we should enter into a proper agreement with the owners of the steamers, binding them down to certain conditions under our mail proposals. It is a very important matter to the colony, in connection with our mail-payments, which are given largely with a view of having a fast service between America and New Zealand, that the steamers should run regularly from both ends, and I say the reasons I have given for the cause of the diversion of the mails show the necessity for insuring this regularity. Now, the amount for the mail service up to the present, at 10s. 5d. a pound for letters, is about £17,000. Provid- ing the same amount of mail-matter was carried by Mr. Spreckels at the reduced rate, it would amount to £15,000 at least, and it may be more. I say that if he were prepared to carry out the service for £17,000, it is quite clear to my mind that he should agree to carry on the service for a payment of #15,000 guaranteed, at the rate of 7s. 6d. a pound. I will say to those honourable members who show such an anxiety about the continuance of this San Francisco service, and to the friends of the service not merely in Auckland but through- out the colony, that what they should do is to try and realise the position so far as it concerns the whole colony. The whole colony is inter- ested in the service, and it would not object to a fair payment being given for a fast service between New Zealand and England vin America. I will tell honourable members why the Government have made proposals to carry on this service with the port of call at Auckland. We would prefer to see a New Zealand steamer included in the service, and we will work still in that direction; but at the same time we appeal to Mr. Spreckels, if he has the interests of the continuation of the service at heart, to exercise what political pressure he can, and we ought to avail our- perial Government to continue to make repre- sentations in the interests of the trade with this country, so that our steamers should be allowed to trade between Honolulu and San Francisco. No one can take exception to the United States making laws to suit themselves, 