satisfactorily that they wished special mention to be made of it. That is how the case went from before the Conciliation Board ; but it had to be referred to the Court. No credit is given to us for that." Well, I can quite understand from my own experience that the facts stated are typical of the majority of the cases that come before the Board. I know of one where the employers' union and the workers' union were agreed, but one single employer refused either to attend or to come to any arrangement whatever with both unions, and the consequence was that the case had to be referred to the Court of Arbitra- tion, and the Board of Conciliation gets no credit at all for the very great and good work that it did on that occasion. Now, reference has been made by the Hon. Mr. Twomey to the expense in connection with the Wellington Board. It has been truly said that a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. It did not occur to the honourable gentleman to look up the previous return to find out the number of disputes which have been before the different Boards of the colony, and to ascertain the ex- pense per dispute. That would be a fair basis to go upon. The honourable member takes up a supplementary return, and bases upon it arguments which are quite misleading. The return is, of course, correct, but it is only up to & certain date; and it has happened that the more expensive disputes have been heard in Wellington previous to the period contained within the return. If the return had been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 made up to date it would be found that you would have to add to the cost of the Auckland Board a sum of £600 in connection with one dispute alone, and that is the dispute in con- nection with the Waihi miners. If honour- able gentlemen desire a true criterion as to the merits of the individuals on the respective Boards they should move for a return of the amount of fees received by each member of each Board throughout the colony ; and if it were not such a late period of the session I would move for it myself, because I feel sure that if such a return was obtained it would throw a new light upon the expense in con- nection with the Wellington Board, and give a denial to those who say that the members of the Wellington Board have fomented disputes, while those in other parts of the colony have not, and the consequence is that the expense is greater in connection with the Wellington Board than that of any other Board. I am going to produce some figures which will show that the Wellington Conciliation Board is not the most expensive Board in the colony. And here is where I come to the question of the supplementary return, about which my honourable friend wanted some information. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. McLean, a return was prepared last session and laid on the table. The original return covered a period of from April, 1896, to March, 1900. Honour- able gentlemen must remember that, although the Conciliation and Arbitration Act came into force in 1894, owing to the fact that regulations other machinery provided, it was not until 1896 that a dispute was brought before a Board under the Act. The supplementary re- turn, which we have now before us, was also laid on the table on the motion of the Hon. Mr. McLean, and it includes the period between the date of the last return and the 30th June of the present year. If we take the original return we find that the number of dis- putes was as follows : Auckland, 17; Welling- ton, 18; Canterbury, 28; Otago, 20; West- land, 7. If we take the supplementary return the numbers were: Auckland, 10; Welling- ton, 20; Canterbury, 13; Otago, 15: making a total, up to the date of the supple- mentary return, of: Auckland, 27 ; Wel- lington, 38; Canterbury, 41; and Otago, 35. We see now that Canterbury had a greater number of disputes ; but that is not of much importance, because one dispute might last longer and take up more of the Board's time and attention than half a dozen other disputes. I merely point out incidentally that Wellington has not had a greater number of disputes, and that is to some extent a reply to those who have said that the members of the Wellington Board go about fomenting disputes. If we have the added cost to the original return of the supplementary return we find that Auck- land is responsible for £1,123-and in quoting this figure I want honourable members to re- member that the Waihi dispute will add an- other £600 to that total-Wellington, £1,779; Westland, £442; Canterbury, £469; Otago, £740; Nelson, £8; and Taranaki, £9. Tara- naki and Nelson may be left out of any con- sideration as to the utility of Boards of Con- ciliation, because up to the date of the return they have had no disputes before them, and this is merely the expenses in connection with the setting - up of the machinery of the law. Taking those totals, then, we find that the cost of each dispute was, in the case of Auckland, £41 ; Wellington, £46 ; Canterbury, £11; Westland, £63; Otago, £21; and that bears out the statement I made at the start that the cost of each dispute in Wellington is not the highest that has been paid in the colony. Now we come to the charge that was made by the Hon. Mr. Jennings that the members of the Wellington Board had gone round the unions fomenting disputes. I was inclined to doubt that when I first heard it, because I had in my mind that this statement was made in regard to the representatives of the workers; but from inquiries I have made I find that there is a certain amount of truth in the statement, but that it is the employers' representatives who have done this-that is, if I can believe a state- ment which had been handed to me by the secretary of the Workers' Union. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I said that a member of the Board did so. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- That is according to the limit of the honourable gentleman's infor- mation, but my information goes to show that there was more than one. Mr. Samuel Brown is a member of the Court of Arbitration. Mr. 