Bluff. Nelson had a very hard experience in the Transvaal. He was seized with malaria at Beira, pleurisy at Buluwayo, and fever at Johannesburg, and thereafter was sent home as an invalid. He has been ailing since his re- turn to the colony. He came up to Dunedin to see about getting to a warmer part of the country, when he was seized with illness and had to go into the hospital. He held on to life for some time, and then collapsed suddenly." And the trooper did not die until the 1st October, or nearly two months after the ship left Albany. In the case of Trooper Moffat, who died at his own home at Invercargill : he had known the Moffat family ever since boy- hood, and the whole family had been born at Invercargill. Moffat died at his own home owing to a development of his old trouble in South Africa. Now, one of the strong points urged by the honourable member as a reason why the vessel should not have gone to the Bluff was the difference in the climatic con- ditions as between Port Chalmers and the Bluff. Here was the official record of the weather on the 10th of July at those two places :-- " Bluff. - West, fresh breeze ; barometer, 29-86 : thermometer, 43; blue sky ; passing clouds. " Port Chalmers .- S.W. fresh breeze ; baro- meter. 29.80 ; thermometer, 44; blue sky. " 10th July." He also quoted the rainfall returns for the past six years for Dunedin and the Bluff, which showed that for four years out of the six the rainfall had been greater at Dunedin than at the Bluff. He would state also for the in- formation of the honourable member that http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero medical men in Dunedin were in the habit of sending consumptive patients to Stewart Island, twenty miles further than the Bluff, and it was considered the climate further south was more suited for the treatment of such complaints The orders from the Trans- port Officers and from Lord Kitchener before the vessel reached Albany were that the vessel should go to the Bluff, and he would read the following letter sent by the owners of the vessel to the Admiralty after the vessel's arrival at Albany, on the 1st July :- " I am desired to state that ' Tagus' having been ordered to Bluff, the Commander has cabled to the company that such is the case, and that it is a dangerous port for a large single-screw steamer. Under these circum- stances I am directed to request that the order may be cancelled, as this company decline the risk." That showed that the directions were that the steamer should go on to the Bluff. The statement contained in the letter was ab- solutely contrary to fact, as the steamer could have gone into the Bluff with perfect safety. Steamers with larger drawing capacity than the transport regularly went into that port. The misstatements made only served to show how in- sufficient knowledge led people into seriously misrepresenting the working capacity of a port. the steamer could never have been ordered to Wellington by the New Zealand Government, and it would be much better for the honour- able member if, knowing that he had been misinformed, he should get up and admit it. Even if these southern men had come to Wellington they would all have had to go back to the Bluff, or wherever their homes might be. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) said, When he went down South to meet these re- turning troopers he asked the officer in charge if there was any feeling amongst the men against going to the Bluff ; and the reply was that a few of them who had homes in Dunedin and Christchurch would prefer not to go to the Bluff, but that was all. Those who did not feel sufficiently strong were not asked to go on to the Bluff. At Invercargill the troopers were unani- mous in expressing their pleasure at visiting the Bluff. As to the question of the weather, when returning by train from Invercargill to Dunedin, he was informed by some of the oldest residents along the line that the cold snap that set in at that time was almost unprecedented. They had not experienced such bitter weather for the last twenty-five years. If the steamer had come to Wellington it would have made no difference, so far as the men were concerned, and a great number of them had to go down South, where they lived. This was the telegram sent by the Premier to Brigade Surgeon De Lautour on the 11th :- " Have forwarded your telegram re sickness troopers on 'Tagus' to Commandant and Colonel Davies, and to Captain . Surgeon Thomas. I do not approve the suggestion re Quarantine Island. It is bleakly situated, not equipped, and the convalescent patients in the majority of the cases would prefer to get to the districts from which they came, and in respect to those from the North Island the climate and surroundings would be favourable to recovery. In the case of the patients con- fined to bed, those belonging to Otago should go to the Dunedin Hospital, and if there are more than there are beds for in the public hospital the balance should be sent to a private hospital. If there is danger to any patients proceeding to Lyttelton and Wellintgon. in such case such patients should be removed to hos- pitals. In this communication I have simply expressed my opinions, and do not instruct, and leave to you and the Surgeon-Captains to do what you think best in the interest of the sufferers. You may, however, take an instruc- tion that no expense is to be spared in doing everything possible and practicable to restore to our returned sons that greatest of God's blessings- good health." With regard to the statement of the member for Bruce, that the Premier had ordered that all the men should go to the Bluff, he would read the following telegram, dated 11th July, from the Premier to Colonel Davies :- "I have asked Commandant to see doctor with contingents, and have told him that any members of troops likely to be detrimentally affected by cold, or who are not sufficiently 