plying any of that commodity that is deemed unfit for human consumption? His reason for asking this question at such a late period of the session was that the subject was one of very great importance indeed, and he hoped the Minister would give the Council an assur- ance that the Health Act would be brought into active operation, as suggested in the ques- tion. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, Of course, he had no knowledge of the matter beyond what appeared in the question, but the Health Department would look into the matter, and take any steps that were necessary. # INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- In moving the third reading of this Bill, I do so with some feelings of regret. I cannot say that I like the form in which the Bill has come down to us, because I think the clauses put in in the other House in the early hours of the morning have, to my mind, destroyed the Bill, and tend to make it operate against the principles of the original Act. Therefore, it is a matter of regret to me that this Council should have supported those two clauses-clauses 6 and 21. The original principle was that conciliation should precede arbitration, and conciliation should not be a weapon to be used by one side or another as they thought fit. It is not a weapon: it is a bulwark of defence which is in the interest of every one, and when every one or any one is deprived of the privileges of the Board of Conciliation, Parliament is taking away from https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 them the privileges that the original Act in- tended to give them, and on which the whole of this legislation really is based. No one can claim that this Act is any longer a Conciliation and Arbitration Act if these clauses are in it. The title of the Act almost ought to be altered. It is no longer an Act for promoting conciliation and arbitration when either party can contract itself out of the first principle underlying the whole of this legislation. Why has this been attempted ? Why has there been this attack upon this principle of the Act? Simply because it has been alleged that in Wellington the Conciliation Board has not being doing its duty-that it has spun out cases unduly, and has not succeeded in conciliating. And all the blame is placed on the representatives of labour on that tribunal. Why is the blame all to be thrust on the representatives of labour ? Is it not equally open to argument, is it not equally open to proof that in some of these cases the employers were the guilty people ? The em- ployers were the people who spun out disputes in order that the cases should be forced to the Arbitration Court. That really is the position. There was one notorious case where the em- ployers allowed a case to go on for twenty-one days, and at the end of the twenty-one days they sprung a mine on the other side, and on account of a technicality everything had to be begun de novo. Who was to blame there ? Certainly it was not the Board ; and certainly Hon. Mr. Jones it was not the labour representatives, but they got the blame of it. I say it is a very grave matter for regret that the Council should have adopted these amendments, which have been hastily put in at very short notice and without much consideration in another branch of the Legislature, and the Council have by indorsing them done a very great deal to injure the usefulness and strength of the Act. Clauses 6 and 21 are the two clauses which, I feel, we have reason to regret have been passed by the Council. They are quite contrary to the original intention of the Act ; they are not justified by the experience we have had during the last few years in the working of the Act, and if they are put on the statute-book they will be a serious blow to the continuity and to the harmony of this legisla- tion. Although I move the third reading of the Bill, I do so with some regret. I move it because the Council has seen fit to pass the Bill in its present form ; but I think it is a matter for regret, and I am sure it will be a matter of regret to those who really consider these Acts and who desire to see them passed in & form in the interests of both sides. I beg to move the third reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Any one listening to the honourable gentleman's mournful speech, and also to the lamentations others have in- dulged in over this measure, would come to the conclusion that all the clauses of the Bill dealing with Conciliation Boards have been repealed. Has anything like that been done? Not a bit of it. What has been done is that the liberties of the people have been extended, inasmuch as they can go to conciliation or not, as they please. It is a most extraordinary thing for honourable gentlemen who claim to stand in the vanguard of progress to object to the extension of human liberty. It is really a most extraordinary thing that this should occur, and I really cannot understand why they are objecting to this Bill. It is true that there is one clause in the Bill, which, if I had had the chance of voting on it again, I would vote for keeping it out of the Bill, and that is clause 6. I voted for the insertion of that clause in the hope that I would modify it by amendments in Committee. I placed these amendments on the Order Paper, and honourable gentlemen have read them. If these amendments had been inserted in the Bill the clause would not be what it is now, but those who prolonged the debate until such a late hour made it impossible to insert them. and it was owing to that fact that I did not. propose them. I voted for the clause, but if I had a chance of voting again I should vote against it, because I think under it hardships may be inflicted on individuals. An Hon. MEMBER .- Move to recommit the Bill. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I think it is too late now to do that. I believe there is some- thing in what has been said in respect to its \-- being possible that certain persons might be made marked men, and have to suffer owing to this clause. In this connection I think there <!-- PageNumber=":" --> 