services as gas, electric lighting, trams, water, et cetera, assistance to or ownership of public libraries, assistance to technical education, et cetera, ownership of land and rent therefrom, and such other information as may prove of interest and be instructive to other local bodies ? Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said he thought that would be a very good thing to do, and would be very glad to have it arranged for. ## LITTLE RIVER AND LINCOLN RAIL- WAY. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will afford facilities to the residents of Kaituna to establish a creamery in the district by running a daily train between Little River and Lincoln, the directors of the Central Dairy Factory having refused to erect a creamery unless the cream can be sent in daily ? He would like to bring the Minister for Agriculture to his assistance in bringing pressure to bear upon the Minister for Railways in getting him to run a train daily between Little River and Lincoln. The question came under the department of the Minister for Agri- culture, inasmuch as he must desire to en- the establishment of creameries. courage Without a daily train it was impossible to establish any more creameries on this line. Exception had already been taken by the In- spector under the Minister for Agriculture's department to the cream supplied to the fac- tory by the creameries already established on this line. The cream now supplied was on one https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 day of the week three days old by the time it reached the central factory in Christchurch, and the company had refused to establish any more creameries until the product could be sent into Christchurch daily. An estate had just been cut up at this particular spot-the Kaituna Estate, of some fourteen thousand acres-and the settlers there had promised a supply from over three hun- dred cows if they could get a creamery, which they could not get without the train. The Railway Department was losing the pas- sengers from Christchurch to Akaroa on three days of the week. They had on those days to travel to Lyttelton, thence by boat to Pigeon Bay, and from Pigeon Bay on by coach ; and all these passengers ought to be travelling to Little River by train. He did not know what would be the cost of running the extra train, but it could not amount to much, as the en- gine, carriages, et cetera, remained idle at Little River, and the department had merely to use this plant to connect it with the South- bridge train at Lincoln by means of a daily train. There was another point, which more immediately concerned the Minister for Public Works, and it was this : that the line had cost the country very little owing to the fact of a prant of land having been set apart for this line, so that the cost of the line was consider- ahiv under $20,000; but he would like the Minister for Railways, if possible, to take this fact into consideration. As to the Minister for Public Works, he would have something to say later on. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) might state that he already had some informa- tion concerning this matter, but he would be glad to take the fresh representations the honourable gentleman had just made, and look into it again and see whether the train services he asked for were wanted. If there was any- thing to justify it he would be glad to do it. It was entirely a question of whether the traffic would warrant it, and he had, so far, been ad- vised that it did not. # INDUSTRIAL HOME. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Government, Whether they will consider the question of carrying out the following suggestion of the Auckland Charitable Aid and Hospital Board, namely, "That great necessity exists for the establishment of a home wherein persons who are inadmissible to the Costley Home by reason of its constitution, and are un- able to provide for themselves the necessaries of life from physical or other causes, may be admitted and held under restrictive regulations, and at the same time be required to contribute to their own support by being engaged in some industrial occupation, especially of an agri- cultural nature " ? Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) thought that provision should be made for that object. CAPTAIN JACKSON BARRY'S BOOK. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked the Go- vernment, If it is true, as stated in the Evening Post, that the Government has decided to publish the book of Captain Jackson Barry ; and, if so, on what terms? Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said Captain Jackson Barry was a well-known old colonist, and had already pub- lished one book relating to his experiences in this colony. There was no doubt he had a lot of facts and matter in his possession of interest to the colony generally. He had a large number of subscribers for his new publication, which was said to be much superior to the one last issued; but, unfortunately, the old gentleman had been unable, for financial reasons, to make arrangements with a firm of booksellers to undertake the publication of this work, and if suitable arrangements could be made by him by which he would refund the cost of the printing of the work, in all probability it would be undertaken by the Government Printing Department. # DEAF AND DUMB INSTITUTION, SUMNER. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Govern- ment, What they have done towards the erec- tion of a new fireproof building to accommodate the inmates of the Deaf and Dumb Institu- tion, Sumner, authority having been given last session by a vote of the House for the purpose ; and, in the event of a fire in the present old wooden buildings, what provision has been made to rescue those helpless children ? This ques- 