Mr. HOGG. - The State pays chiefly for them. It comes very largely out of the pocket of the State. Every man and woman in this country has to contribute. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Nonsense. Mr. HOGG. - Honourable members may deny it as much as they like, but it is the fact. We have the evidence before us, and if you read the report of the Commission you will find what I am stating is correct. It is no use for members representing large centres saying that these things do not exist. Do they deny where the funds for these things come from ? I say the funds come from the State. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. HOGG .- In some cases they are supple- mented by contributions from other sources. For instance, take the gymnasium in Dunedin. There they have a building erected partly by public contributions, but they received #1 for #1 from the State. Take the Technical School in this city : How much does it receive from the Education vote ? How much of the money that the State provides for primary education is expended in that direction? Surely honour- able members will admit that, being connected with the Wellington Education Board, I know something about this matter. It cannot be denied that the institutions referred to in the large centres have received a large share of as- sistance from the State; in some instances nearly the whole of the money comes out of the public funds. Members will find that the money expended upon these institutions is not derived entirely from public subscriptions. A considerable proportion belongs to funds set apart by the State for primary education. Well, Sir, in contrast with these well-equipped and well-endowed schools, if you go into the Marlborough District and travel just outside Blenheim you will find schools of a very dif- ferent character. You will find dilapidated buildings, miserable patched-up places, with dark rooms, and the children working there in semi-darkness -- buildings that are badly de. signed and badly constructed, with no play- grounds, where the teachers and the children as well are labouring under manifest disadvan- tages. And is it to be expected that in districts where the schools are starved, and the teachers are very poorly paid, strong teachers will remain ? What happens in the case of the strong teacher ? Is he not actuated-much as he may like his occupation, much as he may be attached to the families and the children-is he not actuated by the same considerations as influence the average clergyman, who, after working a considerable time amongst his flock, receives a call from a more wealthy parish, and determines to sever the ties of friendship which existed for years ? It is only in accord- ance with human nature. Teachers, like others, will drift into the wealthier districts, and try to improve their position. The result of all this is that the poor districts where the small schools are, and in which there are very one of the best experiences of my life has been few large ones, are impoverished as regards efficiency. Wherever there is a good, ener- his profession, he will aspire to better fields and improved opportunities. Take the case of a young man striving to improve himself. Directly he begins to see that he is making good headway and distinguishing himself by his suc- cess he will naturally seek a position in some district where he will have a good prospect of advancement. Well, Sir, I ask this : If there are such differences in teaching power between one district and another, and between the large centres and the country districts, is it fair or is it unfair to our young people ? I say it is unfair to a great many. They do not get the same opportunities ; they do not receive the quality of education that they have the right to receive under a system where every child is supposed to have equal privileges and equal opportunities. This is no fault of the Boards. The Boards have a difficult task. In the course of my travels I have found that the Boards as a whole have loyal officers and fairly good teachers. As regards the teachers, whether they are well paid or ill paid, I will say this : that they are uniformly actuated by one object-the progress and improvement of those in their charge. I need not refer to the importance of education as one of the chief factors in our national life. That cannot be denied. At one time I was under the impression that the establishment of any scale of staffs and salaries, fixing what was to be done by enact- ment, would constitute an invasion of the rights of the Boards, and would have the effect of depressing them. I would be very sorry to see any power taken away from the Boards. I do not want to see their functions impaired. That is one thing that should be guarded against. We want to strengthen the Boards of Educa- tion ; certainly not to weaken them. The question is: Will this measure in any way injure the Boards? I do not believe it will. It will take away from them a huge amount of responsibility, and remove a large amount of trouble. It will give them, in my opinion, a freer scope for useful administration than they have at the present time. I will submit a few figures that clearly indicate the difference be- tween one district and another. There are in Auckland 106 paying schools-that is, schools of fifty of average attendance and over-and 248 losing schools, or small schools. In Otago we have seventy-nine paying schools, and 143 small or losing schools ; in North Canterbury we have sixty-six paying schools, and 135 small schools ; in Wellington we have fifty-two paying schools, and ninety-five small schools ; and in Wanganui we have forty-eight paying schools and ninety-five small schools. Now contrast those figures with the condition of Marlborough, where there are eight paying schools and fifty-seven small schools on which the Board loses money. In Nelson there are twenty-three paying schools, and 101 losing schools; and in Westland there are five paying schools, and thirty-one losing schools. I will not take up much more of the time of the House. I wish simply to say that in travelling with the Commission and in- 