and similarly all goods the produce or manu- facture of the said Islands or on which duty has been paid in the said Islands shall be admitted to New Zealand free of duty." I think 10 per cent. was what they were charging before, and it was about sufficient to pay the annual cost of the charges of govern- ment. So there is no doubt but that they will be able to do the same now. I do not think that there are any other clauses in the Bill which require any explanation. The conjunc- tion of these Islands with New Zealand was, by Act of Parliament, agreed to, and therefore I have no doubt Parliament will be perfectly willing to give effect to the administrative de- tails that are necessary in consequence thereof. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- When I read in the papers that the Mother-country had com- mitted the stupendous folly of handing over the Islands mentioned in the Bill to be included in the boundaries of New Zealand, I could guess pretty well what would follow. I knew that a Bill something of this kind would very shortly make its appearance, and the Government cer- tainly have lost no time in putting forward a scheme for the government of the Islands. I should like to know to whom the Government will look for enlightenment about these Islands -on whom is it to depend for information re- garding the views of the natives on government from New Zealand ? The attempt to govern the Islands in their present state of civilisation after the manner of older countries is a perfect farce. It is like trying to fit the coat of a grown-up man upon the body of a small boy. They have got their own customs-they have / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero got their own ideas as to how they ought to be governed. I may say that I have visited those Islands-not all of them-but I have spent many months, and very pleasant months they were, on the Island of Rarotonga. I was there on two occasions, and I suppose altogether I was there about eight months, and during that time I made a close study of the natives. Rarotonga was then, like the other islands of the group, under their own Government. Some people said that there was missionary government in the background. To a certain extent that was true-that is to say, their morals were looked after as well as could be. When I was there the missionary of Rarotonga was that great and good man who lost his life the other day at New Guinea, the Rev. James Chalmers. I was his guest on both occasions when I was at Raro- tonga, and I saw the excellent influence which he exerted over the natives. There was no attempt at bullying or compulsion of any kind, and, indeed, it will not do with the Natives, because they will listen to your advice very patiently, they will answer you very politely, but somehow or other they manage to get their own way in the long-run, and in the quietest manner possible. And now, to whom does the Government look for enlightenment as to what experiments in the way of legislation are to be tried, and as to which of our laws are to be extended to Rarotonga ? Naturally to \--- very singular views-some Commissioners are rather singular - very apt to take fancies into their heads, particularly if they have not been brought up among the natives they are placed among, and to rather look with a paternal eye upon the natives as mere children who are to be dictated to, and that grandmotherly legis- lation, as the late Dr. Pollen used to call it, should be passed for their benefit. If the Govern- ment should-I do not say it will-but if ever it should be misled by advice of this kind it may be very bad for the natives, and certainly will not have a tendency to make the New Zea- land Government popular among them. I con- sider that our going to these Islands has not been for the good of the natives. They were getting on very well, and happily, under missionary government. I very much fear that very grand ideas will get into the heads of some of them, the Arikis and chiefs; and what will be the consequence ? They will have magnificent notions, and there will be a very prosaic result-namely, they will get into debt. What will happen then? What has happened too frequently in New Zealand in former days? They will get deeply into debt with the store- How is the storekeeper to get his keepers. money ? He and the land - sharks - land- sharks have their eyes upon those Islands already-will deliberate amongst themselves, and come to the conclusion that the native law against the alienation of land is stupid, and ought to be repealed as soon as pos- sible - in fact that there should be free-trade in land. The end of it will be that in some evil hour the Parliament of this colony will be in- duced to pass a law repealing the Rarotongan law against the alienation of land, and then it will not be difficult to tell what the result to the natives will be. We have landless Natives in New Zealand unfortunately, and the same thing will be seen in the Islands. I see a very dangerous provision in this Bill. Clause 13 provides,- "(1.) The Governor may from time to time, by Proclamation, set aside Crown lands within the said Islands to be reserves for the purpose of Imperial or colonial naval or military de- fence, or any other specified public purpose. " (2.) Such Proclamation shall be conclusive evidence that the lands specified therein as Crown lands are in fact Crown lands for the purposes of this Act." Seeing the jingoistic spirit abroad in this colony at the present time, as the result of that abominable South African war, I say that is a very dangerous clause, and I am certain as to what is intended by it. If these Islands had required fortifying, would any one for a moment suppose that the Mother-country would have handed them over to New Zealand ? Are they worth fortifying ? Here is the power given to the Government to erect fortifications. It may be said that the Imperial Government will have to be consulted before that could be done, but in these days it seems to me clear what will be the result. It seems as if the colonies have only to ask, to have granted to them. 