down the slope and through the tents. "The trouble as to health commenced at Worcester, and I believe what I have stated was the cause of most of that trouble - that and the conditions on board ship. We had very rough weather between the Cape and Albany. I think most of the men had their colds while on board the boat on the way out. I do not think any of the men took cold or any harm at Invercar- gill or Port Chalmers ; between Albany and Port Chalmers we had fairly good weather. Most of the colds developed between the Cape and Albany. I should say that at least 70 per cent. of the men were in the doctor's hands while on board the boat. I know of no addi- tional cases at Port Chalmers. Sergeant Bell was, I think, the first to get ill between Albany and Port Chalmers, and he contracted pneu- monia. He is now all right. I saw him the other day, and I asked him if going south had done him any harm ; and he replied that he did not think so, he was worse while on board than Between Albany and after he had got ashore. Port Chalmers the illness was least, but be- tween the other two ports the weather was bad. The weather was better, and the ship scarcely rolled, between Albany and Port Chalmers. " I do not think there were any protests from the men against going to Port Chalmers ; there was a sort of petition at Port Chalmers ; it was not the cold the men were afraid of, but they wanted to get home quickly. A number of men from other ports did not want to go to Inver. cargill, but to land at once and get home; this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 also applied to the Christchurch men, who wanted to do the same. "When I read Mr. Allen's charges in the paper I felt as if I would like to be there ; it http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero was a ridiculous thing to say. After they had gone to Invercargill, I think every one of the men were glad they had gone there, they were treated so well by the Southland people ; they were billeted out and suffered no incon- venience, and had good places to stay at, and I am quite certain every man who went to Inver- cargill was glad afterwards that he had done so. I never heard anything to the contrary. All those who went to Invercargill were passed by the doctor, and any one who did not wish to go could stay behind. "I forgot to mention that when we left Wor- cester the time was about one in the morning, and there was a very cold and keen wind blow- ing, and we had to ride in open cars or trucks all the way down to Capetown. There was very little room also - scarcely enough standing room. The distance was something over a hundred miles, and I think we arrived about nine the next morning. Up to the time of our arrival at Worcester all were in fairly good health. I am quite satisfied most of the pneumonia originated in Worcester. As far as I know, none originated after we had left. " We have been well treated all through, and at Invercargill very well treated indeed. As to the men who have died, I know the circum- stances : two died on the steamer; one at his home (Moffatt) ; one had an abscess on the liver ! to the Bluff ; but he was more concerned at Mr. Seddon thing to do with them. McKechnie died at Dunedin of typhoid, so there was only one case which might be put down to cold. I have accounted for five out of the six deaths, and the cold could certainly have had nothing to do with them either at Port Chalmers or In- vercargill. Of course, those men who were not fit to go to the Bluff remained on board the 'Tagus.' "I understood when we got to Albany that we had been instructed to proceed to the Bluff. That was the first instruction after arrival at Albany. In fact, after we left Capetown we thought we should arrive first at the Bluff. We knew there was a difference of opinion between somebody as to whether the destina- tion should be Port Chalmers or Bluff. We understood that, but still we were under the impression it would be the Bluff, and we could not understand why the captain went round Stewart Island instead of through the Strait. It was reported on board that we should land some hours before we actually did so. The captain took the route for Port Chalmers, and did not go through the Strait. He went south of the island-right round it. That was the first we knew practically of the matter. " We landed at Albany on a Saturday after- noon, and did not leave there till the Tuesday night following. We could not understand why we had been kept from Saturday till Tuesday. "I never heard a man complain, or say that he was running any risks. After coming back from Invercargill every man I spoke to was glad that he had gone. The weather during the whole of the time we were down South was beautiful." " HENRY WALTER BLAKE. " 15th October, 1901." Mr. J. ALLEN said he had nothing to say against the Premier's last statements. He was quite prepared to admit that a great deal of sickness did occur at Worcester, and also on the voyage from the Cape to Albany. But that was all the more reason, he submitted, that when the cablegram came from the doctor, through the commanding officer, more notice should have been taken of it, and the men ordered to return by a warmer route, and so have their health conserved. But the Minister did not accept the advice, and made no attempt to get the boat to return by a warmer route. There was not a single case of pneumonia on the ship when she left the Cape. Mr. SEDDON .- I said "the sickness com- menced between Albany and the Cape." Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier said the pneu- monia occurred at Worcester. Mr. SEDDON .- I said "through the hard- ships experienced at Worcester." Mr. J. ALLEN said the pneumonia developed owing to the cold weather, and in one case, at any rate, it began just after the boat left Albany, and the trooper died before the ship reached Port Chalmers. The right honourable gentle- man and some of the writers of these letters said that no sickness occurred owing to the trip 