and, I think, almost every rational town mem- ber of this House, I again reiterate that there is no desire on the part of any one of us of the Liberal party to set town against country or country against town. On the contrary, we do not want to loaf on the country, and the honourable member knows it. He knows that the men in the towns are only too glad to get a chance to go into the country. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I have corrected the honourable gentleman three times, and yet he continues to misrepresent me. What I said was that the town wants a whole loaf, and that they will only give us a small scone for the country. The honourable gentleman misunder- stood me at first, but not afterwards, and said that I stated that the town people wanted to loaf on the country, and he persisted in using those words. Mr. LAURENSON .- I regret, if I have mis- represented the honourable gentleman, but I wish to call the attention of honourable mem- bers representing country districts to this point : The statement has been made that the present Government has been attempting to improve the condition of the town workers at the ex- pense of the people of the country, and that they have been and are neglecting the country, and devoting all their attention to the town. This is not so, and no one knows that better than the men who make these statements. say that there has not been the slightest in- tention to do so. For instance, this year we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 are voting £7,700 for the Labour Department, and $91,000 for the Department of Agriculture. Does that show the slightest wish on the part of the Government, or on the part of town or labour representatives in this House, to inter- fere with the agricultural interests of this country ? No, Sir, we read statistics too much, and we study the political aspects of the country too well, but to realise that if the country is not prosperous neither will the towns be prosperous. In fact, we rely on the country being prosperous for our prosperity. It is the desire of labour and Liberal members that not only should the farmers partake of that prosperity, but also that the shearers, the ploughmen, and the labourers in the country should partake of it as well ; but we also wish that the men who work in the towns should have fair consideration, and it is only fair con- sideration for them that we ask for. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I want to say a word or two with reference to what fell from the Minister for Railways regarding industries to-day and their condition a few years ago. I should like to take one industry, and that is the bootmaking trade. I can remember twenty years ago, in Invercargill, that men working at the bench on the iron last were paid £3 a week, and that "clickers " were paid £3 10s. a week, and sometimes more ; and that was when there was very little in the shape of duty paid upon the imported article. To-day the duty is some- thing like 22} per cent. on manufactured goods, to protect the bootmaking industry in this colony, and what is the state of matters to-day ? That the operative bootmaker is paid about £1 15s. or £2 a week. An Hon. MEMBER .- The minimum wage is £2 2s. Mr. HORNSBY .- Yes ; I know that £2 2s. is the minimum fixed by the Arbitration Court, and therefore it proves that the position of the operative bootmaker is worse to-day than it was twenty-two years ago. An HON. MEMBER .- That is due to ma- chinery. Mr. HORNSBY .- Well, if it is due to ma- chinery we appear to have been going crab-like, or backwards instead of forwards, because I have always understood the introduction of machinery reduces the cost of production, and that the person who consumes the article pro- duced gets it at a lower price, while wages are raised and the hours of labour are shortened. At all events, that is the position of trades in the Old Country, and certainly so in the case of America. Now, I have shown what protection has done in one particular trade in this colony, and I say it would not have been necessary to have had so much of this labour legislation, so many of these factory laws, introduced into this House and passed into law if we had had free-trade in this colony. My own impression is that the solving of the labour problem here in New Zea- land lies in that one thing, and I am astonished that the member for Waihemo, knowing as he I does so much about the operation of matters in the trade world, did not touch on the question, be- cause he is more qualified to speak on it than I am. Sir, the position is this : that the great struggle that is coming in this country is the question of "Free-trade versus Protection." We are going to have that battle fought out in this colony, and that will bring about the solution of the present labour difficulty, and we shall then know exactly where we stand, while the people of the country will realise what they have been paying for their whistle during all these years of factory legislation and the imposition of Customs duties through the tariff of the colony. Why, Sir, talking about the condition of tradesmen in this colony, I may take my own trade for example. I can remember the time in this country when & compositor could earn his £4, £5, or £6 a week. What is the position to-day ? It is a very inferior one. And what has brought about the whole difficulty with regard to the position of the "out - of . works" in the trade to which I belong ? To-day in this colony, through the endeavour that is made by the trades-unions, through these Bills that have been passed in this House -- one of which we are passing to-night-what has been the effect on my trade? I will say this: that to day, through the introduction of machinery, we are going to see in this colony hundreds of men turned away from their trade; and not because of the machine itself, not because of any desire on the part of the employer to resist the operation of labour legislation, such as this Bill we are passing to-night, but because of the unfair impositions of the labour organizations of the colony, brought about 