of the Minister. Now, this was a rather more important question than the last. He found, according to a newspaper report, that Mr. R. W. Gosset was tried for embezzlement, and it went on to say,- " Mr. Gosset was suspended from duty on the 1st July on account of drunkenness, and during his absence from his office an audit of the books showed a total deficiency of about $1.100, of which Gosset was responsible for $637 and Goodwin for $460. Goodwin's death put out of the question of proceedings against him. Gosset was tried before the High Com- missioner's Court, including Colonel Gudgeon, on a charge of embezzling £637, the property of the Government of the Cook Islands. Ac- cused pleaded guilty." He was quite aware that before the annexa- tion Colonel Gudgeon was appointed a Judicial Commissioner under the High Court of the Western Pacific. That was shown in the des- patch of Mr. Chamberlain, dated the 24th August, 1899. But the Order in Council con- stituting the High Commissionership of the Western Pacific says that it shall have no effect in a British colony. Directly the Cook Islands became part of the Colony of New Zealand it seemed to him that the High Com- missioner's Court could not exist at all. It might possibly be that the paper was wrong, and that the charge against Gosset was heard before the High Court of the Cook Islands. He would like the Minister to explain the porition. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the honourable gentleman again had asked him a number of questions in addition to the question on the Order Paper, and, as they were questions http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero of a technical and difficult nature, it could hardly be expected that he could answer all of them off-hand. He would endeavour to answer the question as it appeared on the Order Paper. He was not responsible for what ap- peared in the Press. He had no special report in regard to this case, but he would make inquiry. He was informed that the Cook Islands would retain their existing laws and Judiciary until they were altered by competent authority : and in the present case the Govern- ment would follow the course adopted in Cape Colony. He did not know that he could give the honourable gentleman any further informa- tion. Mr. HERRIES .- Was he tried before the High Commissioner ? Mr. McGOWAN said he did not know whether he was tried at all, except from what appeared in the Press. When he (Mr. McGowan) got the full information he would be able to answer the honourable gentleman's question. Mr. HERRIES asked if any reports had been received. Mr. McGOWAN said he had received no re- ports. # M. A. DONNELLY. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will place on the supplementary estimates a sum for the pay- Donnelly, wife of the late Sergeant Donnelly, in accordance with the recommendation of the Public Petitions Committee of last session ? Sergeant Donnelly was for very many years in the service of the Provincial Government, and afterwards he was in the service of the General Government. He was a man about whose respectability, integrity, and performance of duty no question whatever had been raised. The case was inquired into by the Public Peti- tions Committee last session, and they referred the petition to the Government for favourable consideration. He (Mr. Fisher) knew the case to be a most deserving one. He trusted the Minister would see his way to place a sum on the estimates for the widow of Sergeant Don- nelly. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said he believed the honourable member was quite correct in what he had said with respect to the ability, et cetera, of the late Sergeant Donnelly ; but there was this difficulty in regard to grant- ing his widow a compassionate allowance : For very many years Sergeant Donnelly was not living with his wife. Mr. FISHER .- He allowed her £1 a week. Mr. McGOWAN said that Sergeant Donnelly died possessed of considerable means, and he willed his means in another direction ; and, that being so, he did not know that the Go vernment were called upon to pay compas- sionate allowance to his widow-at any rate, that was one of the reasons for the decision come to by the Government. However, if the honourable member wished it, he had no ob- jection to bring the matter again before the Cabinet. Mr. FISHER said that Sergeant Donnelly voluntarily allowed his wife #1 a week so long as he lived. He thought some consideration might be granted to the widow as suggested in the question. # APPOINTMENTS AS STIPENDIARY MAGISTRATES. Mr. MORRISON (Caversham) asked the Minister of Justice, If the department, in making future appointments to the Stipen- diary Magistrates' bench, intends to confine these appointments to solicitors only ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the Government had come to no decision. They wanted to appoint the men best qualified for the position. POLICE SERGEANT WRIGHT. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether Sergeant Wright, Clerk of the Wellington Police-station, has recently been instructed by Commissioner Tunbridge to transfer himself to Wanganui; and, if so, why has he not done so ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said, No, he had not been recently instructed. He might say that some time ago certain instruc- tions were given, but they were afterwards countermanded by himself (Mr. McGowan). 