The honourable gentleman who has just sat down is fully entitled to his own opinion as to what is the right course to pursue on such an important mat er. But I should like to point out that the question of acquiring the line is not a recent one. For years past a number of people have been advocating the acquisition of the railway in the interests of the colony, and during last session statutory authority was given to the Government to enter into negotia- tions on certain conditions. The honourable gentleman seems to imagine there has been some motive in keeping the Bill back till this evening. That is quite a mistake. The nego- tiations have been proceeding for some time. It is a matter of history that we were leading up to definite terms in our negotiations when the Financial Statement was ready for delivery. There was a paragraph prepared and in the Statement bearing on it, and, in consequence of the chairman of the Manawatu directors at the last moment not being in a position to place any proposals before the Government, we had to take out the paragraph before submitting the Statement to the House. I am not disclosing any confidential business when I say that negotiations have been going on between a large body of the shareholders and the directors of the company here, and that some of the directors are opposed to the sale of the line to the colony on the terms sub- mitted. But I believe-or, at least, we are so informed-that the majority of the share- holders in the Old Country, and here also, are desirous of selling the railway at the price we have declined to go beyond-that is. 30s. per share. We only received information this morning from the chairman of the company that he expected he would be in a position to sell the railway to the Government on the basis of 30s. a share, and the Government then felt the House should be apprised, and submitted a Bill at once. More than that we could not do. Now, Sir, the whole point is, Is it a good thing for the colony to acquire that railway on the basis of 30s. per share upon 170,000 shares, or is it preferable to acquire it under the existing law, by which we would have to pay 10 per cent. on the cost of the construction of the rail- way? What would that amount to? We would have to add 10 per cent. to $762,751, making $839.026. Captain RUSSELL .- No. Sir J. G. WARD .- Pardon me, that is so. If you look at the cost of the railway and rolling- stock- - Captain RUSSELL .- That is the value, not the cost. Sir J. G. WARD .- It is not the value. It will cost the colony that. The position has been investigated by responsible officers, who went into the whole matter, and, according to the officers who furnished the Government with their report, it would cost the colony many thousands more if we took the railway as pro- vided under the Act than by giving 30s. per share. What the Government desires is to acquire the railway at the lowest possible cost had claimed as being the cost it would cost us $1,045,288, and that would not include the land, for under the Act the land is exempted. No Government ought to go in for the acquisi- tion of the Manawatu Railway Company piece- meal. Any sale should include land, railway, rolling.stock, and its business. Under the pro- posals the Government are negotiating. the total cost to the colony will be $943,000, as against $1.015,288 if the company's contention was up- held, and without the land ; and if honoura! le members will look at the schedule of the land they will find that the unsold land amounts to $51,000, irrespective of the amount due by the purchasers, which comes to another $51,000. so that we would run the risk of being $100.000 worse off by acquiring the property under that Act, as advocated by the honourable member. It had been admitted that this great highway to Palmerston should be acquired at a reasonable price to the colony. In the first place the chairman of the company had asked 35s. per share, and afterwards 32s. 6d. per share. That We said was declined by the Government. that the colony would not entertain business at more than 30s. per share, and neither will we. If they do not like to take that they can keep it. We can then run our own line as we think fit, and without having to be everlastingly told we are interfering with the Manawatu Com- pany's business or rates. We want to reduce our rates further, and intend to do so. If we do so now we are told it is not fair to the Mana- watu Company, and that we are trying to force them to sell. We are not trying to do anything of the kind. We are prepared to pay what we believe is the fair value, and beyond that we will not go. When they get a fair offer for their property, if they refuse it such arguments as to what we do regarding the lowering of rates on our own lines cannot apply. The honourable member said that a member had had a quota- tion of 24s. per share. Well, that honourable member should tell all he knows about that quotation. As a matter of fact, the whole trouble has been that the shares in the Mana- watu Railway Company have, I understand, for some time past been held by very few people. who have collared all the shares offering, and we are informed that there are not more than 10 per cent. of the shares on the market at the present time; and these shareholders have been standing out to get 35s. per share, and then 32s. 6d. per share. The whole position is this : The responsible officer of the Railway Department, Mr. Hudson, went into the matter in every possible way, and upon the calculs- tions that have been submitted the course pro- posed now is the best and safest for the colony. Now, the whole question is, Is it a good than; for the colony to acquire this railway? If it is a good thing to acquire the railway, is the price of 30s. per share a fair price for the cary to pay to enable us to own and work that rail. way ? An Hon. MEMBER. -- How long have the de- bentures to run ? Sir J. G. WARD. -- About seven years ; and 