was known as the drinking practices of the Natives in and around their settlements. That, he thought, was a very good thing. ALLEGED EXCESSIVE DRINKING OF TARANAKI MAORIS. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori District) asked the Native Minister, Whether the Government has had its attention drawn to the various re- ports in the Press as to the excessive drinking alleged to be carried on amongst the Maori in- habitants of the Taranaki District, and whether the Government will appoint a Royal Com- mission during the coming recess to inquire into the truth or otherwise of the said reports ? He was informed that it was intended to give wide publicity to the alleged misbehaviour of the Maoris of the Taranaki District. It was alleged they were drinking to excess. His per- sonal opinion was that these reports were very very largely exaggerated, because he had himself a considerable knowledge of the district. He was all over it last year, and he even went to the principal Maori village in the district, Parihaka ; and at all the meetings which he attended he never once saw a Native under the influence of liquor, nor did he see the Natives drinking any intoxicating liquor what- ever at these meetings. As a matter of fact, those in charge of the Parihaka meet- ing refused to permit any intoxicating liquor within the boundaries of the pa. He looked upon the outcry that was recently raised, and the allegations which had been made, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 as being the immediate work of the reli- gious bodies throughout New Zealand. He knew there was a great deal of rivalry amongst the various forms of religious belief in this http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero country : that every Church would tell you that it was the only right one ; and it struck him they were trying to make a great deal of capital out of this matter for their own pur- poses at the expense of the Maoris. He had therefore considered it necessary to ask this question, and he would urge the Minister to hold an inquiry forthwith into these accusa- tions that had been brought against a section of his constituents ; and he would further add that if the Minister found, upon inquiry, that there were any such practices indulged in as alleged in any of the outlying districts through- out his electorate, then certainly it behoved him to take some immediate step to put a stop to it. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) quite agreed with the remark of the honourable gentleman that certain sections of the com- munity, having at heart, no doubt, the cause to which they were so much attached, and a wish that that cause should be advanced as far as possible in the direction they wished-no matter at whose expense-were rather inclined to give credence to reports as to the moral con- dition of the Native people, which, possibly, might be more exaggerated than the facts would admit, so long as they got some shock- ing example to hold up to the public gaze. Their zeal in their cause seemed to him to lead did not compensate them for their trouble. He was glad to say that the report, whatever truth there might be in it, referred only to one part of the island. Generally speaking-and he knew it to be a fact-the Natives through- out the colony compared favourably with their European brethren as a temperate and sober people. As regards this particular matter which, according to those who reported on it, had taken place in the West Coast district, he believed there were grounds for the state. ments that had been made. He might say that some time ago he was interviewed by the Rev. Mr. Hammond and one or two others, who gave evidence of having personally wit- nessed a condition of things there which could only be described as highly improper and un- desirable, and that the Natives in some of the villages were given to over-indulgence, especially at their meetings and tangis. He had made inquiries apart from these gentlemen, and he found that it was so to an unusual extent. He did not think, however, that in all cases it arose out of any innate love for strong drink, but more through a spirit of "cussedness " which seemed to control them. They were under the ruling influence of Te Whiti and Tohu, and those gentlemen were not in sym- pathy with any law passed by the Legislature ; and because Parliament last year passed the Maori Councils Act, which had for its purpose the suppression of drinking in the Maori vil- lages, they had, in a spirit of bravado and de- fiance, indulged excessively in the use of alcohol, to show. Maori-like, that they cared not for the aims of that law. However, they were getting the by-laws published under that Act, which would be enforced in that district, to enable the Maori Council to prevent the bringing in of liquor to the Native settlements and the use of it at any Native meeting within such district. It might be necessary to pass a short Bill this session giving further powers to the Maori Councils, so that the Councils, at any time when satisfied that excessive drinking was being carried on by the Natives in any locality or settlement, might report the same to the Gover- nor with a view of that particular locality being made a Native district within the meaning of the licensing law of the country. That would prevent any one selling drink to any Native or Natives in those parts. With regard to prose- cuting inquiries in the matter, he would do so immediately the session was over. He would make it his duty-and it was his duty-to go to that part of the country and interview the Natives themselves and discuss this question with them. But he would like, before the ses- sion closed, to be armed by an amendment of the Maori Councils Act in order to give the power which he thought was necessary for carrying out the by-laws he already referred to, and, armed with that and with the desire to promote their wellbeing, and with the assist- ance he knew he should get from those who desired the best results in the administration of Native affairs, he was certain a better state of things could be made to prevail. 