in listening to the three speeches which have been delivered by honourable members, one cannot but think, although those honourable members may not realise it themselves, that they appear to be governed by a certain amount of prejudice against the representative of the King in this country. An Hon. MEMBER .- No; not in the slightest. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, that is the impres- sion which the speeches of honourable mem- bers convey to those who have listened to them. Mr. ATKINSON .- There will be a row directly. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, it does not matter. If there is to be a row we may as well have one now as not. Sir, let us take the last speaker first. Why, the honourable member says this is going to cost the country £100,000, yet the full authority being asked for from Parliament is $70,000. How could the honour- able member swell this by £30,000, unless by wilful design to exaggerate? Why, Sir, when the honourable member or others talk about the expenditure of $70,000, what does it amount to when you come to analyse it ? It is not all money actually spent, and we have also got some moneys in return. There is a sum of about £15,000 of the cost charged to the railways of the country ; there is a sum of about £20,000 charged the Defence Department, a consider- able portion of which was used for the purpose of payment of the men who served at the different reviews in connection with the Royal visit here. And, when honourable members talk about this expenditure of £70,000 in connection with the visit, I would ask, Who was it who was / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero instrumental in bringing about the visit ? Was it the representative of the King, His Excel- lency the Governor, or was it the members of Parliament ? I say that it was the members of Parliament here assembled who invited the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to visit this country ; and, if the members of Parlia- ment have invited the future King of England to come to the colony, why do they now cavil over the expenditure of a few thousands of pounds incurred by the entertainment of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York while in this country ? And, even if we come down to the sordid business of the money side, what does it amount to ? If the whole £70,000 has been expended, what should be taken into considera- tion ? I say that we have made up for the greater portion, if not for the whole $70,000, by the increased revenue derived by the country from the traffic on the railways and through the Customs duties. And yet honourable members after having in their places in Parliament, on behalf of the people of the colony, extended to the future King and Queen of England an invitation to come here, and His Excellency the Governor having by his position to represent the Government of the country where the Government of the country could not act the part that the Governor did, and having the authority of the Government so far as this expenditure is concerned-we find on His Excellency the Governor in connection with this expenditure. Why, Sir, the last speaker stated that His Excellency the Go- vernor took French leave in the matter. Sir, I say the Governor took no French leave in the matter. He acted with the full authority of his Responsible Advisers. Let honourable mem- bers try and realise what the position is. Now, one remark was made by the honourable mem- ber for Wairarapa to which I wish to refer-I have no doubt that the honourable member made it hastily and under some excitement- when he reflected upon the invitations issued to functions at Government House in the four respective centres of the colony. When the honourable member reflected on the class of people who were invited to the various func- tions held by His Excellency the Governor, he ought to realise-although perhaps he is not aware of the fact-that none of the Government Houses would contain more than four or five hundred people in connection with these func- tions. Mr. HORNSBY .- None but the crème de la crème. Sir J. G. WARD. - I think if the honourable member will look at the history of the present representative of the King in this country he will find that it has been to his credit all along that he has recognised none of these class dis- tinctions, but he has treated all classes of the colony alike, and I say if there has been one Governor of this colony who ought to be com- plimented for his desire not to show class dis- tinction it is the present representative of the King in New Zealand. I have only to mention in Wellington, and wherever His Excellency the Governor has been, that he has made it an invariable rule -- and he is the first Governor who has ever done so-to show some courtesy and consideration and hospitality to the old veterans of New Zealand. Mr. MASSEY .- And he asks the people to pay for it. Sir J. G. WARD .- Sir, the honourable mem- ber will pardon me for saying that in the entertainments that the Governor has given to these people he has never asked the people to pay for them. Mr. MASSEY .- The Premier told us on the first reading of the Bill that the people were to be asked to pay for the dinners given to the old veterans. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am not talking about the Royal visit now. It was the country, and not the Governor, that was entertaining in connection with those functions. I am talking now of the hospitality extended by His Excel- lency the Governor to all classes in New Zea- land, and to the veterans, quite independent of the Royal visit, and I say that these entertain- ments have always been paid for out of his own purse. I think, when we are unexpectedly called upon to face a position such as this is in the House, it is our clear duty to allude to these facts. I was surprised to hear the honourable 