him, or any one associated with him in the business of the department accuse him of wrongdoing. In his own opinion, Mr. Sheridan was an estimable and excellent officer, and no one carried the confidence of the Government more than he did. But that did not get away from the position sought to be established by the charge. He was glad the honourable gentle- man had brought this matter up, because now, as he was in the position of Native Minister, he should hear any accusation that was made against any officer under his control. It was the duty of the Minister to see that the depart- ment over which he presided was pure, and working honestly in the public interests. He thought it was only fair to all parties concerned if the honourable member for Waihemo, and the honourable member for Wellington City, and the honourable member for Pahiatua tendered to him the information in their pos- session upon which the reflections were cast upon the officer under mention, and he would make inquiries ; and if as a result of those in- quiries anything was discovered by him to justify what had been said, then there was only one course open for him to take-that officer had to go. He was not going to have any one in his department guilty of dishonourable conduct. On the other hand, it was his place to protect the officers of his department from the reck- less charges that were made by members, and he challenged them to give proof in sup- port of their statements. Now, in regard to the petition of thirteen hundred Natives of the East Coast presented by the honourable member for Napier, he might state that it only came before this Parliament within the last three weeks, although specially paid can- vassers had been at work ever since the Act passed last year on the East Coast from Gis- borne to the Bay of Plenty getting signatures, and yet they could only get thirteen hundred. In his part of the district alone he undertook to say he could get a petition signed by thirteen thousand Natives in favour of the Bill, and without paying any one to go round and obtain their signatures. They could judge, therefore, the value that should be placed on the petition which the honourable member for Napier made so much of. He would now refer to a matter that was brought up in Committee by the honourable member for Bruce with regard to a certain block of land. He said that application had been made for the removal of restrictions on that land, that £30 an acre was offered by a private individual for the land, but that the Government refused to remove the restrictions and to permit the sale ; and that the Government afterwards removed the restrictions so that it could buy the land at £7 or £9 an acre. The honourable member could not give the name of the block or the particular locality, but he (Mr. Carroll) had made inquiries, and had placed his finger on the spot. The block was the Kai-iwi Block. He was informed by the department that the land was very valuable, but was under lease to a European. The lessee had had that land for lease at totally inadequate rentals. Out of 12,500 acres the Government had bought only 500 acres from the Natives, which they in- tended to cut up for a township. The Govern- ment had had two valuations made of the 500 acres, one by a Government surveyor and the other by the Hon. G. F. Richardson, formerly Minister of Lands. The valuations were £9 17s. and £11 respectively per acre, and about £12 was what it had cost the Government, includ- ing compensation to the lessee. It would have, in fact, paid the Natives-the original owners -to have given that 500 acres to the Govern- ment for nothing, because of the value, by cutting it up into a township, it would add to the 12,000 acres that remained to them. That was the only instance men- tioned by the honourable member to show how dishonest the Government had been in their dealing with Native lands, and the facts just recited by him (Mr. Carroll) showed how groundless were the assertions of the honour- able member. As a matter of fact, the Govern- ment had never been "in it " with the private speculator in open dealings. Whatever dif- ference there might be between the price paid by the Government and that paid by private dealers, it was quite certain that the Govern- ment did not have the best of the comparison. Private dealers picked out the best of the land, while the Government bought good and bad equally. With regard to the Bill, and the pre- dictions made by some honourable members as to its failure, those predictions might come to be true ; but he would ask members to judge by results-to allow, say, two years or more to elapse, and then ask for a return to be laid on the table as to the results of the administra- tion of the Act. He trusted the honourable member opposite would not be a good prophet on this occasion. He (Mr. Carroll) was as anxious as any one that good results should follow this legislation. If there were weak spots in it, surely it was the duty of all to com- bine and strengthen those weak spots, and make the legislation so that the country would reap the advantage. He might say, in respect to the member for Waitemata, that that honour-, able member had never yet understood the practical form of dealing with the Native ques- tion. Sentimentally and on the higher flights no one could vie with the honourable gentleman ; up in the clouds no one could follow him : but when he came down to the bed-rock, and faced the question of dealing with Native land in a practical way, and making the same profitable and of utility to the owners and of advantage to the country, the honourable gentleman was entirely out of it. He (Mr. Carroll) would not go to the honourable gentleman for a policy. If ever he was compelled to go to the Opposition benches for assistance in framing good, sound, practical Native legislation he would go to the member for the Bay of Plenty and the member for Franklin, and, as Attorney-General, to the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson). Of course, he was not forgetting the member for Palmerston, who was a very valuable member 