them to the first assistant, who receives no special remuneration for rendering such ser- vices to the State, and in time may come to feel that he is under no obligation to do so, and It the pupil-teachers may suffer injustice. seems to me as if nothing but mediocrity had place, and as if these Commissioners-these specially selected men-had abandoned them- selves to downright selfishness, indifference, and unconcern for the educational welfare of the country, or their sole concern had been to secure complementary remuneration for those teachers who necessarily had better advantages than those in the country. Just imagine teachers in our small schools feeling that perhaps they will get a salary of #40, or $50, or $60! The teachers in such positions will suffer an unceasing fret to be removed. This is an absurd rate of remuneration to give to teachers upon whom such important interests devolve ; in fact, who can overestimate the grave responsibilities of the work of the teachers in our small country schools? Then, again, there is another matter that has been already men- tioned, and that is what might be termed the selfish Toryism which has been put forth by this Commission, who, I believe, call them- selves "Liberals," and I assume they were selected because they were supposed to be the best men, and possessing suitable qualifications for dealing with the subject. And what have they done ? They have not only fixed a scale of what I might term a system of invidious salaries for the teachers in the cities, but they have also decreed that teachers in the large schools, although their literary qualifications may be of the lowest possible grade, may be en- titled to the best positions. It is a matter of perfect indifference, if we take the report of the Commission, as to what literary status the teachers in the city schools may have. If I may be only allowed to use ingenuous language, it seems to me as if the Commis- sioners would prefer that the scholarly attain- ments and status of the educational staff of New Zealand should not be such as to suggest any reflection upon the literary level of the Commissioners themselves. Now, I think that is a very serious reflection upon the care that is now practised in Europe in training young people for the teaching profes- sion. I think experience has verified that the higher the scholarly status of the teacher, and the higher his standard of qualification, the more fitted he is to impart instruction. No matter what the subject in which I might desire to be taught, let me have the thorough master for my teacher. I should make faster progress by reason of the superior qualifications which he possesses, for, as a rule, the man with the higher culture is better able to impart instruction than those who are only moderate in their scholarly attainments. I do not intend to suggest that there may not be some instances of teachers of a comparatively low-grade certificate, and who may even have tried to secure higher qualifica- tion than that which they possess, and yet at the same time such teachers may be better able mir. Monk tion to their classes than others who have gone through a university course. But these are the exception, and not the rule. They are teachers who possess a special aptitude or proclivity for teaching. But, as I say, they are the exception, born with the gift, and should not be taken as a criterion. The report of the Commission suggests a desire to ignore the rule that the higher the attainments the better will be the teacher, and that we should encourage our young teachers to acquire the highest culture that effort will impart. Though 1 with much reluctance, I shall support this Bill, ! because it is a movement in the right direction, but a poor return for the £6,000 the Commis- sion has cost. And I fear there will be intense dissatisfaction in the country-and, in fact, there must be. And I do not know whether the passing of the Bill this session may not be to the disadvantage of securing that consideration for the small or back-blocks schools which I desire they should have, because I think that when this Act is passed it may most likely fix the remuneration these teachers will re- : ceive for a considerable time to come. Then, 1 again, with regard to equality of pay for male and female teachers, of course, logically considered, there ought to be no difference. But I will ask, is it possible to secure a rule 1 which will apply to all? Whilst there are women who have proved themselves equal to do anything that has been attained by men in literary and various professional departments, yet is it not a fact that, as a rule, they are not able to accomplish or bear the same strain as men ? They have not the physical quality to bear the strain that men can endure, and yet as teachers it is more than I can do to define the line which shall fixedly mark them inferior to men, or give a reason why in those instances, when the work is done as well as can be done by men they should not have the same pay. There is this difficulty : We may take the whole teaching-staff of New Zealand-that is, the males-and there is no doubt that under this colonial scale each will receive the same pay for the same position ; but will they be equal, for there are many teachers who will be worth more money as compared with the teach- ing done by others, but the pay will be alike? Is there any profession in which it is more diffi- cult to secure ideal servants ? The same applies elsewhere. Take Britain itself. How many Dr. Arnolds have they produced there? Yet we know that few men have produced more striking results by their teaching than were produced by Arnold upon even the political and the moral status of Great Britain. The young men turned out from his school became, many of them, public servants occupying eminent positions, and owed, I believe, their high moral quality and the sense of duty which they practised all through their lives very much to the ideal teaching that they received from that celebrated master. I know, and I dare say every honourable member knows, of teachers who are actuated by loyalty to their duties and the moral responsibilities of 