did not receive the wages of an ordinary labourer. Although the amount granted was not sufficient, this was not the proper manner to increase the allowance, and the proposal was practically an evasion of the law. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) intended to vote for this amendment if only as a protest against the Government for not having kept the promise to bring down an amendment of the Disqualification Act. He considered the payment of so small an amount was unjust. Mr. TANNER (Avon) said it was 4.0. clear that at the time the Disqualifi- cation Act was passed it was not intended, as far as the matter of pay was concerned, to put members of the House on the same footing on Commissions as experts who were called in to assist in their inquiries. He would be sorry, however, to see the Act amended by the House as it was at present constituted, and in its pre- sent temper ; he thought it would be very much to the disadvantage of the country. If any member of the House was invited to serve on a Commission, he knew before he accepted the position exactly what the remuneration would be, and could decide accordingly. He (Mr. Tanner) would vote for the resolution proposed by the honourable member for Riccarton, but without any prejudice on the question, and without sympathy with the feeling, which ap- peared to be rapidly spreading, that because a particular class of people received €3 3s. a day for their services on a Commission members of the House ought to be paid more than was at present allowed them by the law. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said he thought it was only right and fair to some of the members of the Federation Commis- sion that he should state to the House what the conditions wore upon which they agreed to take seats on the Commission. It was only fair to say that two of those gentlemen -- Colonel Pitt and Mr. Millar-at first re- fused to go on the Commission. The Govern- ment were desirous, however, of securing their services, and, after considering the matter, it appeared to him (Mr. Ward) that it would be unfair to those gentlemen to ask them to go with the Commission to Australia for $1 a day. He therefore informed them that, as other members of the Commission were receiving three guineas a day, the Government would undertake to ask the House to make their case a special one, and to authorise that a certain sum should be voted to them. In saying this to the House he did not desire to influence members in any way in their votes. The state- ment he had made was only due to the two gentlemen he had named, and, with the expla- nation he had given, he thought the House would ratify. the action the Government had taken. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) ad- mitted that the services of members of the Legislature were as likely to be quite as valu- able as the services of any other individual on a Commission. At the same time he contended that, as members of Parliament, they had a duty to the country extending beyond the session of VOL. CXIX .- 80. Parliament, and as members of the House they were expected to make sacrifices in certain directions when called upon to do so. If mem- bers, in the face of the Disqualification Act, and in spite of the service they owed to the country throughout the whole term of their membership. came to the House with an ad misericordiam appeal, as in the present instance, it was to his mind a sign that the Legislature was on the down grade. In face of what the Colonial Secretary had stated, it would be a most invidious task for members to strike out the vote, but, nevertheless, if he stood alone he would raise his voice against it. Mr. LAURENSON ( Lyttelton) said he could not approve of this vote. He thought their course was perfectly clear. The law said that any member of Parliament serving on a Com- mission was to get #1 a day, and he therefore trusted the House would strike out the vote and carry out the law. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said the House was being asked to set the law entirely aside, and he contended that there was very little differ- ence in a man taking this money and a man who had put his hand in some one else's pocket. It was an illegal thing, and he hoped members would consult their dignity and respect the law of the land. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) said he in- tended to vote against this item, because the Government had been remiss in their duties. They ought to have brought in a Bill to amend the Disqualification Act, and pass a clause to validate this payment. If this sort of thing went on it would be the duty of the House to go back to the old Public Revenues Act. He was satisfied that the members on this Commission must have been money out of pocket, but that statement would also apply to members of all other Commissions. He would withdraw his amendment, That the item " £105 " be struck out. The Committee divided. AYES, 14. Meredith Hornsby Atkinson Monk. Hutcheson Collins Tellers. Lang Flatman Hogg Fowlds Laurenson Russell, G. W. Herries Mckenzie, R. NOES, 23. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Symes Tanner Buddo Heke Thompson, R. Lawry Carroll Ward McGowan Colvin Witheford. Mills Duncan Tellers. Palmer Field Barclay Fisher Parata Fraser, A. L. D. Seddon Hall Majority against, 9. Amendment negatived, and item retained. Mr. BUDDO thought the sum of $32 for encouragement of swimming in schools was inadequate. Sir J. G. WARD said this was to cover a liability incurred last year, being the cost of a number of copies of hand-books and charts 