Bill that was passed by the Labour Bills Com- mittee last year, and which has been revised by them this year. I think that what caused alarm in the country a few weeks ago was the Bill that originated with the Government, and was placed before this House. However, it has been stated that that was by mistake. We do not know yet, it is true, who made the mistake, or how it came to be made ; but the understand- ing given to the Committee by the Premier was this: that he had been misled, having been informed that the Bill, as he introduced it, was the Bill as it was passed last year by the Labour Bills Committee. I think, how- ever, there is a direct responsibility to be ascertained in connection with that Bill. No one would, of course, expect the Right Hon. the Premier, in his capacity as Minister of Labour, to compare line for line with last year's Bill any Bill placed in his hands ; but I think the House has a right to expect the Government to place the responsibility of that misrepresentation upon the proper shoulders, so that the industries of the colony shall not again be shaken and imperilled by persons passing on to the Premier as Government proposals such drastic measures as was the one to which I refer. I did not intend to make a speech upon this Bill, but the somewhat militant speech made by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) led me during the time the debate has been proceeding to make one or two com- parisons, and I think I shall be able to interest the House for a few minutes while I say what these are. One of the most surprising things to my mind during the last twelve months has been the remarkable buoyancy of the Customs revenue. Now, Sir, I have had a suspicion for some months past that that buoyancy was not al- together-shall I say? - agenuinething. I do not mean, of course, that the figures were incorrect, but I have had a suspicion that a number of people in this colony were importing what before had been made in the colony, or what one would expect would be made in the colony. And the few figures which I am going to give will, I hope, convince the Government that there is an undue amount of importation going on ; and that, notwithstanding the statement made by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) as to the large growth of the number of factories and the progress of the em- ployed in our factories, there is a significance, I think, to be attached to the figures which I shall proceed to lay before this House, which will be, at any rate, enough to make the Go- vernment seriously inquire whether the in- creased imports of these articles can in any form be traced to the labour legislation. I do not think it can be. I do not make the asser- tion. I will now endeavour to state to the House what may be a possible explanation of what is a very remarkable phenomenon in con- nection with the economic condition of this colony. In the ordinary course one would expect that in a country like this, where our manufactures are undoubtedly improving so far as the skill of the operatives is concerned and so far as the capital applied to them is con- cerned, one would expect that, in the ordinary course, the importations of these articles would have decreased, and that our own factories would have shown a larger output. Now, I cannot say how far the output is larger from our factories, but I will state to the House what the figures are which I have taken out during the last few minutes, comparing the im- portations of these goods, nearly all of which are carrying heavy duties, for 1900, as compared with 1899, and if I went back a few years no doubt the comparison would be stronger. These are the figures :- Table of Imports of some Articles during the Years 1899 and 1900. 1900. 1899. £ £ Apparel and slops, n.o.e. 391,526 449,323 .. Boots and shoes 144,717 186,088 Nos. 0 to 3 1,389 1,484 gummed . . 5,487 7,182 Brass manufactures 6,258 7,960 .. Furniture 32,609 45,331 .. Hosiery .. 88,668 104,858 .. Leather 60,051 70,031 . . Dredging machinery 9,299 74,465 .. Mining machinery 19,726 32,097 .. Saddlery and harness 23,831 28,988 .. Woodenware, 20 per cent. duty .. 9,899 13,673 Woodenware, 15 per cent. duty 13,149 8,200 .. Woollen piece-goods 268,881 301,923 . . Now, I will refer specially to a class 8.30. in which this colony ought to have a very large pre-eminence. It seems a ridiculous thing that we should send wool from this country to, say, the Mother-country, and then reimport it in the manufactured article. What do I find with regard to woollen piece-goods ? In 1899 the value of the imports were £268,881. In 1900 they were £301,923. Now, I do not wish to attach special importance to these figures. They have been compiled at random during the three-quarters of an hour that this debate has been proceeding ; but I venture to say that the list of articles and the importa- tions I have given show an enormous and un- expected increase in one year, and that it will be for us to ask ourselves whether-and if so, how far-these increases are the result of our labour laws and their operation. I am one of those who have always favoured equi- table, just, and honest conditions in con- nection with labour. I believe that no country can be truly great where there is a class who are being sweated by capitalists. I believe that such a state of things is now impossible in this country, and that whatever there was formerly in the nature of sweating has been, by the united force of public opinion on both sides of the historical parties of this country, absolutely squelched. A state of things will never grow up in New Zealand under which there would be anything in the way of sweating as it is known in the larger manufacturing centres of the Old World. So far as the Bill itself, I think it is a good measure. There are one or two points that one might have 