itself should carry weight with members of the House. I might, in conclusion, simply say this, that the increases are as follows : Salaries of teachers, male and female, equal in both scales for schools of under 20 pupils, are in- creased by 11 per cent. ; schools of from 20 to 40 under Scale No. 1, salaries of male teachers increased by 6.7 per cent., female teachers by 22 per cent .; under Scale No. 2 salaries of male teachers are increased by nearly 10 per cent., and female teachers 25 per cent. That is the analysis of the increases made. I feel satisfied that this is a Bill of such a character, and having for its object such a good work, that it will be accepted with general satisfaction, and that the final result will be in the best interests of the education of our colony. I have much pleasure in moving the second reading. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I was afraid, Mr. Speaker, that the Bill submitted to the House was about to pass its second reading without debate, and that is my reason for rising at this early stage. An Hon. MEMBER .- Are you going to oppose it ? Mr. HOGG .- No; and I hope there will not be any opposition. I do not intend to take up much time, because the Bill is of such a simple and beneficial character that it requires very little recommendation. I feel a certain sense of responsibility in commenting upon what I consider one of the most important measures that has been before the House and the country for a considerable period of time. We have had now in operation for twenty-four years an Education Act which, I think, honourable mem- bers will admit reflects the utmost credit upon the Legislature that passed it, and especially http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero upon those who were responsible for its creation. That Act has done an incalculable amount of good for New Zealand. It has improved the condition of the people, and its effects have been felt far and wide in the remotest corners of the country. But the question arises, seeing that this Act has done so much good and that it has worked on the whole so well, is any amendment required ? I must say that previous to enter- ing upon the work of the Commission to which I was appointed, I had very serious doubts as to whether the time had arrived when we should interfere with the administration of our Education Boards. I have had some experi- ence on one of those Boards-the Wellington District Board-and I may say my experience has been of a very gratifying character. We have enjoyed the advantages of a staff of very excellent and capable teachers, and the system of education seemed of such a character that I perceived very little reason at one time for any amendment. But my eyes were somewhat opened when I travelled over the colony and observed the different conditions under which schools are carried on in various districts. Under the Act of 1877 the colony was divided into thirteen education districts, and since then each district has been allowed to paddle its own canoe. The Boards have had a good opportu- nity of demonstrating what they could do in Mr. Seddon little or no fault to be found with their manage- ment. With the means provided by the State they have administered the Act fairly, in- telligently, and, on the whole, very success- fully. But the conditions of the education districts are very different. They are as dif- ferent from one another as are their climates- as variable, 1 may say, as the hues of the rainbow. We have seen, travelling from one district to another, that the staffs of the schools and the salaries of the teachers, being regulated by the question of finance, have been exceedingly variable. In one district we have found comparative affluence; in places like Otago, Canterbury, and even in Wellington here, there has been no difficulty in maintaining good strong staffs in the majority of the schools. But in other localities, such as Marlborough and Nelson and Westland, we have encountered, in singular contrast to that affluence, a state of poverty. This condition of affluence on the one hand and poverty on the other has been due to one simple cause-namely, the size of the schools. There are two classes of schools : a payable and unpayable class. Schools with less than fifty of an average attendance may be classified as unpayable, and in districts where these smaller schools prevail the Boards have an exceedingly difficult task to secure for their teachers anything like reasonable wages. On the other hand, in the stronger districts, with large towns and good centres-such as Dunedin, Christchurch, and Wellington -- where there are schools with from 500 to 700 of an average attendance, many of the schools are payable. and, unless the number of small schools be- comes excessive, the Boards are placed in 3 position to afford adequate staffs and to adequately pay their teachers. The large centres are consequently, under the capita- tion system, necessary to support the cut- lying districts. I need hardly contrast the good salaries paid to teachers in some of the schools of the cities, for instance, with the salaries paid in some of the schools on the west coast of the South Island. In the Marl- borough Sounds, for instance, you will find 3 unique class of small schools. In some cases one family constitutes the school, and the teacher is apparently a sort of mixture of domestic servant and tutor. These girls have never been adequately paid, and this is one of the difficulties we are compelled to meet. We are required to discover the means by which better payment can be afforded for small schools, which are becoming increasingly numerous on account of the spread of settlement. But, Sir, there is another thing that we have had placed before us : and it is that, in the large centres, where there are good strong staffs, there are also better facilities for education, because the teachers are well paid and the schools are well supported in every way. You will find, that in addition to the schools there, you have gym- nasiums, there are swimming-baths, there are training-schools, there are technical schools, and there are equipments not found in the country. 