the Crown, but these cases had happened. In one or two cases spare horses were taken, and in other cases the men bought horses in South Africa. In the latter case, when asked to sign an approval he had done so, and would do so again. This question came up, and we asked Colonel Davies what he knew in respect of it. His (Colonel Davies's) reply was that he never said the men would receive £28 per horse ; that he did not know anything officially about it. The only thing that could be done was for those who had sold their horses to apply to the Imperial Government, and if they asked him to give a certificate he would do so, if satisfied the horses were their private property ; but he would be very sorry, after a person assigned the pro- perty to the Queen, to certify for a private in- dividual to receive moneys improperly taken from the Imperial authorities. He would be sorry to commit the colony to anything of that kind. If the Imperial authorities were ac- quainted with the fact that the horses were found by the committees, and that some were the individual property of the troopers, but given over as a gift to the Queen, and if, when that fact was before them, they were still pre- pared to pay the men for the horses, well and good. Mr. MASSEY asked if the New Zealand Go- vernment had been paid for the horses that were being handed over ? Mr. SEDDON said, No; he would give a most unqualified denial to that. The first he had heard of the matter was when he saw it in print. The Government had never made any claim for the horses, and did not intend to. He repeated that, where the horses had been the property of the young men and were donated to the Queen before they went away, if the Imperial authori- ties, knowing this, liked to pay for them, theirs was the responsibility ; but he could not him- self be a party to that, because the property was for the time being vested in the King. He might say further, in respect to this matter, that the Government might be in this posi- tion : In some cases where the committee had raised money by subscriptions throughout the districts, the horses would be the property of those committees. Mr. MASSEY .- No; the committees gave them to the men. Mr. SEDDON said, The committees gave them to the Crown. The voluntary contribu- tions of the people were used for the purpose of purchasing horses, and many persons gave horses, in some cases four or five. Those horses were accordingly the property of the Empire. Then, again, very few of those men took the same horse right through the cam- paign. They were in some cases furnished with remounts by the Imperial authorities, and in other cases remounts were sent from the colony and paid for here. There were excep- tional cases, of course, where some of the horses went right through the campaign. His (Mr. Seddon's) son had his own horse until the week before last. It went through the campaign with him up to that time. The New Zealand were supplied, nor did they intend to make any claim. They had not received, as far as he was aware, anything for horses. In the case of any young man who took his own horse with him, and who had acquired another horse in South Africa, and although he signed the ceding agree- ment, if the Imperial authorities would pay for them and if he were asked for a certificate, he would not object, if the full facts were known to the Imperial authorities. With regard to the horses that were found in South Africa by the troopers themselves, and were their own private property, that was, of course, a different matter. He hoped that was a satisfactory answer to the honourable gentleman. Mr. MASSEY .- No, it is not. Mr. SEDDON .- Then came the question of the troopers who left in the " Harlech Castle," and who came to the colony by another steamer. Now, what happened was this: The Imperial authorities had arranged for the passage of these troopers to New Zealand. When they arrived in Australia they asked to be allowed to take part in the Commonwealth celebrations. As it was some time before these celebrations would take place he demurred, partly on ac- count of the additional expense, and also because he thought, having been away so long, they should come home. But the pressure was too great, and as they had rendered such valu- able service to the colony and to the Empire -- Mr. MASSEY .- Pressure from whom ? Mr. SEDDON .- From the officers and the men themselves-from Australia. Mr. MASSEY .- But the men objected. Mr. SEDDON assured the honourable mem- ber that that was not so. Mr. MASSEY asked if it was not a fact that twenty-seven of them did not remain in Aus- tralia for the celebrations. Mr. SEDDON would come to that presently. The pressure brought to bear upon the Govern- ment was from the officers and the men. The Government absolutely refused the request of the Australian Government. And what did they do ultimately? He was very nearly put- ting the officer, and the men too, under arrest because they took "French leave." That was what happened ; and when they allowed the steamer to go, and they remained behind, he did not know what to do. He called in to his counsel the Commandant, and there was a telegram, he thought, sent to the Command- ant at New South Wales of a very severe type. He then received a communication from Cap- tain Hughes, which caused him to look over the matter and to allow them to remain. Mr. PIRANI .- After the ship had gone. Mr. SEDDON said, Well, the next ship was so close on to the celebrations that to take them away two or three days before, it seemed to him to be a rather harsh proceeding. However, there was the fact that they managed to miss the boat. What happened in this case he now related : The men wanted to come home and leave the rest of the contingent. After com- munication and under advice, it was decided, that if the men themselves would sign an 