works and exported the goods, and stood them on their own merits in the Home market. I say the time has arrived when the farmers and miners are not going to put up with this nonsense any longer in the increased cost by the towns. They have to compete themselves with very keen competition, and, whilst they are quite prepared to see every labourer in the towns get a fair share, yet the settlers and settlers' sons in this country are not prepared to see themselves working for a low rate and see high prices paid for all other forms of labour that happen to be unable to stand export-high prices for goods protected, and high costs for handling all goods received and exported. The price of labour paid to the farmer and miner is entirely con- tingent on the produce of the agriculturists and miners in the country and the price obtained for it abroad. There is no escaping from the position, and I tell members now the time is coming when all this sort of nonsense has to be faced, and when the labourers in this country shall be paid alike in accordance with their work ; because if one section receives a higher pay than another the reduction will still be felt by the poorer-paid man, because it is taken from him to make up the higher wage. Of course, it is maintained that you can still further increase the cost of production without handicapping the men in competition with the world ; but let people who have got to sell these goods in other markets see whether they can get a higher price in these markets because we pay higher wages to one section of workers. It is simply impossible. We are told, too, that all the moneys largely expended in this colony are expended in order to assist the country interests. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero Why, we had it stated here the other evening that to keep the Government Printing Office going in Wellington we pay $8,000 more in wages than if we used improved machinery. Could any farmer afford to do that? Does the farmer not pay £20,000 a year stock-tax to- wards that expenditure ? If all our legislation and all our expenditure were in favour of the farmers, do you mean to say we would see such a large protection on industries? What is the result of this protection ? Are the industries in the centres of population supplying, so far as they could, what we require? I say a lot of this legislation is strangling the industries, and the consequence is a large increase in the im- ports of many duty-paying articles-swelling the revenue for the Colonial Treasurer largely ; because the industries of this country are not at present supplying them, although it was sup- posed they would be able to do so. I say that those of us who are here representing agricul- tural and mining industries mean to speak plainly, and say there shall be no further handi- cap, and that no special party in this country shall, by extraneous influences, obtain a higher price for their labour and shorter hours than those who are employed in agriculture and mining are receiving. Why, we know in one of the towns that labourers are agitating for 12s. per day. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is perfectly horrible. VOL. CXIX .- 26, member may treat the matter with levity, but I am not treating it with levity at all. I say, the labourers of the towns are wanting 12s. a day, and many are getting that rate, and if the condition of affairs in the country is such that you can afford it, well and good ; but you should pay the same amount for labour in the country. If the settler could get as much for his time and labour, no exception could be taken, but that is not the case. If you are going to pay 12s. a day for labour in the towns, where the worker can enjoy the comforts of city life, how can you expect the ploughman to work for £1 or £1 5s. a week and found ? Can you expect that inan to be content to work in the country, to work as hard and to keep at it longer hours than the man in the town who gets 12s. a day? Can you expect it ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Certainly not. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Then, what is the honourable gentleman's cure ? Mr. BARCLAY .- Pay him more. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- There you are ; but can the man who employs him afford to pay more ? Will the produce bring a return that will enable him to pay more ? There is the point. If the honourable gentleman under- stood the economic position of the matter he would know that no such thing could be done -that there is not the value in what they pro- duce for doing it. Is it in butter? Is it in cheese or wool, or in frozen mutton, in oats, or wheat-is there anything in these things which will enable the producer to pay a man 12s. per day in the country for labour ? Mr. BARCLAY .- Look at the figures in your own Federation Report. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The honourable gentleman cannot give a distinct reply. He refers to the Federation Report, and what does that show ? It shows that at the present time wheat can be grown in the Argentine at 1s. 7d. per bushel. That is what it shows. The Hon. Major Steward can confirm that, because he was there. They can produce wheat at 1s. 7d. per bushel in the Argentine. An Hon. MEMBER .- Major Steward has not been in the Argentine. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- No, but he was on the Federation Commission, where that evi- dence was tendered ; and if the honourable gentleman will read the most recent authorities on competition he will find the same state- ment. Now, if that is so, do you mean to say that we can grow wheat here in New Zealand and pay 12s. per day for labour? The people in the country have not the State protection which With them the those in the towns enjoy. increased cost of production does not come The out of the pockets of the consumers. honourable member who represents Dunedin City must see that the increased cost would come out of the pockets of the farmers. If you are going to carry on a fair and equitable system you should give the country people the same wages as the people in the town, for they work quite as hard and for longer hours ; but if you increase their wages, then it must come out of 