accrued ? Simply chaos. Now, he would once more be prophetic, and he would say that this day twelve months we would find that nothing had been done under this legisla- tion, but rather that it had been a drag on the wheels of progress of both the Native and European races. There was one clause, 4, which took four hours to discuss. The mem- bers of the House who took a keen interest in analysing that section-not in an antagonistic manner, but to make it workable-spent all this time on it ; but no amendment would be accepted by the Native Minister, and now we found that section as unworkable as it was when brought down twelve months ago. No one knew what it meant. Who had asked for this ? Not the Natives, but those who expected to reap a benefit from it-members like the mem- ber for the Northern Maori District, who sat through the whole of the work of the Committee, and never opened his mouth once. The honour- able gentleman may have disagreed with other honourable gentlemen who spoke, but he (Mr. Fraser) said that, as a representative of the Maori, it was his duty to show how the measure was a good one. Did we hear a single word from the member for the Eastern Maori District ? That honourable gentleman simply gave a silent vote at the beckoning of the Native Minister. Then, take the member for the Western Maori District, and he felt sorry for that honourable gentleman, who had received some promise from the Government that at present this Act did not operate in his district, and who, inno- cently and child-like, said, "If that is so, I have no further opposition to the measure." In Committee the honourable gentleman was with him in opposing section after section ; but he has now given way to idle promises, and as a result would find himself in a hinaki. A hinaki was an eel-trap, from which, when once in, it was impossible to extricate yourself. The honourable gentleman will realise this when too late. The Native members had not done justice to their constituencies. It seemed strange to him to find Mr. Wi Pere advocating this legislation, because when, thirteen years ago, he advocated a similar measure he was defeated at the polling-booth. And who de- feated him? Our present Native Minister. Had it not been for the Hon. Mr. Carroll's opposition to that Act he would not have been returned to the House in 1887. Speaking from memory, he won the fight by from thirty to forty votes ; but he deserved to win it by three or four thousand, for having opposed that un- just and pernicious legislation introduced by Mr. Ballance. To-day they found the Native Minister and Mr. Pere hand in hand burying their differences and going back to the legisla- Honourable members would tion of 1886. glean that there was something not too savoury or satisfactory or encouraging for them in the near future with regard to Native matters when they found the Native Minister, who, though he might not approve of it or be responsible for it, still advocated such ques- tionable legislation. It made members sus- man acting the part of the chameleon in his change in regard to Native legislation. The Natives had not asked for this legislation ; it was proposed by the Premier to the Natives, who asked them to accept it as an experiment, and, with certain provisoes he had already alluded to, it had been placed on the statute- book. It was only since last session that the Natives had realised this legislation was op- posed to their interests. And when the voice of the Natives had gone forth that they were opposed to it, some consideration should be given to them. He wished to put on record two letters, written by Maoris, with regard to this legislation. Here was was one, signed by a full-blooded Maori, educated at Te Aute Native College, and whose father was a member of Parliament. He said,- " We will have nothing to do with the legisla- tion of the Government in regard to Native lands. We strongly object to free-trade in the sale of Native lands, but do allow us to lease our lands and bear the responsibilities of the European." Then, he had received the following letter, which was published in an Auckland paper, sent to him by Mr. Hone Patene, as follows :-- "SIR,-I wish to draw the attention of the public to the injustice which has been imposed on the Maoris by the passing of the Native Land Act during the last session of Parliament, an injustice which will be so disastrous in its results to us Natives that, could our European fellow - subjects thoroughly realise how disas- trous, they, by force of public opinion, would have it swept from the statute-book, for I feel sure that, if their sense of justice were once aroused, such unfair (to us) legislation would be put a stop to. " According to a legal fiction, there is but one law for both races, yet this Act says that we cannot deal with our lands with the same free- dom as the pakeha. I ask your readers not to mistake my meaning by imagining I am one of the old school, who believed in locking up our lands to European settlement. Far from it. I am well aware that any act of ours attempting to impede the resistless march of civilisation would be the height of folly. " Educated in the best schools in Auckland, thoroughly acquainted with the English lan- guage, and having lived for many years among Europeans, I am fully aware of their power, and of the fact that in our own interests we must abide by their laws, and conform to their cus- toms. "Personally I am in favour of Native lands being taxed under certain conditions, and those conditions I claim are perfectly just and reason- able. Perhaps it would be more correct to say one condition-viz., put us on the same footing as the pakeha in the mode of dealing with our lands. It is no unreasonable request that I make. " We are as anxious as the Government can possibly be to see our lands profitably settled, a settlement profitable to the present owners and the colony. After having proper reserves 