a surplus of over $900, and last year, I think, the returns show a surplus of $300. Well, I have no hesitation in saying that these islands will be self-supporting. We have been, as you know, spending £500 a year up to the present time in paying the salary of the British Resident. Well, that has been our sole and not over great burden, and the limit of our payment. Now, my opinion is that if we give, first of all, the advantages of im- proved conditions, then you will find that they will be able to pay the increased amount neces- sary for their proper administration. You may ask, " What will that be ? " Well, first of all, as far as Rarotonga is concerned, I do not think any increased expenditure is required there. They maintain their own hospital, pay their own Customs official and Postmaster, and for the roading and other work. All that is done out of local revenue. I say I do not think myself, as far as Rarotonga is concerned, that any additional expenditure is needed. Then, coming to Aitutaki Island, there is only Captain Large, who is the Postmaster, Customs Officer, and practically the Resident Agent. He will be continued there. At Mangaia they have simply their Native Land Court Judge, who gets probably a ten-pound-note a year, and the Resident Agent occasionally visits the Island. I do not think there is any necessity for a Resident Agent there, but I do think in respect to some of the other islands-the more im- portant, particularly Penrhyn-that there ought https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to be a Resident Agent appointed. It is far away from Rarotonga, and traders will visit there, and they will trade and bring in their imports, take away exports, and practically set at defiance, as has been the case, the regulations of the High Commissioner. I think, therefore, we will have to appoint a Resident Agent there, and that will cost us $150; in fact, we have offered the appointment to Captain Nagle, who represents the Union Shipping Company at the present time at Rarotonga. I do not think, myself, in respect to the larger islands, or Palmerston Island, that we should do anything at all. I may say, at all events, that from a missionary who has returned from. I believe, Palmerston Island, he found a deplorable condition of things there. A schooner had been there and had taken a large shipment of brandy-little better than methylated spirits-and the islanders were left in a very bad state. That is one of the reasons why Colonel Gudgeon advocates the licensing of traders; then no one would be allowed to trade with these islands unless under supervision, so that they could be relied upon to do what is proper and prevented from doing what goes on in many of the islands. The same thing occurred when His Excellency was at Penrhyn. A very large amount of grog was discovered there then, and ordered to be destroyed. Unfortunately, now they are taking to absinthe, and that is having an altogether disastrous effect upon the natives. I may say that, in the interests of the natives and in our now upon us, it is necessary to pass a Bill to bring, as we can from time to time, the Islands under our control ; but in doing so I should advise that the greatest care is necessary, and that you must not suddenly call upon the natives of these islands to conform, as we here in this colony must conform, to the existing laws. As I say, discretion in this respect is necessary, and, whilst asking Parliament to pass this Bill giving power to bring certain laws into force by Order in Council, I may say that it is really the only way it can be done with advantage. You cannot come to the House and ask that a particular law should be re- pealed or amended as a law for a particular island ; but you must, as has been the case with those who have had control of these islands in the tropics, you must by Order in Council, and with great care, apply such laws as will meet the existing conditions and circumstances. I do not think that, financially, the colony will have to bear a very heavy burden ; but there is this question, of course, that must be taken into consideration : that you may look at the matter of advantages, and you may say, "Very well, these islands shall now form part of New Zealand, the same as the Chathams and Stewart Island, or any part of the colony, and there shall be a free inter- change of dutiable products, and products of our own, free to these islands." If you do that, of course, you take a large item off the present Island revenue. At the same time, I advocate that course. I say, in respect to New Zealand products, that they should go to the Islands free. As regards dutiable goods, our tariff, of course, will be fair to other colonies and other nations. If it is fair for New Zea- land, it is fair for the Islands, and therefore I say we should maintain our tariff as against the outside world, leaving the Islands free for inter - New Zealand trade and industries. Therefore, if you take away the revenue from the Islands which they obtain at the present time under a 10-per-cent. tariff, and give them nothing in return, they will be to that extent the losers, and probably could not go on without some financial assistance. Well, I say that the collateral advantage to our colony would more than compensate us, even though we had to pay some of the officers appointed to manage the Islands out of the Consolidated Fund. Of course, we would get the collateral advantage of having free-trade between the colony and the Islands. I do not think it is at all unreasonable to take that view of the case. At the present time, as honourable members know, there is a discre- tion given to the Resident Agent-so that there shall be no call on the revenue of the colony- to charge the old tariff in the meantime: I refer to the tariff that was in force before the Islands were taken over. I mention this because it will be seen by the section of the Bill dealing with the laws now in force that it would apply to the Customs and to any law we have ; and I have given power under section 3 for the gradual introduction of our laws. Section 3 says :- 