rhyme or reason that some have raised the price of coal. In the first place, they were not making a profit. Mr. SEDDON .- I was not referring to the South. I referred to the West Coast. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable gentleman made a general reference ; and I will give a specific instance about which I know. I say in this specific instance, and I know the same applies in several other cases in the South, the mine-owners were making no profit out of the coal. The Arbitration Court made cer- tain awards which did raise the price of hewirg, and, partly on account of that in- crease in the price of hewing and hauling of the coal, the price was raised to the private con- sumer, so that in that instance what the Premier has said is not correct. Now, with regard to this new departure, it is proposed to enter into a State coal-mine, and this Bill proposes that there shall be a capital of £150,000. That money will have to be borrowed. At the present time it is unwise, I think -- I do not use this as a general argument : it is an argument just for the moment-to enter into any industry which com- pels us to go into the market to borrow any more money for our own State purposes. We have already such huge demands to make upon outside capital for our public and other works which are already necessitated that I think it is un- wise for us to put another loan Bill-for this is another loan Bill-upon our statute-book. The Premier said that this capital is more than will be required-that the mine that has been re- ported upon can be opened up on a very much smaller capital than is mentioned here. I do not know upon what grounds he says so; but my experience is this : that if the mine is to put out 100,000 tons of coal a year, and that is the State demand, it will require very nearly if not the whole of the £150,000 of capital that is asked for. The Premier cannot open a mine and provide places for men and machinery to turn out 100,000 tons of coal a year at anything like the capital that he hinted at, even though the mine chosen has a shaft constructed, or even though he only requires to open it up. I know something about that, at any rate, and I feel certain that the capital he will require is very much more than he hinted to the House. Now, Sir, I do not intend to lay particular stress upon other points which may be argued-points of patronage that will be placed in the hands of the Government. I leave that for others to speak about, but it is obvious that this gives to the Government an extended means of patronage. The Bill does not provide, although the Premier says he will provide for it later on, that the workmen who are winning this coal shall come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I understand him to say that when the Bill does go into Committee, he is willing that the Arbitration Act shall be made to apply. Mr. SEDDON .- Within certain limits. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier said nothing about certain limits ; there was not a word said about certain limits. Mr. J. Allen upon that ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I say nothing was said about limits. Mr. SEDDON .- I will leave it at that, and I hope you will apologize when I prove you are wrong. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not know what you may put in Hansard. Mr. SEDDON .- I will show you my proof. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I never heard, at any rate, anything about certain limits. The Premier is backing down now. Mr. SEDDON .- I said so; and there is no backing down. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No; you did not-io my The honourable knowledge, at any rate. gentleman now says that he said so with certain limitations. Why should there be any limitations ? Why should not the State be treated exactly the same as the private owner in regard to labour in a mine ? If a private owner has the wages of his men arranged by the Arbitration Court, and the State coal-mine is to come into competition with him, why should not their wages also be fixed by the Arbitration Court? I cannot understand what limitations the honourable gentleman can have in his mind. There are one or two points in the Bill which should be considered. In the first place, clause 3 is a curious clause, as it imposes an impossibility upon the Land Boards, providing that before disposing of land they have to ascertain whether the land contains coal. How are they going to ascertain that ? Are they going to ascertain with something in the nature of a divining-rod ? Mr. SEDDON .- No; with boring-rods. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Are you going to authorise them to bore 1,000 ft. for every piece of land they sell. Mr. SEDDON .- They might only want to bore 20 ft. Mr. J. ALLEN .- They might want to bore 2,000 ft. At any rate, this clause is absurd, because, except under unusual conditions, the Board cannot ascertain whether there is coal. In regard to subsection (3) of clause 6, I do not think the members of the House have gathered from the Premier what he intends to do in regard to the State coal-mine. He has made it clear that he intends to supply State require- ments, which he estimates at about 100,000 tons a year. Then he touched gingerly on the question of private supply. First of all, he said that he was not going to enter into competi- tion, but then, warming up to the subject, and talking about the poor man in his usual style, he spoke about what an injury it was to him to be paying £1 5s. a ton. Mr. SEDDON .- I said, £1 8s., and as high as £2 8s. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable gentleman said they were going to sell and supply coal in the chief centres. The provisions of 10.30. the Bill are that the State is to deliver the coal. 