would pass. STUD HORSE FOR WESTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTHLAND. Mr. GILFEDDER asked the Minister for Agriculture, If he would locate one of the im- ported stud horses in the western district of Southland ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) re- gretted that, owing to the small number of horses imported, the department had not one to spare for the western district. However, if after a trial the importation of stud horses was found beneficial, he was of opinion that they should import double the number, so that such places as the western district might derive some benefit from them. At present there was one horse stationed somewhere near Mataura, and if any one in the western district wished to send a suitable mare to that locality, it could be taken in at a very reasonable cost. RIVERTON-HOWELL'S POINT ROAD. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minister of Lands, If, in framing the estimates for this year, he will make provision for the im- provement of the road leading from Riverton to Howell's Point? He might point out to the Minister that this was one of the main roads in the vicinity of Riverton, and on which there was a large amount of traffic. Assistance was much required, and he hoped the Minister, when framing his estimates, would see his way to make provision for it. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the Road Surveyor reported as follows :- "This road is required to give access to an endowment belonging to the Borough of Riverton, and also for convenience of picnic parties, and it would cost about £300, not including gravelling. It is not a work of importance, and does not appear to be one that has any claim on Government, and it has not, therefore, been noted for estimates." Mr. GILFEDDER said he might point out that the department evidently knew nothing about the matter. Mr. DUNCAN said it was the surveyor at Invercargill the honourable member had to blame, for what he had read was his report. WORKMEN'S HOMES AT INVER- CARGILL. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If he will take steps to acquire for workmen's homes the large area of un- improved land on the East Road, near Inver- cargill, owned by Thomson's trustees ? He might say that Thomson's trustees owned the most valuable land in and around the City of Invercargill. The land here referred to was a very large area and was unimproved, and, not- withstanding the fact that reasonable offers had been made by people who wished to make homes for themselves, the trustees refused to sell, and had put upon the land a really prohibitive price, which was doing a great injustice and injury to the townspeople, more especially themselves near the centre of the town. The holding of so much valuable land by one estate, and the selfish policy pursued in dealing with the same, had greatly retarded the advancement of the city and inflicted a gross injury on the community generally, the presence of which and whose labours had given a high value to the trustees' properties. As illustrating how the owners sought to benefit from the unearned increment, he might point to the fact that another large arca of land had also been held up till lately in another part of the town by the same trustees. Recently they had cut that land up and subdivided it, disposing of certain parts on the freehold and leasehold tenure. These large areas of unimproved land mono- polized by one person were typical instances of the necessity for rating on the unimproved value. The object the trustees had in view in disposing of the land with freehold and lease- hold tenures respectively was that the estate should secure the benefit of the unearned in- crement in regard to the leaseholds which they retained, and which would have their value enhanced by the improvements effected by the owners of the freehold sections. As a matter of fact, the large blocks of land lying idle on the East Road was undoubtedly a great draw- back and obstacle to the progress and extension of the town ; and, the land being exceedingly suitable for the erection of workmen's homes, and, having regard to the fact that land had been taken for the purpose in other parts of the colony, he would urge upon the Minister the desirability of taking this area and making pro- vision for the erection of workmen's homes. He wished to burst up the land-monopoly in Invercargill held by this trust estate, because he regretted to think that a large number of townspeople and others were to some extent labouring away to provide handsome incomes for a few beneficiaries to live in comfort and ease without having done anything themselves to justly merit the same. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, If the member for Invercargill would give him the particulars of the estate he had mentioned he would bring it before the Land Purchase Com- missioner, and get him to send a valuer to report on it. PAYMENT OF ROAD-LABOURERS. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will instruct road-overseers to pay road-labourers in cash instead of by cheque, which is at present being done? He did not think the Minister understood the great amount of inconvenience that was given to those who worked on the roads in the back blocks of this country. Instead of being paid in cash, the overseer took them a cheque, and very fre- quently they were compelled to travel thirty or forty miles to the nearest bank to get the cheque cashed. There was no necessity for that. It would be just as easy for the overseer to take half the amount in cash and the other half by way of cheque. The present system necessitated the men leaving their work for two or three 