getting portions of counties separated from counties every session nowadays, and it had never yet been found necessary to advertise the separating B.lls even in the principal towns of the counties ; so that, personally, he would like to have Mr. Speaker's ruling on this question, as to whether, if a Bill was adverused in the locality in which it was to be in operation, and deposited in a Magistrate's Court in that locality, whether the Standing Orders were not then complied with. Mr HALL . JONES (Minister for Public Works), in personal explanation, said the honourable member for Motueka had insinu- ated that he was personally interested in this matter. He said he had no personal interest in the matter. He relied on Standing Order No 337, which read as follows :- "If there be more Magistrates' Courthouses than one situated within the district in which the Bill is to have operation, then the Bill is to be deposited at that one of such Court- houses which is nearest to the centre of such district." Now, the district in which the Bill was to be in operation was the South Canterbury Hos- pital District, and Timaru was the principal and the most central Courthouse in that dis- trict, and he would be very glad if Mr. Speaker would follow the suggestion of the honourable member for Motueka and advise the House on this subject. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) said the honour- able member for Motueka made the remark that the present Standing Orders had been in opera- tion since 1894, and that it was very remarkable that a case of this kind should only come up now. He would suggest to the honourable member tat it was quite possible that a simi ar case had not occurred before. He felt convinced that such was the case. He had been Chairman of the Local Bills Committee for two Parliaments now, and that co. ered by far the greater portion of the time during which these Standing Orders had been in operation, and during the whole of that time no such question had until now come be- fore the Committee for its decision. The honourable member for Motueka was also good enough to interject, when the member for Waitaki was speaking-and he must say the member for Waitaki put the case quite fairly -- that the decision was not that of the Com- mittee, but the decision of the Chairman. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I said " the ruling." Mr. GRAHAM .-- So far as the ruling went, the Chairman was the one person on the Com- mittee whose duty it was to give the ruling, which was given after full discussion, and the only member who differed from the ruling of the Chairman was the member for Motueka. Evers other member who was present on that occasion cordially concurred with the ruling of the Chairman. Under the circumstances, it did not speak well for the honourable member for Motueka to come into the House and say, or even imply, that the ruling was not supported by the Committee, but was only the ruling of Mr. R. Mckenzie the Chairman, but it conveved absolutely the feeling of the Committee, with the exception of the honourable member for Motueka himself, who, by-the-by, did not very often attend the meetings of the Committee. It was a matter of considerable importance, and also of con- siderable difficulty ; but he was sure in the pre- sent instance that. in addition to himself, the Committee, with one exception, thought that the ruling was in accordance with common- sense and in accordance with the true meaning of the Standing Orders. There were doubts and difficulties with reference to many of these questions, and he agreed with those who said that the Standing Orders should, if possible, be made more clear, so that there could be no possible doubt whatever about similar matters in the future. When decisions or rulings were given they had to be given in accordance with the best judgment at the time of those who gave them, and these were the very occasions which showed the necessity of making altera- tions, if possible, in the Standing Orders, to make more clear for the future points which were difficult and complex at the present time. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motuexa) desired to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Nelson City, with characteristic veracity, had indicated that the decision he stated was the uranimous decision of the Com- mittee excepting himself (Mr. Mckenzie). As an absolute matter of fact, it was nothing of the kind-it was simply the honourable mem- ber's own ruling. As regarded his (Mr. R. Mckenzie's) attendance at the Committee, he 1 might state that he was a member of five Select Committees, most of which invariably met at the same hour on the same day, con- sequently he found it impossible to attend them all. He attended the meetings fairly regularly ; but the Chairman of this Committee -the member for Nelson City -- was such an amiable individual that it was much more pleasant and agreeable to be absent than to be present. Motion agreed to. OCEAN MAIL-SERVICES. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) moved the following resolutions : - "San Francisco Mail-service. "1. That, in view of the temporary agree- ment with J. D. Spreckels and Brothers Com- pany (the Oceanic Steamship Company, of San Francisco) for the performance of a three-weekly service between San Francisco and Auckland for one year expiring next month,- "(a.) This House authorises the Government to enter into a contract with the said company for a renewal of the present San Francisco mail-service for a term of three years, subject to the following conditions :- "(b.) That the payment for the conveyance of mails from New Zealand to San Francisco shall be at the rate of 7s. 6d. per pound for letters, 1s. per pound for books, packets, &c., and 6d. per pound for newspapers ; or 