the following new clause :-- " (1.) The master or other person in charge of every dredge employed in any deep or swift- flowing stream shall be the holder of a dredge- master's certificate issued by the Board of Examiners. "(2.) The provisions of section one hundred and eighty-eight of the principal Act relating to applications for examination shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to applications for examina- tion under this section. "(3.) The examination shall be in such special subjects as are prescribed by regula- tions. "(4.) The Board may issue certificates of service as dredgemaster, without examination, to any person of good repute who, prior to the thirtieth day of June, one thousand nine hun- dred and two, applies for the same in the pre- scribed manner, and produces a certificate from his former employer of his having been actually employed as a dredgemaster or person in charge of a dredge for a period of six months im- mediately preceding the date of his applica- tion." On the motion of Mr. W. FRASER (Waka- tipu), it was agreed to add at the commence- ment of the clause the words "From and after the thirtieth day of June, one thousand nine hundred and two." Words added, and clause as amended agreed to Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) moved the following new clause :- "(1.) A license for a tramway for the pur- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 pose of conveying timber from the bush in which it is felled may be granted by the Warden or the Land Board, as the case may be, to any person who holds a license for cutting timber. "(2.) Such license shall be in the form and subject to such conditions as are prescribed by the regulations for tramways for mining pur- poses." New clause agreed to. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) moved the following new clause :- "It is hereby declared that the Proclama- tion dated the twenty-fifth day of July, one thousand nine hundred and one, constituting and setting apart the river known as the Ina- ngahua River, together with all its tributaries, excepting Pattinson's and Phillips's Creeks, to be watercourses into which may be discharged tailings, débris, and waste water resulting from mining operations, shall hereafter be read and construed as if Auld's Creek had been excepted from the operation of such Proclamation.' New clause agreed to. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) moved the fol- lowing new clause :- "Subsection three of section two of ' The Mining Act Amendment Act, 1900,' is hereby amended by the insertion of the words, ' or otherwise' after the words ' by renewal of registration.'" New clause agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) had very great plea- sure in moving the second reading of this Bill, and he was sure that members of the House would be heartily glad to see that at last there was a prospect of having the Victoria College placed in a proper position, so that it might proceed with its work as originally intended by the Legislature. The Bill provided for an ex- change of land between the Board of Governors of Wellington College and the Wellington City Council. The proposed site was generally ap- proved of by those who took a great interest in the matter, and it was his own opinion that the site selected was a good one. He was given to understand that the two parties had arranged matters amicably, and that this Bill was the outcome of what they had agreed upon. The site-the Salamanca site-took in a large gully, which, though useless in itself, would form part of the site that had been selected. It was his duty to inform the House that the City Council had notified the Government that they were not satisfied with the exchange of College land that was to be given to them, but they were willing to look over that if the Government would give them the Wainui-o-mata Forest Reserve. He could not say this was an afterthought on the part of the Council, or that it was not an opportunity that should not have been missed. At all events, the position of the forest reserve was that it was locked up, and could not be used in any way or disposed of. At present it was serving its purpose, and was beneficial to the reservoir. He would like to say there was no connection between the two questions-the College site and the Wainui-o-mata reserve. The Government had never been consulted in the matter ; and his reply to the Council was that the Parliament very jealously guarded the forest reserves of the country, and that this particular one was as safe now as it would be if vested in the City Council. At any rate, the Government had no intention of handing over the reserve. It was an area that was of value to the colony as well as to the city, and should not be brought into the question of a site for the Wellington College. He had been given to understand, as he had previously remarked, that some objection had been raised to the site the college authorities proposed to give to the City Council. The Council had not withdrawn the Salamanca site, but they objected to the piece of land the Board of Governors proposed to give in exchange for it. It was a difference, however, that was not of a serious nature. The importance of having the Victoria College site settled upon, the erection of buildings, and the giving of higher education, were matters that, to his mind, should outweigh any differences that existed. He moved the second reading of the Bill. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) rose to a point of order. He wished to know if this was not a local Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) would like to point out that the Middle University, to which the Bill referred, embraced the West Coast, Nel- son, Marlborough, Wellington, Taranaki, and 