are working it to-day, and it has been one of the most profitable pieces of railway that the colony has ever had, and we did not think fit to give back to the shareholders anything in respect to the Kaihu Railway. I am only giving a parallel case where the State stepped in through there being default on the part of the contracting parties, and we have not seen fit to give anything in return. You will ask, then, " Why in this case, more particularly in respect to the debenture-holders, do you pro- pose anything different ?" Well, the answer is this : As previously stated, it was not free from doubt as to completed sections. There was a section of line completed ; and the question was whether that section should be handed over and be the absolute property of the company or the debenture-holders. They claimed under the law to be entitled to pos- session and ownership, and, if that interpre- tation had held good, then the line between Greymouth and Reefton would have remained their property, and this was a line of railway the colony would have had to construct itself, and it has proved a fairly payable piece of line. Again, there was the completed section between Jackson's and Stillwater. There can be little doubt but they thought all was safe when advancing and taking up the debentures. And it is because these moneys were, I believe, honestly invested that we must, I think, give them some consideration. It is said, of course, that ignorance of the law is no excuse. In my opinion, when taking up the debentures, those investing looked upon the venture as safe, and did not trouble about the law at all. Well, this is correct in most cases; but there are exceptions to every rule. I desire to remind honourable members that an important factor should be borne in mind in coming to a con- clusion-namely, that if the Midland Railway Company had not stepped in, the probability is that political pressure would have been so great that the colony would itself have gone on with the construction of the Midland Railway, or a considerable portion of it. I am positive almost that we should have gone on with the construction of the railway, at all events, from Christchurch to Greymouth, if the company had not stepped in. The company have spent We have altogether, I suppose, £1,200,000. given them land which has realised £313,000. Now, if we had had to construct the completed portion of the line ourselves it would have cost over £600,000. We may therefore say we have paid only £313,000 towards the construction of a work which would have cost us, if we had carried it out ourselves, over $600,000. We have therefore not paid much over 50 per cent. of the cost of the work done. Now, there have been three parties connected with the con- struction of the railway-namely, the State, the company, and the debenture - holders. " We find," say the Commissioners, "that the capital value, or the selling value, of the pro- perty to-day is £192,000." The Commission say that the allocation of that, gauged by the property were realised, £66,000 for the colony and £126,000 for the debenture-holders. Now, I at once say-and I wish to be emphatic upon the point-we do not admit that the country was ever a partner in the venture. This was simply a supposititious or hypothetical case the Commissioners had placed before them for their finding, and so they have found upon it. The value is gauged upon its net profits as a going concern, looking back five years, and calculating five years ahead, and on that basis the Commissioners have fixed the value at £192,000, and which is deemed the full and fair value. Outside this there was a sum of £57,000, I think,-£7,000 of it being earnings, and £50,000 which had been contributed by the debenture-holders after the colony took possession of the line. That is to say, under the terms of "The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881," when the Government stepped in and took over the line and went on con- structing it section by section, we had the right to demand from the company the money so spent in respect to each section as it was constructed ; and if the company met that demand within a certain period they still had a hold on the line. But if they made default, the line became wholly vested in the Crown. Well, ultimately they failed in their contributions, and the whole property became vested in the Crown. It would be unwise, I think, in any finding we may come to, to leave the consideration of the £57,000 undealt with. I may say, first of all, a portion of the £57,000 was properly used for working-expenses, and if that amount had not been so applied we should have had to take it from the net profits ; so that the charging of that amount to the working-ex- penses takes away a portion of the £57,000. Then, in respect to the finding, the balance is taken into consideration, and the sum which we propose to offer is, as stated in the report, £110,000 to the debenture-holders and £20,000 to the shareholders. For the reasons I have previously stated, I do not think it would have been wise to shut out the shareholders altogether, as we should have had them coming to Parliament for redress in the future ; and while we are dealing with this matter my advice to honourable members is to clear it up once and for all, so that we shall not have it troubling us either here or in the Mother-country. But this colony need never fear any section of persons in the Mother-country. New Zealand and the New-Zealanders are sufficiently well known, and it is not in the power of any one to materially injure our credit. But at the same time, when there is a feeling on the part of some people, who otherwise would be friendly, that they have been hardly dealt with, it is perhaps advisable to adopt the attitude, " When powerful be generous." And it must not be forgotten that many of these persons have in- vested their little savings in this venture, and the gift, allowance, or whatever you like to call it, that is proposed to be given amounts to a mere trifle relative to the amount they in- 