like to urge upon the Government the desira- bility of giving effect to this recommendation at as early a date as possible. This was a ques- tion of great importance to the fishing industry in and around Auckland. There was a very strong feeling amongst the line-fishermen that the waters of the Gulf were being depleted of fish, and that within the next year or two there would practically be no fish in those waters. The trawler conducted its operations in shal- low waters, and immature fish were often caught in large quantities, and were thrown overboard because they were below the legal size. Of course, it was impossible for the Com- mittee to make a pronouncement whether this was so or not, because it did not have the necessary technical knowledge and information on this subject. This was a matter which was being keenly debated in Auckland ; and, if the allegations of the fishermen were true, it was necessary that immediate steps should be taken to put a stop to the trawling operations in the Hauraki Gulf. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister of Marine) said, Before the report of the Committee was brought down this question had been brought under his notice by his colleague the Minister. of Mines, and when he learned that there was a petition before the Committee in reference to the matter he determined to have a special report made on the subject. There appeared to be a conflict of opinion as to the injury done by trawlers, but he would have inquiry made, and, if the report warranted it, the trawling would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have to be stopped. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said this was a very important question which the mem- ber for Auckland City had opened up-namely, the question of the injury done to fishing- grounds by trawlers. He knew that in many parts of New Zealand the trawlers had dis- turbed very valuable fishing-grounds, which had furnished regular employment to a large number of men. He hoped the Minister, as he had indicated, would see that this question was thoroughly investigated, in order that the public might have something definite to go on. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) hoped the Minister, when he went into this question and came to a conclusion, would not act too rashly upon it, because it seemed to him to be a strange thing that trawling should do the injury stated in the Hauraki Gulf, whereas on the shores of coun- tries which had the largest fish-production in the world trawling did not seem to have such an injurious effect. He wanted to know whether this would mean the stoppage of trawling within a certain distance of the shore, or whether it meaut stopping trawling altogether. He knew many instances in which this question of trawl- ing had been discussed by line-fishermen, in the same way as other matters were discussed by those whose business was interfered with to some extent by machinery. He would like to be sure, before anything was done by the Go- vernment, that the House would be consulted on the matter, and that there would be some- thing more than the complaint of some men ing operations. It was more important to pro- vide cheap food for hundreds and thousands of the people of the colony than merely to con- sider the interests of a few men. If that alone was the issue, then the line-fishermen must go down. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) would like to say, in reply to what the member for Mataura had said, that this was not altogether a question of the line-fishermen going down. He thought most honourable members would at once admit that if there was to be an improve- ment in the production of fish food for the people, whatever system produced the greatest quantity of food for the public must be upheld. However, he might point out that this petition applied only to the Hauraki Gulf, and not to the whole of the coasts of New Zealand. If it applied only to the Hauraki Gulf there was no question about the destruction of young fish, as they were destroyed in large numbers owing to the operations of the trawlers. A trawling- net of a certain mesh, which when perfectly stationary would not detain small fish, would, when drawn after a steamer at a certain rate of speed catch numbers of small fish, owing to the action of the water and movement of the net. The result was that large numbers of small fish were absolutely destroyed, because the law did not allow the sale of these small fish, and good food therefore had to be thrown overboard. The evidence given before the Committee showed that vast numbers of small fish were killed owing to the operations of the trawlers, and an agitation had been going on amongst fishermen in the Hauraki Gulf with the view of having a stop put to trawling. Public opinion was so strong that one man had been obliged to give up trawling operations, and he understood the work was now carried on by a company. He thought it was time that some action was taken, and he hoped that his colleague the Minister of Marine would see that a report was obtained from some expert who had a thorough knowledge of this question, and who would be able to place the matter before the Government in such a way as would enable them to take action and do what was right in the matter. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) hoped the Govern- ment would do something in the direction recommended by the Committee. He had re- ceived a number of complaints from consti- tuents of his, and particularly from settlers upon Waiheke Island, in the Auckland Harbour. The complaints were to the effect that, owing to trawling operations in the immediate vicinity of the island, numbers of young fish were being destroyed, and that on fishing-grounds where fish were formerly plentiful they were gradu- ally becoming scarce. While he was willing to admit, as had been pointed out by the member for Mataura, that trawling ought to become an important industry in this colony, still he thought that our legislation on this question should be brought into line with the English law, which provided that trawling operations should not be carried on within three miles of the shore. He hoped, after full inquiries were 