satisfied that many honourable members will .agree with me when I say that this policy is no more nor less than boom, bounce, and bluff, and, I hope I shall soon be able to add, " bust." Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - Sir, I trust the question before the House will be discussed in temperate language. I submit that a question ·of this importance, affecting as it does not merely New Zealand but other parts of the world, including to some extent the Mother .country, should be considered fairly and dispas- sionately. There is no necessity whatever for indulging in a heated controversy. There is no need for leaving the temperate zone and going straight into the tropics. The proposals we are ·considering constitute merely a question of busi- ness. It is not desirable that we should consider the interests of Spreckels or the Union Steam- ship Company or any other firm. We have to confine ourselves to our own business inter- ests. That is really the question that is before the House. The Imperial interests, as I have said, are only remotely concerned in this ques- tion, and I venture to say that the best friends of the Mother-country are those that carefully avoid doing anything to disturb the friendly relationship that exists between the United Kingdom and such countries as America - a country that has of late displayed a sympathe- tic solicitude for the welfare of Great Britain and her colonies. 1 do not think people who indulge in invectives against the foreigner are acting altogether in the interests of the Mother- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 country. Members indulging in high-falutin' of this nature reminds one of a young rooster crowing in mid-ocean. Mr. WILFORD .- I rise to a point of order. The honourable gentleman refers to me in terms which I think I may designate, at any rate, as paltry, and I ask that he withdraw them. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I do not think the expression i . out of order. Mr. HOGG .- I said I did not think we should emulate what I might call a young rooster crowing in mid-ocean. Mr. WILFORD .-- The honourable member turned round and looked at me in such a way that I could not help but take the remark to .apply to myself. Mr. HOGG. - I did not think that the honour- able member for Wellington Suburbs was so extremely sensitive. I believe, -ir, we ought to try to get out of our close-fitting garments, and introduce breadth and depth and freedom and liberality into our discussions when we are dealing with large questions. At all events, it would be well to avoid the parish-vestryism that is so often displayed in this House, and avoid as far as practicable saying anything unpleasant either with regard to Auckland or the United States. I do not think it by any means shows much forbearance or magnanimity on the part of Wellington members to be indulging now and again in a tirade of abuse against Auck- land. Mr. WILFORD .- We are not against Auck- land. Mr. Wilford member for Wellington Suburbs. He does not represent the whole of the House. I need only refer to the speeches delivered last evening by the members for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher and Mr. Hutcheson) in order to justify my language in saying that a somewhat bellicose attitude has been observed, an attitude neither necessary nor judicious. Wellington and Auck- land can very well afford to fraternise, and, while they may be competitors for foreign ship- ping, there is no reason why they should not live on friendly and amicable terms. If the editors in both places now and again indulge, as newspaper-men are in the babit of doing, in a sort of war-dance-although it is written "the pen is mightier than the sword"-no blood is spilled, and if they ruin anything it is simply the paper they consume. What is all this tremendous squabble over? One would think there was going to be an international war. What does it amount to? A paltry £15,000 a year to be given to a company that has the enterprise to place first-class vessels on the ocean to carry our mails. Why, Sir, we ought to be a little more broad-minded. At all events we should not be so contracted in our ideas and so anxious to quarrel - to quarrel like a trap-door spider because a straw happens to flutter at its threshold. That is the attitude of certain members. I am sure that on reflec- tion, and in their cooler moments, these mem- bers will deprecate this kind of bull - baiting. The honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) spoke about trailing the grand old flag in the mud, and said that, even if it cost the Go- vernment their existence, he would not spend one penny on the Spreckels Company. I should like to know whether, instead of trailing the good old flag in the mud, we are not trailing our coat-tails behind us and inviting every- body - Jonathan, and the representatives of Auckland-to dare to tread on them. That is the kind of exhibition we have been making. I do not think playing the bully is an enviable attitude by any means, and, besides, we are too young to play such a part. The United States has a right to protect its trade in its own way. It may adopt methods we do not approve of, and we may think it is going too far. It possesses the right of self-govern- ment ; and a country which knows that one of its weak points has been the neglect of its mer- cantile navy has a perfect right to develop and protect its shipping in its own way. We claim similar rights for ourselves. Why should we object to the United States protecting its mari- time trade? There is no need to indulge in rash or unkind remarks as regards Auckland or the United States. The members for Dunedin and Christchurch and Wellington have their own ports to look after ; but I do not see why they should be jealous of the little bit of trade that comes to Auckland. In my opinion these honourable gentlemen are not acting judi- ciously. Instead of promoting discord, they should try to keep New Zealand fairly united. I would ask certain members to consider for a moment, if they went to Auckland, or to the 