where. Mr. HERRIES .- I think the mistake in the first place was in annexing these islands, be- cause there are more complications to come, and this House will presently be asked to get the Government out of a great mess. What is the estimated revenue for this year for the Cook Group ? It is £3,486, and the expenditure is estimated at $2,724. That would leave the very substantial surplus of £762. Then, what do we find ? We find, according to newspaper reports, that there is a deficiency of about £1,100 in defalcations. Well, that disposes of the whole of the surplus. Then, I see that for some reason or other-generosity, I hope -- the Resi- dent Commissioner has refunded $500 of those defalcations, so that the loss is not so great as might have been expected, but practically the whole of the surplus is gone. But supposing you take away the duties charged on New Zea- land goods. In 1899-those are the last figures I can get-they amounted to £9,000, and, as the Premier says, they were about two-thirds of the whole of the imports- Mr. SEDDON .- The Customs duty to 31st June was $1,500. Mr. HERRIES .- That is the esti- 9.0. mated amount. If it is the real amount, it is curious that it should be exactly the same amount as was estimated to be pro- duced on the 30th of June, 1901, and I think the Premier is simply reading the estimate. Mr. SEDDON .- I have a statement some- where showing that the revenue came up to the estimate. Mr. HERRIES .- Take the Customs revenue at £1,500, if you take two-thirds of that away- and the Premier has admitted that two-thirds of the trade is New Zealand, and that New Zealand trade is to go in free-then you must be met with a deficiency of about $1,000. The Premier says he will charge the officials, the Customs Officer, and the Postmaster to the Consolidated Fund. I do not say that ought not to be done, for as it is part of the colony I do not see why we should not do it; but that is a different story from what we were told when we were annexing 'these islands and singing "God Save the Queen." We were told they would be very little expense, and would give a large profit to the colony. Mr. SEDDON - That is my opinion now. Mr. HERRIES .- Now, we are told that it will most likely be a loss to our colony ; and in addition to that we have in the estimates £5,100 for an oil-steamer; and I understood when we voted the sum that it was to be re- paid from time to time by the Cook Islands Government. Now we have annexed the Islands, the Cook Islands Government does not exist, and, consequently, this will be a charge on the Consolidated Fund of this colony. We also paid the salary of the Resident Agent, $500, and also $5-2 to expenses last year, which makes a total of about $6,000, besides incurring the expense of sending there Mr. Percy Smith, who must be going at the ex- pense of this colony. vices to the colony free of salary. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, he is well worth being paid. I wish the Premier would give his services free to the colony. I may say that if they put Mr. Percy Smith in charge of these islands his services would well repay any salary that might be paid him. Then, we have it in- dicated that Mr. Nagel, on the Island of Pen- rhyn, is to get a salary of £150 a year. We shall soon have in connection with these islands an expenditure of £7,000 or $8,000 a year, and we have here the foundation of a new depart- ment, because we shall soon have an item down for a Foreign Secretary, with a full department occupying rooms in the big building, and amounting to £15,000 or £20,000 a year, for these few islands of which the Premier has such an exalted notion. I may say that I have conversed with people from Auckland and other places, and they have not borne out the eulo- gistic terms in which the Premier spoke of them. And with regard to preventing them from falling into other hands, they were the whole of them British possessions, except the Island of Niue. With this one exception they were all British possessions at the time the annexation took place, so that no foreign Power could have taken them even if we had not laid a hand on them. With regard to the trade from Tahiti, of which the Premier makes so much, those who know about it tell me that the Tahiti trade is in English hands, that many merchants of Tahiti are English merchants, though they have to sail under the French flag. I have heard of one firm at Auckland that had a schooner at Tahiti that used to trade at Rarotonga, and they had to fly the French flag, because it was more convenient for their trade. All the trade that goes from Rarotonga to Tahiti comes back via Sydney, and is in English hands. London is the market of the world, and all this stuff must go to London, and it goes via Sydney. The bulk of the back trade goes round by Sydney to Tahiti from London. There is a small trade with the Americans, which the Americans try to foster ; but the general bulk of the trade goes by Sydney to London, and vice versa. So much, then, for the trade ques- tion. With regard to the Bill itself, it seems to me that these clauses, 2 and 3, practically put these Islands in the position of a Crown colony. There is no disguising the fact that this House has no control over them ; the only person who has any control is the Governor in Council. He can say what laws are to be passed, through the Resident Agent, over which officer we have no control whatever. Mr. SEDDON .-- Yes, he is appointed by the New Zealand Government. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes; but Parliament has no control over him. We ought to have the instructions that are sent to him laid before us ; we ought to have no confidential reports such as the Premier spoke of ; we ought to have full knowledge of what the instructions are. The I Premier stated that they were confidential. say we have no right to have confidential letters 