the old-age pensions was only what they had foretold the Premier it would be when the Act was passing through the House. One of the worst features of it was the indifference which it had infused into the minds of well-to-do children in regard to the welfare of their parents. He knew some sons who were re- ceiving very large incomes, and yet they felt it no discredit to throw their parents as a burden on the State, even though the self-denial prac- tised by the parents had helped them into affluence. This system was taking away the sense of responsibility, and he thought that was highly undesirable. It was no use Stipendiary Magistrates saying there was only 1 per cent. who did this. There was no officer upon whom systematic deception was so often practised as upon the Stipendiary Magistrate. The asso- ciated citizen knew more about the financial condition of the applicants than the Stipendiary Magistrate. There was only one way in which they could have an honest old-age pensions scheme, and that was to give it to all. The moment they began to individualise and to be invidious, or to make an inquisitorial examina- tion of people's affairs, the dishonest claimants would lay themselves out to deceive the Govern- ment and the country, and for that reason it was exercising an immoral and degrading influence over the country. If he were inclined to be dishonest, and kept clear of land, he could send his money, even if he had £10,000, over to Australia and draw his pension here. Let the Government come down with an honest straight- forward policy and make it a universal pension, or else let them get all the Post Office officials and Justices of the Peace in the country to report to the Government who were the needy poor, and he believed they would come much . nearer the mark than they did at the present time. Then, along with the Stipendiary Magis- trates as a Court of inquiry, they would be able to get accuracy of information about the deserving poor. He was anxious that the poor should be treated well. At present this old-age pension was only a charitable dele, and not a pension at all, and therefore it was called by a false name. If it was to be charitable aid, let the poor be relieved according to their needs ; but what was wanted was a univeral pension, to which every one would contribute while he had the power to earn money for his own sup- port. It was claimed when the scheme was initiated it would reduce the charitable aid. It had not done so to any appreciable amount. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said the salaries of the Deputy Registrars in Auckland, Christchurch, and Dunedin were only .$75 each, and in Dunedin the Deputy Registrar, who only got about 4s. a day for his work, was kept going almost from one end of the year to the other. In his opinion, therefore, the Deputy Registrar in Dunedin, at all events, was not adequately remunerated, and some addition ought to be made to his salary. Vote, #2,780, agreed to. Vote, Land - and Income-tax Department, £21,576, agreed to. Mr. PIRANI moved to strike out the item "Salary of Registrar of Consols." He regretted to say that the Premier, in dealing with this officer in another part of the estimates, know. ingly or through ignorance misled the House in regard to the salary paid to the Secretary to the Treasury in New South Wales, who, he said, re- ceived $1,500. He was only £580 out, for the actual salary paid was £920. The principal Under-Secretary in New South Wales only got a little over $1,000. It was also to be remem- bered that in New South Wales the officer occupying this position had three times as much money passing through his hands as this officer in New Zealand. In Victoria. where there was twice the revenue of New Zealand, the salary of ₺620 was paid for the position. Those were the salaries paid by the Govern- ments before federation came into force. Per- sonally, he did not think they ought to consider what was paid in the other colonies, but what the colony could afford was the sole considera- tion that should influence them. But, inde- pendent of that, this position of Registrar of Consols was a purely ornamental one, and the work pertaining to it should come as a regular part of the work of the department. Mr. SEDDON hoped the honourable member would not press the amendment, for it would look like persecution of an officer. It had just been decided not to reduce his salary in the main estimate by £50, and now this was an attempt to arrive at the same thing in another way. That was not fair, more particularly as this officer was one of the most deserving in the colony, and one who had most important duties to perform. The honourable member did not tell the Committee that in New South Wales they had a Public Service Board, and he thought the junior on that Board got £1,500, and the head of the Board #2,000 a year. Those officers had not more responsibility than the head of the Treasury here. They had to remember there was the financing of our loans, and it was no exaggeration to say that there was #20,000,000 of money last year under the supervision and control of the Secretary of the Treasury. He was one of the best officers in the Civil Service. The officer in charge of the Land-tax and Income-tax Department and Ad- vances to Settlers Department got $900 a year. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said, if the Premier wished to introduce a true reform he would have a Civil Service Board appointed. Even if he paid a good man $2,000 a year as the head of that Board it would be the means of a great saving to the colony. A few years ago the Civil Service in New South Wales was in the same confusion as the Civil Service was here. There were good men in the service, but they had to carry inferior ones on their backs. After the Board was appointed, the cost of the ser- vice in New South Wales had been reduced by $300,000 per annum, and more satisfaction was given to the Civil Service, because the officers knew that efficiency was appreciated and well paid. Besides freeing the Govern- ment from the undignited position in which 