years-more almost than I can recall-one of the figures which presents itself to my mind as a member of the Legislature is that of the gentleman whose death we mourn to-day. Sir, I can remember him as a kindly gentleman, a man whom I have met frequently in social life in years gone by, a man long connected with this Legislature, but who probably will be more remembered for the good work he did in the early days when Westland was first separated from the Provincial District of Canterbury. In those days the late Hon. Mr. Bonar was one We of the leading men on the West Coast. ought to see by his untimely death how closely death surrounds us, and how charitable we ought to be in our estimation of one another. Motion agreed to. NATIVE LAND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT AND LAWS AMENDMENT BILL. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) 7.30. moved the committal of this Bill. He would give any explanations required in Com- mittee. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) did not intend to occupy much time in addressing himself to the measure. He would like to re- mind honourable members that, when the question came up that morning on the Re- serves and Other Lands Sale, Disposal, and Enabling and Public Bodies Empowering Bill, he told the House he thought Bills of the kind ought to be agreed to solely on the responsi- bility of Ministers. It was practically im possible for members to understand or really https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to get to probe all the intricate questions submitted to them, and Ministers, aided by their departmental officers, in bringing in a Bill of the sort, ought to be personally re- sponsible that all the clauses were right and proper-that there was nothing dishonest or immoral in them, and that on Ministers them- selves the responsibility ought to rest. He was not referring to this Ministry or any other Ministry, but laying down what he conceived was the only true principle upon which Bills of the sort could be properly passed. It was impossible for Committees to get reliable information on all the questions, and in the Native Affairs Committee this year they had done their very best in going through the Bill to arrive at what was right and what was wrong ; but, although they had done so, he con- tended it was practically impossible for the Committee to understand the merits of the fifty odd clauses they had to decide upon. What he wished to do was to draw attention to the character of the alterations and amendments set out in the Bill. Clause 3 allowed an appeal to be heard which was not lodged at the time it ought to have been lodged. That was a proposal to set aside the provisions of the Native Land Court Act of 1894, which set out in clause 84 the methods under which appeals were to be permitted. Those appeals were to be lodged within thirty days, and the Chief Judge had power to extend the time; and, although the Chief Judge could extend the sion of time shall exceed three months from the date of such extension." Clauses 5 and 6 and others reopen cases that had al- ready been decided by the Native Land Court, and authorised cancellation of existing orders. Honourable members would see that great power was given. Clause 7 legalised an illegal purchase as regarded the area alienated-that was to say, that under the provisions of " The Native Land Court Act, 1894," it was pro- vided that only a certain area of Native land should be sold to any individual ; yet, notwith- standing that, in some instances those who knew they had no right to exceed a certain area had purchased Native land in excess of the prescribed area, and those transactions were now to be validated. There was nothing im- moral in the transactions, but they were ille- gal. Clause 9 proposed to give power to reopen a will case which had been heard before the Native Land Court, from which there was appeal to the Appellate Court, and now under this Bill they were to have another tribunal which was to review the de- cision of the Appellate Court. Under clause 11 the decision of the Appellate Court was made a decision of the lower Court, to en- able further appeals to be made. Under clauses 12, 17, and others it was declared that the final decisions of the Appellate Court were to be void. Clause 93 of "The Native Land Court Act, 1894, " reads : " The decision of the Appellate Court shall, as to every question of law and fact, be final and conclusive "; and yet, notwithstanding this provision of " The Native Land Court Act, 1894," they were now going behind the decision of the Appellate Court to set up other tribunals to review the decision of the Appellate Court. Sections 19 and 20 were for the purpose of validating validations. A special Court had been set up to inquire into and settle the whole question of disputed titles in the neighbourhood of Poverty Bay, and the decision of that Court was to be final. They were now asked to give power to validate in- formal decisions of the Validation Court. Sec- tion 32 was an appeal from the Appellate Court to the ownership of land adjudicated upon some years ago, and which land was now being administered by the Public Trustee. Under this Bill seven different Native Land Acts were amended, and the ordinary layman could not possibly know what the state of the law was. The Bill amended the following Acts : "The Native Contracts and Promises Act, 1888," "The Special Powers and Con- tracts Act, 1886," "The Reserves, Endow- ments, and Crown and Native Lands Exchange, Sale, Disposal, and Enabling Act, 1898," "The Native Land Court Act, 1894," "The Native Land Laws Amendment Act, 1895," " The Na- 'tive Townships Act, 1895," and "The Native Land Laws Amendment Act, 1896." The Bill also extended " The Native Land Laws Amend- ment Act, 1898," and revived part of "The Na- tive Land Act Amendment Act, 1878." He did not want to say he had any reason to believe that any serious injustice was being done, or, indeed, 