With regard to the frozen mutton trade, the forty-seven Inspectors, thirty-seven rabbit difficulty was that each firm wanted to run its agents, thirty-two veterinary surgeons, and own business independently. The right thing, nine assistants to Meat Inspectors. Now, who he thought, would be to get the representatives of the different firms together to see if they could they, and what duties did the assistants to not agree upon a plan for more concerted action, because he was sure that if the right steps were taken better prices would be obtained. He was sure that our New Zealand mutton did not now bring the money it deserved, that it was sold at a high price to the consumers at Home, while a very low price was received for it by the pro- ducers in the colony. With regard to the ques- tion of the member for Riccarton, this was simply a sample brand to show that it could, with advantage, be used. It was not compul- sory. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked what was being done about the eradication of noxious weeds ? Mr. DUNCAN said this year instructions had been given to look after this noxious weeds business. Of course, the thing could not be got into full swing at once. With regard to the question of the member for Eden, he thought the time had come when the matter of pro- viding instruction in veterinary surgery should be taken in hand. Unfortunately, there was no place in the colony to which young fellows desiring this kind of education could go. The matter was now under consideration. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked where did the Minister intend to locate the thirty-one Veterinary Surgeons who were now in the ser- vice of the Government. Was it intended to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 divide the colony into districts, and place one in each district ? Mr. DUNCAN said these officers were im- ported specially to act under the Public Health http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Act, and their principal duty was to inspect the abattoirs and slaughterhouses. If disease broke out in any particular district, or there was any exceptional mortality amongst stock or anything unusual that required attention in connection with diseases among stock, they were available and could be sent to visit and report. They were not brought out for the purpose of com- peting with the ordinary veterinarians in the country in going on to a farm and doing the work usually performed by a veterinary surgeon. There were enough abattoirs in the colony to keep the whole of them employed. In Wel- lington alone he thought it would be necessary to have at least two of these officers. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked if they reported upon the milk supplies ? Mr. DUNCAN said, In many cases they did. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) hoped the Minister would not permit the Stock Inspectors to be appointed as Inspectors of slaughter- houses, as it would place them in a false posi- tion. If anybody was to inspect these buildings let it be a peripatetic officer, for a resident officer was bound to have local influence brought to bear on him. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked what were the veterinary surgeons doing in the meantime ? Were they employed in other parts of the colony, or were they all located in Wellington ? were the Meat Inspectors, and where were Meat Inspectors discharge ? He thought it would be a good thing if the Government translated into the Maori language the leaflets that were distributed to the farmers, more particularly those relating to poultry, because the Maoris take a very great interest in poultry- raising, and it would be a good thing to en- courage them in this industry. He would like to know what amount was raised under the sheep-tax. and also the amount supplied by freezing-works and abattoirs towards the pay- ment of these Inspectors. Then, he wished to remind the Minister that year after year the Government had promised to establish a dairy school in the North Island, but up to the present time they had only had the annual promise and no fulfilment of it. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) wished to know what the four Dairy Inspectors were doing. This was an industry which should be fostered by the department, and he would like to see the number of Inspectors increased by about eight. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked if it was the case that the Scotch thistle was included in the Second Schedule of the Noxious Weeds Act. If treated as a noxious weed it would be ruinous to many farmers. He would like to know at the instigation of what expert this was con- sidered a noxious weed. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said it rested wholly with the local authority as to what noxious weeds were included in the Schedule. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked if all the dairies in Christchurch had been inspected. Mr. DUNCAN said he believed they had. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked if the Govern- ment would consider the advisability of increas- ing the grant for the destruction of rabbits on Crown lands in the Napier district to, say, £500, and also if they would consider the ques- tion of establishing a State farm in the Bush districts, somewhere about Norsewood. By doing that the quality of the dairy herds there would be improved, and the breed of stock also, and great good would he done to the dis- trict. He would like the Minister to see to it that when the department took upon itself to prosecute anybody under the Sheep Act it would take them to the nearest Courthouse. There was a case in his electorate where a man had been summoned to Napier, when his home was quite close to Waipawa. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said he thought there was reason for something being done in connection with the inspection of fruit. At the present time the Inspectors condemned oranges in Auckland, and the same fruit was sent down to Wellington, allowed to be landed, and sold for consumption. The same thing had also happened only last week in connection with a shipment of apples. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) advocated the aboli- 