the effect of Mr. Willis's amendment ; and, if so, I shall regret it, because it will mean that the industrial unions, who elect a member of the Conciliation Board in each case, will believe the employers flout them by taking cases beyond the Conciliation Board to the Court. In the first instance, it is bound to cause a feel- ing of friction, in my opinion, with the workers. The result of it will be, I fear, that their in- terest will wane as regards conciliation, because you must carry with you as you go along the moral support of those interested-the workers -you must carry them with you, and get them to recognise they have had fair play, and that in what has been done they have been con- sulted, and that justice has been done to them. If, on the contrary, they take the bit in their teeth and say they have not been treated fairly, but have been taken at once to the Court, and have not first had the opportunity of con- ference with their employers, and consequently of an explanation before the Conciliation Board - which was the tribunal set up for that pur- pose-and that they have been forced to the Court, in my opinion, it will create a feeling of resentment, and that moral force which must be behind and which is essential to and of paramount importance to the working of the Act will be interfered with by what has been done. I still think it would have been wiser, if there was to be a change at all, that both parties should consent before any dispute could be taken beyond the Conciliation Board to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Arbitration Court, because if they ignored the Conciliation Board, and take the cases to the Arbitration Court it will cause a revulsion of feeling that will be against the good working of the law. I shall hope that that may not be the case." That was what the Premier said on that particular clause. Earlier in the evening we heard the honourable member for Wellington City and the honourable member for Riccarton endeavouring to make out that the Premier was acting inconsistently, and that he had virtually assented to clause 21. Mr. PIRANI .- I rise to a point of order. Is it in order to read an extract from a Hansard report of a speech delivered during this ses- sion ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Yes. Mr. PIRANI .- Mr. Speaker O'Rorke has ruled the opposite. Sir J. G. WARD .- The member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher) has already read extracts from this same speech. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes ; but I think he was out of order, and that was why I did not object to the Minister for Railways reading the extract. Sir J. G. WARD .- I would just like to point out that the honourable member for Wellington City left out the portion of the Premier's speech in regard to clause 21. It is not fair in political warfare to misrepresent any one. The proper course to take is to state the views fully of your opponent ; and when a member is desirous of scoring against an opponent he has no right, in connection with an important corded views of a man occupying the position of Premier and Minister of Labour. I hold views similar to those stated by the Premier on this point, believing, as I do, that it is essential, if you want to have the industries in this colony carried on successfully, that our legislation should not be of a charactor to create friction in the minds of the workers in the colony, and I have expressed myself to this effect before. I deprecate as much as any member of this House can do anything being done on either side to create a feeling of irritation between employers and employed. I am of opinion that it would have been better to have amended the law in the direction of allowing those who had disputes to settle, before going beyond the Conciliation Boards to the Arbitration Court, to first go to the Conciliation Boards. I enter- tain this opinion for this reason : that I think it is better to conciliate if you can, and with a view to prevent any feeling of irritation be- tween those who are having their disputes tried. I can only hope, as both Houses have thought differently and have decided that unless both agree either side shall have the option of going to the Conciliation Board, but must go straight to the Arbitration Court-I only hope the result of the working of the Act may prove to be beneficial, and I trust that nothing in the shape of what has been suggested by some honourable members may arise-nothing that will tend to promote bad blood between em- ployers and employed. There is no good to be gained by prolonged discussion on the amend-" ments ; the will of both Houses has been put on record by those who thought this the best course to adopt. All we can do is to see that the machinery is well oiled in such a way as to run easily for the benefit of the colony. I am sorry to have heard from the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) any suggestion that, as an outcome of this legislation, there should be an attempt to create an independent labour party in our country. In the interests of those who are suggesting it, it is a course that requires to be carefully thought out before they pledge themselves to it. In the past it has been by co- operation, by the close alliance of both sections of the people who are in the ordinary sense termed Liberals, with the working-classes, that so much good has been done. The result of this co-operation in the past has been conducive to bringing about a great deal of useful and progressive legislation, which has been for the great welfare of our colonists both in town and country ; and before anything is done-although there may be a few odd cases which may lead some to think otherwise-I say it requires to be carefully weighed before such a departure is taken, because, depend upon it, once an attempt is made to create an independent labour party there are bound to arise reprisals. I have given expression to what I think is a very important and difficult matter which may have to be faced, and I am disposed to think that it is the right thing in the interests of the people of the country to endeavour to work together, and in the interests of the country as a whole, 