house at Rotorua has what the Maoris call a " whakapapa," or history. Many members will not know, with regard to the Maori house. that it was obtained by Mr. Nelson, who occupies the Geyser Hotel at Whakarewarewa. There is one feature about that house which makes it of inestimable value, and that is its old Maori carving. Most of the carving we have on ornamental Maori houses to-day is modern to a degree, and the English carvers are able to imitate it ; but in this particular house there is a class of carving that we do not get to-day. I am informed by the member for the Southern Maori District that as many as seven tohungas or Maori experts in carving died during the progress of the work, and the idea of completing the work was abandoned through superstition, and it was put in one of the caves, I believe at Waiotapu. Mr. Nelson knew of its existence and of its history, and, with loving care and with a reverence for antiquity, carried it to Whakarewarewa and had it completed by Natives in a manner which entitles it to rank as a curio or memento of a bygone age. Therefore I should like the Government at once to seize, at the earliest possible moment, the opportunity, through the Hon. the Native Minister, of purchasing this curio from Mr. Nelson. It is a Maori house that no one has any idea of the value of. It is quite unique. In conclusion, I hope that this Bill will have the effect of preserving to New Zealand her relics and historical productions. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City). - Like https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the other speaker, I take the opportunity of congratulating the Hon. the Native Minister upon bringing down this Bill. I think the Bill, when passed, is likely to prove of a much more far-reaching character than has been inti- mated or suggested by any speaker. Before entering into details on the question, I should like to call the Minister's attention to the inter- pretation clause of the Bill, which I fear may prove of too narrow a character. Itake it that, if the objects of the Bill are given effect to, the result would be the establishment of the most important museum in New Zealand, and pro- bably in the Southern Hemisphere ; and I should desire that this museum should be some- thing more than a mere storehouse of Maori relics. If it is to be a national museum, I would like it to partake of the character of a natural history museum of New Zealand, and I believe that really is the intention of the pro- moter of the Bill ; but I fear that if the inter- pretation of the Bill is adhered to it will restrict the operation of the Bill to Maori relics only. It says, - " In this Act, if not inconsistent with the context, ' Maori relics' includes any Maori relics or curiosities or other articles or things of historical or scientific value or interest or re- lating to New Zealand." Now, it is obvious, Sir, that the governing word in that clause is the word " Maori," and that the things of historical and scientific value there referred to are Maori things of historical and scientific value; and I would like to see the clude natural-history specimens, which are of as much value to us, as showing the main natural and indigenous features of the colony, as are the Maori curiosities as retaining to us the characteristics of the Maori race at the time the white man first came amongst them. It is unquestionably true that many specimens of great interest and value have been lost to science and the colony for want of some such protective law as this Bill provides, and which will in future be preserved if the interpretation clause be widened as I suggest. No one can question that it is desirable that we should preserve for all times these specimens of Maori workmanship-these stone implements and weapons for defence and offence-the imple- ments which were used by the Maori before the white man came here, and which have a peculiar interest which perhaps only the scientific student is likely to fully appreciate- I mean the interest far beyond that which is excited as a mere curio. For instance, when the white man came here, he found in New Zealand what was really an anachronism. He found a race here who were the counterpart of the most primitive races of the world, using just such weapons as were used by the primitive ances- tors of mankind, and he found them proficient in an unparalleled degree in the art of manu- facture and use of these articles. There is something more than the mere utilitarian value referred to by the honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Ell). I take it that, after all, however, the utilitarian value is something, and when he speaks of the sentimental value, the sentimental value itself has a utilitarian aspect, because sentiment itself is one of the most use- ful and powerful factors in our nature. But I would put it far beyond the mere commercial value as a curio. There is a value attached to these Maori weapons, and particularly to the earlier specimens of Maori art. Why, Sir, I believe recent investigations at Nicaragua have shown that there is a striking similarity be- tween the art and characteristics of the Maori of New Zealand and those of the primitive in- habitants of far-away Nicaragua; and this fact is borne out in the old stone carvings from the buried cities that have been there un- earthed. These facts in themselves go to show that, if New Zealand should build up a museum where these art relics and where these stone weapons and stone implements may be preserved for all time, we shall be doing much more than providing a mere show for ourselves and sight-seeing tourists. We shall be providing the scientific and intel- lectual world with specimens and objects which will have a value for all time to come to those who take an interest in archeology by marking out the actual position the Maori race occupied in the races of the world, and in the intellectual, artistic, and industrial development of mankind. This is a matter of some importance, and I am more desirous on that account that the scope of the Bill should be widened so as to embrace natural products. The fauna and flora of New Zealand have a peculiar value which attaches 