Mr. PIRANI would like to know the amount paid as compensation in connection with Coker's Hotel. Sir J. G. WARD .- Nothing at all. Mr. PIRANI asked if there was not a dis- pute in reference to that. Sir J. G. WARD .-- Not now; there had been a dispute. He was informed the agreement had been broken, but not by the Government. Mr. PIRANI desired to draw attention to another item-namely, that in connection with the expense incurred in the review and massing of troops. A number of young fellows in Palmerston were deluded into going to the review at Wellington and Christchurch, under the idea that they were going to get 4s. a day. Sir J. G. WARD .- They got half-a-crown. Mr. PIRANI said they had got nothing. All that they had got was this: that the Govern- ment had incurred an expense of 2s. 4d. a day for food in connection with them. Food, the Go- vernment called it ! Raw meat - and they were given two matches each to cook it. The Feild- ing Volunteers certainly were paid 4s. a day, when they only travelled twelve miles further than the Palmerston Volunteers; and he wanted to know how this difference was made up be- tween the amount allowed to the Volunteers at Palmerston North and the amount allowed to the Volunteers at Feilding. In the majority of cases these young fellows left their work for a week, and were out of pocket the amount of their wages for that time as well as the amount they had to pay to keep themselves from star- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 vation ; and, owing to mismanagement, they had had to undergo great privations : yet the Government were mean enough to deduct from their allowance 1s. 6d. a day because they did not travel exactly 100 miles. Every single penny of expense incurred by Ministers was paid out of the pockets of the country, as well as their allowance of 30s. a day; yet they acted in the way he had described towards these Volunteers, who received no benefit whatever. In connection with this mis- management he did not think that any- thing so disgraceful had ever occurred in the annals of the colony. He could give the Premier one item in connection with the transport of troops from Wellington to Christ- church which would open the eyes of the public. The captain of one of these companies of Volunteers foraged round on his own account, and eventually the Wellington Harbour Board lent the men a shed on the wharf to sleep in. After considerable trouble arrangements were made for the transport of these men to Christ- church. During the whole of that week's trip the men had to incur considerable expense, because they often did not get a decent meal. He might mention, also, that while in Wel- lington the only way in which the men could go in a decent state to the parade was by taking off their boots and leggings, rolling up their trousers to the knees, and walking through the mud and slush, and then scraping off the mud, and thus make themselves fit to appear on parade. They had to stand in the rain several the only men in respect to whom the Govern- ment had attempted to exercise any economy with regard to their allowance. Yet £50,000 was put down on the estimates for expenses in connection with the Royal visit, as well as another £20,000 to come. Why, the liquor bill incurred would have paid these Volunteers 10s. a day each easily. He thought these men ought to have been treated differently. Mr. TANNER (Avon) said he had listened with considerable interest to the statements made by the last speaker, and, unfortunately, those statements agreed with a great many things which had come his way. He did not pretend for a moment to say that the Govern- ment were in any sense responsible for either the cold weather, or the mud in the streets of Wellington, or for the rain which fell at the time ; the men, of course, had to bear those things, which were inseparable to the position. But there were things for which the Govern- ment were responsible, and which, he thought, would discredit any Administration in this connection. One of the greatest blessings that could befall New Zealand at the present time, he believed, would be a Guy Fawkes con- spiracy which would send the Defence Office sky-high. This sort of thing - indifference, neglect, and extravagance - had been going on for years; it had been prevalent for at least two years-since the departure of the First Contingent to South Africa in 1899. In his electorate there was a man who was engaged to pack hay, which was to be put on board the vessel which took away the First Contingent. That man had never been paid yet. And, what was worse, although the work was ordered to be done by a Govern- ment official, it had been repudiated by the Government ; and he might mention that the man had to do the work on a Sunday night. That man had claimed, and claimed in vain, and he (Mr. Tanner) had brought the matter under the notice of the Premier, yet he had never obtained any inquiry, and the man had never got any money. There were several pounds due to that man at the present time. As a last resource he had recommended the man to petition the House. There was a time when several contingents were being despatched in rapid succession, when he (Mr. Tanner) almost dreaded to go into Christchurch, owing to the way in which he was buttonholed by men who had claims on the Government for work actually performed for the Defence De- partment. He had brought these cases under the notice of the Premier. but had got no answer -the department was immovable. Some of these men had obtained payment, but others had not. With regard to the review in Christchurch, some of the North Island Volunteers had told him that they were distinctly promised 4s. a day if they went to Christchurch for that review. Some of the men who were in the Printing Office, remembering previous experiences, exacted a promise that they should be paid their ordinary wages whilst absent ; but when they returned the promise was at first repudiated, but he un- 