McNab Symes Gilfedder Millar Tanner Hardy Thomson, J. W O'Meara Herries Palmer Willis. Hornsby Parata Tellers. Hutcheson Rhodes Fowlds Kaihau Russell, W. R. Houston. Lethbridge NOES, 24. Hall Russell, G. W. Bennet Hall-Jones Seddon Buddo Stevens Heke Carncross Ward Carrol! Hogg Wilford. McGowan Duncan Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Field Flatman Thompson, R. Meredith Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Witheford. Graham Majority for, 5. Amendment agreed to, and item reduced accordingly. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked what course the Minister proposed to take in view of the motion just carried. Did he pro- pose to pursue the course indicated in the re- solution just passed by the Committee ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might inform the honourable gentleman that the Government were quite safe. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) would take the opportunity, now that the amount was disposed of, to reply to the .questions asked by the member for Franklin. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The honourable gentleman's first question was as to the disparity of the votes between the North Island and the South Island. The honourable member was quite wrong. If he looked at the expenditure of last year as be- tween the two Islands he would find that the North Island had the advantage to the extent of twenty thousand odd pounds, and, as usual, the bulk of the North Island expenditure was in the Auckland District. The North Island had received for roads last year £228,000, of which £92,000 was expended in the Auckland Province alone; while the expenditure in the whole of the South Island was only £78,000. No other province of the colony came within " coo-ee " of Auckland in this matter. He (Mr. Hall- Jones) was not responsible for what took place before the honourable member and himself had entered the House ; and, at any rate, they were trying to improve the position now, and year by year they were placing the North Island in a better position than it was before. The votes for Auckland this year were £175,600 for railways, and for roads a total of $206.291. The honourable member had done Auckland wrong in compelling him to draw attention to this, and he hoped other honourable members would not take advantage of it to make an attack on the Auckland votes, for, although they were large, the allocation wasa fair one, and a just one. Then, for public buildings the vote for Auckland alone was £36,174. With regard to the ques- tion about the moneys derived from the sale of Crown lands on the North Island Trunk line, all the charges in connection with the surveys and there had been a large staff of surveyors surveying that land. The cost of that had to be borne out of the proceeds of the land. It was a payment to the Lands and Survey Depart- ment. The honourable member for Waikato had referred to some man whose services had been dispensed with, upon the North Island Main Trunk Railway. The man was dis- charged because he admitted he had been guilty of sly-grog selling, and he (Mr. Hall- Jones) was determined to put a stop to this practice. That accounted for the dismissal of several of the men who were dispensed with on the Main Trunk line. In connection with the vote for last year referred to by the member for Franklin, that vote was actually spent just to the amount voted. This year the vote was £51,000 in excess of what was spent last year. They spent #109,000 last year out of the ordi- nary vote for construction, and this year they were taking a vote for £160,000. That was as much as one could with reasonable economy use this year. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked, Was he to understand that the whole of this £160,000 allocated this year for the Main Trunk line was to be spent at the Auckland end, and that there was nothing to be spent at the southern end ? Mr. HALL-JONES said it did not look like it. He might also explain that it was men- tioned in his Statement that he hoped to have the Makohine Viaduct opened by the 31st March next. He hoped to have it opened a month earlier than that. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said the honour- able member for Rangitikei had knocked the arguments of the Minister into a cocked hat. He would like to know whether the money which was being received from the sale of lands set apart for the North Island Main Trunk Railway was being spent exclusively on the construction of the line-that was, of course, that portion which was not used up in the cost of surveys. If the money was not being ex- clusively used for the Main Trunk line, and was thrown into the Public Works Fund, then it was being improperly used. Mr. HALL-JONES said the money was paid into the Public Works Fund, and was properly used for the purposes for which it was assigned. Mr. MASSEY said he would like to have the assurance of the Minister that the money now being voted would be sufficient to carry along the line, so that it would be finished within the three years previously promised. Mr. HALL-JONES said, If Parliament gave him this money, and what would be required for next year and the following year, the work would be finished in three years. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked what steps were being taken to have the railway near Dunedin extended up the Kaikorai Valley. Mr. HALL - JONES said he had already promised that he would personally go over the route. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked whether the Minister could not see his way to expedite the progress of the Waipara-Cheviot line, even if it 