Ministers, was the host for the colony for the time being. Now, I wish that to be clearly understood, and if members will tell me how it could possibly have been done in any other way I shall be much obliged to them. Mr. TANNER. -- It ought not to have been done in that way. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, the Royal guests should not have been invited at all. Would the member for Avon say that ? Mr. TANNER .- No; I do not mean any- thing of the kind. Mr. SEDDON. - Well, I say they were the guests of the colony, and His Excellency the Governor was the host for the time being, and the course we are taking now is not that it is necessary according to law, because he was not an interested party, but, as the question might be raised in the House, we have decided that the items on the estimates shall be with- drawn, and that a separate Bill should be passed, and that it should be sent Home- reserved by His Excellency and sent Home for the Royal assent, thus removing all grounds that might be urged to the effect that there had been an infringement of the Royal Instructions. That will meet the difficulty. It will not lead to argument, because mem- bers of the legal profession will differ on this point, and to avoid that I say we are taking this course. Now, I would ask, Has not this colony received very great credit indeed for the manner in which their Royal Highnessess were entertained, and has not their visit to our colony been of great advantage to us ? I hope, therefore, nothing will be done that will detract therefrom ; and with the view of avoiding any- thing that may be said to detract therefrom, and to avoid having an acrimonious debate when we are in Committee of Supply on this question, we have taken this course. There- fore when we come to this vote on the esti- mates I shall move to strike it off, and by pass- ing this Bill and sending it Home in the usual way we can get the Royal assent to it. I there- fore move to go into Committee of the Whole. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I do not wish to go into the merits of this Bill, and I regret that the Premier has gone so far as he has. But, Sir, when the Premier did speak I thought the least he could do would be to be fair. Now, the Premier might have stated that this Bill had been introduced in consequence of a com- munication that I made to him, as coming from the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), who had discovered -it was not the Premier's legal advisers at all - that if the Premier proceeded in the course he was taking in regard to the estimates the Appropriation Bill would have to be hung up for the Royal assent. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, I am going to prove it. The Premier, in combating my argument, told me when I brought the matter before him yes- terday that the idea was ridiculous. Mr. SEDDON .-- Hear, hear. Mr. PIRANI-And that he had no intention of having a separate measure for this purpose. ! in a proper manner. I do not think it would Mr. Seddon come round to the point of seeing that it is not ridiculous, but that it is the proper thing to do. Now, the Colonial Secretary did mention about a separate Bill, and the Colonial Secretary thought it was a perfectly proper course to take, but the Premier did not. The Premier based his opinion on the question that it is not a grant of money to the Governor. What else is it ? The clause in the Royal Instructions is very clear, and it is all very well for the Premier to say that one reason for his change of front is that lawyers will differ. It will not come before the lawyers ; it will be a question between the King's advisers and the King's representatives in this colony. It is not a question for the Solicitor- General, who can very easily give an opinion to suit when it is wanted. Now, the clause in the Royal Instructions bearing on this point is very clear. It says, " The Governor shall not assent to any Bill whereby any grant of land, or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself." Nr. HORNSBY .- " A gratuity." Mr. PIRANI. - This is a gratuity. Mr. SEDDON .- " Made to himself." This is not for himself. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, he will have to sign a voucher for it, even if it is in recoupment of expenses he has incurred. I do not enter into that point at all. It is very clear that he could not possibly assent to the appropriation. with one exception, and I am surprised that the Premier did not see it is possible for the assent to be given. But the Premier has not studied his point very closely. He simply listened to \---- what I said, and did not pursue his study fur- ther. If he had looked a little further into the Royal Instructions, he would have seen that,- " Unless the Governor shall have satished himself that an urgent necessity exists re- quiring that such Bill be brought into imme- diate operation, in which case he is authorised to assent in our name to such Bill, unless the same shall be repugnant to the law of England, or inconsistent with any obligations imposed upon us by treaty. But he is to transmit to us by the earliest opportunity the Bill as assented to, together with his reasons for assenting thereto." The Premier did not see that point at all. i He sees it now. 1 An Hon. MEMBER .- You take the skin off. : Mr. PIRANI .- Yes, I often do take the skin off the Premier's eyes. He will see that his argument about the impossibility of getting the Royal assent falls to the ground. I do not think it is a proper thing that a vote for the ! Governor should be brought into conflict with İ our own Appropriation Act, and therefore I \- - think the Premier is doing the proper thing in placing it in a separate measure. But I do claim that it is only another instance among many where the Opposition show their desire not to harass and worry and discredit the Pre. mier, and that where there is a point that should be considered apart from party politics they do not deter him from dealing with it 