branch of the New Zealand Union, held at Ashburton, the following resolution was passed and ordered to be sent to all members of Parlia- ment : 'That this conference strongly protests against the inclusion of agriculturists under the Workmen's Compensation for Accidents Act ; and that this resolution be sent to every member of Parliament."" I remember that two years ago, and last year when the Workers' Compensation Act was passed, I particularly called attention to what I thought was the gross injustice of putting farming men outside the protection and opera- tion of the Workmen's Compensation for Acci- dents Act, and I still adhere to that view. There is nothing in principle that can be applied to them with justice which would warrant the right of Parliament-it has the right to do any- thing-to say, "Here is a body of men that shall be protected against accident, and there is a body of men that shall not be protected." Where is the justice of that ? I appealed loudly last year and the year before against this being done. I believe now that the terms of the Act imply that all those workers are industrial operatives, and therefore they are under the Act. But I was remarking on the very bad start which the Farmers' Union has made. There can be nothing more calculated to break up this Act, there can be nothing more calculated to cause dissatisfaction between capital on the one side and labour on the other, than setting out with a charter to say, " We insist on your excluding these men." I have pointed out before the in- numerable accidents which may occur to men working on farms whereby they may be maimed or lose their lives, and their families may be left exactly in the same position as the families of employés who may be injured in factories. Therefore this appeal to keep these men out of the operation of the Act is utterly wrong, is unjust, is cruel, and, furthermore, is detri- mental, in my opinion, to the interests of the farmers themselves, because the Act provides a cheap, expedient, and effective method of insur- ing themselves against common-law liability for accidents, and therefore I hope Parliament will not agree to an amendment of the Act in the direction suggested. . Then, there is another resolution which was passed by this union, namely :- "That this conference strongly opposes the inclusion of farmers under the Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act, and urges upon the Government to at once pass a clause in the amending Act now before the House excluding all agricultural and pastoral pursuits from its operations ; that a copy of this resolution be forwarded to the Premier and to all members of Parliament." Being in a small way a farmer myself, I, of course, know that farm men have to work under circumstances in many cases that involve much irregularity of hours of labour, therefore requir- ing special consideration in respect to what is a reasonable and fair average ; but this resolution seems to suggest that in cases brought by the men or by the employers before the Court the Board Court, might be so senseless as to apply hard- and-fast and unworkable rules to an occupation which every one knows requires to be placed under conditions giving the greatest amount of latitude to both the employers and the men. I look upon this as sounding the note of warfare, and, if there is anything which can tend within a short time to bring about-if they are outside of this Act-a strike, this is the very thing to do it. What must be the feeling and conse- quent attitude of the men to a demand that implies a total want of consideration for their interests-a consideration that the Legis- lature has so freely granted to other sections of the working community? I have a letter from a gentleman-a farmer-in which he said,- "I hail with great pleasure the advent of this Farmers' Union, because, assuredly, it will lead to the formation of a Farm - labourers' Union. Unless these people are brought into line with the employers and the employés in the town it will result in a very short time in strikes, and then we shall have the old battles to fight over again." Therefore it is, Sir, that I think there is out- side a very different feeling with regard to this question from what there has been expressed in this Council. I do not want to say that members are guided by that, but there is an appearance about the debate which shows to me that there is some little desire to turn away in silence from the road that we have followed for the last seven years. Now, Sir, let me point this out: that the system of conciliation and arbitration has been for many and many a year applied to affairs of life other than labour employment. I remem- ber that some forty years ago there was a movement at Home to deal with commercial disputes in this way, and the result has been that, as time has gone on, there have been created in the large marts and centres of com- merce associations for the regulation and adjust- ment of commercial contracts, and to deal with disputes. In London the Stock Exchange Com- mittee has long exercised supreme control over the contracts of its members in respect to dis- putes. Their word is law, and a member can- not go past it and appeal to any Court. Then, take the Baltic Sale-rooms. You buy a for- ward cargo of linseed from the Black Sea, or Calcutta, or anywhere else, and you are bound to submit to the rule that when that arrives, no matter what it is like, the whole thing goes before a committee, and their decision as to the allowance to be made by the purchaser if the cargo is better than the grade, or by the seller if worse, is binding, and must be accepted by both parties ; and if either of those parties were to refuse to accept the decision their membership of the rooms where all this busi- ness is done at once would cease. There- fore the system of conciliation and arbitration, as we now have it in labour disputes is quite old. I said myself, before Mr. Reeves brought in this Bill, that a resort to strikes was brutal, and required a process in law to deal with it. 