wall, and lose the Bill altogether; but I do not think, nor do the Government think, that to take up a position of that kind would be either dignified or consistent with consti- tutional usage. That being the case, whilst accepting the situation under protest, I move now that the amendments made in the Bill be agreed to. It is my duty to point out to the House the amendments made by the Legis- lative Council, and the nature of those amendments. In their nature they are not such as to materially affect the measure itself. If members will look at the Bill they will find the first amendment in section 11. There the words " made prior" are struck out and the words "in force " are inserted. The effect is the same, though the reading is slightly different. Now, the words " made prior " would carry it back to every award since the Concilia- tion and Arbitration Act has been in force. All that was intended was that the awards now in force should be affected; consequently, the amendment is an improvement of the Bill, and I must ask the House, therefore, to agree to that. Then, we come to clause 12: there, evidently, it was the intention of the House to give the trade-unions the position of being affected by any award made. The difference between the amendments made in the Bill as sent up by this House is that we did not give the power to the trade-unions to initiate. In another place they have given that power of initiation, as I read the Bill; that is the alteration that has been made. As the Bill left the House, whilst trade- unions would be bound by an award, they had no power of initiation ; and I will tell you more now, because I do not want, in a matter of such moment as this, to trifle with it. It is too serious to trifle with. The trade- unions now will have the power of initiation as well as being subject to the awards ; formerly it was only the industrial unions that had the power of initiation. There are some members, of course, who question my statement, but I know why the amendments were made, I know the objects they had in view, and the effects of the amendments made. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where does the power of initiation come in ? Mr. SEDDON .- In the interpretation. I can only say in respect to that amendment that I ask the House to agree to it. Sir, as regards section 15, there are references to certain sec- tions of the original Act which are struck out, and I do not think myself that the amendments made in clause 12 are necessary. Section 19 was struck out by the Council : "Proceedings for the enforcement of an industrial award or order of the Court may be taken by the Inspector of Factories for the district." Formerly, we passed a clause which said, " That the Inspector for a district should take proceedings for the enforcement of awards." We said it should be compulsory. The other place has said it may be. Well, there is just this in it : the party who take proceedings to compel respect for an award Mr. Seddon cause they take that action; and we thought it was fair that the responsibility should be thrown upon some person who would not be thrown out of employment because he took action to compel respect for an award. An- other place has struck out the word " shall" and inserted "may." Well, I tell the House and country that in every place instructions will be given to Inspectors under the Govern- ment to take action to compel respect for the awards of the Court. The Legislative Council may put in the word "may," but so long as the present Government have the administra- tion of this Act the word "may" is the word "shall," so far as that is concerned. Section 19 is a new clause which, it 8.0. has been said, has the effect of the original clause. It has been contended that it is worded better, and that it will have the same effect. I am not so sure of that myself. At all events, I know this : that if I were to move to disagree with the amendments with the view of holding a Conference, I and those who sup- port the Government would be accused of en- deavouring to thwart the majority having effect given to their wishes in respect to this Bill. That being the case, I do not wish the House to be placed in a false position. I say we are now passing a measure which, to my mind. is a serious departure of policy, and, I fear. in- imical to both employer and employed. I say it is questionable what the result of that will be, and it is altogether contrary to what was done when we passed the original Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act. And I conclude my remarks by saying that I do earnestly impress upon members - and I will impress upon those to whom this legislation specially applies-that they should respect the law as originally passed, and not lightly set aside the Conciliation Boards, but that they should use that machinery with a view to coming to a happy solution of the difficulties that arise between employer and employed. If they do that all will be well ; but if they take advantage of what is here passed by the Legislature, and on every occasion ignore the Conciliation Boards, then I say-and my words will prove prophetic-it means trouble to the employed and to the employers. We started with con- ciliation, and I say we ought to keep strictly to conciliation. Conciliation means the moral support of the people and the moral support of those who are bound by these awards : and. that being the case, to take away conciliation. as by the amendments has been done, is to my mind, objectionable and will prove a grave and serious mistake. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- I want, first of all, to enter my emphatic protes: against the speech which we have just heard. In one part of the Premier's speech he said-I presume he was referring to members of this House-that they were trying by subterfuge to kill the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. and he said that they were not willing to come out into the open and say so. I say, if the Premier has that opinion of any member of this House 