contrast between the amount of money spent on roads and bridges he gave the figures for Otago at £15,000. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Spont last year. Mr. FOWLDS .- Yes. Well, the only way to compare one province with another is to take the whole Province of Otago, which includes Southland. And, if you take Otago and South- land together, you will find there was £32,793 spent there last year on roads and bridges: and let me point out that the population of the Province of Otago-including Southland-is about 2,700 less than the population of the Province of Auckland. Then, he made another statement that the population of Auckland was only one - fifth of the whole colony. If you multiply the population of the Auckland Pro- vince by five you will get 879,270, and the census returns show the total population of the colony to be only 772,000; so that he is about 20 per cent. out there. But let me come back to the Statement made by the Minister for Public Works. If the matter were not so serious I would be inclined to look upon this Statement as a grim joke. We find him here alluding to the North Island Main Trunk line in this way : - "I informed Parliament last session that, if ways and means were provided from time to time as required, this railway could be com- pleted and open for traffic within about four years from the end of last session, and I see no reason to suppose that that expectation is not still capable of realisation." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Is the honourable gentleman joking in this Statement, or is he in earnest ? We know well enough that if means are provided the line can be completed in eighteen months or two years ; but what does the Minister mean ? Does he intend that means shall be provided : and, if so, what is the meaning of the vote of £160,000 ? The Premier has promised, both inside and outside the House, that the railway will be completed in three years from date. How are you going to complete the line in three years with an expenditure of £160,000 a year ? We were told last year that $130,000 was all that could profitably be spent on the line for the year, and we accepted the vote believing that it was so. The Minister also said that he would open up works during the year which would enable him to incur very much larger expenditure in the year following; and that "very much larger expenditure " means an in- crease in the vote by $30,000. However, it is quite possible the railway can be completed yet "if means are provided from time to time "; but who is to provide the means ? The members of this House have no power of providing means, excepting as the pro- posals come down from the Government, and if the Government continue to propose a vote of £160.000 a year, then the means will not be provided, because the members of the House cannot increase the appropriation, and the railway, at the present rate of progress, will not be completed for another nine years. I do Mr. Fowl is the people of this colony fairly in the matter. I do not say the North Island even, because I think the people of the colony as a whole have made up their minds that this is the first and most important national undertaking, and ought to be completed with as much speed as possible, with due regard to economy in carry- ing on the work. And surely, after the state- ment made last year, £160,000 is not all that can be profitably spent in carrying forward the line this year? Then I come to consider some other railway proposals. I find that some of the other North Island lines are treated much worse even than this. We have had petitions sent in, signed by twenty-five thousand people, praying for the more speedy construction of the main trunk line north of Auckland. Mr. SEDDON .- You are very good hands at petitions in Auckland. Mr. FOWLDS .- But we do not get very much money expended. The remarks made by various speakers with reference to the votes for roads and bridges are altogether beside the question, because the people who are getting the money spent on roads have themselves pro- vided the means. Their leasehold lands have been loaded with 5s. an acre for making the roads, and they are paying the interest on the money. That, therefore, should be eliminated from the question altogether. Then, again, the money spent on roads and bridges is being spent on land belonging to the Government : and where is the Government land in the South Island on which they could profitably spend money in making roads and bridges ? If one goes into the figures it is found that the South Island has had about three millions more for railways than the North Island, and the southern portion of the North Island has had a million and a half more than the Auckland Province. Take now the allocation for railways -$100,000 for the Otago Cen- tral and £100,000 for the Midland Railway, both of which have been condemned from time to time by people coming from the districts in which they are situated. I have no hesitation in saying that the returns from the North of Auckland railway would be much greater than the return from either the Otago Central or the Midland Railway. In the last thirty years the people living in the North of Auckland have paid more Customs duties than all the people of Otago outside the City of Dunedin, and yet. with the exception of a few votes for roads and bridges in the last ten years, they have had co money spent there at all. They have been pre- mised railway communication for years and years, and here it is creeping up at the rate of about a mile in twelve months. Mr. SEDDON .- It is about as much as you can do to look serious. Mr. FOWLDS .- It is not ; I tell the honour- able gentleman that the only inference I can take from the public works proposals is this : They see the rising of the Farmers' Union. and they have come to the conclusion that the Farmers' Union is going to terminate 