the power of every other member of the House to obtain. But members are getting, I may say, somewhat extravagant -- I will not use the term indolent, but they want everything now- adays to be prepared for them, and they ask the Government to have everything laid on the table of the House. They ask the Government to go to the expense of getting the departmental officers to compile information for them when that information is already contained in the papers and reports that have been laid on the table ; but they will not go to the trouble. There was a time, when I entered my appren- ticeship in the House, when they would not give us the information, and we had to go through the books and compile it ourselves, the same as the honourable member for Avon has done. I say that the application and diligence of the honourable member has its own reward, and he is now an authority on this question, a position which he is justly entitled to, and every other member could have procured for himself the same information. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, said, and very properly too, that we must take the Cook Islands now, and consider the mat- ter purely as from the native standpoint. If we do that, what better work could we have in hand ? There are islands which were thickly populated ; some are thickly populated now. At the present moment there is great wealth which only requires to be developed, and the material is there to develop it, and that material is the native population. It will cost https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 nothing. The natives are easily improved, and they are some of the best workers that could be obtained. You have the islanders of Niue going to other islands to work, and you have http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero natives going into Queensland from other islands. You have the islanders of Manihiki- in fact, nearly all the natives on these islands are a hard-working people, and it only requires the direction of the white man, and they will . produce that which we require. Then, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay said there was a falling-off in the population. I admit there has been a falling-off in the native population ; but who is responsible for it ? Those who fostered and permitted what is called the "black" labour; those who were parties to the deportation from the islands of the best of the male population to go to work in other places. Mr. PIRANI .- That has been done in New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON. - Yes ; it may have been done in New Zealand. Of course, although His Ex- celleney the Governor, apart altogether from his Advisers, has the power to grant licenses for the labour vessels, I may say that His Excel- lenby's Advisers have, at any rate, brought so much influence to bear on His Excellency that on the last occasion when a license was required to be renewed His Excellency refused to renew it. As I have said, the cause of the falling-off in the population has been the fact that the labour vessels take away the best of the men ; and if that is stopped I have little hesitation in Mr. Seddon tion on the Islands. Then, Sir, the honourable gentleman is entirely wrong when he says there will never be a white population there. I know some settlers in Rarotonga who were at one time living in the North of Auckland, and they have told me they can now make more money than formerly, and that the climate is as good as the one they left behind. Mr HERRIES .--- When did you hear from them last ? Mr. SEDDON .- A fortnight ago, and they are doing well, and are well satished. They have a fruit plantation, and their prospects are very bright. Then the honourable member for Hawke's Bay endeavoured to make out that we had broken faith with the Arikis in respect to their petition. I at once emphatically say there is no breach of faith whatever. It is true that in a petition they asked, in respect to the appointment of their High Court, that they should be consulted. Now, in respect to their lands, I wish to say that the terms and con- ditions were laid down in our agreement, and, consistent with that agreement, we are taking power in this Bill to set up a Court to decide on the titles of their land. But the honourable gentleman claims that they should have power to appoint, and in respect to that I say it goes without saying that if the Islands form part of New Zealand no such powers should be given to them, either to appoint officers or to approve of the appointment of officers required for the administration of the Islands. It was never promised, and consequently there is no breach of agreement and no breach of faith. Sir, the conditions we promised are contained in what we told them, and they are laid down in concrete form, and those are the whole of the conditions, and we are complying with them. Now, I should like to say, in conclu- sion, that I have received a communication by today's mail from the British Resident. He informs me, first of all, that he and Mr. Smith have visited Niue, and have found everything going on very well there. I also received in- formation from him in respect to our schooner, the " Countess of Ranfurly." He says she is a splendid sea-boat, that she has encountered very rough weather and has behaved splendidly. Also, that she has considerable speed, and is altogether a very safe boat. Perhaps I bad better read the communication : - " I have the honour to report that Captain Reed has been notified that he will be required to take the schooner to Penhryn and northern Islands. I have to congratulate you on the possession of this fine boat, in which I have every confidence, for on my return from Pal- merston Island and Niue we encountered the hardest gale experienced here for the past eight years. In this gale the ' Countess' not only showed herself a fine sea-boat, but made good headway in the teeth of the wind. " W. E. GUDGEON, British Resident." Now, then, to show that in respect to these Island questions the New Zealand Government 