that members might more fully acquaint them- selves with the condition of the islands. That I supported. When the matter came to the vote I voted with the majority for the resolu- tion, and I can see no reason now to regret the position I took up. Personally, I do not see that we could have taken any other step. That has been questioned, however, by other speakers, and, whatever may be said now, we are com- mitted to the action, and the country is com- mitted to it, and cannot undo it. If it be sug. gested that this step was taken thoughtlessly, or, as has been suggested, that it was done when we were inflated by Imperialistic senti- ments, I would just point out that it was no new idea. I think the Premier pointed out to us last year that similar proposals had been made by nearly every leading statesman in New Zealand from the time of Sir George Grey. He mentioned Sir George Grey, Sir William Fox, Fitzherbert, Vogel, and Bal- lance, all of whom had suggested a similar line of policy. If we have taken a wrong step, it has been on the proposal of the ablest states- men we have had in New Zealand. The con- stitutional question has been raised to-night, and I am bound to confess that I think that point has been too heavily laboured. I do not think there is much in that point. It is said now, these islands are an integral portion of New Zealand, and we are practically grant- ing to a portion of New Zealand the right of / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788261 self-government - that an outlying portion of New Zealand will have its own Parliament. I think the Bill hardly bears out that contention. It will have its own Council, but what is that but carrying out the very principle the demo- cracy has demanded-the principle of permitting local self-government in the fullest degree prac- ticable or possible ; and, as far as these islands are concerned, this Bill is but allowing to these outlying portions of this colony that degree of self-government that is absolutely essential under their conditions. There are only two positions possible-that the Islands taken over either must be governed as a Crown colony from outside, or given self-government. It appears to me that we could not take up either of these positions in its entirety. Having in- cluded the Islands within our own boundaries, we could not allow them to go on as they were, possessing their own government for all time, neither could we rule them as a Crown colony. This Bill suggests to my mind, at any rate, a very moderate and wise course. The member for Marsden pointed out that the measure itself was of a moderate character, and did not at- tempt to at once overthrow the laws existing in those islands, but rather those laws are to remain in force; and as they become fit to bear the strain - or burden, if you like-of the laws of this colony, these laws gradually will be imposed upon them. But that will natu- rally be a question of time, and a matter of evolution for some time to come. The laws existing in these islands will be the laws which will remain in force until by degrees super- seded by the laws of this Legislature. One VOL. CXIX .-- 21. of the chief reasons for my speaking at all is this : I notice that the administration of the public service in these islands is managed in a most economical and simple manner. I can only compare the local adminis- 11.0. tration of the public service, in its economic character and in its simplicity, with the simple character of the laws obtaining in the Islands at the present time. It seems to me that the simplicity of the laws is adapted to the requirements of the people, and they are only paralleled by the simple and economical charac- ter of the administration. Now, I should like to offer just one word of warning. My fear is that the economic administration might be destroyed. It would certainly be in a wrong direction if the local administration were very seriously interfered with, so long, of course, as the Islands affairs themselves were adequately administered and controlled. I do hope we shall not have, year after year, increases in the public expenditure on these Islands, or votes for increases to the salaries of those who have the control of the administration of these Islands. I do not look for any immediate great advantage from and increased trade with those Islands, but I do think there is this point which honourable members ought not to lose sight of : Naturally and necessarily there must be a predominating influence in those Islands, and we know what powers are extending their in- fluence in the islands of the Pacific. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that other Powers are extending their influence in the Pacific, and surely it is better that New Zealand's power should be the predominating influence in those Islands than that they should be controlled by any other Power. It must be better, both for us and for the Islands, because, after all said and done there are no peoples to whom the natives of those islands are so closely allied as they are to the native race of New Zealand itself. And while it may be true that we have to a certain extent taken up the white man's burden, we have, I would rather think, taken up the white man's duty : and in that sense we have fulfilled the white man's prerogative in taking up the white man's duty. I feel quite sure that ultimately the action which New Zealand has taken, the responsibility which it has attached to itself in taking upon itself the control and government of these Islands, will be a distinct advantage to the natives of the Islands them- selves, and ultimately to the whole of New Zealand. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I rise to say only a few words. The tenor of the speeches already delivered appears to indicate that the general sense of the House is against the Bill. I feel bound to say that I think the carrying-out of the proposal will entail a large expense, without any corresponding advantage to the colony ; but the step has been irretrievably taken, and it now remains only for the colony to make the best of it. I said I rose to say only a few words. They are to correct certain historical references made by two honourable members, one the member for Masterton, the other the member for Christchurch City (Mr. 