pay, than they are working in the places I have named. If we could put up a huge fence round New Zealand and keep out foreign goods, then we might maintain our conditions ; but until that fence can be erected we should be very careful to see that our industries are not going to be thrust out altogether. It has been denied that some industries in this colony have been closed. What is the fact ? In Dunedin a large tannery has been closed, which formerly em- ployed 120 men. In Christchurch a large fur- niture-factory, that employed sixty men, has been closed. It is also a fact that some of the iron-foundries in Dunedin, where they formerly employed four hundred men a little while ago, do not now employ half that number. In the boot trade, is it not a fact that a factory in Dun- edin, where over two hundred men were em- ployed a few years ago, has been reduced, and there are only about fifty hands now employed there ? These alterations have been caused, I understand, owing to importations. Would it not be as well, when these things are going on, to con- sider whether we are not pushing the car too far? That is the view I take of these matters. I am not at all apprehensive that the wild theories that are being promulgated by some so-called labour advocates are going to destroy this country. I am satisfied that the good- sense of the people will be equal to the re- quirements of the country. Our colony is too good, and so well blessed with natural advan- tages that it will not easily be ruined. My honourable friend a little while ago inter- jected this question : "What have you to say https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 on behalf of the workers ?" One hardly likes to speak of one's-self, but this very session I may say I have received a number of letters from the representatives of the workers in various districts throughout the colony. I have letters from three different organiza- tions in Taranaki thanking me for my advice and my assistance to them. I have also letters from Auckland thanking me. My only differ- ence with my honourable friend is this: He delights in disputes, whereas I counsel my fellow - workers to keep out of them. With regard to the Amalgamated Society of Car- penters and Joiners, it has been disputed that under their rules they cannot adapt themselves to local circumstances. I think my honourable friend said that was so. had the honour of taking the chair at the for- mation of a branch of the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners in Taranaki a little while ago, and one of the most pleasant things that I heard that night was stated by the president and the secretary of the Auckland branch who were present-namely, that under the rules of this society they were at liberty to impose any local conditions that suited the requirements of the district. I am not at all apprehensive that the inclusion of clause 6 and clause 21 is immediately going to bring about the downfall of this Act. I hope that this Bill, which has been amended and passed by a large majority in both Houses, will be placed on the statute-book. Time will prove if any error has Hon. Mr. Jennings we have in this country-wider than has ever been known in any country in the world-if a mistake has been made it can be easily recti- fied. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I was taunted with having only looked at the supplementary return of the Conciliation Boards, and not at the whole return. I have since looked at both returns, and added the figures together, and here are the results: There were thirty-one cases settled by the Boards of Conciliation, and eighty-nine cases have been referred by the Boards to the Arbitration Court. Out of these thirty-one cases settled by the Boards, the Wellington Board settled four cases. That is the great work that has been done by the Wellington Board of Conciliation since 1896. The cost of the Wellington Board has been £1,768. If you divide that sum by four you will see that each case settled by the Wellington Board cost £442, which beats the West Coast by long odds. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I am much obliged to my honourable friend Mr. Jennings for having given me the opportunity of remov- ing a false impression which has seemingly existed in his mind, and perhaps also in the minds of other honourable gentlemen, in con- nection with the remarks which I made as to the discharging of unionists in Christ- church. It would appear from what the Hon. Mr. Jennings said that he is under the impres- sion that I seized the opportunity to make an attack on a member of the House of Repre- sentatives, and did not propose to give that gentleman an opportunity of explaining, thrust- ing the onus on the member of the House of Representatives ; and perhaps that gentleman has asked the Hon. Mr. Jennings to explain the matter from his point of view. I will read what I said on this point from my Hansard proof :- "There are eleven names I wish to lay special stress upon, because they were all in our em- ploy, namely, Bowron Brothers ; and the secre- tary of the Trades Council says these men were discharged because of their action in bringing a case before the Board. I have spoken to & representative of this firm telling him I was going to publish these names, and made it known that these men considered they had been discharged from their employ for belong- I ing to unions, so that that gentleman, a mem- ber of Parliament, for whom I have the greatest respect, can put himself right on the first op- portunity.' Surely there is nothing in the nature of an attack in this. However, I wish it to be under- stood that I did not lay particular stress on whether the statement this man has made was true or not as regards my argument; but if men have been discharged from their employ for any cause whatever, and they are under the impression that they have been discharged for belonging to a union, I think the best thing we can do is to allow the employer the first oppor- tunity to refute the statements and let us get at the bottom of the matter. 