Council as a Domain Board. This would not admit of buildings being erected upon it as resi- dences or as a seaside resort. The rights of the public would have to be preserved in case of stock being driven along the coast, to enable them to cross the river at this place, or to rest on the reserve during the night. Therefore he thought a portion of this reserve might be left as a resting-place and the balance placed under a Domain Board. If the honourable gentleman would indicate the proper gentlemen to be made trustees for the domain, and who would attend to it and do something with it, he would make an effort to get it vested in such a body. # WAIKAKAHI. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Lands,-(1) Whether he will cause trial brings to be made at Waikakahi, in order to ascertain whether a supply of artesian water can be obtained ; and (2), failing this, wiil he lend to the settlers the necessary boring rods ? At the request of the Waikakahi settlers he had submitted to the Minister a few weeks ago a memorial from them asking that he would cause trial borings to be made, with a view to ascertaining whether a supply of artesian water could be obtained. If he did not see his way to do this at the cost of the Government, then, in the alternative, they asked that they might be supplied with boring apparatus in order that they might make experiments for themselves. The honourable gentleman replied to him that he did not see his way to undertake the matter himself, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that the Lands Department had no boring apparatus; but stated that he would make in- 4.30. quiry from the Mines Department and see whether that department pos- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero sessed suitable apparatus, and, if so, if that apparatus could be placed at the disposal of the settlers. He wished to know whether the Minister had reconsidered the matter, and if he had ascertained whether the appliances could be placed at the disposal of the settlers. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the honourable gentleman had almost answered the question himself. because at present, as he had stated, the Lands Department had no appliances of this kind. The only boring appliances possessed by that department was merelv suitable for short depths. He believed the Mines Department had boring appliances. He would make inquiries whether they could be granted as suggested, and he would let the honourable gentleman know. LAND FOR WORKMEN'S HOMES. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Government, Whether, if they continue the purchase of land for workmen's homes, they will consider the advisability of securing land, such as is obtainable, on the shores of Auckland Harbour, where by means of water carriage the cheapest form of transit is obtain- able? He understood that there were five hundred or six hundred acres of land available 16 JT $8 an acre. This land would provide VOL. CXIX .- 9. Government decided to start shipbuilding or other industries requiring water frontage, prove a valuable acquisition; and, whether or not any industry would some day have to be pro- vided for the unemployed, one thing was certain -- namely, that the land on the shores of Auckland Harbour was of great prospective value. Land on the deep-water side of the harbour, above the Sugar-works, would cer- tainly increase in value very greatly. He did not see why the Government should not acquire some of the land, especially when they could both utilise it and make a profit out of it, and secure valuable future sites for manufacturing concerns requiring shipping facilities. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this question was one which required to be dealt with, and he intended, as soon as Mr. McKer- row, the Land Purchase Officer, returned to Wellington, to draw his attention to this matter. He would ask the honourable mem- ber (Mr. Witheford), in the meantime, if he would be good enough to ascertain from the owners of the land if they were willing to sell, and at what price. If that were done it would facilitate matters, and then the Government would have some one sent at once to try if pos- sible to secure the land. ## J. W. . KAYES. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether, in accordance with the recommendation of the Waste Lands Com- mittee, he will request the Auckland Land Board to make further inquiry into the case of Mr. Joseph W. Kayes, formerly a Crown tenant, whose section was forfeited by the said Board ? While he admitted that there were two sides to every question, there were elements of hardship involved in this case which he hoped the Government would recognise. The facts of the case were these : This settler, Mr. Kayes, took up land in the Rotorua district, and complied with the provisions of the Land Act with regard to paying his rent and making the necessary improvements. He even went the length of building a small house on the land. But the Crown Lands Ranger reported to the Land Board that he (the settler) had not complied with the provisions of the Act as to residence ; and, further, the Ranger reported that, in his opinion, it was a case of dummyism. On the report of the Ranger the Board forfeited the section. He (Mr. Massey) knew Mr. Kayes, and he believed he would make a genuine settler. Mr. Kayes felt that he had been treated harshly. He had spent a considerable sum of money on the land, and he had given a good deal of his time to making improvements, and he intended to make it his permanent home. He petitioned Parliament, and the Waste Lands Committee went ex- haustively into the case, and they recommended that Mr. Kayes should be given another oppor- tunity of complying with the law. He hoped for a favourable reply. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this was not the only case that had come under his notice of a similar character. The difficulty 