In any case, whether that may be or may not be, the industrial conciliation and arbitration law is wor ing out its own destiny. I believe it has done a great deal of good in the past, and that it will do a great deal more in the future if it is impartially administered ; and the final result will be for " the welfare of this country and of the inhabitants thereof." The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Sir, the honour- able gentleman who has just spoken, I thought at one time would have moved at the end of his speech that this Bill should be read a second time this day six months. The whole Bill is bad, in his opinion, from beginning to end, with the exception of one little clause. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Four. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- One little clause, I think he said. Now, I was very glad to hear the wind-up of the honourable gentleman's speech in one way, because he endeavoured to prove that the Arbitration Court would never be able to perform its duties if certain clauses were retained in the Bill. He winds up now by telling us that the Arbitration Court presently will have very I ttle to do-that when all the trades are adjusted there will be very little more work for them. Sir, I only hope with all my heart that that is going to be true. A great deal of the honourable gentleman's speech was taken up by the defence of his friends the Wellington Conciliation Board. He has been at great pains to defend them in season and out of season. He has had up before the Labour Bills Committee the Chairman of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Conciliation Board to give us a whole fore- noon's work hearing of the great good he has done. What did that gentleman prove? That he might be a very good and conscientious man, but for business capacity to conduct his Court he had none. An Hon. MENBER .- That is a libel. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- That is no libel. Does the honourable gentleman mean to say that all this time would have been taken up if this gentleman and his colleagues had gone to work in a businesslike way to see that every- thing had been done that was required by the Act, and to see that the parties were brought together and kept in order ? If he had kept his own Court in order, the work would have gone on a good deal quicker probably. Now, this gentleman said he had been the means of settling a good many points. He was asked how long he sat every day. He said, " We sit from half-past ten o'clock to half-past twelve o'clock, and from half-past two o'clock to half- past four o'clock." The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Five o'clock. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN. - Half-past four was the time mentioned by that gentleman, though my honourable friend tried to make him spin it out at beginning and end in his examination of the named periods. I do not think in these days of eight hours that they were working very hard if only working half that time; and it is not very difficult to see how they could go and take as much as three weeks over one dispute. Now, you have only to take these figures on there is in the statement of my honourable friend that these bodies have done a great work. I find that for the last fifteen months the Auckland Board has cost $366, the Wel- lington Board #1,089, the Westland Board £17 6s. 4d., the Canterbury Board $109 4s., the Otago Board #220 14s. 2d., and the Tara- naki Board $8 8s. If that is the cost of the Wellington Board, surely they cannot be carry- ing on their business as quickly as they might. What is the object in taking three weeks ? Employers and employ és would have to attend every morning, and any person who knows any- thing about business must recognise that it would be most inconvenient for a man to leave his business for four hours in the day, and that any such proceeding would be sure to bring the Conciliation Board to grief. Now I leave the honourable gentleman and his friends on the Conciliation Board and see what he says about the Act. He makes a great point about clause 2, and wishes to exempt trade unions from it. Why does he wish to do so ? There is no trade-union now that we know of, or that the honourable gentleman knows of, that is not registered under the Industrial Conciliation Act ; and why should be wish them not to be so registered ? I presume the Government have good reason for putting that clause in the Bill, and I think any one who heard the evidence that was given before the Labour Bills Commit- tee must come to the conclusion that it would be a good thing to include "trade-union " in the Bill. Some of the witnesses were more can- did than others. One gentleman protested and said he did not see why he should not keep his trade-union out altogether if they wished ; and, further, that there was no reason why the men should not strike, instead of taking a case to the Court. That was plain speaking on the part of the witness. Other witnesses objected to the proposal, as it would increase the number of disputes. Well, it is really dif- ficult to understand how it would increase the disputes if they can all be brought within the However, if the honourable gentleman Act had his way I believe there might be no end of disputes. Every seven men could register as a trade-union, and might consider they had ground for a dispute. Not that seven men in any union could do much harm even if they did strike, but if they took action it might lead to inconvenience. I asked one witness if he had read the preamble of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, in which it was stated the object of the Act is to prevent strikes and lock-outs. The witness said that the men might not like the award ; and why, he asked, should they not be allowed to strike? Well, that would, of course, knock the Act on the head, and I do not think employers and employés wish that to come about. Why, then, does my honourable friend want to keep out his trade-unions, instead of keeping to the exist- ing Act ? The Act is there for better or worse, and I consider that every one should be worked under it. Now I come to clause 3, which my honourable friend did not touch. That 