Ballance for the attempts he made by legislation to throw open the Native lands by giving the Natives the opportunity of leasing them, and which measure was afterwards repealed by the Atkinson Government soon after they came into power. I only wish to add, Sir, that I trust the House will consider the position and pass this measure into law. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Sir, I have listened with intense interest to the speech of the honourable member for Wanga- nui. He has discovered that he is the only person in the House who really has a Native- land policy. It may. be summarised in a desire that the Ohuta Block of 70,000 acres may be acquired, so that it may provide funds that roads may be made into Wanganui as soon as possible, and when that is completed all his interests in Native land is to cease, and there is to be no more Maori land purchased, possibly because there is little left near Wanganui. Probably of all towns in the North Island the progress of Wanganui for the last few years has been the most phenomenal, and 11.30. I am credibly informed that that is largely due to the perpetual sitting of the Native Land Court in Wanganui, and to the spending of money in connection with it derived from sales of Maori land. Sir, as I have said, the honourable gentleman has a distinct Native policy. Is he to be congratulated upon it ? I may be asked why should I speak in endeavour to make converts on Maori-land legislation. Is it possible that any person can be so foolish as to hope now to turn a vote in connection with this Bill? I admit that I do not for a moment imagine I shall be so success- ful as to induce anybody to change a vote that has already been determined on. But, Sir, it is necessary, if people have distinct opinions in connection with any subject, that they should endeavour, in season and out of season, to try and place them before the public, so that though a vote may not be turned on the particular Bill under discussion, in the future, probably in one or two sessions at the outside, it may be that members from the South who are supposed-I believe incorrectly -not to take so much interest in Native-land legislation as members from the North, may be able to form more distinct opinions upon the subject. I hope that honourable members who represent constituencies in the South Island will take an interest in Native-land legislation. I can conceive no reason why, because a man chances to live north of Cook Strait, he should have any greater opportunities for understand- ing Maori questions than those who live in that very favoured part of the colony known as the South Island. A great many members who represent constituences in the North Island know no more about Native-land questions than persons who live in the South. They dwell in towns, or apart from the Native districts, and meet them only as mere strangers. An Hon. MEMBER .- Some know too much. Captain RUSSELL .- Some may know too much, though I believe it is difficult to know Mr. Willis terest to the two races, and more particularly to the Native race. Now, there are two classes of opinion in Parliament, and in the country also, in connection with the Native question. I do not intend to take long in putting my own views before the House. I have done so on previous occasions. There is one party who wish still to treat the Maori as a child, and who think that he should not be allowed to run alone, that he should be bound in swad- dling clothes, and be kept cramped up in every possible way, instead of being allowed by the healthy development of his intellect to grow in mental strength. They endeavour to so shield him that he will live only as a ricketty child and become senile before arriving at maturity. On the other hand, there are per- sons who, like myself, believe the Native is fully capable of high cultivation, and that under proper but temporary restrictions he can be trusted to take care of his land, and become a healthy, helpful member of society, instead of degenerating, as he inevitably must, for in this world there is no standing still. An individual or a people must either grow to maturity or become effete, worn-out, and absolutely useless. I maintain that our Native legislation for years and years past has been of a character that has tended to arrest development, to dwarf the Maori intellectually, and to cramp him in his endea- vours to expansion. Why should we imagine him not capable? We have illustrations in law, physic, and divinity of the capacity of the Maoris : Native clergymen, Native lawyers, and Native doctors, and they do credit to the professions, each in his particular branch. Sir. we have Natives in our Legislature, and every. body will admit that they are fairly-no, not fairly, but quite-capable of taking part in de- bate, that they are full of humour, pertinacity, and logic, and keen appreciators of human con- duct. These gentlemen are evidence in various branches of intellectual pursuits that the Maori people are capable of education. Sir, in the part of the country in which I live is a Native College called Te Aute, and the youths of that college take a satisfactory place in all the sub- jects to which their attention is directed and in which they are instructed, proving that they are capable of high education. How long. then, will the Legislature endeavour to prevent the Native people from being responsible for their own progress. There is continual tals about a great number of men in the North Island being land-sharks. Sir, that is all non- sense. There is very little land-sharking. Mr. WILLIS. - There would be many if they had opportunities. Captain RUSSELL .- That is exactly one of the kind of remarks which are made by unthink- ing persons. Why, Sir, as I have listened to the speeches this evening it appears to me that the only land-sharking person is the honourable gentleman himself. Mr. WILLIS. - In the interests of settle- ment. Captain RUSSELL. - In the interests of European settlement, so as to bring roads into 