I must keep up the reputation of the South Island. I will therefore conclude my remarks with the following little story : About five or six gene- rations ago there flourished a famous toa of the Ngatimamoe Tribe, who owned the country round about Otakou. His name was Tarewai. He was a very brave and famous warrior, and was on one historical occasion surprised while alone, and closely pursued by a large body of the enemy along the beach at Otakou Heads. He fled towards Pukekura Pa, where his friends were, and they, who were eagerly watching the chase, shouted and waved encouragements to Tarewa from the pa, when he, being very hard pressed indeed, suddenly sprang into the air, just as his enemies almost had him within their grasp, and, seizing a waving branch of a tree growing about midway up the face of the cliff on which the pa stood, made use of its spring to propel him right up to the summit of the cliff and over the wall into the pa amongst his friends, . leaving his disappointed enemies aghast with astonishment on the beach below. On another occasion this famous man was treacherously en- trapped in a pa near Makahoe Bay, where he was seized and overpowered and pinned down to the ground by his enemies, and his weapons were taken from him. His enemies then pro- ceeded to carve him open with a shark's-tooth weapon, the intention being to disembowel him and cook him and cat him. He pretended to be absolutely overcome, and he allowed his enemies to cut him open until they began to cut deep near his heart, when he gave a yell of such extraordinary power and struggled with such superhuman force that he threw his cap- tors off and escaped. He ascended a high hill close to the same place, and that hill to this day is known as Te Puke-o-Tarewai. He re- mained in the bush until his wound was healed. He afterwards came back and succeeded in re- gaining possession of his weapon. He came back one night silently, and as his enemies were seated round a fire talking about the very Weapon he was in search of, handing it about from one to the other and making contemptuous allusions to himself-and while they handed it round, Tarewai suddenly sprang into their midst and succeeded, as I have said, in getting it into his possession again, bounded over the wall of the pa, and into the bush, and so disap- peared ; and he ultimately killed numbers of these same enemies of his in revenge for his wound. There was another famous gentleman who once lived in the locality I have named. He drank the whole of the Mataura River at one draught, and left it absolutely dry. This gentleman's name was Kopuwai, and his wife was Kaiamio. I could tell the House many remarkable tales about him ; but, Sir, I think I will close my remarks with that one story, for I think I have kept up the reputation of the South Island, and I do not think even the member for Waitemata or the member for Napier could tell a more remarkable story. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .-. I do not think honourable members wish me to delay them any longer, and I shall therefore make Mr. Parata fully to the speeches of this evening ; they have been of a varied and interesting character. One must feel pleased at the unanimity with which members have expressed their approval of the measure. I cannot go into the many arguments that have been brought forward, but I may say generally that I am quite prepared to meet the wishes of members, knowing as I do that we have all one common object in view which we wish to have effected. As to the nature of the Bill, whether it is too drastic or whether it does not go far enough, or whether it is wide enough in its scope or whether it is too limited, are matters that can easily be settled in Committee. It is not an easy thing to draft a Bill on a sub- ject such as this with any exactitude. I have searched everywhere to find something to guide me, and I defy honourable members, let them make what research they like, to find any- thing in the way of legislation enacted else- where or made law by other countries that will serve as something to go by. At all events, such is not within the precincts of our library. The only reference I have found to legislation has been the reference made by Lord Cromer in his report on the preservation of art and other treasures in Egypt ; so that I think honourable members will hear with me if the drafting of the Bill is not letter-perfect and fails to provide for every possibility. How- ever, so long as we are all of one opinion as to what is required, I am certain that in Com- mittee our combined intelligence will be able to frame something that will carry into effect what is considered desirable. I quite agree with what has been urged -- that when the sup- plementary estimates are brought down there should be a sum thereon to give effect to the practical side of the question. We are dealing with the sentimental side of the question just now, and the practical side must be considered in the way indicated -that is, by some pro- vision for a vote for the purpose. I could speak at some length on the subject of Maori history, with all its interesting branches, but considera- tion for honourable members at this late hour must be my apology. Bill read a second time. The House adjourned at seventeen minutes to one o'clock a.m. (Saturday). # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 8th October, 1501. First Reading - Third Reading- Lake Ellesmere- Labour Day -- Industrial Conciliation and Arbi- tration Bill-Money lenders Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Royal Visit Expenses Bill. THIRD READING. Mortgages of Land Bill. 