of the colonial finances, the result being that the expenditure was increasing to an alarming extent. During the session the facts have all gone to prove that what I said was really the case. A few days ago the quarterly returns for the September quarter were published, and they throw a ghastly light upon the weak financial condition of the colony at present as compared with what it was only a year ago. During the six months ending 30th September there was an increase in the revenues of the colony amounting to £111,762. That, Sir, is an import- ant item, because it indicates that the colony is in a prosperous condition. No one would deny that that is the case. I have no idea of throw- ing any doubt upon the splendid prosperity which the colony enjoys. I am not prepared to say it will continue, because there is a heavy shrinkage in the value of our wool, which is one of the staple products of the colony, and that is bound to tell later in the financial year, although, as it has not probably come to account yet, it is not felt by the people of the colony. Up to the present they are, I presume, liv- ing upon the advances made a year ago. It is only when the present wool season is com- pleted that the position will be fully realised. But, Sir, turning now to the expenditure, I find that the expenditure is £328,000 for the half-year in excess of what it was during the same period of the previous financial year, and this is bound to tell its tale upon the colonial finances. The increase of revenue of £111,000 is thus swallowed up twice over. Your revenues are increasing only by 7.30. £111,000 per half-year, while your ex- penditure is increasing by £328,000. However you may be able to stave off the evil day, the time will come when the Treasurer will find himself-I will not say in difficulties, but attacked by anxieties which in this colony there should be no need for. Now, judging from the Public Accounts, one would think we are not very far off that condition now. The Treasurer started the financial year with cash in the Public Account to the amount of £522,000. By the end of the first quarter that £522,000 had disappeared, and he found himself with a debit balance on the Public Account of $96,849. At the close of the September quarter the debit balance had been paid off, but the Treasurer found himself with only £5,348 in cash in the Public Account, as against £317,662 at the same date of the previous year. Again, although the old-age pension payments must during the half- year have amounted to at least $100,000, only £43,230 has been brought to account during the whole of the half-year, the remainder of the £60,000 unexpended being presumably repre- sented as advances in the hands of officers of the Government which are recorded in the state- ment. I do not know that it is necessary I should refer in detail to the increase of ex- penditure shown in connection with the public service of the colony during the half-year just ended as compared with the same period of the previous year, but some of them are as follows: Colonial Secretary, £42,102; Post- Mr. G. W. Russell Defence, £52,540 ; Agriculture, €13,750. Those which I have stated total altogether somewhere about $221,000 for those five departments of 1 the public service. In addition to the points I have referred to, there is one item which re- quires explanation in connection with the Deposit Account. The Imperial Government deposited in the hands of the Government during the September quarter $24,422 as balances due to the Fourth and Fifth South African Contingents. Those troops returned to New Zealand on the 10th July, but down to the 30th September, according to the Public Accounts, the sum of only £269 had been paid to the men. I think that was surely a very striking comment upon the praise that had been given to our noble young men who had gone and served the Empire and our country in South Africa, more especially when the money was really deposited in the hands of the Go- vernment by the Imperial authorities to pay them. I would point out also that during the quarter ended the 30th September, 1901, the Treasury bills in support of revenue were no less than £120,000 more than they were for the same period of the previous year. This session there have been several important developments in connection with the colony. One that has been condemned, and justly so, has been the enormous growth of the defence expenditure. A few years ago, before the South African war broke out, the colony set about, in a businesslike way and according to our means, the extension and improvement of our defences; but we recognised we were a young country, and that our ambition should be that of colonisation rather than that of aping the extravagances of a semi-military Power. I have heard the Premier, before he made his visit to England-and I have admired him for it -state that roads and bridges were more important in this country than expensive defences. Well, the world is changing in some respects, and no doubt the defences should be improved compared with what they were & number of years ago; but when I see the tremendous growth of our defence expenditure I cannot help feeling some alarm and sorrow. During this session £213,000 has been passed on the consolidated estimates for defence, and in connection with the public-works estimates another £180,000, making a total of $393.000: and I do not think that covers the whole of the defence expenditure. We see in the City of Wellington evidence that the military spirit is taking an undue and imprudent hold upon the community, and the Government are fanning this to an extent that I think is un- desirable. The result will be that the colony will be compelled in time to insist upon th? military expenditure being reduced to some- thing like a normal level. Let us by all means assist our Volunteers, and let our youths be trained ; let us provide them with the best and latest weapons : but there is a tendency. which I regard as most unfortunate, to create something like a military caste in the colony. and to regard men who devote themseives to 