under the Federation. Each island has at present its own customs and its own laws, and if you were suddenly to disturb them, or even to take the federal laws of the Cook Group and apply them to Penrhyn, Manihiki, or Pukapuka there would be trouble at once. It was thought best, therefore, to make a selection, and then by Order in Council adapt the law as nearly as we can to the existing conditions of the country. Now, there would be no objection to this :- "In each island there shall be a Council, who shall have power to make local laws in order to meet the varying conditions of tropical life, en- force the planting of trees and protection thereof, regulate the making of copra, the leasing or sale of waste lands, and the repression of wan- dering pigs and horses that at present destroy the food of the people." Now, this only requires very simple ma- chinery, because if we attempted to place upon them our existing cumbersome laws it would only lead to friction, and it is to avoid that that I wish to see simplicity itself. It means, of course, to the Government of the day a power ; but I feel that, no matter what Government may be in power, the natives will be dealt with in a humane manner, and in a manner best calcu- lated to preserve the conditions of their race. That may be taken for granted, and I do not think that I am asking in this measure too much for members to concede. It will be necessary for us to protect those in occupa- tion of land under lease from the natives at https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the present time. Improvements have been made, and we shall naturally have to give a protection which probably does not exist under the present native customs and land-laws. If we wish to increase the productiveness of the Islands, to further the settlement of a European population on the land, we shall have to give security of tenure, and we shall have to en- courage planting by the natives themselves. My own experience is that the orange-trees on the Islands are in many cases inferior. The oranges, the lemons, the coffee plants, all re- quire improving. There was a disease among the coffee plants some little time ago, and they lost nearly all their plants. The same applies to cocoa. Then these islands are famous for growing vanilla ; but the vanilla, again, is in- ferior to the article they grow at Fiji, and the Fiji vanilla brings 4d. or 5d. per pound more than the vanilla does that is grown in the Cook and other Islands. Now, I think, all this could be improved if we had a nursery where these tropical plants could be raised and dis- tributed to the natives in the different islands. The Germans at Samoa have done a great deal in this direction, which has been of im- mense benefit. Now, what we require to do later on is to set up a tribunal which shall have power to settle the ownership of the various lands, and enable the natives to grow their own fruits, and thus become independent. At the present time honourable members will know the Ariki can demand even a share of the fish caught, and of the fruit grown. He prac- Mr. Seddon there at his will, and that everything practically belongs to him. That is all very well in its way, and is according to their tribal system ; but, as time goes on, my own opinion is, by deciding which land belongs to each tribe and by enabling the lands to be cut up and distri- buted amongst themselves, you will have them planting their bananas, cocoa, coffee, vanilla, oranges, and lemons. I believe, in time, we shall have from these islands a large produc- tion, and we shall have a condition of things very much better than exists at the present time. I may tell honourable members I believe we shall find that a great source of wealth to these islands, and also to the colony, will be found in one industry: I allude to the pearl-fishing. At the time these islands were under the jurisdiction of the High Commissioner of the Pacific, and work- ing under regulations, which regulations were more observed in the breach than in the carrying out. The result has been that the in- dustry has fallen off very considerably. I am advised by experts that by having a close season there, and seeing that the fishing is carried on under proper regulations, a very large sum of money annually would be fur- nished by this industry. I would also say here that we shall have in this respect, by taking the control of this industry, prac- tically the control of the trade to these particular islands. At the present time nearly the whole of the trade of Penrhyn goes to Ta- hiti, and we are losing, I believe, the pearl- beds. They are now practically outside British control. Most of the trade, of course, is done by schooners coming from Tahiti and the Islands, and they take goods from San Francisco. Auck- land has some of the trade, but it is only a very small portion. I believe the preserved meats from Auckland are in great favour in all the islands; but, at all events, the general trade at the present time with Penrhyn and Palmerston is not with New Zealand, nor is it with Australia. It is with the French traders of Tahiti and the Americans. Mr. HERRIES .- It goes from Tahiti to Sydney. Mr. SEDDON. - Do you mean the export or the import trade ? Mr. HERRIES .- The export. Mr. SEDDON .- I am alluding to the im- ports-the goods, the food-stuffs required, the flour, meat, biscuits, and calicos and clothing. Most of those goods are from America or from- Tahiti. It is what I call a French-American trade. The trade with the Islands, I say, would be greatly improved by New Zealand taking control, and seeing that we have these islands. administered and managed in the best interest of the islanders, and, as I believe, in the best. interest of the colony, and for the good of the Empire itself. Now, I must not over- look what will probably be a matter that will he the subject of criticism. I allude to the financial aspect of the question. Honourable. members will see by a return which, I think, 