be, in my opinion, some better provision than by staffing and paying schools on the average attendance in the country. That is all right in town schools, where there are good roads and footpaths ; but I have often pitied the teachers of small country schools, when, owing to wet weather and bad roads, the average attendance was brought down so low that the teacher only gets a starvation salary. I think that some better provision should be made for country schools than this Bill makes. I do not wish to detain the House on this matter, because I think the sooner we get into Committee on the Bill the better. In fact, I do not think we should waste much time over it in Committee ; because, as I take it, we cannot increase the salaries, and we are all against cutting them down, and so I think we might as well put the Bill through without delay, and probably this time twelve months we shall have to amend the Bill by increasing salaries that have been cut down by it. As I understand the matter, it is something like dealing with the estimates. We have no power of increasing the salaries, and, as we are not in favour of cutting them down, the sooner we let the Bill go through the better. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I some- what regret that our Chairman of the Public- school Teachers' Salaries Commission should have spoken so early in this debate, because, from his official position, he might have been able to throw a good deal of light upon the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 various questions that have been raised. agree with the speaker who has just sat down in this respect : that there is not a great deal of good to be done by a long discussion. I do not intend to discuss the Bill at any length, but I wish to reply briefly to some of the points raised. Personally, I deeply regret that the No. 2 scale was not accepted by the Government. Those associated with this work felt that the No. 1 scale was not adequate, but we were confined to the £4 vote. Had No. 2 scale been within the means of the Government we certainly would not have had the complaints we have heard to-night, and I hope when the Premier rises to reply he will announce the Government's intention to give effect now to No. 2 scale, because nothing less will meet the requirements of our system. In connection with the complaints, I think that it is not quite fair selecting the few reduced. I think he should also point out that the teachers are being largely benefited even in connection with No. 1 scale. The teachers in Auckland, Can- terbury, Otago, and Hawke's Bay Districts were the highest paid in the service, and we had thirteen education districts, and all had to be brought up to the level with the best paid teachers. If honourable members could only realise the great difference at present existing in the various education districts they would know what the difficulties were. The question was asked by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith) what was the object of appointing a Commission, and of their travelling round the country. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The honourable gentleman says, "It was a job," and the mem- bers were excellently well paid in connection with the work. They received €1 a day, and out of that paid their own expenses, so it was a very profitable undertaking for them ! Mr. HUTCHESON .- They paid their own expenses ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Yes, they paid their own expenses. Does the honourable member say they did not ? I thought members of the House knew a little about Commissions. An Hon. MEMBER .- They did not pay their travelling-expenses. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - Of course not. They paid all personal expenses, such as hotels, et cetera, but not train-fares. I wish to say, unless the Commission had visited the different parts of the colony, they could not have ob- tained a sufficient knowledge to enable them to understand the condition of education in many of the back districts and smaller education districts to frame an adequate report. The Secretary of the department drew up a scale with the information at his command before leaving Wellington ; but as the Commission went round the colony it was found that the conclu- sions of the department did not meet the exigencies of the various districts, and there were several alterations and modifications of the scale as the evidence justified it, and the Secretary gave valuable assistance. Then, we come to the question of why women were not represented on the Commission. I quite agree I that women ought to have been represented, considering the interests that women teachers have in the country. I placed this question before numbers of the women witnesses. There are more female teachers in the colony than male teachers ; and, if that is so, surely they ought to have a voice on a Commission so deeply affecting their interests. We come now to the statement that the recommendations were largely in favour of the male teachers of the country. I suppose honourable members will admit that the bulk of the female teachers are in the small schools in the colony, and there- fore, if we have extended to women teachers equal pay in all schools up to thirty, surely that is a great step in advance, and the salary of women teachers have been increased fully 25 per cent. It cannot be said, with the evi- dence at our disposal, the interests of the women teachers were overlooked. We have the complaint from Otago that the interests of the men were sacrificed to those of the women, and we have the member for Christchurch City saying that the interests of the women were sacrificed to those of the men. I say 10.30. that during my whole experience on that Commission I did the very best I could to see that the utmost justice was done for the female teachers ; but we found, from the evi- dence of the female teachers themselves, that those teachers who came before the Commis- sion did not agree that equal payment should be meted out to men and women teachers. I find, on looking up the returns, that in 