fine a settler accordingly. There was no chance to call any rebutting evidence in any shape or form. There was more in this subject than the honourable gentleman might be aware of. Of course, honourable members who came from the Province of Canterbury had not had as much experience as the farmers of Southland had with respect to this matter. Many of these farmers had neighbours who were absentees, and whose land was fenced in with gorse hedges half a chain wide, and with a bank underneath in which the rabbits lived. The rabbits stayed in these places during the day, and they came out at early morn and in the dusk of the evening, and that was the time the Rabbit In- spectors saw them. He contended that a Justice of the Peace in his proper sphere was as good a judge as a Stipendiary Magistrate; that a Sti- pendiary Magistrate in his proper sphere was as good a judge as a Judge of the District Court; and that a Judge of the District Court was as good a Judge as a Judge of the Supreme Court in his proper place ; and you could take that on much further. He did not think it right that they should put any Magistrate in the position of being bound to convict upon the bare un. supported statement of a policeman or an In- spector. But, beyond all that, it was an act of gross injustice to the victims, and the victims felt the Act, and those whom the victims elected to Parliament would feel it, if it were their fault that this Bill did not become law. He wished now to refer to the Bill. What could be fairer than a provision like section 2, namely :- " If within a reasonable time after the ser- vice of such notice any occupier or owner on whom the same is served has, in the opinion of the Magistrate adjudicating, failed or neglected to take reasonable or diligent steps to promote the destruction of rabbits on the land men- tioned in such notice, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds if the area of the land is less than five hundred acres, ten pounds if such area exceeds five hundred acres but is less than two thousand acres, and twenty pounds if the area exceeds two thou- sand acres." What was required was proof. Why should any one be charged with a crime and be allowed no defence whatever ? The Hon. Mr. JONES .- How are you going to prove it ? The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said that, judging from the interruptions of various kinds that had gone on during his remarks, some honour- able gentlemen seemed to prefer this Draconian law-this "Jedburgh justice "-which would hang a man first and try him afterwards. That seemed to be about the size of it. And, as re- gards the penalties, in the main they were the same as were now in the Act. But the only thing that was asked for was to give a man a fair trial, and not allow him to be convicted on the bare statement of any Inspector, let him be big or little. Of course, he would greatly prefer if some honourable gentleman had got up and moved the adjournment of this debate, Hon. Mr. Feldwick with in a full Council. It was only a thin Council now (at nearly eleven o'clock at night), and as he was "replying," of course debate ended, and the Bill would have to take its fate. But, at any rate, the matter was of such a nature that justice could not be delayed for long. If this Bill was not passed this year it would be passed next year, for the provisions of the existing law were such that they could not long remain on the statute-book. All he could say was that, seeing he had had to reply, he would ask the Council to be good enough to let him go into Committee, and he would report progress on the first clause. The Council divided. AYES, 10. Baillie Gourley Reeves Bonar Harris Swanson Kelly, W. Bowen Twomey. Feldwick NOES, 8. Smith, A. L. Barnicoat Kelly, T. Louisson Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Jones Rigg PAIR. Against. For. Walker, L. Arkwright. Majority for, 2. Bill committed, and progress reported. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to eleven o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 9th October, 1901. First Reading-Second Readings-Wilfred Badger- John Flynn-Shipping and Seamen Bill-Maori Relies Bill-School Attendance Bill-Egmont National Park Bill - Charitable Institutions Rating Bill-Revenue of the Colony-Cook and other Islands Government Bill-Opium Prohibi- tion Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Cornwall Park Duties Exemption Bill. SECOND READINGS. Evidence Further Amendment Bill, Mining Bill, Coal-mines Bill, Shipping and Seamen Bill. WILFRED BADGER. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) brought up the report of the Public Petitions A to L Committee on the petition of Wilfred Badger, who prayed that the Government should purchase his right in the publication known as "Badger's Statutes," to the effect that the Committee had no recommendation to make. He moved, "That it do lie on the table." 