posted upon the wall of their workshop, pointed out to him (Mr. Wilford) that as far as Petone was concerned, although there was a con- siderable number of labourers in those shops, there were only two or three who would come within the definition of first-class labourers, and who would get the benefit of the increase. That, then, was a distinction which should be swept away altogether. The distinction be- tween first - class and second - class labourers should be done away with. He believed the second - class and third - class labourers were actually doing the same work side by side. When the Minister undertook the extra classi- fication of the railway-men, and the amend- ment of the present Classification Act, he should also undertake to sweep away the so- called differences that existed between the labourers in the different departments of the colony. He hoped the Minister would bring down the superannuation scheme, and he trusted the Premier would give the honour- able gentleman such help as would enable him to circulate that scheme, and also to pro- vide for the classification of the whole of the labourers at a very early date. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said the speech which had just been delivered by the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs made it almost necessary that other members of the House who represented districts where railway servants were numerous should speak, otherwise he should not have spoken on this occasion, recognising that the member for Eden desired merely to get a resolution affirmed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 which might have passed without any discus- sion but for the speech delivered by the last honourable gentleman. He did not know what the secret was that prompted the honourable gentleman, in view of a motion of this kind, to traverse the whole question of railway classifi- cation ; but probably the secret lay in the statement he made that somewhere in the galleries there was a deputation from the Petone Workshops. If it had not been for that fact and the honourable member's desire that the deputation from the Petone Workshops should be able to see the paces of their honour- able member when he was performing, he doubted very much whether the speech just delivered would have been given to the House. If those members who represented the large workshop districts were not to speak on this occasion it might be deemed that the honourable gentleman who repre- sented the Petone shops was the only mem- ber of the House who had been taking any interest in connection with the matter of railway classification ; and yet he ventured to think that the whole of the members of the House who during the last few days have been receiving telegrams and letters from railway servants had been urging the Minister for Railways, and not only during the last few days had this happened but repeatedly during the session. A number of members had from time to time brought the matter under the notice of the Minister for Railways, and from Mr. Wilford the matter would be pushed forward as fast as possible. Everybody recognised that the changes in respect to the classification, and especially as to bringing in the superannuation scheme for so gigantic a service as the Railway Department, was a most delicate and intricate matter, and he thought that those honourable members who would seek to rush the Minister in connection with this matter were not acting wisely, or pru- dently, or on business principles. He was not disposed to do that ; but, seeing what was said by the member for Wellington Suburbs, he ventured to say this : that honourable members would be aware of the fact that a few evenings ago a number of gentlemen connected with the Railway service met several members, and, as a result of the interview, a deputation of members was organized which would have waited on the Minister last night had he been able to receive them. It was again arranged to meet the Minis- ter to-day if an opportunity presented itself, but to-day the Minister, with the utmost courtesy, had asked them to put it off for a day or two in order that he might be able to give a decisive answer as to what could be done this session. As he had said, he was not going to discuss the principles underlying the classification scheme ; he would wait until the scheme had come down, and when it came down, if it were desirable that amendments should be made in it, he would be quite prepared to suggest that those amendments should be made, provided that they were practicable, and such as the finances of the colony would justify. He agreed with what the member for Eden had said, that in a large number of cases Stationmasters were paid at distinctly lower rates than those holding similar positions in other departments of the public service were paid. At the same time there was the large element of finance to be considered in connection with this matter, and, while members were desirous that the Govern- ment should undertake the question of dealing with the classification and superannuation, they were not desirous in doing that that they should bring the finance of the colony into difficulty. All they asked was that fair ar- rangements should be made as far as was prudent, and as far as the finances of the colony allowed, with a view of putting railway servants on a satisfactory footing. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) rose to a point of order. The amendment in its present form provided for provision being made on the estimates this session. Any question of that kind must come by a respectful address to his Excellency the Governor. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is too late to raise that point of order. Mr. SEDDON said, No; he could raise it at any time. He was about to suggest to the honourable member that the first part of the amendment, that affirming the desirability that certain provision should be made for further classification-that it be taken to that point : because the Government had long ago decided on a scheme, and the Minister for Railways. had stated in answer to a question some days 