the following new subsection :- "(2A.) A granary." Subsection added. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatual moved to add to the new subsection the words "dairy factory or creamery." Amendment agreed to. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) moved to also add the words " or sawmill." Amendment negatived, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 49 .- "Subject to the provisions of this Part of this Act, the Treasurer is hereby authorised to lend money to any local autho- rity empowered to borrow and raise money by way of special loan under this Act for the con struction of a public work within the meaning of this Part of this Act." Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) moved to add the following words : " or for the repayment of a loan contracted for the construction of a pub- lic work as above defined." Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 59. - Rate of interest. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) moved to add the following new subsection :- "(4.) At the expiration of the period during which interest is payable the liability of the local authority shall cease without further pay- ment." Subsection added, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 80 .- "This Part of this Act shall not apply to boroughs, except for the following https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 purposes :- "(1.) (a.) The construction of a wharf under the control of the Council, or of a bridge on a main road, or of a punt for a ferry where no bridge is provided on such main road : " (b.) The Treasurer may from time to time decide, on the advice of the Minister of Lands, what roads shall be deemed 'main roads' within the meaning of this subsection. " (2.) The construction of water - supply works : "(3.) The construction of works for sanitary purposes under section sixty-six of "The Public Health Act, 1900' : "(4.) The erection of an abattoir : " Provided that the Treasurer shall not lend to any borough in any year any sum ex- ceeding- " (c.) Eight hundred pounds for any of the purposes mentioned in subsection one of this section ; nor " (d.) Two thousand pounds for the construc- tion of water supply works ; nor " (c.) Ten thousand pounds for the construc- tion of drainage-works ; nor "(f.) Three thousand pounds for the con- struction of other sanitary works; nor "(g.) Ten thousand pounds for the erection of an abattoir." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to add the following new subsection ;- work not costing more than five hundred pounds." The Committee divided on the question, " That the subsection be added." AYES, 19. Bollard Hardy Stevens Carncross Herries Symes Lethbridge Ward. Collins Ell Massey Fowlds Tellers. O'Meara Rhodes Fraser, W. Lang Hall Smith, G. J. Pirani. NOES, 26. Allen, E. G. Heke Mills Barclay Hogg Napier Buddo Kaihau Palmer Carroll Russell, G. W. Lawry Colvin Seddon McGowan Mackenzie, T. Tanner. Duncan Field Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Arnold Flatman McNab Fraser, A. L. D. Hall-Jones Meredith Majority against, 7. Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 82. - "For the purposes of section eighty hereof (but for no other purpose) a borough shall be deemed to be a district within the meaning of this Part of this Act : " Provided that nothing herein shall affect the provisions of sections two to five of 'The Go- vernment Loans to Local Bodies Act Amend- ment Act, 1898.'" Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add the following words to the proviso: "so long as these sections remain unrepealed." Words added, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. CRIMINAL CODE BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, it is almost unnecessary for me to state to members the necessity there is for this Bill. A decision of the Supreme Court recently in the colony proved to us that, inadvertently, in our Criminal Code a provision that originally existed had been dropped out, and at the present time a person may write a pamphlet or may publish a libel or slander of a grossly criminal character, and yet there is no protection for the person so libelled under our existing law. That being the case, as I am advised, I have decided to bring in this Bill. I know it opens up an- other large question -- the law of libel generally as applied to the Press of the colony ; but I could not deal with a large question of that kind, and I think it is sufficient now to put our law as it was previously, and give that protec- tion which existed before and which was neces- sary. I say there will be unscrupulous and malicious persons who would do this sort of thing, who would grossly libel other persons, and yet there is no protection and no means of redress, and therefore no punishment. I think, myself, that the remarks made by the Judges when the decision was given upon this dis- 