able gentleman will show us how it happens they are underpaid. My opinion is that they are overpaid, and there are too many of them. Let the Native title be ascertained, and there should not be much difficulty in settling this question. Surely, it is very well known now who are the owners of this and that block of land. If this were ascertained, we should be able to dispense with the Native Land Court. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I have listened with great interest to the speeches of the member for the Bay of Plenty and others, but I think they are rather misrepresenting the state of things when they allude to the Natives of New Zealand as having been ill-treated, or having been robbed of the land. I consider the Natives of New Zealand are the happiest and most contented race on the face of the earth. Why, if New Zealand had been in the hands of any other nation except the English the whole of the Native lands would have been confiscated at the time of the war. I think we all have the kindliest feelings for the Natives, and I do not think that any Parliament would ever per- mit the Natives to be ill-treated or unjustly treated. It is a matter of administration, and I think the Government are doing all they possibly can. Certainly I think the ques- tions raised by the member for the Bay of Plenty are worthy of the consideration of the Government. There has been too much coddling of the Natives. They do not require it, and are able to take care of themselves. There are five millions of acres of Native land left, and that is one hundred acres for every Native man, woman, and child in New Zealand. How many Europeans are there that have got that ? The tendency is to make the Maori race the aristo- cracy of New Zealand, and in time to come they will be the real landlords of a large portion of the country. Look at the Maoris, and see what happy and smiling countenances they have got. And take the same number of Europeans that you meet, and see if they look so happy. I have seen the Natives of New Zealand in Sydney, and other places, and I can assure you that the people of Sydney and the aboriginals of Australia think the Natives of New Zealand are rich men-bloated aristo- crats-and they wish they were Natives of New Zealand to be so well treated. You may depend upon it that with such a man as the Hon. Mr. Carroll at the head of this depart- ment, the Natives are not going to be unjustly treated in any shape or form. The Natives should be put on the same basis as the Euro- peans, and a slight amount of taxation should be put on them, so that they may contribute something towards the construction of the roads and bridges. The Natives want to be put in the right direction to help themselves, and I think the Government should do all they can to bring about a better state of things than exists at present. I think sufficient land should be set aside to prevent the Natives being landless, and that the rest should be set aside for their benefit. I do not believe in the system of leasehold being carried to the extent is taken up on lease does not get the same solid improvements put on to it as freehold land does. In the case of land taken up on lease, when the term is near ended fences are not mended, and everything possible is taken out of the land, and nothing is done to keep it up to the reproductive point. While I do not believe for a moment in the statement that the Na- tives are being robbed, I think that some more businesslike methods should be introduced in regard to Maori administration ; and, instead of having these millions of acres unproductive, we should endeavour to make every acre of land in New Zealand productive, and by so doing we would enhance the wealth of the Natives as well as the Europeans. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford), who has just sat down, is such a blind follower of the Government that, in his political view, they can do no wrong. He made the state- ment that the Natives have been well treated ; that they have nothing to complain of, have never been robbed, and are bloated aristocrats. I do not know whether that appeals to the Natives of New Zealand-whether they feel it to be true ; but I should imagine they feel that the honourable gentleman is entirely mis- representing them ; and, as I look through the returns of the purchase of their lands under the pre-emptive right, one cannot but wonder whether the Natives think they have been well treated. Cast your eye over the return of the purchase of Native lands by the Crown when nobody else could purchase; the Crown was the sole buyer, and therefore had the oppor- tunity of fixing for the Native the value of his land. At what have they fixed it ? 3s., 4s., 5s .- as low as 2s. an acre. It would take too long to read the whole return, but here are a few of the items: North of Auckland, 2s. per acre ; Taupo, 3s. ; Kawhia, 1s. 6d .; some por- tions of Waikato, 3s., 3s. 6d., and 5s. per acre. If I have learned anything during my experience of Parliament it has been this, from all sides of the House : that the very fact of the Govern- ment having the pre-emptive right has given the Government a position as regards purchase which has been abused, and the lands have been acquired from the Natives at half or quarter their value. I wonder whether, under existing conditions, we shall ever have the Natives put on a fair footing in respect to their land ? I see no hope of it under existing conditions at all. I do not want to claim any special ability for the members of the South Island, but we have been so long trusting the North to put the Native question right that the time is now come when the South Island will have to have a "finger in the pie." My recollection takes me back to a time, not so very long ago, when a member of the South Island was a member of a Committee dealing with the West Coast Settle- ment Reserves. The Committee's report was drafted by this South Island member, and it was acknowledged on all sides to be the best solution of the difficulty - I refer to the late Mr. Fish, who drafted the report, which 