fact: that on the 29th April, 1901, they had not done in this mine that which they had pro- mised in May, 1900 : that was, to improve the ventilation. This was shown in Mr. Green's letter written to Mr. Gillanders. Then, writ- ing to Mr. McIntosh, Mr. Green said, " I dis- cussed this matter with you in May last year." The Commissioners visited the mine in April, 1901, and found the ventilation had not been attended to. He could show that the honour- able member, in respect of the points raised by him, was doing the Commissioners an injustice, because this question of the men being afraid and that the mine was dangerous to the health of the men rested on the evidence of Mr. Green, the Inspector. They could not, therefore, blame the Commissioners for that; and he would say that the Commissioners had no feeling in the matter whatever. At any rate, the Government accepted the responsibility, and it was the duty of the Government to see that the health of the miners was preserved. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) had been watching the duel between the Premier and the member for Bruce, and out of pure curiosity had sent for the Mines Report of 1900. The Premier had stated that Mr. Green had reported the bad ventilation of this mine. Now, accord- ing to the Mines Report it was not Mr. Green at all, but Mr. Hayes; and this officer, in his report, stated that the ventilation of the mine was "very fair," and that the attention of the manager was drawn to some "minor matters." If they were things upon which life depended, surely they would not be described as " minor matters." If the mine was in the 9.0. state described by the Premier, then / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero there ought to be a record of the fact in the Inspector's report. Amendment negatived. Vote, £16,615, agreed to. CLASS XI .- DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. Department of Agriculture, £57,218. Mr. LANG (Waikato) wished to draw the attention of the Government to the necessity of being more generous to farmers whose stock were attacked by anthrax. He did not wish to blame the department or its officers for carry- ing out their duties, but, where the necessary steps were taken by the Government to prevent the spread of anthrax, the farmers should be to some extent compensated for their loss. He pointed out that the presence of anthrax was by no means the fault of the farmer; in fact, it generally broke out in places where the farm was in a high state of cultivation. In the Auckland Province and the Waikato district they were particularly fortunate in the Stock Inspectors and officials, and they had nothing to complain of on that ground. It was right that the department should take drastic means to prevent the spread of anthrax ; but at the same time he thought farmers should be compensated in some way for the loss they were put to, for it was a matter that not only affected the farmer on whose place the outbreak took place, but it affected every farmer in the but the consumers also. The loss sustained by the farmer in preventing the spread of the disease should be borne by the colony at large, and not wholly by the individual settlers. He had reason to believe that the bones were not properly treated in Australia, and, as a preven- tive of anthrax, he advocated the sterilisation under proper supervision of bone manure in the colony, for then farmers would be sure that they were getting pure bone. They were not sure of that now. It would be the means of employing labour in New Zealand instead of Australia, and would reduce the price of bonedust. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) recognised that a large amount of important work was being done by this department, which was, in his opinion, one of the most important in the State ; but it was a question whether they should enter into the huge expenditure which appeared on the estimates. There was something like £30,000, in round figures, expended annually on In- spectors of all sorts under this department. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) would like the Minister to inform the Committee where the thirty-one veterinary surgeons were located. Those gentlemen never made their appearance in the extreme North of Auckland. That part of the colony contributed their share of the £8,000 for the payment of these gentlemen, and he thought that they should have the benefit of their services. He thought they should travel through the country, and not be located in one spot. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said he noticed that the salary of the Secretary and Chief In- spector had been raised from £500 to $600, while the Produce Commissioner in England was to be raised from $300 to £400. There were also four Fruit Experts, three at £200, and one at £160, or £160 more than last year. So far as any good which was said to accrue to tho colony from the efforts of these Fruit Inspectors, they might say it amounted to nothing. Fruit in New Zealand was decreasing in quantity, and what was the use of having these Fruit In- spectors when disease was rampant, and fruit trees were being cut down in all parts of the colony ? He would test the feeling of the Com- mittee in that matter a little later on. But, first of all, he would move that the item, " Secre- tary and Chief Inspector, £600," be reduced by £50. There was a strong feeling in the colony, and in the part which he represented, against the way in which this department was being mismanaged. A deal of satisfactory work had been done by the department, but it had been done in spite of those who were at the head of it. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) complained of the department not having in any way car- ried out the provisions of the Thistle Act of last session. He thought they should prevent this salary growing too big, and if the head of the department did anything in the way of effec- tively coping with the thistle plague during the year, they could then agree to increase the salary to the extent now proposed by giving him another £50. 