but I always speak well of the South Island. I say the Southern Alps are a magnificent sight, and are worth the Americans coming to see them ; and if the Americans are pre- pared to pay £50,000 to have the finest passenger-ships trading here, and to pay the bulk of the cost-if they will do that, and will come here and spend their money, surely that will be of great benefit to New Zealand. And some of them may not only come and see our magnificent scenery, but they may settle down and live here. I do not see any objection to an American line of steamers coming to New Zealand. We have not a right to monopolize the seas. Sydney has its various lines, and England has hundreds of lines of steamers running to all parts of the world, and they are helping to build up a nation- to create and to expand her industries. The expansion of New Zealand is also to be desired, and it would be a good thing for us to have different lines of steamers coming to our shores. The magnificent jetties at Wellington, which some of the honourable members are so proud of, should be like hands of welcome extended to every ship that likes to come from any part to take up our products and to spread them over the world. If we were connected like the Australian States by land then we should have railways connecting us with other places, but here we have God's mighty ocean for a per- manent-way, for which there is no cost for rail- way-sleepers: all that we want is the rolling- stock. And if the United States Government https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 are prepared to subsidise this splendid line of steamers, and to give a subsidy of £50,000 to connect New Zealand with one of the greatest centres of population in the world, as the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero United States undoubtedly is, we ought to embrace the opportunity and say we would be prepared to enter into half a dozen con- tracts like that. The whole of the subsidy we are paying to this line is spent in New Zealand upon the productions of the colony. There is not a penny of that subsidy which we are proposing to pay that leaves our shores. It is distributed amongst those who produce the necessaries of life in this colony. There is no absolute cost to the colony for this service; but, on the other hand, every sovereign that is brought here by tourists travelling by this line enriches the country. I saw a letter in the New Zealand Herald the other day -I am sure the Postmaster-General will not mind my referring to this -and it was signed by a tourist, who said he had spent three hundred sovereigns in New Zealand going about and seeing the beautiful sights in this country. What we want is a thousand more men like that. Why should we discourage a line of steamers that would bring us people like that, to spread their money broadcast throughout the colony? The miserable pettifogging policy of the Government in years past has been to let our San Francisco mail-contracts for a period only of twelve months at a time. Now, I ask all level-headed men in this House if they had three steamers running between this colony and Mr. Witheford not like some better and more permanent con- tract, so that they might make the necessary arrangements with steamboats, and railways, and tourist agencies all over the world, in order that people might arrange for travelling all over the world's surface. I am not indebted to the Spreckels Company or any other steamship com- pany. I like the Hon. Mr. George McLean as well as any other man I know. At the same time I know for a fact that the Oceanic Com- pany have brought out artists to paint views of this wonderland of the world, of the Southern Alps, the Sounds, and Palmerston North. Out of modesty, I leave out Auckland. What I have got to complain about in connection with the present Government is that they do not show enough "go." When I say that the Oceanic Company are sending out here and employing artists to make magnifi- cent pictures, which they are going to place in all the cities of the world, so as to ad- vertise the magnificent resources and the won- derful beauties of New Zealand, surely honour- able members will admit that is what we want. I say, why should we do anything what- ever to discourage the introduction of capital, no matter what part of the world it comes from ? Do you mean to tell me that if one of the multi-millionaires of America were to come here to-night and say to the Colonial Treasurer, " Here are a few million pounds that I do not know what to do with myself," he would re- fuse it ? I am satisfied that steamers of this class bring moneyed people to our colony. Why is it so ? I will tell the House. Between Aus- tralia and America there had formerly been an inferior class of steamers running that were not suitable to the trade, and I have always felt that we should have a Pacific line of vessels of the same class as those of the Atlantic. We want steamers of large tonnage and superior accommodation in the trade. Steamers of that class would encourage people who were going round the world to come our way and spend money with us. I know for a fact that the large wool-buyers of Australia seldom pass through New Zealand. I know too that mining men who have come to our colony to inspect our mineral resources would not come here by a line of vessels that they know is inferior in many respects. My remarks, as members will understand, are directed to showing the advantage of a line like that managed by Mr. Spreckels. I know of several companies that were prepared to spend large sums of money in this colony. One was in a position to expend considerable sums in the district represented by the honourable member for Motueka, and there are other parts of the colony that would receive similar attention; but I understand that on account of the report of one man it was decided to spend no more money in the colony. I met this man on return from the colony, and had a conversation with him, and he told me that his steamer experience be- tween Sydney and Auckland, and Auckland and San Francisco, was such that he would not undergo it again on any account. One reason 