rather see a 40 ft. street than a street partly 40 ft. wide and partly 60 ft. wide. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) regretted that this Bill did not seem to meet the diffi- culty. The trouble was this: The clause in the original Act said that directly a man sub- divided he must dedicate the necessary amount of land to widen the street where it was not already the regulation width. The clause in this Bill said that directly the dedication, which was compulsory, took place there was to be a claim for compensation against the local body. Thus, all over the town or borough there would be scattered odd patches of vacant land, where there was no possible chance of the street being widened, which were of no use to the city or borough, and which nevertheless would have to be paid for from the Corporation funds. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) said the Bill afforded no real relief. From the point of view of the man who lost the land some little good might be done, but from the point of view of the local body there was no good done at all. Mr. TANNER (Avon) said the House should be aware that this method for street-widening must be followed for a series of years before it could be completed. It was not possible to undo the mismanagement of the past in a day, .or in a single Act of Parliament. As years went on properties were destroyed by fires and in other ways, and the civic authorities should take advantage of every such occurrence to set back the frontage, and in the end that process https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 would be successful. He thought it was ad- visable to make the price paid by the local body for the portion of the land taken pro- portionate in some degree to the total valuation http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero of the section. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) said the re- marks made by the previous speaker in re- gard to the time required to carry out the widening of the streets would apply if on each sale and transfer a portion was cut off for the widening of the street. That, however, was not so, and in the present state of affairs the millennium might arrive without the streets being widened. Under the Minister's pro- posal the City or Borough Council would be let in for the payment of heavy compensa. tion claims for something that would be of no use to them till the end of time. It would be better to have nothing at all than to pass this proposal. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, if this Bill did not meet the views .of honourable members they should throw it out on the second reading. The House divided. AYES, 32. Allen, E. G. Colvin Houston Allen, J. Hutcheson Ell Field Lawry Arnold Fisher Lethbridge Atkinson Hall-Jones McGowan Barclay Mckenzie, R. Herries Carrol! Meredith Hornsby Collins Monk Tellers. Symes Rhodes Hall Tanner Russell, W. R. Thompson, R. Palmer. NOES, 6. Tellers. Millar Heke Fowlds Hogg Parata. Laurenson. Majority for, 26. Bill read a second time. IN COMMITTEE. Section 2 .- " In any case where under section twenty-one of ' The Public Works Acts Amend- ment Act, 1900,' the owner of land is required to dedicate land for the purpose of widening a street, he shall be entitled to compensation from the local authority, to be assessed under the provisions of 'The Public Works Act, 1894.' " Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved to add the following proviso :- "Provided that section twenty-one of the said Act shall not apply to subdivisions front- ing on existing streets." The Committee divided on the question, "That the proviso be added." AYES, 22. Allen, J. Parata Hogg Hornsby Rhodes Atkinson Russell, W. R. Barclay Lang Witheford. Collins Lawry Field Massey Fisher Millar Tellers. Fowlds Monk Hall Palmer Hutcheson. Herries NOES, 18. Tanner Allen, E. G. Houston Buddo Laurenson Thompson, R. McGowan Ward. Carroll Meredith Tellers. Duncan Mills Arnold Ell Fraser, A. L. D. Seddon Symes. Hall-Jones Majority for, 4. Proviso added. Bill reported. On the question, That this Bill be read a third time, Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) wished to put on record his protest against the Bill. He be- lieved, in doing what they had done, they had made an alteration which was one of the most retrograde steps they could possibly have taken. He believed every man in the House would yet live to regret what they had done. They had undone one of the best clauses in the Public Works Act of last year, and had given the right to any man who desired to do so to continue the narrow slums and streets which were a dis- grace to so many towns. At the request of the honourable member who represented Welling. ton City-a town which in respect to narrow streets was the worst in the colony-they had passed this amendment. He could only ex- press his regret that the Committee had taken so foolish an action. He could not allow the 