tainly was not any desire on the part of the city. Then, when they looked into this con- colony the difference in the ascertained and tract, which had been reluctantly extracted from estimated cost ? the honourable member, and which now con- stituted Paper H .- 28 of this session, they found Difference in cost, #196 each. inclusive of freight, that this contract for the purchasing of this insurance, and erection charges." estate disclosed the extraordinary fact that the £196 more or £196 less than the cost of colonial- Corporation was buying up private options. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the question made carriages. He wanted to know would the before the House was the date for the considera- honourable gentleman allow the return to be tion of local Bills, and the discussion must be amended so that it might state that the £196 for the imported article was more, as he under- restricted to that. Mr. FISHER said the object of the amend- stood was the case, than the cost of the cars ment was this: these gentlemen knew that would be if made in our own workshops ? they could not trench further on the kindness of the Premier, and so they charged the Pre- the honourable gentleman would recognise that mier with standing in the light of the interests in giving a return to the order of the House the of Wellington. It was clear he did nothing of Minister concerned could only comply with the the kind, but that he was doing what the order as made by the House, and this particular people of Wellington by petition asked Parlia- return was exactly as required by the honourable ment to do. The people were anxious that the member for Masterton, who moved for the re- question should be decided, not by Parliament turn. He had previously stated himself that but by the people immedia ely concerned. He we could in the colony make our carriages would suggest a means by which the question cheaper than we could import them. and our might be decided by the people. In April next work in the colony was not second in any there would be the annual contest for the elec- respect to that made out of the colony. He tion of the Mayor ; then the question of the had stated before that they were ordered out- purchase of Miramar could come before the side the colony because the necessities of the situation demanded that should be done. He whole people. On that occasion it was most probable that he would be a candidate. Let could not alter the return. his opponent advocate the purchase ; he would oppose it, and he would beat his opponent by two to one. The House divided on the question, That the the Governor transmitting a copy of this Bill, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and asking the House to make provision accord- words proposed to be omitted be retained. ingly. AYES, 34. Heke Allen, E. G. Parata Committee of Ways and Means to consider His Seddon Arnold Hogg Excellency's message, Houston Bennet Stevens Thompson, R. Kaihau Carncross noticed that £100,000 was to be transferred to Ward Carroll Lawry the Public Works Fund out of the Consolidated Wilford Colvin McGowan Fund, and he trusted that the Minister would Mckenzie, R. Willis Duncan give the House an assurance that the work on Field Witheford. McNab the Main Trunk Railway was going to be con- Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith ducted with more rapidity than had been the Mills Gilfedder Tellers. case in the past. The Minister had admitted O'Meara Fisher Graham that a number of workmen on this line had re- Palmer Hall-Jones Hornsby. cently been discharged, and he trusted the Minis- NOES, 20. Herries Atkinson Russell, G. W. Russell, W. R. Bollard Lang Buddo Smith, G. J. Massey Mackenzie, T. Tanner. Collins Tellers. Millar Ell There had been some very disquieting rumours Fowlds Monk Hutcheson Rhodes Pirani. Hardy dismissal and reduction of men, and all through Majority for, 14. Amendment negatived. IMPORTED ROLLING-STOCK. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) wished to ask the Minister for Railways, without notice, Whether he would make a slight alteration in a return that was laid on the table to-day, before it was printed? The return referred to railway- debate; but he had noticed in the paper a carriages that had been imported, and the por- tion to which he referred read,- "If similar carriages can be made in the "Similar carriages can be made in the colony. But the return did not show whether it was Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said IMPREST SUPPLY BILL (No. 5). A message was received from His Excellency On the question, That the House go into Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said he ter would give an assurance that after the trans- fer of the #100,000 from the Public Works Fund the work on all the roads and railways would be carried on with renewed rapidity and zeal. He hoped he would give the House the assur- ance that the works would not be neglected. going about the country with regard to the the country there seemed to be a slackening-off of public works. Now that this amount was to be transferred, he trusted that matters would be readjusted, and that the Minister for Public Works would be able to show that the rumours were without foundation. He wished to ask the Colonial Treasurer a question with regard to the quarter-of-a-million loan- he could not allude to what had been said in a previous statement made by the Premier that he did not 