and all the circumstances, considers reason- able ; and, if any such excess has been paid or allowed in account by the debtor, may order the creditor to repay it ; and may set aside, either wholly or in part, or revise, or alter, any security given or agreement made in respect of money lent by the money-lender, and if the money-lender has parted with the security may order him to indemnify the borrower or other person sued." What may be the result of a clause like that ? There is no limit as to time. A man may in all good faith, when interest is high, close his transaction and transfer his loan, and there- after, at any convenient time, the borrower -probably through spite, or owing to some personal animus-may go to the Court and ask for a reopening of the case without any limitation whatever, when the settlement of the transaction has been concluded, when the lender may be out of business entirely, and may have lost control of the evidence which would be required when the case came on. Subsection (8) includes any person who lends money on interest for the purposes of this sec- tion, and I maintain that would apply to an ordinary loan upon a property at, say, 6 or 7 per cent. If, therefore, at some particular time when money was tight and difficult to get, a man lent money on a house or on some doubtful security at 7 per cent. for a long term, and if the interest came down a year or two afterwards and there was a plethora of money, it would be open to the borrower to go to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Court and ask for a revision of the whole thing. Now, is that fair? Supposing, for instance, we put the boot on the other leg, and say that a man borrowed money when interest was low, and money went up to double the rate. The lender has no right, no power, to ask for a re- vision of the security. He cannot do that ; and I say if it is fair for one side to be able to do it, it is also fair for the other. I can see any amount of difficulties under this Act. It will result in an enormous amount of litigation, an enormous amount of uncertainty, and an enor- mous amount of loss. I ask the Council to give this Bill most serious consideration. I stated in opening my few remarks that to my mind you will never succeed : that there will always be ways by which people will get round this. You must depend upon the intelligence of the people, the education of the people, and their familiarity with commercial matters for their protection. It is to be hoped that they are getting more familiar with business methods and more intelligent than they were. In the old days they could not stop it, and I feel that you cannot stop it now. You may partially check usury, perhaps ; but as the Bill stands I am perfectly sure it has a number of flaws, and that, if carried without the alterations I have suggested being made in it, I am certain those flaws will render it an unworkable Bill-that it will cause a great amount of dissatisfaction, and that it will be discreditable to our legisla- tive reputation. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I think we are Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith practical speech he has just delivered in respect to this Bill. I am very much inclined to be- lieve with him that the Bill will be utterly use- less. If any money-lender charges less than 10 per cent. he does not come within the pro- visions of the Bill at all, and therefore we may assume that most money-lenders will not charge more than 10 per cent., but will charge pre- miums or foregifts for granting the considera- tion, and make other charges that will amount to very much more in the long-run probably than is now paid for a small loan ; so that it is not likely that any cases where exorbitant interest is taken are ever likely to come before the Court for revision. Therefore, I do not think that the Bill will be of much use at all. Still, I intend to vote for the second reading, because I think that the Council should give some indication that it is prepared to take steps to prevent, as far as possible, exorbitant rates of interest being charged on loans. The Minister who introduced the Bill told us that this had become a live question during the last few years. Sir, it is a question that is thousands of years old. The taking of usury was denounced in the Mosaic Code, and no Jew was allowed to lend to another either money or goods for interest. At any rate, that was the interpretation put on it at a later stage ; but it can also be read that under no circumstances was one of the chosen people to lend money at usury. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not to themselves. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Well, if the honour- able gentleman will turn to Leviticus, chap- ter xxv., verses 35, 36, and 37, he will read, "Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy victuals for increase." Now, this taking of usury has been condemned by all the most eminent philosophers of an- cient times, both Greek and Roman. Aris- totle, Plato, Plutarch, Seneca, and Cato con- demned it in very strong terms. Cato compared the taking of usury by man to the crime of murder, and said that the lender was as great a danger to society as the murderer. These were very strong terms ; but still that was the feeling at the time when moral philo- sophy received its initiative. Under the Roman law-the Twelve Tables-interest was fixed at 1 per cent. Later on it was re- duced by the Tribunes to } per cent. But those laws-as, in fact, every law which has been made to restrict the rate of interest -- were set aside ; and in later years, when the privi- leged class got the upper hand, the taking of usury became more vicious than it had pre- viously been. It was condemned by the Catho- lic Church throughout the Middle Ages, and many of the Councils of the Church condemned in most unqualified terms, as a great vice, a great danger to the State, and an immoral proceeding, the taking of interest for the use of money. The Anglo-Saxon laws against usury were also very severe. Edward the Confessor outlawed usurers and confiscated their pro- perty ; and Edward the First took such strin- gent steps to put an end to what was considered 