petitions have come to some members of this House, and they have been taken round all the settlements by interested persons; but the method of getting signatures, what is it ? Are the signatures of the Natives which are at- tached to the petitions signed by the indi- viduals ? Certainly not. They misrepresent things to the Natives by saying that the Act iş most detrimental-that it will do this, and do that, with the result that they do get some un- thinking Maori signatures; but the signatures are not written by the individuals, but by the people who take the petitions round, and are not worth the paper they are written on. I raised a question on a petition presented by the member for the Western District last year, on which there were hundreds of names in the handwriting of one individual. Now let me refer to a statement made by previous speakers. They have asked what has been the cause of so many Acts affecting the Native lands. There is only one answer : it has been entirely owing to private persons who deal in Native land, who send their representatives to canvas amongst mem- bers, and when they find that legislation does not give effect or make valid any of their trans- actions they bring pressure on different Go- vernments, and that is the cause of the number of Acts which are passed in this House. It is simply axe-grinding. Let me devote my atten- tion to this question : Can we solve the Native difficulty ? I say, according to my experience in the House, there is no chance at all of solving it if party question is brought into the matter. You cannot do it. But if members act indi- vidually on this question, and on the reason- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 able merits of it, there is a hope of having some legislation which will go far towards solving the difficulty. But the idea of a solution of the whole question is entirely out of the region of practical politics. There is far too much axe- grinding going on. There is this in reference to the Act of last year : It lays down one of the only foundations by which we can solve the Maori question. The effect of Acts ought, to my mind, to be directed in this way: I think the balance of the Maori lands 9.0. at the present time ought to be retained and reserved for the remnant of the Maori people, so as to settle the future of the Maoris. Now in dealing with legislation to bring that about we ought also to provide means by which the Maoris can have their lands leased by the Board, and the Act of last year supplies that ; and the material defect in the Act of last year is as to the number of members of the Board. I have always contended that the number ought to be reduced from seven or five to three. Then you would have a workable Board, and one that will be more inexpensive. Now, I also de- sire to place this before the members of the House : that I really think the Government and honourable members ought to assist in improving the legislation of last year in a material way. That is, moneys ought to be voted by the State for the purpose of enabling the Act of last year to be administered, and I will give reasons. I think the Maoris are fully Mr. Heke The Crown, through its right of pre-emption over Maori lands, has benefited largely by it. Take such illustrations as those supplied by the honourable member for Bruce, where he quotes the price offered by a private person being £30 an acre, and the Crown offered and obtained the land for £9. By the Act of last year we have changed the system altogether. We have gone so far as to say that the further purchase of Maori lands shall cease. In this respect we do away with the further borrowing of moneys for the purpose of acquiring lands. But we go further, and say that the surplus land, where desired by the Maoris, shall be trans ferred to the Councils, and by the Native Councils it is cut up and thrown on the mar- ket. We therefore afford the opportunity to Europeans who desire to become settlers to acquire leases under our Act. In doing that we benefit the local authorities and also the Government ; and these are reasons, I think. that ought to be considered by the Government and members of the House as showing that we are entitled, in some extent, to some monetary assistance during the first two years of the ad- ministration of these Councils. Now, there is also this view to be always borne in one's mind in dealing with the Native question : that we have such things as charitable aid ; and we also have an Old-age Pensions Fund. And we should retain for the Maoris the balance of their Native lands, to avoid the necessity of depending upon charitable aid or falling upon the Old-age Pen- sions Fund. While we leave them a sufficiency of their lands, we ought to provide them with the means of enabling the Maoris to improve their lands themselves; and I think this House ought to go further, and apply to them the system we now have in the Advances to Settlers Act, by supplying the Maoris, where they are able to do so, with the means by which they may improve their lands. We have large numbers of Maoris who can improve their properties. But this is the only stumbling. block so far as that point is concerned. For these reasons I think the Bill goes a long way towards satisfying the minds of the Natives in a material way. All this talk about the Natives objecting to the Act of last session is entirely fallacious. Allow me also to say, as to the talk that the Act is not good : why, we have not tried the Act, and the only reasonable objection that can be urged against the Act of last year is that it was not set in motion. I like to hear the honourable member for Napier. In the course of his speech on this Bill he never made an explanation in reference to the Act of last year, nor did he concern himself with the Bill that is now before the House. He took an excursion away back to 1858 ; he travelled thence up to 1873, and up to the present time. What ex- planation was this ? What relevancy had bis speech to the Act of last year and the Bill now under consideration ? Nothing at all. His speech was simply all words, and nothing but words. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Mr. 