don were being told by the honourable gentle- man to his collected admirers. Then, Sir, a suggestion was made that a topical song should be sung, called " How elections are won at & funeral." Sir, the honourable gentleman's re- marks with regard to the expenses of a city member are just about as accurate as most of his remarks in this House. In fact, it seems to me when he attempts to engage in a debate he does so either to amuse the House-cer- tainly not to instruct the House-or to get off a little superfluous steam ; because, when he devotes himself to any particular matter of fact he is generally-as my colleague for Auck- land City (Mr. Fowlds) said the other evening- about fifty per cent. out as far as figures or any- thing else are concerned. I do not agree with some of the remarks that fell from one of the previous speakers, that the £40 vote to mem- bers last session was submitted by Minis- ters as an inducement to have the Public Revenues Act Amendment Bill passed into law. I think that that statement is a most unfortu- nate one. There was certainly no suggestion of the kind made to members on this side of the House, and there was certainly nothing in the nature of a compact. I defended the Public Revenues Act Amendment Bill on its merits in this House, and before my constituents, and I am prepared to do so again. That measure amplified the power of this House to do its own business without interference. I have con- tended before my constituents that £300 a year was a fair and reasonable sum to pay members of Parliament, and there were not a dozen dis- senting voices raised in an assemblage of a thousand persons in the City of Auckland when I addressed a meeting there a few months ago. I am prepared to vote for the measure, and to submit my conduct to the judgment of my con- stituents. I do not think it is right that we should continually appeal to each other, when any question of moment arises in this House, that that single matter should be referred direct to our constituents. We are living under a representative Government; we are the people's representatives in a representative Assembly, and it is our duty to vote upon every measure that is submitted to us to the best of our judgment and according to our honest con- victions, and then to place ourselves in the hands of our constituents either for their ap- proval or for their censure at the proper time fixed by the Constitution. We have no such thing as the referendum in this colony, and therefore I think it is an untenable argument that single questions should be referred direct to a vote of the people. There is no machinery for such a vote. If this matter- as has been put by the Premier-were deferred until just before the general election, the effect would be that matters of great moment to the colony would be subordinated in the minds of many of the electors to this one small issue, and the attention of the electors would be taken away from measures of cardinal importance to the country. The constituencies should, and will, judge of a members' conduct as a whole, and of to say whether the general services of the member who represents them are worth £300 & year. If they think his services are not worth that amount they will summarily reject him. If, on the other hand, they consider his services are worth $300 a year they will return him to Parliament again. I know, myself, that in a large city there are indirect expenses entailed upon a member which are quite within the law. Take, for instance, subscrip- tions. Why, if I were to give a guinea a year to each of the societies and bodies that appeal to me for subscriptions, and of some dozens of which I am vice-president, it would take one- half of the honorarium itself. I do not refer to charities. Every public and private charity appeals to me for a subscription, and it is the same in the other large centres ; all the various charitable and religious institutions in the large centres invariably go to the member for the district first. That is the experience of most gentlemen who represent cities, and probably it is the experience also of those who repre- sent country constituencies. In Great Britain it was the law of the land some years ago that members of Parliament should be paid. Mr. HERRIES .- By their constituents. Mr. NAPIER .- By the parishes. Mr. HERRIES .- Not by Parliament. Mr. NAPIER .- It was the law of England in the time of Queen Elizabeth that each con- stituency had to pay the wages of its member. And not only were wages, as they were termed, paid to members in those days, but the election expenses were also paid, I believe. In England now the suggested proposal for the payment of members of Parliament which has been made by the Liberal party is £500 a year, and the election expenses to be paid also by the State. This Bill will assimilate our law to that pre- vailing in the larger Australian colonies, as New South Wales, where the salary is £300 a year, and there a sum is allowed per session in addition to the honorarium. For these reasons I shall vote for the measure. I believe it will receive the approval of the country, and I think it ought to be passed into law this session. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I rise to a point of personal explanation. I cannot permit the remarks the honourable gentleman made in reference to me to pass, more especially as those remarks are without one scintilla of truth ; and, as the remarks were made, Sir, in connection with the visit which the Premier and members of this House paid to Palmerston South on the occasion of the funeral of the late Sir John Mckenzie, they will know the honourable gentleman has made a statement which is abso- lutely incorrect. There are members in this House who were present on the occasion who are willing to bear me out in my statements. The greater part of my time on that mournful occasion-in respect to which the honourable member has made his statement-was occupied as follows: The funeral was not over until nightfall. I then walked back to the inn, reaching it about six o'clock, where I met some 