be referred to the Labour Bills Committee for their consideration and report, and when it comes back to us that will be the time to de- bate the measure and say whether we approve of it or not. I therefore move, That the Bill be read a second time pro forma, and referred to the Labour Bills Committee. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI. - Sir, I hope the Labour Bills Committee will not mutilate this Bill as they did the Shops and Offices Bill. If they do the other House will not accept it. Motion agreed to. # MONEY-LENDERS BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- During the course of this debate on Friday I heard one of the best speeches I have heard in this Council for some time, delivered by the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith. He clearly showed the folly of this Bill. The Bill cannot effect the object in view; there is no doubt about that. The remarks he made with regard to the indorsement of bills were very pertinent to the point. As he very truly said, a man went to a money-lender and the money-lender said, "Yes, I am prepared to lend you this money at 10 per cent."-that is the maximum laid down in this Bill-" but you must get an indorsement." The man has no friend whom he can get to indorse the bill, but the money-lender has a friend, and they go to him, and this man says, " Yes, I will indorse the bill, but I must have some consideration," 25 or 30 per cent., or even more. This is agreed to, and consequently the Bill is evaded altogether, and it is simply making a farce of the Bill. Now, how are you going to deal with money-lenders ? Money is like every other commodity - it is worth what it will fetch. If a man is hard up and wants money he will have to pay for it. If he goes to the bank they refuse him point-blank, and the only source he has is to go to the money-lender ; and if this Bill is passed it will inflict a great hardship on many people who want to get temporary accom- modation. Take, for instance, the case of a ship coming into port disabled, and the captain of the ship, in order to get out of port again, re- quires perhaps £1,000 or £2,000, as the case might be. Some honourable members in this House know that to be a fact. It is a very risky proceeding, and no man will advance money on a bond unless at a high rate of in- terest. If everything goes all right, and the ship gets to its destination, this thing can be reviewed by the Judges. The man who ad- vanced the money has taken a big risk, and consequently, when reviewed by the Court, he may be despoiled of what he is fairly entitled to. The preamble of this Bill is, without ex- ception, one of the most extraordinary things I ever saw in my life, and I think it is no credit to the Government or the other place to pass it. The preamble says,- "Whereas certain persons trading as, and known by the name of, money-lenders inflict by harsh and unconscionable bargains great injury upon those who borrow money from them ; and ! It is word for word the same, with two small Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker their methods of carrying on such business of money-lending should be subject to control." As I said before, it is impossible to subject these people to control, and I repeat that the mere passing of this Act would be a very severe hardship on a large number of people. Pawn- brokers receive 20 or 30 or 40 per cent., and that was a far more desirable kind of Bill to have brought in than this. In order to bring my remarks to a close, I will intimate that after the second reading is agreed to I will move that this Bill be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee, with power to call for persons and papers, to take evidence with regard to money-lending in Wellington, and I presume that evidence on money-lending in Wellington will apply to other centres in New Zealand. There are in Wellington two large lending establishments that have had to close down. Their profits have been so small and their losses so great that after having been in business for twenty years, I think, in one case, and fifteen years in the other, they have had to close their doors and wind up their businesses. I think it is a fair thing to refer the Bill to the Statutes Revision Committee and let them report, and if they call for evidence they will be quite satisfied that there is no necessity for this Bill being brought in. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- This is hardly the kind of Bill to send to the Statutes Revision Committee. It is a Bill dealing with a social question involving serious moral considerations. If the Bill is to be sent to a special Committee at all, it should be sent to one set up for the occasion. With regard to the proposed legis- lation, I feel very sceptical with regard to its effect. It appears to me that the only practical way to put an end to exorbitant interest is to make interest above a certain rate irrecoverable. Of course, there are difficulties in the way of fixing rates of interest in special cases, and it may be necessary to provide for revision by order of a Court under certain circumstances. I do not know how you can define "money-lender." In the case of most public companies the in- terest charged is generally lower than that charged by private individuals. There are cases in which money-lenders are cruel usurers. It is very hard to define the thing. I think, my- self, that it is not to the advantage of anybody that it should be easy to borrow money at an exorbitant rate. People are tempted in cases of great difficulty to take money, and to promise to pay any charge demanded, although the best thing for them to do would be to face the worst at once, rather than to take money at such a rate of interest as will crush them down all the years of their life. 1 do not wish to oppose the second reading of this Bill, because something may be made of it ; but, as it is now, I do not think it will have any practical effect. The Hon. Mr. ARKWRIGHT .- The honour- able gentleman who has just sat down seems to have forgotten that this Bill is not a new mea- sure ; it is almost an exact copy of the Act passed by the Imperial Legislature last year. 