the old range. He was glad to be able to announce to the House that this arrangement had been made. SIR GEORGE GREY'S PAPERS. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) asked the Government, If they will arrange with the Government of Cape Colony for all the papers now in the possession of the public library of the said colony, deposited there by the late Sir George Grey, K.C.B., P.C., pertaining to per- sons and questions in this colony, to be re- moved from there to the Auckland Public Library? During the last year Sir George Grey was in the House he used to meet him frequently in his room in the Parliamentary Buildings, and Sir George Grey told him on two or three occasions that it would be a great pity if the Government did not acquire or obtain a lot of his papers which he placed in the library at Cape Colony. He was further reminded to ask the question when perusing a lot of the deceased statesman's papers in the library here, and he trusted the Government would be able to acquire these papers for the Auckland Library or the Parliamentary Library. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) was pleased the honourable gentleman had drawn his attention to this matter. Inquiries would be made, and he would see what could be done in the direc- tion desired. NEW ZEALAND TROOPERS' HORSES. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Premier, Whether it is a fact that the New Zealand Government have been credited by the Imperial Government with #28 or other price per head for all horses used by New Zealand troopers in South Africa which were fit for further service and handed over to Imperial officers when our men returned to the colony ; and, if so, whether, in justice to the men concerned, he will pay to each trooper who found his own horse the price received for the animal ? This matter was very fully dealt with the other night on the Imprest Supply Bill, and consequently it was scarcely necessary to ask the question now. However, he might as well give the Defence Minister an opportunity of answering it ; and at the same time he wanted to make it clear that his ques- tion applied only to those men who found their own horses. He was assured by quite a number of men that they were informed by the com- manding officer that when they handed over their horses to the Imperial authorities as remounts they would be paid for by the Im- perial Government, and they had accordingly been disappointed by what had taken place. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the answer to the first part of the question was that no sum had been credited for the purpose. His latest communications upon the subject were entirely in the opposite direction. Some officers had made applications for their horses, and the Imperial authorities sent them on to the New Zealand Government, and had pointed out that they understood that the horses, offi- cers, and men were sent by the committees of Mr. Seddon the colony ; and his reply had been in each case that, unless in the case of those who took out- side horses, which were not considered to belong . by agreement to the colony, or horses acquired privately in South Africa, the Government did not see their way clear to make any representa- tion. If officers took their own horses, and had not agreed to or ceded them to the Go- vernment, that was another matter. PERMANENT ARTILLERY PAY. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will take into con- sideration the scale of pay of men in the No. 2 corps, with a view of providing that married men shall receive an extra 1s. per day as house- allowance ; also that artificers in No. 2 corps be paid the same rate as artificers belonging to No. 1 company are receiving? His object in asking the question was simply to draw the at- tention of the Minister to the low rates of pay No. 2 Service Company received, especially the married men, who had to provide house-rent. Single men usually were accommodated in the barracks, and that lessened the cost of their living considerably. There were not a large number of married men in this company, and the extra cost to the department would not be great. The second part of the question referred to artificers. He understood, since he put the question on the Order Paper, that the mechanics in No. 2 company were not called artificers ; but, at any rate, they had a mechani- cal knowledge, and had to look after the engines and electrical appliances, and it seemed they got 1s. a day less than the artificers in No. 1 com- pany. He would like to know if the Minister could see his way to grant the request. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the number of married men who would be affected in No. 2 company, if they got an extra Is. per day as house-allowance, would be thirty. The scale of pay for No. 2 company was practically the same as for No. 1 company, except that the highest class of men in ranks of No. 2 get is., instead of 6s. 6d. in No. 1. The Commandant stated that the artificers in No. 1 company were specially skilled tradesmen holding the rank of acting-bombardier. The tradesmen in No. 2 company, he understood, were embraced in non - commissioned ranks, except those who were embraced in the 7s .- a-day rate, and were not specially skilled tradesmen. He would look into this matter, and if he found that no reasons could be given to him for making these artificers acting-bombardiers, which carried the increased pay, he would either have to disrate them or promote those who were doing similar work in No. 2 company to be acting-bombardiers. In regard to the 1s. a day for married men, if he gave it to No. 2 company he should have to give it to No. 1 as well, and he expected that would mean sixty men, or £3 per day. Now, they had extended the privileges of the married men, and they only did the same work as single men, and the colony should not, therefore, in his opinion, pay a man simply because he got married. That was his business, and not the business of the colony. 