fault of the Registrar's, who had never been a partisan. He referred to the ex-Registrar, who was Postmaster at Greytown. Some of the men engaged simply happened to be partisans against the Government. With regard to Mr. Adam Armstrong, whose name had been men- tioned by some of the members of the Opposi- tion, statements had before now been made in the House regarding that gentleman which, if made outside, would have been met by the issue of a writ for criminal slander. A former mem- ber of the House, who had made a statement in his place in the House regarding Mr. Arm- strong, had been challenged by that gentleman, in a letter he wrote to the Post, to make the same statement outside the House; which challenge had never been responded to. The House was to a certain extent "coward's castle," and members could say just what they chose ; but Mr. Armstrong had been most un- justly accused and vilified in a place where the law could not reach his detractors. He (Mr. Hornsby) would be wanting in his duty if he did not say that never in any electorate had there been a better or more efficient officer than Mr. Adam Armstrong. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) had not expected this debate. The motion was that the matter should stand over until Friday, and he had given the reasons-namely, that the appoint- ment of a Returning Officer had not been made, the rolls were still in the printer's hands, that there were fifty-six polling-booths, and fifty-six Deputy Returning Officers were required ; it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was, therefore, unreasonable to expect a man who was just appointed to select fifty-six others at once. How the action of the Government could be complained of, and how it could be insinuated that they were trying to promote their own interests, he could not understand. So far as the Government interest was 3.30. concerned, he would rather have the election come off to-morrow. An Hon. MEMBER .- Have you a candidate ready ? Mr. SEDDON had very great pleasure in announcing to the Opposition that, so far as he knew at present, there was going to be a straight-out run between Mr. John Heslop and Mr. Haselden. The moment honourable members opposite heard that announcement they turned pale. They wished for more time, so that they might do their best to, as usual, get another crop of candidates to come out in the Government interest ; and, so that there might be no chance of doing that, he would like to see the election take place to-morrow. The leader of the Opposition said it was decided in Cabinet to challenge the election of Mr. Haselden. Now, that statement was absolutely incorrect. It was without the slightest foundation. Hon. MEMBERS. - Oh, oh. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman knew that, as a gentleman, he would not make that statement if it was otherwise. He would say, further, that the seat belonged to the Government. Their candidate was returned but for the bungling of the Returning Officer. Mr. Hornsby tion-and all the world should know it-from the Returning Officer that Mr. Heslop was returned by fifteen votes. Then he received a second intimation that he was returned by six votes. An Hon. MEMBER .- You have no position in the matter at all. Mr. SEDDON said the Government had a position. The notification came from the Re- turning Officer to the Clerk of Writs. Then, the Clerk of Writs was notified that Mr. Heslop was returned by a majority of one. Subse- quently, by taking papers out of the packet which should not have been touched at all, but which were illegally interfered with, Mr. Hes- lop was defeated by a majority of one. A more unique situation it had never been his lot to know. Then, it was found that some of the voting-papers had never reached the Returning Officer until the writ had been sent down with the member returned on it. That came out in Court. The Government were not responsible for that, but that was the position. Then, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay said the Government had paid canvassers. He gave that a most unqualified denial. Probably this was the kind of thing that used to go on in connec- tion with the Administration of which Captain Russell was a member, and the honourable men- ber jumped to the conclusion that the pre- sent Government did it also. Probably that was what the honourable member had in his mind's eye. Bribery and corruption! Why, a telegram was sent to a candidate who had at one time opposed him (Mr. Seddon) saying, " If you give #1,000 for a track I can put out Seddon." From the Administration came back these words : "Track is granted." And one of the Ministers said it was cheap to get rid of Seddon at the price. That was the way they used to do it in days gone by, when a few thousand pounds to influence an election was neither here nor there. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where was Mr. Edwards at the last election ? Mr. SEDDON said he was doing his duty. His salary was paid out of moneys subscribed by the Liberal party, as was the case in connection with every defined party in politics. It was the case at Home; and if their supporters liked to put their hands in their pockets to pay Mr. Edwards's salary, and keep him in the interests of the party, who should blame them, more especially when there was the National Associa- tion who for years had paid a salary. The statement he denied was that Mr. Edwards was paid by the Government and by the colony. Mr. Edwards had never received a shilling in the way of money or consideration from the colony. His salary was paid out of the funds of the Liberal party. An Hon. MEMBER .- We know who appointed him. Mr. SEDDON .- Who appointed him ? An Hon. MEMBER .- You. Mr. SEDDON said he was appointed by the Executive Committee. If he had been appointed by him (Mr. Seddon) he would have been able 