reports of the Inspectors were to be taken, then, considering the work now put upon them, and matters allowed to go on as now, then he said, " God help the lives of the men." Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said he had carefully listened to the remarks of the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millari, and he challenged that honourable gentleman to say that his statement was a fair statement. Mr. MILLAR. - My statements are taken from the report of the Coal-mines Commission. Mr. McGOWAN said he had no doubt of that, and if he took up the report himself he would undertake to say that from the same report he would be able to produce a statement exactly in the opposite direction. Any one could pick out portions of the report to suit the particular case he was urging. He (Mr. McGowan) did not want, however, to do that. The honour- able member had made statements that went to show that it was the desire of the Govern- ment, or he would say the Minister of Mines- he did not want to drag the Government into it-that men should be employed in dangerous places. Would the honourable member say that he believed that ? Mr. MILLAR .- No; I ask you to make in- quiries. Mr. McGOWAN said, Then why did the honourable gentleman make the statement ? The fact was, the honourable member knew the statement was made for a different purpose altogether. The honourable member could not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 but say that he (Mr. McGowan) had shown the greatest care possible in regard to the inspec- tion of the mines of the colony. As for the statements made by the honourable member http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero for Dunedin City, he wished to give them a distinct denial. With regard to the efforts of the Inspectors, he would, to prove his case, take the case of one mine-one the honourable gentleman had referred to himself, but the name of which he had taken care not to men- tion in his remarks. To show the House that the honourable gentleman's allegation that there had been laxity in the inspection of this mine was not correct, he would give actual proof as to the dates on which inspections were carried on in the mine during the year 1900. That year was what he might call an un- favourable year ; it was the year in which pro- posals were made by the Goldfields and Mines Committee for setting up the Commission. The Kaitangata Mine had been mentioned. It was considered to be, and undoubtedly was, a mine in which a certain amount of care was required-a mine in which there Was a certain amount of danger. Now, that mine was inspected on the 15th May, 1900; it was also examined on the 16th May, 6th Sep- tember, and 21st December. There were there- fore four examinations of the mine during 1900. Mr. MILLAR .- Why were these examina- tions made ? Mr. McGOWAN said he could not tell the unless it coincided with his own views. At bonourable member why they were made, but VOL. CXIX .- 15. point if he had the opportunity of reading the reports. Then, in 1901 the mine was ex- amined on the 14th March, 15th March, and 16th March, in connection with the in- vestigations of the Coal-mines Commission. In addition, the mine had been examined on these dates : 28th February, 1st March, 19th April, 9th July, 10th July, 27th August, 4th September, 20th September. Would the honour- able gentleman say, therefore, that the mine had remained for months and months without being reported on in face of the facts that had just been placed before him ? The honourable gentleman could not say it. Mr. MILLAR said he would tell the Minister all about it later on. Mr. McGOWAN said the honourable gentle- man had informed the House that the inspection of the mines of the colony was incomplete, that the Minister of Mines had been neglectful of his duty, and had not insisted on a proper inspec- tion of the mines, and that the lives of the miners had been jeopardized thereby. It was an ungenerous statement for any member to make, no matter what his object might be in making it. The honourable gentleman pro- bably had the evidence of the Commission before him when he spoke, but he did not have the evidence of the Inspecting Engineer or the evidence of the Inspector, and in his first state- ment he said there was hardly a mine in New Zealand that was in a safe state. Mr. MILLAR .- No, I did not. Mr. McGOWAN said the honourable gentle- man certainly made that statement, and he (Mr. McGowan) refuted it at the time by quot- ing from the report. As a matter of fact, he found from the report that there were only three mines out of seventeen that were ex- amined with regard to which the report was unfavourable. Mr. MILLAR said he could name more than three. The ventilation of no mine was perfect or anywhere near it. Mr. McGOWAN said the position was ex- actly as he had stated it. There were only three mines that were adversely reported upon, and the fact that hardly any accidents occurred in New Zealand was proof of the fact that the inspection carried out was up to the mark. The condemnation, even in the report, so far as it concerned the particular mine referred to, was prior to the present Inspector occupying the position. The previous Inspector was now the Inspecting Engineer, and had not had the opportunity of giving evidence before the Com- mission. He asked that that opportunity should be given to him, and he was informed that his evidence would be heard in Wellington. Was he asked in Wellington to give his evidence ? No, he was not. Mr. R. MCKENZIE said it would not have been worth anything if he had given it. Mr. McGOWAN said, That, of course, might be the honourable gentleman's opinion ; but, no matter what the evidence was, the honour- able gentleman did not think anything of it 