objection to that course : that the party who bor- rowed the money would be exposed and perhaps utterly ruined. I suppose that cannot be helped unless investigations affecting such were, if the Magistrate thought proper, held in camera. Now, Sir, I have said that the fixing of a rate of interest would not be of any advantage, and I think that can easily be borne out when one comes to consider the various conditions con- cerning loans-small loans, large loans, loans with security, and loans without security. If it be fair to fix 10 per cent., for instance, on a large loan, and that with security, certainly it would be proper to fix a much larger rate of interest for a loan of a few pounds where there is no security. There can be no question that the Court should have power to review trans- actions ; but the question arises, What are the poor people to do if you prevent them from get- ting a few pounds when they really require it ? When there is a death or sickness in a family, or when there is some extraordinary occurrence in a household at quite an unexpected time- in the household of a man who is getting a regular wage, and just about enough to maintain himself and those dependent upon him-what is to be done ? There are occasions on which a man may want, say, £5 for three months. If the man has no security to offer, and goes to the money-lender for the money, the money- lender, under this Bill, would have to charge 2s. 6d. He could not charge more. Of course, the amount is simply absurd. It would not pay for the clerical expenses of negotiating the loan. Here are some figures with regard to small loans which I am sure will be interest- ing : A requires a loan of £10 for three months, and gives a bill of sale. The result is : In- terest, £1 ; solicitor's costs, £1 1s. ; Govern- ment (for registration), 5s. : total, £2 6s. That is what takes place now. An Hon. MEMBER .- How do you know ? The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I got the figures from a loan company. Under the new Bill this is what would result from negotiating a loan of the same amount : Interest, 5s .; Go- vernment (for registration), 5s .; law-costs, £1 1s. : total, £1 11s. That is, 5s. for a loan of #10 for three months, and the other expenses would be £1 6s., so that the man who really did the greater service and sacrificed his money would get only a tithe of the amount that would go to others. But, Sir, after all, perhaps it is better that it should be so. I think it is far preferable that we should have legislation in the direction in which this Bill goes, to prevent rash borrowing, so that people may, if possible, be taught to be more self-reliant. It is far better that a man should save his money by frugality and carefulness for a rainy day, and to meet contingencies which are natural to family life, than that he should be reckless or improvident through the knowledge that he can get a few pounds from the money-lender if he should require it in a desperate pinch. I shall support the second reading of the Bill, because, though I believe it is not perfect, it is perhaps the best start towards legislation to meet this difficulty that we could contrive. I Hon. Mr. Jones do not expect anything perfect in this world, and I believe that the effect which this legisla- tion will have on the minds of those persons who are in the habit of rushing to the money. lender when they find themselves in a diffi- culty, and who carelessly drift into difficulties because they feel that they can get a few pounds when they require them, will be salu- tary. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I have carefully read this Bill, and I have compared it with the English Act on the subject. The English Act is dated 1900, and, as the Hon. Mr. Arkwright stated, it is almost in similar terms to the Bill now before us. Before proceedings were taken by the Imperial Parliament an inquiry was made by a very able Committee, and it was found that the only possible way of securing and giving relief to those persons who borrowed at a very high rate of interest was to give the Courts the power when applied to to review the loans. This Bill is, of course, to do that and nothing more ; and I think where the English Parliament has made careful inquiry into a subject of this character and passed an Act to deal with it and provide a remedy, we would act very wisely in following it. As far as this Bill goes, I intend to support it in every clause, if possible, without alteration, because it is of so highly technical a character that any altera- tion made without fully comprehending its I think the import would be very unwise. Bill pretty well speaks for itself, and there is no occasion to send it to any Committee. What could the Statutes Revision Committee do? At this period of the session there is no time to take evidence. Unless some very good reason was shown, they could not make any alteration of a practical character that would tend to improve it ; and, after having passed the scrutiny of the Lower House, where it was carefully discussed and several amendments made in it to adapt it to the circumstances of the colony, and having kept close to the original Act, I think we shall act very wisely in passing it as nearly as pos- sible as it is. This phase of money-lending is a growing evil. I know in New Zealand, where young persons get mixed up and entangled in the nets of money-lenders, who have no con- science and no mercy, young men who are only possessed perhaps of a limited salary, and no resource to meet the usurious demands of these financial vampires, are very frequently ruined. Under this Bill a way of relief and escape is provided, and the young and inexperienced who have been caught in the meshes of the money-lender may, if they have the courage to face their difficulties and appeal to the Court, ultimately escape from the grasp of the money- lenders. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I thank the Council for the extremely considerate way in which they have dealt with this Bill, and have recognised that it is only an endeavour to raise our statutory law up to the standard of the Mother-country. I admitted in my opening speech on the second reading that possibly there were not as many gross abuses in this 