export business in timber to Australia for many years past has been one of considerable im- portance to that industry; and the sudden blocking-out of our timber from Australia would be of material moment to the sawmill proprie- tors and their employés, to say nothing of many other industries affected by it, and it would un- doubtedly affect a great many men employed in New Zealand. Very well ; supposing that as a result of the representation going on at pre- sent in Australia between those largely engaged in the timber industry and the Federal Go- vernment, it should be decided to reduce the Australian duty, or not to put on this duty against New Zealand timber at all if we were, now to impose a fixed export duty we should be like a ship at sea without a rudder-we could do nothing but collect the duty. We have held back this Bill in the hope that something would be done in Australia. I have myself had cable correspondence with people in Australia for some weeks past, which correspondence I am not in a position to give publicity to at the present time, but I can say they are working strongly to prevent that duty which has been foreshadowed by the Federal Government being imposed on timber. Therefore it behoves the Government to take such measures as will enable them in, so to speak, an elastic way to meet circumstances that may arise and which at the moment they cannot possibly foresee. The honourable member said it was not desirable to impose an export duty. I quite agree with him in that respect if our https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 industry could be carried on without it ; but we have had the representatives of the sawmilling industry from Auckland to the Bluff meeting in I would urge that the very fact of our asking Wellington and going into the situation, and they have unanimously recommended that an export duty on logs should be imposed by the colony in order to enable them to carry on this important branch of their business. An Hon. MEMBER. - They must take our white-pine. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes ; but the point is, act of retaliation. I am strongly opposed to Are we going to allow our logs to be sent across to the other side, and the whole of the work in interests of this industry. We ask power to connection with the cutting-up of those logs to pass from this colony, and allow the expendi- ture of a large sum of money to be taken out of our colony and away from our own work- men, and to pass into the hands of those in another country ? An Hon. MEMBER .- This is making it worse ; able member says that the power of variation it makes the timber dearer. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member a monstrous thing. must see that, if there is an export duty on logs, it will be necessary to saw up the white- lency power to raise or to lower the duty. pine here, and those who purchase the sawn pine will, if Australia does not reduce its duty, have to pay more for it to make up the export duty we put on. That is what we are endea- vouring to do. We want, under the altered circumstances, to get this important industry on the best footing possible for the colony ; but at the same time we do not want to drive the industry to Australia, and have our logs cut up there for butter- boxes, instead Now, the honourable member says that this is intended to be some kind of a retaliatory measure. I, for one, should be very sorry to see the country adopt in any shape or form a retaliatory measure against Australia owing to it having brought down a tariff of Customs duties for the Commonwealth against the world. We have yet to see what the destinies of Australia and New Zealand may require to be done in the interests of our respective countries, and, if the Australian statesmen have found it necessary to adopt a policy of pro- tection on timber, I do not for one moment believe that they have done so, as is suggested by some people, merely as an act of antagonism towards this country. That would be a very undesirable course for them to follow, and any- thing but statesmanlike, and I do not believe they have done so. I say, in turn, that, re- specting this colony, its destiny in many respects is still in the unknown future, and that there may be many requirements of our own that at present we cannot foresee to be considered. I say there are circumstances that may, and probably will, arise which will pos- sibly override the minor considerations of a policy such as this, and that it ought to be the desire of public men both here and in Aus- tralia to originate, instead of acts of retaliation, something which will consummate between the countries a bond of union ; and our aim, as far as fiscal matters are concerned, should be the reciprocation in respect to articles of export suited to both countries, and that we should do in that respect what is for the benefit of all. That is what I believe should be our object, and that the Governor in Council should have power to impose these duties if necessary shows that we are not desirous of adopting a retaliatory course, and that if we were now to take fright or be alarmed by the action of our friends across the water we should impose an export duty definitely now. That might be said to be an such a course. What we are doing is in the impose certain duties if that should become necessary, and if negotiation and conference should show that we must do something to pro- tect that industry. If that, unhappily, should be the only course left to us, then some system of export duty should be adopted. The honour- in the duties from 3s. to 5s., or less than 3s., is Captain RUSSELL .- To leave His Excel- Sir J. G. WARD .- It is not His Excellency the Governor-it is the Governor in Council. The honourable member knows perfectly well that this would only be done by the Governor upon the advice of responsible Ministers, and the responsible Ministers are not going to give effect to that unless it appears to them as responsible Ministers to be desirable. It cannot be said, as was urged by one honourable member, that this is putting into the hands of 