Transvaal would have been worse than the first, and certainly worse than it is at present. These islands are often used as counters by the Im- perial Government in playing the game. Look- ing at the matter from an Imperial point of view, I think the Imperial authorities were perfectly right, probably, in the action which they took. I would ask, Is not Samoa a source of danger to the Germans? For instance, if we went to war with Germany, the first thing we would do, no doubt, would be to send an expedition to take Samoa. Mr. SEDDON .- No; that would not be prudent. Mr. NAPIER .- Samoa is a menace to us now. Mr. HERRIES. - It is a menace to the Germans-that is, as long as we have the sea- power. An Hon. MEMBER. - You are contradicting your own authority. Mr. HERRIES .- I thought the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) would have sided with me on that point, but I am afraid he has not studied the works of Captain Mahan. At any rate, we have extended our boundaries, and that must mean that there will be expenses connected with that. We cannot avoid that. The very fact of the existence of our boundaries at such a distance from New Zealand must mean expense in various ways. The Premier, in moving the second reading of the Bill. spoke about illicit whisky and rum https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and gin which were landed on these islands, and he said that he must try to stop that. Here is another item of expense. That means that we will have a gunboat patrolling the waters round the islands in order to see that cargoes of liquor are not taken ashore. The English Government will say, "Oh, here is Seddon taking all these islands, and he is saving us the trouble and expense of policing Hitherto the them with our gunboats." English Government have had gunboats patrol- ling these waters to look after beachcombers and others, but now that duty will devolve upon us. But, coming back to the Bill, I do maintain that we are wrong in maintaining the High Court of justice in Rarotonga; and not only do we retain it, but extend its influence over all the other islands beyond the Cook Group. Formerly it was only the High Court of Rarotonga and the Cook Islands, but in this Bill we are asked to extend the jurisdiction to Penrhyn. Niue, and other islands. We also maintain the ridiculous system of the Federal Council, which is also to have jurisdiction over these islands which it had not before. The Island Councils are inferior bodies, I presume, and above them comes this High Court of Parliament, which has jurisdiction over the other islands. We are also creating a new Council for the Island of Niue. The other Councils may or may not be continued as the Bill is amended ; but the Council of Niue must, while Penrhyn Island apparently is to be left entirely to itself, although we have sent Mr. Percy Smith there with the power of creating regard to Penrhyn. The Premier promised to lay on the table of the House the Gazette of the Cook Islands as it was issued, and I trust he will fulfil that promise. I have seen a copy of the Cook Islands Gazette which has recently been issued, and it is issued in the name of Makea, the Chief of the Government. Surely that is a wrong thing. There is no Chief of the Government now-at least, I hope not. At any rate, the present position appears to be anomalous. I also noticed that there was a clause in the Gazette saying that the regula- tions under the Import Duties Act 1 and 2 of 1891, and No. 3 of 1898, will apply to the Island of Penrhyn until His Excel- lency so decide. The Minister of Customs told me that the old Acts had been repealed. He said he had sent instructions that the New Zealand Customs laws would be en- forced ; but by this Gazette it appears that they are going back to the old import duties imposed by the Parliament in Rarotonga. I trust that the Premier will see that the duties will be the same as the Minister of Customs informed me they would be. I rather wish that the Premier had started this debate, and given us informa- tion on some of the points I have referred to. I cannot think that he is satisfied with the Bill, or that he thinks it will carry out what he wants. It practically makes the Governor in Council autocratic, and makes the Cook Islands a Crown colony to New Zealand, which seems to me undesirable and unconstitutional. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I do not think we are doing any good to the colony by taking up so much time in discussing this subject. There is no doubt that Great Britain requires all the possible power and prestige in the Pacific Ocean, and I think it is to be regretted that our enterprising Premier was not in office twenty years ago, and with the present Parliament at his back. If so, he would not have lost Samoa or Tahiti ; and our political position in the Pacific would have been very different from what it is at the present time. It has been the vacillating policy pursued in the past with respect to these islands that has led to our losing many of them. I shall cer- tainly support this Bill. Mr. TANNER (Avon). - With reference to the Bill now before us, there is no doubt room for a great deal of criticism of its details so far as it is detailed; but I must remind honourable gentlemen who have spoken that the House, having committed itself to this policy-a policy of which I at the time approved, and which I still approve -- it is necessary that the Islands must be subjected to some kind of government, and though perhaps we might not exactly ap- prove of the tremendous powers given to the Governor in Council, it is certain that the Islands cannot remain a portion of New Zea- land and yet be left in their present condition whilst separated as they are by such a vast stretch of ocean from the rest of the colony. I think that this is to be borne in mind by the Premier, and by not only the present Go- vernment, but by any subsequent Government : 