tion to enable them to take a vote of the rate- payers, so that the construction could go on. He trusted the Minister would recommend to his colleagues the necessity of introducing legislation early next session to enable the settlers to do that, and he hoped the promise that had been given to send out surveyors at once would be given effect to. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) asked how the Catlin's River Railway stood, as regards authorisation. There had been some difficulty regarding the survey of the line beyond Ratanui, to which place the line was now in course of construction. His own opinion was that it should be surveyed and authorised as far as Tahakopa, which was a point to which the residents were anxious that the railway should be extended as soon as possible. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) was very much dis- appointed at not seeing his little railway pro- vided for, as he considered it one of the most important works in New Zealand. He would remind the Minister of the question he asked in the House last year, -- " Whether he will, during the recess, have a survey made of the Eltham-Opunake line on the railway reserve from Eltham to Opunake." The Minister himself, during the recess, had made it a point to travel along the route of that railway, and he expressed himself surprised at the amount of settlement that he saw going on. It was a revelation to him. He had been met by deputations at Opunake, and had made promises that an engineer would go over the line and an estimate as to cost would be made https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 during the recess. He wished to impress on the Government and House that the matter was a very important one, and one in which, in the interests of his constituents, he (Mr. McGuire) took a great interest. He knew the Minister for Public Works had always in the past kept his promise, as a proof of which he might refer to the Stratford line. He promised that he would turn the first sod of that line by a certain day, and he kept his word. Again, he promised that the line would be open to Toko from Stratford by Christmas, and he was satis- fied that that would be done ; and, in respect to the Eltham-Opunake line, he believed he would also keep his promise. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) expressed gratifica- tion at the authorisation of the Helensville Northwards line for a distance of another twelve miles. At the same time he would like to call the Minister's attention to the promise he had made last year of going over the route and by personal inspection satisfying himself as to the urgency of the work. He hoped the Minister would manage this year to fultil the promise he made last year to visit the district. There was one thing he was sure the Minister could not give him a satisfactory answer about, and that was why such a very small amount of money had been allocated for this work. The consideration it was re- ceiving was altogether inadequate. The Hon. the Minister had for years apportioned out the money required for railway-construction, Mr. O'Meara on as fast as was desirable, but particularly, he thought, the North of Auckland line had fared the worst. The amount that had been pro- mised to that line was most trifling in propor- tion to the importance of the work, and, if he was to proceed with it only by allocating the money in the proportion which he was now doing, it would be a long time indeed before i: got to Wellsford and Maungaturoto. He hoped next year, remembering how trivial were the sums that had been allocated for this work this year, the Government would put a considerable sum of money on the estimates for its construc- tion, so as to enable it to go on at a much more rapid rate than it was at present. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) was pleased to see that the Minister had at last seen fit to as's Parliament to authorise the Kawakawa-Strat- ford line. He was sorry to notice, however. that he had not also taken the opportunity to include in the list the line from Rotorua to Gisborne. This Bill, of course, was only in- tended to place on the authorised list certain lines of railway, and did not make any pro- vision for their construction, and it was nothing extravagant to urge that the line he now mentioned should also be placed on the list of lines authorised to be constructed as funds became available. This East Coast line would open up an enormous extent of highly fertile land. At present that part of the colony was just as much isolated as if it were au island, because there were no means of getting to it except by sea. The whole of the trade there was conducted with difficulty, and a line constructed from Rotorua to Gisborne would not only add new interest to the tourist tratte but would open up one of the most fertile and most picturesque districts in the North Island. He hoped the Minister would, during the re- cess, take this matter into consideration, and see if the line could not be authorised next session from the one terminus to the other. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he had been able to make up his mind what answer to give to a depata- tion that waited on him during the recess with respect to the construction of a railway along the coast by Brighton to the Taieri Rive: " Before he went home to meet his constituents he would like to know what the Minister bad to say about it. He would like to know if the Brighton line was an authorised railway, ani. if so, why no sum was placed on the estimates for it. He had a grievance in that respect. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) said that as usual with these Railway Bills, the North Island was well to the front. This time it was a great deal more to the front than usual. Out of six ral- ways to be constructed that figured on the schedules, four of them were situated in the North Island and two on the West Coast, In. there was nothing at all in the South. The settlers of Roxburgh and the surrounding dis- tricts had been petitioning to get one of the three lines that had been surveyed constructed. but very little consideration had been given to their petitions ; and, as there was now and had 