Canada and Norway every help is given to ! timber men. I hope the Minister will take my suggestion, and wait a few months before he determines how he will act, and I give him the assurance that it will make no difference to New Zealand. Let us not go into the matter definitely till we know how the Com- monwealth tariff is going to be finally arranged. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- 1 am opposed to this measure, as I consider it inimical to the best interests of the colony. See what Canada has done. It has approached the Common- wealth with the view of bringing about a friendly reciprocal tariff. What has our Go- vernment done? Nothing. The Minister for Railways stated just now that one reason for placing a duty of 3s. on balk timber was in order to give additional employment to our people. Sir J. G. WARD .-- I did not say that at all. Mr. MEREDITH .- Well, I understood you to say so ; but it cannot be otherwise. It will increase the cost of timber to the producer. If we propose doing this, why not place an export duty on wheat, so that the whole of the wheat grown in the colony could be converted into flour and exported ? I have eight sawmills in my electorate, and not one owner has ap- proached me on the question of an export duty on balk or any other kind of timber. Permit me to point out that, while we export to Aus- tralia timber to the value of about #233,659, we import from Australia timber to the value of nearly $100,000. We cannot do without Aus- tralian hard timber for our wharves, bridges, et cetera, so that in the imposition of an export tariff we are making a rod for our own backs. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands). - It is not my intention to offer any opposition to the Bill, but there is one question I should like to lay before the Minister and the House in connec- tion with this export duty. I fear there is a danger of inflicting great injury on a large number of persons engaged in this industry. There are a number of men who buy small bushes who have been in the habit of cutting timber for export. The danger is that the larger millowners will obtain a monopoly, through these small people being obliged to sell their balk timber to them, and these large mills would only pay them a price less the export duty. This would throw the whole industry into the hands of the timber com- panies, to the injury of private individuals. I think it would be well if a clause were intro- duced preventing the large millowners from exercising this power of monopoly. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi). - It will be my duty to vote against this measure, for the reason that I think it a wrong start towards reciprocity. and our timber industry is so small compared with the produce trade that the advantage gained here will be infinitesimal, and not worth the effort. Perhaps it may be con- sidered by honourable members, because I do not come from a timber-export district, that I should allow other members to discuss this sub- ject ; but I wish to put on record some facts with regard to the price of timber in Australia to prove Mr. Monk that an export duty is not necessary for the success of our timber trade. I am quoting now from a circular issued by a timber merchant in Melbourne, dated the 9th September last- Mr. James Moore. He quotes kauri at per 100 ft. lineal, 5s. 9d. ; Oregon, narrow widths, 9s. 6d. per 100 ft. superficial. Now. Sir, there are even stronger reasons for a duty, as far as this colony is concerned, if we come to con- sider New Zealand white-pine for shelving and butter-boxes. For butter-boxes the cost in Melbourne is only 11s. 6d. per 100 ft. super- ficial, as against Alaska pine 17s. per loof. superficial. Honourable members will there. fore see that there is room for considerate export duty, and still make our timber salcalle in Australia at a substantial increase on what they are at present paying for it. Coming ?? kauri, the same reasons may apply. We have best kauri quoted at 1Ss. 6d. per 100 ft., up to 20s. 6d. for special quality. These are och reasons why the export duty should be put on and still allow competition with American timber. I see no strong reason against it from that point of view. And I consider the demand for our timbers in Australia will continue, notwithstanding the fact that an export duty here obtains. I will, however, read a portion of a letter which I have received from a tim- ber merchant, which gives a reason why an export duty should not be put on. He says,- " I think it would be a mistake to hurry on s protective duty on balk white-pine, as advised by the sawmillers in the North Island. They ought to leave this matter to next session, so as to let the matter settle, and it would then be better known what effect it would have co the timber trade. As far as I know at present. there is not much balk white-pine timber s.c .: to Australia, as it is not suitable in balk for butter. boxes, as balk cannot be seasoned ci & journey to Australia, as it would be liable w get discoloured, and therefore not likely to x used for that purpose. Again, they are so Far. ticular over the quality of it for butter boxes it suits them better to have it cut and scas Led in New Zealand ; and balk timber would be liable to have the resin veins and shakes through them ; and in the end, if they must have New Zealand white-pine, they will have the extra duty they put on to pay themselves." I think these reasons are very much te the point, and show that New Zealand will chi- mately be the loser in any reprisals they may make against the Commonwealth tariff. How- ever, as a retaliatory measure, in my opinter .. it is premature. We have no right to take of a position of assuming what is to take place. even though we have the proposal already made for the Australian tariff to differentiate azure New Zealand. I do not think that even tet- tively we should give the right that is sucesos in this measure to the Governor in Counch. I feel confident that Australia will want par balk timber, notwithstanding the duty : asil think it is not right, in the closing hours of the session, that, almost in a panic, we should pr- pose an export duty as retaliation. An expert 