as possible in moving the committal of this Bill. The Bill was read a second time pro forma, and has since been considered by the Goldfields and Mines Committee. There are only a few clauses, and the object of the measure is to rectify some inequalities which at present exist in the Act. Clause 2 proposes a small reduction in the royalty on slack coal, which in many cases the mine-owners are not able to sell. The proposal is to reduce the royalty upon this coal, and only charge upon that which is sold a rate of 2d., instead of 3d. as formerly. I might point out that clause 3 was struck out by the Goldfields and Mines Committee, and I would like to inform the House that, when the Bill goes into Committee of the Whole, I shall give honourable members an opportunity of voting upon the proposal therein contained. It is a provision I inserted at the request of the working coal-miners of the colony, both in the North and South Islands. I beg to move the committal of the Bill. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- I wish to make a remark or two in connection with this measure. First of all, I would like to know where the proposal for the reduction of the royalty came from. I desire to call the atten- tion of the Minister to the fact that the coal at the West Coast mines is taken from the mines in railway trucks to the ship, and is weighed at the ports, so that this provision does not apply, because there is no useless rubbish there. All the coal that comes out of the mine goes into the trucks, and is carried by rail, as I have said, to the steamer, and is weighed before shipment. I do not wish the honourable gentleman to dis. organize the revenue of the Westport Harbour Board in connection with this matter. I would http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero like to have an explanation from the Minister in connection with this clause. I may say that the clause struck out by the Mines Committee is. in my opinion, the most important clause in the Bill. The present law is that the workmen in a mine may appoint two of their own number to make a report. This Bill goes a little further, and gives authority for the report to be made by two persons not connected with the mine. I hope that clause will be reinserted. 1 do not agree with the repeal of subsection (46) of clause 33, because that sub- section gives a clear definition of all matters that are to be reported on, so that I think the Minister, in entirely repealing that subsection, is making a mistake. I think, although that gives all the power that is given in this clause, we should still retain subsection (46) of clause 33 of the principal Act. In the subsections of clause 33 of the principal Act everything re- ported upon is defined and laid down distinctly. The new clause 5 is also, I think, an important clause-that is, that the eight-hour day should be reckoned, as the miners say, from bank to bank. I do not think there can be any reasonable ob- jection to that, because the man is actually at work from the time he leaves home until his eturn. Motion agreed to, and Bill committed. Mr. McGowan IN COMMITTEE. ' Clause 3 .- " (1.) Where workmen are em- ployed in a mine, or any of the workmen so employed are members of a society formed in connection with the coal-mining industry, and registered under 'The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900,' as an industrial union of workers, such workmen or society may, at their own cost, appoint any two persons to inspect the mine, whether such persons are em- ployed in the mine to be inspected or not. "(2.) The persons so appointed shall have full liberty to visit and inspect every part of the mine, its machinery and workings, once at least in every month. "(3.) The mine-owner and mine-manager may accompany the persons so appointed in their inspection, and shall give them full and free facilities for the inspection. " (4.) The persons so appointed shall make a full and faithful report in writing of the result of their inspection, which report shall be signed by them, and they shall furnish a copy thereof to the owner or manager of the mine. who shall cause the same to be recorded in a book kept at the office of the mine. " (5.) Such book shall, at all reasonable times, be open to the inspection of any Inspector under the principal Act, or workmen employed in the mine, or officer of the said society, who may take copies of or extracts from the reports re- corded therein. " (6.) This section is in substitution of sub- section forty-six of section thirty-three of the \- -- principal Act, which subsection is accordingly hereby repealed." The Committee divided on the question. "That the clause stand part of the Bill." AYES, 30. Allen, E. G. Flatman Meredith Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Arnold Barclay Gilfedder O'Meara Parata Bennet Hall Buddo Hall-Jones Russell, G. W. Carncross Hogg Stevens Willis. Carroll Hornsby Duncan Lawry Tellers. Ell McGowan Millar Field Mckenzie, R. Tanner. Fisher NOES, 22. Atkinson Russell, W. R. Hutcheson Bollard Lang Smith, G. J. Collins Lethbridge Thompson, R. Colvin Thomson, J. W. Massey Fowlds McNab Monk Graham Tellers. Hardy Palmer Allen, J. Pirani Heke Fraser, W. Majority for, 8. Clause agreed to. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) moved the following new clause :- "The following proviso is hereby added to section eighteen of the principal Act, at the end of the first paragraph thereof : ' Provided that no Inspector so appointed shall have allotted to 