increased expenditure. Now the honourable member finds fault with the increase, and has grave anxiety as to the financial position. 1 may say at once there is no foundation for the statement in regard to unpaid troopers. Some of the officers from South Africa brought Im perial money and paid their men out of that fund, and, consequently, nothing passed through our books at all. For instance, Jackson paid his men ; and we know little of the details We paid the difference between the Imperial pay and what we pay in the colony in respect to the First, Second, and Third Contingents. At all events, the delay as to payment was no fault of ours. In the first place, when leaving South Africa there was no way of ascer- taining what was due to the troopers, with the exception of the Fourth and Fifth Contingents, who brought their pay-sheets with them. How- ever, I can only say, so far as the Government are concerned, that we have advanced moneys to these men, and in some instances have paid them more than we owe them. Then, the honour- able member complained of the growth of the de- fence expenditure. Well, of that, €92,000 is for rifles, and I say the country must have a supply of modern weapons. I hat has been pressed upon the Government in season and out of season, in addition to a desire to increase the number of Volunteer corps. I say it is nonsensical in the extreme to now find fault . ith the Govern- ment on account of the increased expenditure. We must do it, and I believe it is the desire of every well wisher of the colony to keep the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 country in a strong and safe position of defence. I have had very severe criticism because of this increased defence expenditure, and I felt rather hurt, because we have had our harbour de- fences in an incomplete state for years, and we have had our Volunteers armed with obsolete weapons. When this was brought under the notice of the Government we asked Parliament for appropriations, and Parliament the year before gave a very large appropriation for de- fence ; but the money could not be spent, because we could not get big guns, batteries, and rifles. Of the large expenditure this year, nearly £100,000 is a revote of the unspent moneys of last year, and this is the first time the fact has been stated to the House. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- Are they able to sup- ply your orders this year ? Mr. SEDDON. - No; I believe we will not be able to get the big guns and one of the batteries this year. At all events, I anticipate my De- fence vote next year will be very much less than it is this year, and there will be a gradual taper- ing off in the future. I think this is necessary, because we cannot afford to go on with the heavy expenditure on defence that has been in- curred during the last few years. I now come to the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act. It is impossible to do anything this year, and I think we may as well let things go on as they are until we know the mind of the coun- try and the position of the law. The trouble has been more with the insurance agents than with the law. However, I am pre- Mr. Seddon ner that will be satisfactory to everybody. As for the Crown tenants' rebate, I 9.0. wish to say that is no defect of the law-it is the administration of the law, and the Government intend to see that there is a compliance with the law by those who ad- minister it. The administration in Canterbury, where everybody gets relief, is the outcome of a wrong interpretation of the law, and the new Commissioner who is going there will be told that the Government want the law interpreted in the proper manner. The other Commis- sioners, who give no rebate at all, will also be told to carry out the law in the way in which it was intended to apply. As for relief to the back-block settlers, I think all I require to say is that we have the Land Bill before us, and I am prepared even now to take up that Bill and put it through. If we did so, however, we should be accused of taking advantage of the absence of those who had returned to their homes. I wish now to point out to the mem- ber for Riccarton how inconsistent he has been, and to tell him that people who live in glass houses should not throw stones. He said the Federation Commissioners drew large sums in excess of the amount allowed to them under the Disqualiication Act. Well, it is true we gave some of these Commissioners £2 2s. a day during the time they were in Australia. That sum comes to £460. It is true too, that, spread over all the members of the House on the Commission, this gave them the large sum of £88 each. Well, now, the honourable member for Riccarton has himself drawn from the State £150 in one year, and he is not within the Disqualification Act. It seems, then, it is a case of one law for one member and another law for another. I admit the honourable gentleman has, as a newspaper pro- prietor, given value for that money, but at the same time he has had an advantage over other members ; and, that being the case, he should be the last to draw attention to the matter when these members gave their services, as they did in this case, in a way that reflected greatly to their credit. Sir, I would ask that members should have some little consideration for others. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay does not want the money. He did not want the Government to put it on the estimates, but out of consideration for others he did not protest. It seems to me, Sir, that while they were in Australia the Commissioners must have been out of pocket, and this is really only a reconp- ment of expenses. To state that it is rewarding them for services is certainly a wrong thing to say. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I did not say that. Mr. SEDDON. You said they were being rewarded, and I say it is no reward to recoup men for money they are out of pocket. I ain sorry to see the member for Ashley is not in the House. I have something to say to bin to conclude the little difference of opinion we have had respecting the Glentui Estate. I wish members to note this: First of all. be wrote to the Assets Board for correspondence, 