Natives may be the descendants of the ancient Egyptians of ten thousand years ago? There is the finished intellect and evidence that would suggest such a race. The ancient Egyptians were Monotheists, and the Lord's prayer has been found in the writings of the ancient Egyp- tians. And the Egyptians that the classics record located on the soil of Egypt were alto- gether in ignorance of the wonderful people that existed in that country thousands of years before them. And the abounding deities of the modern Egyptians were simply providing a god for every attribute which had been ascribed to the one Supreme Being that the first Egyptians recognised. But this is by the way, except to suggest a source from which the Maori mind is imbued with superstition, and his belief in a future state, and was brought with him as he embarked on the tranquil waters of the Pacific. I will now make mention of the necessity for careful selection of Maori antiquities. It is not in the neatness of workmanship, but it is in having preserved these curious forms associated with the chief historic events and features of the social life of the Maori. What would one not give for the zigzagged handled paddle that some celebrated tohunga waved when offering up his karakia and invocations to the god of the seas before a great fishing expedition started on a perilous voyage ? It is the lore associated with that function and the special service that gives its historic value ; and the rude emblem of the waves is required to make it realistic, and one need not expect that it would be beautifully carved as it can be done to-day ; https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 but it would carry one back to the long roll of ancestors, and you would find how, even in the Maori mind, there existed one great con- ception that there was a supernatural existence to which his own existence on this earth must render deference. An Hon. MEMBER .- I would not give six- pence for it. Mr. MONK .- It is no use, Mr. Speaker, trying to get up reverent enthusiasm, or that respectful love of Maori lore, when one feels that he is surrounded with these infidel friends. They are only capable of being stirred by the cry of " Faugh-a-ballagh," or some such extra- ordinary and uncouth expression belonging to our ancestors. With that I could stir their souls ; but when I talk about the Maori lan- guage, the euphonistic-sounding vowels which equal the softest of languages-even the Italian or Spanish affords no excelling peer-it is Greek to them. Then, Sir, there are also treasures that, I believe, have not yet been discovered. I believe there are some caves that will be found in the course of time where the Maori ancestors have been laid. Because they did not bury their chiefs in ancient times ; they took them away to remote places, and there they covered them up with great secrecy, on account of the revengeful disposition of the surrounding tribes of enemies, who used the bones of dis- tinguished enemies for the purpose of degrading them by using them for fishing purposes ; and, for that reason, whenever a great chief died the Mr. Monk after the flesh was decayed away. And along with the remains of their chiefs they often laid their special implements, which had become tapu because of being with them when they died. Now, I know one case where a great chief of the North had some very valuable greenstone implements of various kinds. He was very par- ticular in guarding these things, and would not even intrust them to his family or immediate relatives, and he hid them. Unfortunately, the man came to his dotage without revealing the secret of their hiding-place, and as large a sum as £800 has been offered by the Na- tives for the discovery of this greenstone trea- sure. Such is the estimation of value that the Natives put upon them. If those things were discovered it would be our duty to treasure them. Then, we are wanting, I think, in some capable writer with the heart of the lover ; and I often wish I had the gift myself, and the benefit of university education, that, with the knowledge I have of the Maori, I might collate a great deal of the rambling information which exists upon Maori history and legends. They should be placed in more terse and readable form than they have at present. There is a very valuable collection in the Auckland Museum belonging to Major Mair. There are not many collections which contain better types of some of the special objects the chiefs in the olden times possessed, but unfortunately very few are originals ; they are replicas by clever carvers, and their value consists simply in their repre- sentation of arms, tools, scent-boxes, and other things used by the Maoris. I do not suggest that these should be taken from the Auckland Museum, but I understand that the owner still retains some interest in them, and I believe he has been offered a considerable price for them, and it would be well for the Government, if the Auckland people cannot manage to secure their retention on their own account, to do so. I think I have said enough on this subject. I should like to see the Bill submitted to Com- mittee to reduce it in scope and yet make it \--- more precise in its operation, so that persons in the possession of genuine relics could not dis- \- -- pose of them privately before submitting them to a committee of experts to determine the price \--- that should be paid for them by the Govern- ment if it desired to buy. I would remind the House that it will not interfere with the trade spoken of by the member for Auckland City \---- (Mr. Witheford). I hope that trade will in- crease by attention being attracted to old forms of Maori art. The new students appear to be excelling what was produced by their ancestors, and that is what we wish to encourage; but I do not want to suddenly develop a mercenary spirit, but rather to leaven the public mind with the evidences of social conditions in regard to the old Maoris that are fast disappearing in historic shadows. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier). - The majority of members who have spoken have commenced by congratulating the Minister who introduced the Bill. I do not think I can con- gratulate him, because I think it is too late by 