believe and they say that the Boards in the colony on the whole have done good work, but because of the wrongdoing of this one Board the whole principle is to be allowed to go-and I will show you how the whole thing is to go - by the board. The very thing the honourable member is placing on the statute-book has been done without these amendments at all. Half a dozen cases in this colony have been referred direct to the Arbitration Court by the Board of Conciliation. On the application of both parties the Board has sent the dispute direct to the Arbitration Court to get it settled there. Now, if that has been done in the past, what is to hinder its being done in the future ? But the amendment of the honourable gentle- man is to enable any dissatisfied man to go straight to the Court. What does the honour- able member say? These are his own words : " It should be settled at the earliest possible moment." Now, if it is to be settled at the earliest possible moment, how can it possibly go to the Conciliation Board? Is there any desire to send it to the Board under these con- ditions? I say the honourable gentleman's own speech shows that he desires the disputes to go direct to the Arbitration Court. If this had only come from the honourable gentleman the other night I might have believed there was nothing behind it, but if honourable members will carry their thoughts back over a few weeks they will remember that there was a gentleman over here from New South Wales called Judge Backhouse. He was sent by the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 New South Wales Government to inquire into the working of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act of this colony; and will any honourable member tell me what the employers told him in connection with this? From one end of the colony to the other, so far as the employers were concerned, they advocated that the New South Wales Act should contain no Conciliation Board at all. That is three months ago. I say, looking at it as fairly as one can, that when you put these two things together it appears as if the employers desired to have the Conciliation Boards wiped out. Now, what is the next step? The next step would be that the cases for the Arbitration Court will be so heavy that honourable members will be quoting the cost of the Arbitration Court on the floor of this House, and asking that it be done away with. Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. Mr. MILLAR .- Sir, the honourable gentle- men may say "No, no," but I was not born yesterday, and I have seen a little too much. I have been mixed up with the labour move- ment 'for eighteen years, and I get a little bit suspicious when I see these things. I have watched this movement for some time. remember on a former occasion it was abso- lutely denied that the object of a certain thing done in this House was for the purpose of re- ducing wages through the Government. But they have never dared deny that in such a form as to enable one to produce evidence with which to confront them, and as I believe that was done at that time. Mr. Millar Mr. MILLAR .- I refer to the appointment of the first Railway Commissioners. One of the principal reasons for appointing the Rail- way Commissioners was to enable them to reduce the wages of the colony, which the private employers did not care about doing. Mr. W. FRASER .- Not at all. Mr. MILLAR .- Will the honourable gentle- man stand on a public platform with me and say what he says now-" Not at all "? Mr. W. FRASER .- Yes. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes. Mr. MILLAR .- Very well, I will invite the both of you to go with me on any public plat- form in the colony, and I will produce there evidence to prove what I say. An Hon. MEMBER .- And charge 1s. admis- sion. Mr. MILLAR. - I do not want to charge Is. admission. Sir, the honourable gentleman gave expression to an opinion which I fully con- cur in- namely, that he hoped there would be no ill-feeling betwixt employers and employes. That is the desire of all of us. But, I say. i. this likely to engender good feeling ? Is it likely when a feeling has got hold of one section of the community that a certain thing is about to be done, and the very thing that they suspect is done - is that likely to create good feeling ? Sir, I venture to say this-and I am sorry to say it, because I am one of those who have strong!y opposed the formation of a distinct Labour parts in this colony. I have always advocated that we should throw our lot in with those with whom we are most in accord, and support them ; but I say that nothing has done mere to create a distinct Labour party in this colony than the action which has been taken dur- ing the last two or three days, and that we have not to wait very long before that is proved. Now, there is one thing I am pleased about, and that is that the right honouralle gentleman has said he will introduce an ameud- ing Bill next session. I say it is only right he should bring in that amendment next sess :. r. This Bill has been completely altered from the original form. It has been done surreptitiously. It will be nine or ten months before we can meet again, and the Premier should then intr .- duce that Bill, and give members a fair opret- tunity of discussing it and voting on it. seeits that we are going to the country, where the question can be settled. I for one, if the honourable gentleman does not do as he has promised now, will certainly endeavour to brini up a Bill myself and have the question settiet I think it is only right, on a great policy ma - sure such as this is, that before any radical alteration is made the country ought to have a fair opportunity of expressing an opinia upon it. I have known of some of the I honourable gentlemen supporting this course. and I could turn up speeches in Hansard and show where they have stood on the floor of this House and said that, in the case of a great alteration in our policy such as this is, the country ought to be consuited before it is put into effect. I have known another place to hang up Bills session after 