Minister will have an opportunity of giving to us a statement as to what is being done in the manipulation of capital and revenue in respect to our railways. I asked the honourable gentleman across the flo .r of the House whether hc referred to other departments of the (io- Vernment, and suggested to him the Post and Telegraph Department. Now, I would like him to answer, when the debate comes on on the Public Works Statement, this question, and I will give him the opportunity of preparing an answer for this question : Whether, out of the Consoli- dated Fund, any provision is made for repairs, or for the painting of Customhouse buildings, Post and Telegraph buildings, and various other buildings ? That, I say, ought to be charged to the Consolidated Fund so far as repairs and maintenance are concerned. I called his atten- tion to the fact that on the Public Works Fund there appear items like this : "Refencing the grounds, Government Buildings, $700." Is that not replacing a fence already in existence ; and, if so, why is it charged to capital account and not to the Consolidated Fund? Then, I ask, with regard to the Courthouses, whether " Papakura, repairs and painting," is new work, or whether it is not work which ought to be charged to revenue ; and whether the repairs and painting at Taupo, Napier, Waipawa, Patea, Reefion, et cetera - numerous other repairs and painting-whether all these are items which should properly be charged to revenue and not to capital ; and if so, where in the Consoli- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 dated Fund appears any item for these repairs, et cetera? Then, I would like to ask him whether the item " Maintenance "-he is a busi- ness-man - ought to be charged to capital ac- count. Does he charge maintenance on the railways to capital account ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Not much. Mr. J. ALLEN .- " Not much," says an honourable member. Yet I find, from the Public Works Accounts, that maintenance, re- pairs, and inspection are charged to capital account. Gaols are the same, and police-sta- tions are the same. Police-stations : main- tenance, repairs, and contingencies are charged to capital account. Post- and telegraph-offices are the same; repairs and painting and other items are charged to capital account, and in- spection and contingencies are also charged to capital account. And I ask where it can be shown that charges for repairs and painting are charged to the Consolidated Fund. I shall have an opportunity of discussing this matter when the debate on the Public Works State- ment comes on, and I give the honourable gentleman fair warning that I shall ask these questions, to which I consider the public are entitled to an answer. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I should have thought that after the long time the honour- able member has been in the House he ought to have known, in respect to the Public Works Statement and estimates, that charges for maintenance are met out of consolidated re- venue. The honourable member is misleading the House; he must know that #500,000 was VOL. CXIX .- 50. the Public Works Fund this year. Last year we transferred to the consolidated revenue $500,000, so that in the two years we have trans- ferred £1,000,000. It lies, therefore, with the honourable gentleman - and I defy him, to show me in these estimates anything like £500,000 for repairs and maintenance. The honourable gentleman is trying to make out that painting and repairs of buildings are charged against loan-moneys, keeping back the fact that to cover the expenditure £500,000 was transferred to the Consolidated Fund. If the honourable gentleman was a new member coming for the first time, and having no know- ledge of finance, I should be inclined to excuse him ; but coming from him, I must take it not as a matter of ignorance, but as being done wilfully for the purpose of misleading. If the honourable member took the trouble to compile from the estimates the amounts for repairs and painting, and what is termed " maintenance," he will not find one-half of half a million. I say we are doing, and have done, good work in relieving people from loan expenditure. Captain RUSSELL. - Explain how there is & surplus. Mr. SEDDON .- It is money left over from last year on the Consolidated Fund, and trans- ferred. The honourable gentleman has seen the Statement himself. I had nearly £600,000 at the end of the year over and above the requirements. An Hon. MEMBER .- No; there were works that should have been paid for. Mr. SEDDON. I could not pay for a thing that was not done. These are works that are to be done, and no one knows it better than the honourable gentleman opposite ; and why those honourable gentlemen will waste the time of the House and the country by trying to make points against the Government I do not know. The honourable gentleman did not state this as a fact; he simply said, "I will ask the Minister for Railways by-and-by how he is going to explain that." Now, coming to the remarks of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay in respect to the renewals and additions to open lines, it is quite true we have this year £675,000 on the estimates; and I might tell the House that the Government in that respect are in serious difficulties, because it is questionable whether it will meet all that is required. And why? Last year the House gave us $600,000 for that purpose. The liabilities were voted by the House and allo- cated for that purpose. If members will look at the estimates they will find that only £325,000 came to book, leaving £275,000 for this year out of the £600,000. I suppose the honourable member for Hawke's Bay has for- gotten that last year out of the $600,000 only $325,000 was spent. Captain RUSSELL .- What were your lia- bilities ? Mr. SEDDON .- But we had to send to America for locomotives and wagons. Captain RUSSELL. - You were £125,000 over your ways and means. 