propose to enlarge upon them. I am sure that the provisions for the registration of the money- lender will be practically inoperative ; but, as I said before, certainly no harm can be done, and, by threatening further publicity to certain gentleman who prefer not to be shown up in the light, it is possible in some way registration may be of some use in checking the trans- actions of the professional usurer. But the way to get a proper hold upon the professional is not to subject him to a small penalty if he carries on his business without registration, but to say that every sum of money he has ad- vanced as a usurer without being registered under this Bill shall be absolutely lost to him, or, at any rate, that he shall not have the right of suing to recover in any Court for money ad- vanced as a professional money-lender if he is not registered under the Act. That would make that part of the Bill effective ; but that part in my view is a very small part of the Bill, seeing the extension we have given to the operation of clause 3. I, therefore, hope that the Minister will be able to let us get into Committee again with this Bill, or, at any rate, adopt such steps that some of the evils to which I have called attention may be remedied before the Bill goes on to the statute-book. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir, I am rather surprised that the Minister in charge of this Bill did not fulfil the promise I under- stood him to have made to recommit this Bill for the purpose of reconsidering the definition clause of a money-lender ; and I was surprised that when you, Sir, called on the order of the day, the Minister did not rise at once to move to recommit the Bill. Now, Sir, I quite agree with the member who last spoke that this Bill is quite different from the Bill as first intro- duced in the House, and it has a far-reaching effect which I fear will prove disastrous not to the money-lender the Bill is supposed to check, but to the ordinary man who loans out money at interest on real or personal property. Every one will agree, I think, that it would be a good thing if we could clip the wings of what we may call the real money-lender ; that the money-shark who gorges on his victims should be effectually squashed. This, no doubt, all of us desire; but we do not desire to harass the ordinary person who lends out money at interest, and that is just what clause 3 as amended will do, and the only result will be in my opinion, that the rate of interest will be raised-that the person who wants to borrow money on land or chattel security will have to pay a little bit more on account of the risk we have introduced in clause 3, because, no doubt, every man who lends money will be liable to be sub- jected to annoyance by any creditor who wants to give him trouble. Whenever he sues for his money the creditor can demand by clause 3 that the whole transaction be re-opened, and not only the actual account before the Court, but by subclause (2) he can actually go back and re-open every transaction that has taken place between the creditor and debtor. That seems to me a retrospective clause which Mr. Atkinson should have been further considered in Com- I do not think the Government origi- mittee. nally intended so to harass the ordinary in- vestor ; but I am sorry to say the Bill as it stands does not affect the professional money- lender at all, who will hardly be touched, but the ordinary investor will be seriously annoyed. The clause will have this effect : that when a mortgagee goes to his lawyer to instruct him as to a mortgage, and this clause is read to him, the lawyer will say, " You had better charge another } per cent. interest, to cover the risk of this annoyance you might be put to if the debtor prove recalcitrant." I hope that in the Upper House, after taking the opinion of the Law Officers, some amendment will be made in clause 3, if the Minister does not intend to recommit the Bill, as I understood him to pro- mise when we were in Committee. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- The promise to recommit was con- ditional in this way : attention had been drawn to the fact of certain persons, who were not professional money-lenders, lending money at extraordinary rates of interest not coming within the scope of the Bill. I then stated that if provision was not made in the following clauses I would agree to recommit the Bill. But, Sir, the provision was made in the follow- ing clauses, and the first to suggest the im- provement was the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), and, strange to say, the first to complain of the alteration having been made is also the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson). Mr. ATKINSON .- I did not suggest this. Mr. HALL-JONES .- The suggestion was to. bring in those money-lenders who only lent money occasionally, but who charged a high rate of interest ; and now in clause 3 there is a provision to meet those cases. Then, the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty says that this provision is going to raise the rate of interest, and will not touch the ordinary money-lenders. How is that borne out by the Bill? The Bill provides that those who lend money and charge for expenses, or for inquiry fees, fines, bonuses, premiums, renewals, and other charges, at excessive rates, and that the transaction is harsh and unconscionable- An Hon. MEMBER .- " Or." Mr. HALL-JONES .- Or that the transaction is harsh and unconscionable, shall be liable to have the matter reviewed by a Court. Is it not right that any man who charges a rate of inte- rest which comes within the definition men- tioned in the clause here should be liable to have that arrangement reviewed ? The suggestion. that a man lending money at'8 per cent. would be brought before the Court is ridiculous, and it would only require one or two such cases to he before the Court when the decisions would be such as would deter any one else from bringing further cases into Court where the interest was not higher than that mentioned. The honourable member for Wellington City referred to the striking-out of the word "and " and the sub- stitution of the word "or." Now, he has greater legal knowledge than I have, and I know 