excellent example followed by other gentlemen who fill important positions in this country, and visit the Maoris and receive gifts from them. In this connection we want also a storehouse of history. In discussing with the Native Minister a proposition that came before the House a few evenings ago, he mentioned the fact that a hill in the neighbourhood of the home of the late Minister of Lands, Sir John Mckenzie, bore a name which was not Maori at all. On the Minister inquiring from Mr. Parata, the member representing the Southern Maori District, Mr. Parata was able to tell a most interesting history of the name of that hill, and also many other interesting facts. Now, these facts have not been placed on record. Our friend is getting into years now, and in time he will pass from our midst, and the knowledge that he has of the neigh- bourhood in which he has lived the whole of his life, and his local knowledge of the history of the different places of interest, will pass from us for ever. It seems to me that now is the time for action. If we do not take steps now to preserve the history which by those coming after us will be very highly appre- ciated, it will be absolutely struck away from us, and there will be absolutely no possible chance of ever recording it. I had hoped that, in connection with the efforts to store these historical relics of this very interest- ing race that we have in this country, there would be an effort made and set on foot at once to collect the local Maori history of every dis- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 trict in the colony. That is being done now so far as the North Island is concerned ; but I am pleading for the South Island, where nothing has been done in that connection. It is there where the effort should be made. In the North Island the Maoris are still very numerous, and the knowledge is still in their midst, and there is, perhaps, a little more time ; but in the South they are not increasing, and those who are able to give us the history are fast passing away, so that we require some immediate effort to be made to save the records. I trust the Govern- ment will do something in this direction, at the same time as they are moving in the direction of preserving to us and those who come after us the relics in connection with the history of the Maoris. Sir, I was very sorry to hear the purely commercial spirit of the speech of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford). Mr. WITHEFORD .- That is a matter for my constituents. Mr. ELL .- I hope such sentiments as those which the honourable member gave expression to will never find approval in the minds of the people who are growing up in this country. We have got too much of the utilitarianism spirit in this country, and we have too little sentiment. It would be a good thing for the character of the people of this country if they had a little more sentiment. The honourable inember is prepared to sacrifice everything for the sake of the almighty dollar; and that has been the god of America, and has helped to country, and I hope it will not take possession of the people in this country. Mr. WITHEFORD .- I rise to a point of order. The honourable member says I am pre- pared to sacrifice everything for the almighty dollar. There was nothing in my remarks which could lead any one to say that I entertain such a sentiment as that. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must ask the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) to withdraw that expression. Mr. ELL .- I meant, with regard to the speech of the honourable member, that it conveyed that impression. I did not mean that he, per- sonally, would do so, but his speech was in that direction. Mr. WITHEFORD .- The honourable mem- ber said that I was prepared to sacrifice every- thing to the almighty dollar. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member says that he did not use the expression in a personal sense. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - I propose to vote for the second reading of this Bill, and I am quite sure that every young New-Zealander will do the same. I do not think there was any necessity for the speech which was made by the member for Christ- church City (Mr. Ell) reflecting on the member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford). I may say that every member of this House knows per- fectly well that the charge that the honourable member made against him is absolutely out of place. Mr. FOWLDS .- I rise to a point of order. The honourable member for Christchurch City has denied that he accused the honourable member for Auckland City of what has just been stated, and therefore the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs is out of order in repeating it. Mr. WILFORD .- I am sure the member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) will be pleased at the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) for his kindly interjection on his behalf. I take some interest in Maori relics, and I shall be very pleased to see this Bill passed if it will do something towards preserving our old Maori relics. In fact, I should like to see a stronger penalty clause enacted than is likely to be provided by the Governor in Council under section 7. We all know that it was the custom among the old Natives-and I am only speaking of what I know and from what I have heard from the old settlers in my district-for the old Maori chiefs to have their axes, green- stone meres, et cetera, buried with them. These last resting-places have been robbed of these treasures, and the graves of these old chiefs desecrated for the sordid purpose of sale or barter. I would like the Minister to introduce a clause providing for a penalty of ten years' hard labour on any man who steals from the graves of these departed chiefs the relics and orna- ments deposited there. I do not agree with the remark of the honourable member for 11.0. Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) in re- ference to the Maori house at Rotorua. Let 