Nothing better could be done than to make the New Zealand ensign sacred from the advertising fiend, and to say it shall be the national emblem to all citizens ashore or on sea in the Go- vernment steamers ; and for uniformity in the mercantile marine still use the red ensign." It seemed to him the effect of the view taken by the Admiralty was substantially the view urged on the House by the senior member for Wellington City last session, because, failing the warrant of the Admiralty, the red ensign would continue as before to be the flag of the mercantile marine. As honourable members would notice, clause 2 said,- " The said ensign shall be the recognised flag of the colony for general use on shore within the colony and on all vessels belonging to the Government of New Zealand or which are from time to time permitted under an Admiralty warrant to use the same." So that until the Admiralty warrant gave the sanction for the use of the flag on our mer- cantile marine the red ensign would continue to be the flag, as was stated last year by bis colleague, Mr Hutcheson. The Premier would remember that last year great attention was paid to the preamble, which outlined the history of the flag in New Zealand. The only other point was whether we ought to do any- thing with "The New Zealand Ensign Act, 1890," which remained on the statute-book-of course in a state of suspended animation, as it had been passed but not assented to. Should we not clear it out of the road when this Bill passed ? He did not know what was the prac- tice with regard to Bills that had not received the Royal assent, but he should think that, after legislation on the same matter in the next session, it would be advisable to wipe the Bill out altogether. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was very much amused by the remarks made by the member for the Bay of Plenty, who said that the reason why the Bill had not received the assent of Her Majesty was owing to the ob- jection taken by the Deputy Governor. Now, he would tell the honourable gentleman that that had nothing whatever to do with the matter, good, bad. or indifferent, and in the dospatch received on that point all the Secre- tary of State for the Colonies said was that the language in the Bill was all right, but as a matter of preference he preferred that used by Lord Derby on the point. He might explain that this despatch had been received after the 31st March, and it therefore had not been presented with the other despatches, but he would undertake to lay it on the table. Mr. ATKINSON. - Have you used that language again ? Mr. SEDDON said, Certainly he had. He in- tended the Imperial authorities should realise that the Parliament desired them to know that it would be unwise to attempt to dictate what particular language should be put in a Bill. So far as this phase was concerned, the funny part of it was that if members looked at the despatches-A .- 1, page 18-they would Mr. Atkinson <!-- PageHeader="1" --> facing-sheet was this :- " For the Right Honourable the Premier. "SECTION 4 of this Bill seems to invade the prerogative of the Governor. I doubt if the two Houses ought to put in a Bill that it should be reserved. It is for the Governor to express his opinion on the subject in accord- ance with the law. "ROBERT STOUT, Deputy Governor." Now, if members looked at the bottom of the page they would see this note :- "This memorandum was inadvertently omitted when the other enclosures were sent with the despatch, but has since been for- warded to the Secretary of State." The Deputy Governor sent on his (Mr. Sed- don's) memorandum, but omitted to send what had led to the controversy, and it was only when that was discovered at some later period that it was sent forward by His Excellency the Governor. It would seem to him that it was an unfortunate inadvertence. But, when brought under his notice, the Secretary of State only said that he preferred the language \--- used in Lord Derby's despatch, but as the meaning was the same he took no exception thereto. He did not question the right of this Parliament to put in a Bill a provision that the Bill should be reserved for assent. When preparing the Bill he anticipated that if any change was made in the language of the clause reserving the Bill different from the language of last year, that would immediately be pounced upon as the reason why the Bill was not assented to by the Imperial authorities. He believed that was a complete answer on that point. He was not going to permit this. Ours was a self-governing colony, and we had our rights as a free people. It was not for the Imperial authorities to say what our language should be. An Hon. MEMBER. - They can disallow it. Mr. SEDDON said he did not question the power of the Crown to disallow it, but it was not for the Imperial authorities to attempt to force on Parliament the wording of any clause of a Bill. No one believed more than he did in maintaining the Imperial connection ; but the moment they touched the prerogative of this Parliament he, for one, should say, No. . Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu). - It is not the question of prerogative of Parliament : it is a question of expressing a thing properly. Mr. SEDDON said the point was this : It was the question of the Governor saving, " Take back the Bill and amend it." Was not that an invasion of the prerogative of the House? He would say, Let him try it. The Queen's representative had no right whatever to do that, and it bordered on being a breach of privilege. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) desired to call attention to the fact that the Right Hon. the Premier was speaking disrespectfully of the representative of the Crown. Mr. SEDDON replied that it was not a ques- tion of disrespect. If there was an invasion of 