pastoralists thanked him, and told him his rabbit law had been the salvation of the country. They were now getting so free from rabbits that property that had not been worth a penny, and had been a burden on the proprietors, was now producing wool. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where ? The Hon. Mr. JONES said he was talking of North Canterbury. He could mention names, but he thought perhaps he had better not do so. But the Council might take his word for it as absolutely true, and as coming from the late Sir John McKenzie's own lips. An Hon. MEMBER. - Not in North Canter- bury. The Hon. Mr. JONES said he was in error ; he might explain that he was talking of pro- perties in Marlborough. He did not think there were any such cases in North Canterbury. However, that did not alter the fact that the rabbits were put down. Then, take the district from which he came. He knew that certain runholders had complained that they had been treated harshly ; but he said they must be pro- tected against themselves. And it was quite right, as the honourable gentleman who spoke before him had said, that some parties kept down the rabbits and others did not, and these must be made to toe the mark. And the only method by which it was found they could be compelled to do so was by the law which was brought for- ward and carried through Parliament by Sir John McKenzie. He knew very well that when the Magistrates had jurisdiction before that the work was not done satisfactorily, and the rab- bits increased all over the country, until every- body was alarmed. He had lived in rabbit- infested localities for many years, and he had taken an interest as a journalist in the efforts to abolish the pest, and he could assure honour- able gentlemen that, whatever they might think about the matter, nothing satisfactory was done until this Act of Sir John Mckenzie's was brought into operation, and since then there had been very little complaint, and estates had been kept much clearer of rabbits than they were before. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH could quite agree with what the honourable gentleman opposite had said as to the very un-English ap- pearance that proceedings like this had ; but at the same time he did not think that the honourable gentleman gave full recognition to the fact that these were exceptional cases. It was almost the same as the application of the Crimes Act in a state of anarchy, because it must be apparent to him and everybody else that in the case of a large block of land in a district from which people get more money by nursing the rabbits and increasing them, if it was possible to foster their increase, now that there was a large export Home, it was difficult to get any evidence from the people in that dis- trict. An Hon. MEMBER .- An Inspector can get evidence besides his own. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said the In- spector had no object in making out a bad case Bon. Mr. Jones case forward falsely. He quite admitted this proceeding was very un-English, but it was just one of those cases where it was perfectly impossible to get any evidence when people were making a profit out of rabbits. The Minister had read to the Council a table to show what an enormous export there was of frozen rabbits, and that proved that it paid people to just kill the rabbits down to that point which enabled them to come again and get some more. They would not keep them down below that point, because it was not worth while to go to these districts unless there was a certain supply. He himself was fined some years ago when Sir John Mckenzie's Act first came into operation, and felt aggrieved ; but, like the honourable gentle- man the Hon. Mr. Jones referred to, he had lived to repent that feeling, and he thought it was very proper he was fined, because he had taken pains ever since to keep the rabbits down, and his neighbours had done the same. He did not think they would ever have done this if it had not been for this Act. He had often talked the matter over with the late Sir John Mckenzie, who had assured him that the repeal of this Act would mean placing the country in the position it was in before the Act came into operation. Therefore he should vote against the Council going into Committee on this Bill. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE said the Hon. the Minister had referred to what had occurred in Marlborough with reference to the Scab Act. There was no doubt that the residents in that part of the colony thought it was rather a drastic measure, but they had lived to be thankful that the Scab Act was such a drastic measure. Now they were able to send their fifty to sixty thousand sheep a year down to the freezing-works in Christchurch, which they could not do if the Scab Act had not been in existence. It meant money in the pockets of the runholders. With reference to the rabbit question he could say that fifteen years ago he went to Kaikoura, and the rabbits were as numerous as were mosquitoes in some parts of the country. They were running about the town and across the road, and were scampering all about Flaxbourne, Scarborough, and Awatere, and in the Township of Blenheim he had seen rabbits running up the street. But, although the Rabbit Nuisance Act had been a drastic Act, yet the runholders had lost nearly 20 per cent. of their wool, and sheep were nearly starved owing to the rabbits; and he was glad to say that at the show last year an agent in connection with some commercial establishment came to Blenheim to try and induce the farmers to bring in rabbits for freez- ing purposes, but the project fell through be- cause there were no rabbits. Rabbits now were seldom seen in a day's ride. The Hon. M :. REEVES said there was some- thing to be said on both sides of this question. Of course, the rabbit nuisance had been a great cry for many years past, but he said that the rabbits at the present time were about the best 