than the owners had asked when they offered to sell voluntarily to the Government. Then, it was stated at the Arbitration Court that Mrs. Herrick wished to retain the estate. He sup- posed the price altered the sentiment about retaining the estate. Probably, as they were to get #1 an acre more than they had been pre- pared to take for it, the original sentiment dis- appeared. At all events, that sentiment had been expressed in Court, and the Government simply asked the question, " Do you still wish to retain it?" intimating that, if they did, they would endeavour to arrange so that that could be done. He could see no harm in that. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- Have you received a reply to that ? Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, practically, because he was informed that they were astonished themselves at the price they had got ; and when it was said by one on the Government side, "I suppose now you will keep the estate ?" the answer was, " Oh, no; it is too good." Captain RUSSELL .- This is not fair, and I protest against the liberty that is allowed the Premier. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the Premier had not so far gone beyond the Standing Orders. Mr. SEDDON said, Then, there was another feature in connection with it, which was this : that for 500 acres of this estate, which the colony had now to pay for, the owner had never paid a single sixpence to the colony or any one else for the land. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That is debat- able matter. Mr. SEDDON thought that probably getting 500 acres in that way was material, but he http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero wanted to keep within the Standing Orders. What had led to the conclusion the Govern- ment had arrived at was this : that the settlers that went upon the land would for all time have to pay too much for it, and so would suffer. That was the serious part of the whole thing. The point raised by the member for Riccarton brought out the fact that there should be some alteration of the law. As matters stood now, evidence was given as to sale of adjoining property, and it was stated that that was the basis of this sale. Since then the Government had the records and the re- gister, and there had been no sale at all. It was hearsay that there had been a sale. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member is going beyond the limits of the ques- tion asked. Mr. SEDDON said he understood the honour- able gentleman was raising the question as to whether the Government could make the offer, and, if the offer were made, how they were going to do it. If any money had to be paid by way of compensation the costs would go with it, and the costs were fixed by the Court. They should certainly pay the costs, and he would be prepared to give a little more than the costs to get out. But he must comply with the law, and the Government must issue an order to take possession. At the same time, it pointed were to be charged for all time with value that was not in the land, it was a very serious thing, and the question was whether the law should be altered to give some relief. The Government intended to comply with the law. # CLIVE RIFLE VOLUNTEERS. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will state the causes which led to the disbanding of the Clive Ritle Volunteers? Some time ago he had been led to understand that the services of the Clive Volunteers had been dispensed with ; and, so far, although he had taken a great deal of trouble in the matter, he had been unable to ascertain from authority for what reason. They themselves had never been informed; they simply knew that their services had been dis- pensed with, and he was anxious to get for them an answer why. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defenec) said the Clive Rifle Volunteers committed an act of in- subordination by signing a round-robin calling upon the captain to resign. An inquiry was held into the matter, and the disbandment of the corps was recommended by the Officer Com- manding the district to the Commandant, who indorsed the recommendation, and the disband- ment of the corps was approved. PRINCIPLES OF WARFARE. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether the Government will appoint a military expert to examine into the principles of warfare outlined in an article written by Mr. W. J. Napier, and published in the New Zealand Times of Wednesday, the 9th October, with a view to discover in what respects those principles differ from the principles of warfare as laid down in Napier's "History of the Peninsular War "? Follow- ing on the lines of Lord Brassey, Mr. W. J. Napier, in a communication which appeared in the New Zealand Times of the 9th October, had exhaustively criticized the state of the English navy, and, generally, the unprepared- ness of England should she become in- volved in war with any other nation. That criticism had evoked from certain competent authorities, styled respectively "Archer " and "Nemesis," very able, not to say caustic, criticisms on the criticisms of the critic. But, as "Nemesis" pointed out, the tactics of Mr. Napier had been so trenchantly dealt with by the other critic styled " Archer," that he did not apply the scalping-knife in such a manner as he would otherwise have thought justifiable. But the "stupendously foolish " action of the English Government, which formed so large a part of the criticism of Mr. Napier, had so far escaped the observation of all the war ex- perts whose business it was to discover where any weakness lay. The opinion of Mr. Napier, that " England's fighting-capacity was at pre- sent a negligeable quantity" might lead to the impression that England at the present moment was not in that state of preparedness in which a first-class Power ought to be; but 