and that the bringing of employers together -which has been another result of our labour legislation-has led to their being strengthened in their positions, and they have done better amongst themselves. We have had evidence before the Committee of arrangements being come to between the employers. Take the foundries, for instance, here in the City of Wellington. We had evidence tendered to the Committee that they work together and fix a central price, and if any one wants any engineer- ing work done they simply arrange amongst themselves a price to put in for that work. That was given in evidence before the Commit- tee this session with respect to the engineering trade in the City of Wellington. I ask, What bas brought that about ? I believe it can be said it has been our labour legislation. Then, I come to the number of factories, leaving outside alterations, and the reducing of the number of persons constituting a factory. Leaving that out altogether, we have the fact that within five years the number of factory-hands has been doubled. They have gone up from twenty-five thousand to over fifty thousand. I say that fact speaks for itself. My own opinion is that the Legislature can give a lead, and if the spirit reflected in the speeches delivered by Mr. Bollard and those other honourable gentlemen who have spoken to- night upon this question is followed, and if we continue on these lines, we give a lead to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 employer and the employé ; and we shall, in my opinion, give a lead outside them, and alto- gether it means the good of the colony, it means the good of the workers, it means safety for capital and benefit to the employers. say, if we work together, and do not raise this question which has been raised before of one section against another section, and one part of the colony against another part of the colony, but all work together and pass laws which are humane and have an elevating tendency, and aim at the benefit of all, we are doing good, and it is in that spirit I commend the passing of this legislation and the placing of it on the statute-book as recommended by the Labour Bills Committee, for I am sure it will prove to be in the best interests of all concerned. I move, with pleasure, Sir, That the House go into Committee on the Bill. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- In a somewhat diffuse and involved manner the Hon. the Premier has charged me with some inconsistency in denouncing the principle of payment for holidays by outside employers, and in seeking in some way to compel the Government to pay their employés. Well, I would have the Premier understand this : that there is a wide gulf between those em- ployed by the hour and paid overtime and those employed by the week and not paid over- time for any little service over and above the ordinary day's work, such as stock-taking. The custom which has prevailed in the one case is to pay for overtime and not for holidays, and in the other case-the case of those employed by the week or permanently throughout the year- out any payment, but they receive payment for the holidays and usually when sick. Now, I wish the Premier would keep those two classes in their respective categories, and then his mind will be a great deal more clear upon the ques- tion of payment for holidays. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman evidently forgets that in our classified depart- ments-the Railway Department and others- the employés are paid for overtime. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Will the Premier agree to the Inspector of Factories visiting and inspecting the workshops ? Mr. SEDDON. - I could not answer that question without consulting my colleague the Minister for Railways ; but I should say, gene- rally, the conditions under which men are working for the colony ought to be improved, and superior conditions obtain to those under which men work for private employers. That is my opinion. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That is not always the case. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, it ought to be. Motion agreed to, and Bill committed. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2, subsection (1) .- '' Factory ' means, -(1) Any building, office, or place in which two or more persons are employed, directly or indi- rectly, in any handicraft, or in preparing or manufacturing goods for trade or sale (but does not include any building in course of erection, nor any temporary workshop or shed for workmen I engaged in the erection of such building) ; but (whatever the number of persons employed therein) includes." Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved to strike out "two," and insert " three." The Committee divided on the question, "That the word 'two ' be retained." AYES, 34. Russell, G. W. Allen, E. G. Gilfedder Seddon Arnold Hall-Jones Smith, G. J. Hanan Barclay Hogg Stevens Bennet Ward Hutcheson Buddo Wilford Kaihau Carncross Willis Laurenson Carroll Witheford. McGowan Collins McNab Colvin Tellers. Mills Duncan Millar Napier Ell Tanner. Palmer Fisher NOES, 21. Russell, W. R. Allen, J. Houston Bollard Symes Lang Thompson, R. Flatman Lawry Thomson, J. W Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Meredith Graham Lethbridge Monk Hall Heke Massey. Parata Hornsby 