posal, and the Premier is unreasonable. But he will find there is a great deal of trouble pending in connection with the Teachers' Salaries Bill in the form the Government insists on passing it, without allowing mem- bers an opportunity of improving it. It will all come out in the washing-up. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I do not wish to discuss the whole of the Teachers' Salaries Bill, but I cannot help thinking in connection with this clause that the Premier is right, and for once I am about to support him. The Education Act provides that Committees must be consulted with regard to appointments, sus- pensions, or dismissals of teachers ; but what does this new clause propose ? It proposes that an Education Board shall have the power to transfer any teacher in its district from one school to any other school. What is that but an appointment ; and in that connection it is intended to ignore the Committee. Mr. BARCLAY .- That is not the clause I moved. The clause I moved was as follows :- "Each Education Board shall have full power to effect an exchange of positions be- tween any two teachers within the jurisdic- tion of such Board." Mr. MASSEY .- I was quoting from Order Paper No. 70, in the name of Mr. Barclay. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is the one he moved. Mr. BARCLAY .- No ; what I moved is what I read. Mr. MASSEY .- However, there is very little ' difference. The one is exchange, the other transfer. It means pretty well the same thing. I cannot see much difference. It means that in certain cases the teachers are to be appointed by the Boards without consulting the Com- mittees. An Hon. MEMBER .- Put into the schools over the heads of the Committees. Mr. MASSEY .- Quite so. If this clause went on the statute-book no self-respecting man would accept the position of member of a School Committee. An Hon. MEMBER .- Were you ever on a Board ? Mr. MASSEY .- No; but I have been a Com- mittee-man for a good many years, and probably some time in the near future I shall give the Auckland Committees an opportunity of putting me on the Board. I can only look at this matter from the point of view of a Committee-man, and I say that it infringes the rights of Committees, and as such I shall vote against it. The House divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted be retained." AYES, 33. Allen, E. G. Fowlds Kaihau Fraser, A. L. D. Lawry Arnold Fraser, W. Massey Bollard Carncross Gilfedder McGowan McNab Hardy Carroll Mills Heke Collins O'Meara Hogg Colvin Hornsby Palmer Fisher Russell, G. W. Tanner Field Seddon Ward. Stevens. Smith, G. J. NOES, 10. Buddo Lang Tellers. Ell Lethbridge Barclay Hall Meredith Mackenzie, T. Herries Pirani. Majority for, 23. Amendment negatived. On the question, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) .- Sir, at this late hour I have only a word or two to say in con- gratulating the House on passing this important measure, which will give great satisfaction to the teachers throughout the length and breadth of the colony. The manner in which the Bill has been received shows that the members of the House and the people of the country recog. nise and appreciate the good yeoman work that is being done by our teachers, to whom should be given every encouragement to carry on the arduous duties of their noble profession. As years roll by the wisdom of the Legislature in passing a measure to provide a colonial scale of salaries for our teachers will become more ap- parent, and the Bill will, by improving the position and condition of the teachers, tend to promote the cause of education. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I want your ruling, Sir, as to whether I have lost my right to speak. The amendment upon which I spoke previously was negatived ; then, that being the case, I claim my right to speak now. I only want to say that- - Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I call attention to Standing Order No. 159 : "No member who has spoken to any amendment can subsequently speak to the main question, either as origin- ally proposed or as amended." That Standing Order clearly shows that the Right Hon. the Premier has lost his right to speak. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley). - I regret the Premier does not see his way to accept my suggestion, to fix the sum of £52 for an aided school in a remote country district where the average attendance was six. If £35 is to be paid for an average of seven, and £52 for an average of eight, there is a difference of £17. Perhaps the honourable gentleman did not notice that point. I also wish to direct the attention of the Premier to this: If a pupil- teacher desires to remain in a school for another year after he has completed his fourth year that teacher is disrated. The maximum salary of a fourth-year pupil-teacher is $55, yet if he continues for another year in the same school he receives a salary of £45. Then, again, while the scale of salaries proposes to increase the salaries of teachers - and there is no doubt teachers in charge of country schools will receive a considerable increase in their salaries, and they deserve all they will receive-there will be a reduction of salaries of teachers in 