or Road Boards, or even Municipalities, or even a Mayoral election. It was a matter of great difficulty, without some popular cry, to induce the people to abandon their apathy about local elections for a short time. The result was that, as a rule, one-half of the electors on the elec- toral roll did not take the trouble to attend to local elections. They had another illustration of this. It was held, he believed, by both sides on that very perplexing question of licensing elections, that unless you had the poll of the licensing elections taken on the same day as the general election you would not have repre- sentative voting. Well, if on so burning a question as a licensing election, and with the little trouble involved by municipal elections, you could not get the people to record their opinions, was it likely that the election of two persons to a Hospital and Charitable Aid Board, about which, as a rule, very little interest was manifested, would compel people to the polls? Was it likely that those people who 10.0. were specially anxious to see women elected as members of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards would see their wishes given effect to under this Bill ? He did not think so at all. However right in theory it might be - and he had grave doubts about its being right in theory -to consult the people on every paltry ques- tion in the country, practically it would be found they would not attend. He cordially agreed with honourable members who had urged that the Bill should be postponed till next session. He did not think they ought to pass the second reading of the Bill. Passing the second reading of a Bill was affirming its principle, and therefore if they did not intend to affirm the principle of a Bill they should not pass its second reading. He did not think any person, Minister or member, who introduced a Bill ought to be paid the empty compliment of the passing of the second reading of his Bill un- less the House by a fair majority was of opinion that the principle involved in the measure was a right one. He did not think such was In view of the fact-he would the case now. not say the fact, but the possibility, that was a better word-that there might be a new Local Governing Bill next session, he thought the less tinkering there was at local government institutions the better. He wanted to see a comprehensive Local Government Bill dealing with all local questions, and he thought this matter ought to wait till Parliament was prepared to deal comprehensively with the whole question ; and the time for doing that would be indefinitely postponed if they kept on increasing the number of small governing bodies and altering the methods of adminis- tration. If Parliament was genuine in its de- sire to deal with the local government system, the only way was to leave individual matters alone until all could be dealt with. He did not think they would get a Counties Bill this ses- sion, and they were not advancing the solution of the question by increasing the number of counties and tinkering with the elections. For his part, he hoped the House would not agree to Captain Russell tions were to be dealt with, let them be sub- mitted to a conference of the local bodies. Let the whole question be threshed out in Welling- ton by a conference of delegates from the local governing bodies, and let them submit a ma- tured scheme to the House, and in that scheme he would say let them have the benefit of the experience of practical men who had to administer the Act. Then possibly they might arrive at something satisfactory ; but so long as they dealt with the matter empirically, attacking it piecemeal, they would only be going from bad to worse, and postponing the day-which he hoped would soon come-when they would have a better system of local govern- ment. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said the principle of the Bill was a good one. It had been objected that even if the franchise was given, as was proposed under it, but little in- terest would be taken in the matter of the election, and the case had been cited of elections for Mayor, Councillors, et cetera, where very few votes were recorded. He did not regard that as a sound argument, because, even if small interest were taken, it did not follow that a bad Board or a bad Mayor would be elected ; and the great point was that if a point arose which vitally affected the institution the people should have the opportunity and power of exercising their votes in regard to it. The Bill was not complete, as it did not, so far as he could understand, deal with "separate insti- tutions." There was no provision in the Bill which gave any other franchise in respect to the election of the Trustees or Governors of these separate institutions than existed at present Clause 46 of "The Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act, 1885," provided that, -- "Every such incorporated institution as afore- said shall be governed by not less than six nor more than nine Trustees, to be elected by the contributors for the time being to such institu- tion ; together with not more than five other Trustees, who may be elected by the local au- thorities for the time being contributing to the funds of the institution. " A local authority shall be deemed to con- tribute to the funds of a separate institution when it contributes any sum to the District Board for the purpose of the same being paid to the separate institution." The franchise by which the Trustees who governed these separate institutions were elected did not seem to be touched by the Bill, and as there were a considerable number of them in the colony, he thought to make the Bill complete they should be included in the scope of the measure. He was astonished to hear the member for Riccarton, who had him- self introduced a Bill to enable women to occupy any office now occupied by men, ob- ject to this extension of the franchise, which would enable a very large number of women to vote in regard to this question, and perhaps to place one of their own number on some of these Boards. The honourable gentleman's 