of the Standing Orders, and being, perhaps, de- sirous sometimes of gettting my own way as other members are, the Chair and myself may have differed as to points of order. But that is only for the moment. We must uphold the Chair, and thus preserve order, decorum, and fair debate. To yourself, to the Chairman of Committees, and to all honourable members I express, on behalf of myself and colleagues, our very best wishes, earnestly hoping that the prosperity of the colony may continue, and that our labours for the session will be productive of good to our colony and will be in the best interests of its people. Bill read a second time. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 22 .- Extra allowance to members of the Federation Commission. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That "two pounds " be inserted in lieu of " one -pound." Amendment agreed to. Bill reported. On the motion, That the Bill be read a third time,- Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Before you put that question, Sir, I have a few words to say. First of all, I regret to find, while we are finishing up the sessional work, that a great many of the returns which have been ordered by the House have not been laid upon the table There were a number of returns ordered on the first day of the session which should have been placed on the table of the House long ago. In the second place, the manner in which we have been hurry- ing legislation during the last few days is a scandal to Parliament. We have rushed through Bills during the last few days without sufficient consideration, and I regret that this state of things should be continued ; and I do suggest to the Ministry that, instead of delaying Bills that there is no necessity for keeping back to the last days of the session, they should bring them down in the early days, when members of the House are fresh and are ready to consider them, and to do their duty to their constituents and to the country. Then, I regret, too, that no steps have been taken by the Premier to accept the recommendation of the Public Accounts Committee and bring in a Bill to deal with the Midland Railway Company. I think it is a great pity that Parliament is finishing up without, at any rate, having placed on the statute-book a Bill that would enable the Ministry to settle this question once and for all. Especially do I say that because at the present juncture nobody can deny our needs with respect to borrowed money are consider- able, nor can anybody deny that we ought to be able to go on the London market on the most favourable conditions. That may not be so under the conditions that now exist with this Midland Railway question unsettled, and I must express my deep regret that there is no Bill on the statute- book under which the de- benture-holders and the shareholders could be satisfactorily dealt with as recommended by the Public Accounts Committee. I also want to Mr. Seddon with our public works money. We have been still more lavish with our Consolidated Fund ; and a review of the nrst part of the year leads one to have considerable doubts as to how we shall end up the twelve months. I find, for in- stance, that for the first six months of the year, in the Consolidated Fund, there has been a revenue derived of £2,648,591. The expenditure during that six months has been $3,12-,718, leaving a deficit of £480, 127. I do not wish that to go forth as what may be considered the true deficit of the Consolidated Fund, because, while we have a deficit of £480,127, there is included a transfer to the Public Works Fund of $310,000, and some debentures redeemed-£19,000. But, taking those two items, there is still a deficit of #151.127, which, I take it, is rather dis- heartening. In the corresponding period of last year we ended up with a surplus of some- thing like £60,000, whereas this year, even after making all the allowances one can make for transfers to Public Works Fund and deber- tures redeemed, we finished up with a deficit of £151,000. The balance for the first half of this year is therefore $210,000 worse than it was in the corresponding period of last year. Sir J. G. WARD .- What is the increase of revenue for the same period ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- The increase is all right enough, but, unfortunately, there is a very much larger increase in the expenditure. The revenue for the first half of last year was $2,530,208. The revenue for the first half of this year was £2,648,591, or an increase of about $118,000. But the increase in the expenditure during the first half is startling, for one finds that the expenditure for the first half of last year was $2,471,933, and the expenditure for the first half of this year, including the two items I have mentioned, is $3,128,718, or an increase of #656,785, or, deducting the two items I men ioned before, which amount to about $500,000, the increased expenditure is £156,000. Sir J. G. WARD .- There is a difference of £100,000 between you and Mr. G. W. Russell. Mr. J. ALLEN. I make my own calcu. lations. I make it £656,785 ; and if you deduet from that the amount transferred to the Pu: he Works Fund and the debentures redeemed, which amount to about $500,000, it makes an increased expenditure of #156,000. With re- gard to the Public Works Fund, I find that the receipts for the first half of last year were £635,832, and for the first half of this year they That is accountable have been £ ,311,308 from the fact that a million of loan-money has been raised for the first half of this current year ; but that particular balance-sheet is not of great interest, except so far as it discloses that all the borrowed money up to that date had been raised. But what is startling is the difference in the expenditure between the first half of last year and the first half of this year. Last year the expendi- ture was #404,746 and this year $1,191,425, or an increase of somewhere about £136.679. I know a great deal of that is due to the fact 