Audit Inspectors, storekeepers, Traffic In- spectors, workshop foremen, boiler inspec- tors, car and wagon inspectors, running- shed foremen, foremen of works, electri- cal mechanicians, signalling and interlocking inspectors and foremen, inspectors of per- manent - way, inspectors of bridge - construc- tion, assistant engineers. 8th grade, £190 to £220 (Stationmasters provided with houses to pay rental not exceeding £25 per annum) : Clerks, draftsmen, Stationmasters at unimport- ant 3rd subclass stations now paid £180 to £190 and house, Stationmasters now paid £160 to £170 and house, and most important of those now paid £140 to £150 and house, coaching, goods, and wharf foremen, workshop foremen, car and wagon inspectors, running-shed fore- men, foremen of works, electrical mechani- cians, signalling and interlocking inspectors and foremen, inspectors of permanent - way, inspectors of bridge-construction, bridge in- spectors, shop foremen. 9th grade, £110 to £180 (Stationmasters provided with houses to pay rental not exceeding £20 per annum) : Clerks, draftsmen, Stationmasters now at unimport- ant 5th subclass stations at £140 to £150 and house, salary to be £170 to £180 without house ; coaching, goods, and wharf foremen, timber- checkers, timber inspectors. Second Division .- Class 1 : Traffic. Present Pay. Proposed Pay. Guards, Grade 1. 9s., rising to 10s. after | 9s., rising to 10s. after https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 seven years. two years. Brakesmen. 8s. to 8s. 6d. Now classed as guards, Grade 2, 8s. to 8s. 6d., and have, therefore, advantage of rising to 1st grade guard under percentages. Signalmen, Grades 1 and 2. The same under present and proposed schedules. Signalmen, Grade 3. 7s. to 7s. 6d. 7s. 6d. (Signalmen in charge of important signal-cabins, 18. per day additional.) Signalmen : Percentages (improved under new Bill). Grade 1-25 per cent. Grade 1-30 per cent. Grade 2-45 Grade 2-40 Storemen, Grade 1. \- 88\. 6d. 9s., rising to 10s. after two years. Storemen, Grade 2. 8s. - 8s., rising to 8s. 6d. after one year. Storemen, Grade 3. 7s. to 7s. 6d. 7s. 6d. - Percentages. Grade 1-30 per cent. | Grade 1-20 per cent. Grade 2-30 Grade 2-40 Horsedrivers. Grade 1. The 50-per-cent. limit \- .. removed. \- Sir J. G. Ward 7s. to 78. 6d. 7s. 6d. 1 Labourers. 6s. 6d. 7s. 1 Shunters. Head-shunters-9s. to | Term " head-shunters" 108. abolished; now Grade 1, 9s. to 10s. Grade 1-88. 6d. Grade 2-8s. to 8s. 6d. Grade 2-8s. Grade 3-7s. to 7s. 6d. Grade 3-7s. 6d. Percentages. Now four head-shun- Grade 1-10 per cent., ters. equal to twelve on basis of present num- ber of shunters. Grade 1-10 per cent. Grade 2-30 per cent. Grade 2-20 Porters, Grade 1. 78\. to 7s. 6d. - 7s. 6d. Porters, Grade 2. 6s. to 6s. 6d. - 6s. to 7s., after one year. \- Junior Porters. 3s. 6d. 1 4s. Class 2 : Locomotive. Principal Leading Tradesmen. 10s. 6d. to 11s. - (Including pattern- makers, moulders, coppersmiths, tin- smiths) 11s. to 12s. Other Leading Hands. 9s. 6d. - 108. Tradesmen. 8s. to 10s. (Including sailmakers and moulders, paint- ers, trimmers, and tinsmiths), Grade 1, 10s. to 10s. 6d ; Grade 2, 9s. to 9s. 6d. Improvers. "Improvers" struck out and " Junior trades- men " substituted. Under the old regula- tions apprentices were engaged up to 104 years of age, and some of them could not, therefore, complete five years of apprentice- ship before expiry of indentures at the age of twenty-one. (Junior Tradesmen). 6s. 6d. to 7s. 6d. 7s. 6d. to 8s. 1 Machinists' Strikers. Sailmakers, Holders-up, and Fettlers, Grade 1. 7s. 6d to 8s. Ss. 6d. \- Grade 2. 7s. Ss. 1 Grade 3. 7s. 6d. \- Sailmakers now classed as tradesmen (9s. to 10s. 6d.) Furnacemen and Helpers, Grade 1. 8s. to 9s. Ss. 6d. to 9s. 6d. 1 