AYES, 35. Hornsby Parata llen, J. Rhodes Houston Arnold Lang Seddon Bennet Smith, G. J. Carroll Lawry Lethbridge Steward Duncan Field Symes Massey Tanner MeGowan Flatman Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. Ward Willis. Hall McNab Hall-Jones Tellers. Millar Mills Carncross Heke Gilfedder. Palmer Hogg NOES, 17. Russell, W. R. Graham Atkinson Buddo Thompson, R. Hutcheson Thomson, J. W. Laurenson Collins Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Ell Herries Meredith Fowlds Russell, G. W. Monk. Fraser, W. Majority for, 18. Motion agreed to, and Bill read a second time. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- " The Governor may at any time by Order in Council cause to be levied, col- lected," and paid at the Customs to His Majesty, previous to exportation from New Zealand, the duties upon timber as set forth in the Schedule hereto." Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved to strike out the words, "The Governor may at any time by Order in Council cause to," with the view of inserting the words, " There shall." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the clause." AYES, 31. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Gilfedder Allen, E. G. O'Meara Palmer Arnold Hall-Jones Bennet Hogg Parata Buddo Houston Symes Lawry Carncross Tanner Carroll Thomson, J. W. Massey Colvin Ward. McGowan Mackenzie, T. Duncan Field McNab Tellers. Flatman Meredith Barclay Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Hornsby. NOES. 19. Atkinson Russell, W. R. Hutcheson Collins Lang Smith, G. J. Lethbridge ElI Thompson, R. Fisher Millar Fowlds Monk Tellers. Graham Rhodes Allen, J. Russell, G. W. Herries. Guinness Majority for, 12. Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 3 .- "(1.) The master or agent of every ship in which it is intended to ship for export timber liable to duty shall give notice to the Collector or other proper officer of Cus- toms of such intention, in such form as the Commissioner may direct by regulation, and such notice shall be given not less than twenty- four hours prior to shipment. "(2.) If any such timber is shipped without such notice being given, the master shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty pounds." Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) moved to strike out the word "shall " after "master," in subsection (2), and insert "and agent shall each." Amendment agreed to. Mr. MILLS moved to strike out the words " exceeding fifty " with a view of inserting the words " less than ten." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 4 .- " Export entries for dutiable timher shipped, containing correct particulars of the number of superficial feet and the amount of duty payable thereon, shall be passed at the Customhouse before the clearance of the ship, and the Collector or other proper officer of Customs shall have power to detain the ship until he is satisfied that the full amount of duty has been paid on such timber." Mr. MILLS moved to insert after the word "Customhouse," the words " and the duty paid." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 5 .- "The Commissioner of Customs may, by regulations, specify and determine in what manner dutiable timber shall be shipped in order that a true account of the number of superficial feet contained therein shall be ob- tained by a Customs officer ; and any master of an exporting ship, or other person concerned, who fails to comply with such regulations shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding ten pounds." Mr. MILLS moved the excision of the words " exceeding ten " with the view of substituting the words "less than five." Amendment agreed, to and clause as amended agreed to. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) moved the addition of the following new clause : - "This Act shall remain in force until ten days after the last day of the next session of Parliament and no longer." The Committee divided. AYES, 24. Russell, G. W. Allen, J. Guinness Russell, W. R. Hutcheson Atkinson Barclay Lang Symes Collins Tanner Laurenson Thompson. R. Ell Lawry Field Teilers. Massey Fisher Buddo Meredith Fowlds Rhodes Herries. Graham NOES, 24. Allen, E. G. Heke Parata Carncross Hogg Seddon Carroll Hornsby Ward Colvin Willis McGuire Mckenzie, R. Witheford. Duncan Millar Flatman Tellers. Gilfedder Mills Arnold Palmer. Hall O'Meara Hall-Jones 