Clause 21 .- "Either party to an industrial dispute which has been referred to a Board of Conciliation may file with the Clerk an applica- tion in writing requiring the dispute to be re- ferred to the Court of Arbitration, and that Court shall have jurisdiction to settle and determine such dispute in the same manner as if such dispute had been referred to the Court under the provisions of section fifty-eight of the principal Act." The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved to strike out "either," with the view of inserting "both." The Committee divided on the question, "That the word proposed to be struck out be retained." AYES, 22. Barnicoat Reeves Kenny Scotland Louisson Bonar Feldwick Shrimski McLean Gourley Ormond Swanson Harris Twomey Peacock Jennings Pinkerton Walker, L. Kelly, T. Pitt Williams. Kelly, W. NOES, 6. Tomoana Bolt Jones Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Rigg PAIR. For. Against Bowen. Smith, A. L. Majority for, 16. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Amendment negatived. The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved to strike out the word "party," with the view of inserting " of the two parties " in lieu thereof. The Committee divided on the question "That the word be retained." AYES, 22. Barnicoat Kenny Reeves Louisson Scotland Bonar Feldwick McLean Shrimski Ormond Gourley Swanson Peacock Harris Twomey Jennings Pinkerton Walker, L. Pitt Kelly, T. Williams Kelly, W. NOES, 5. Bolt Walker, W. C. Jones Jenkinson Rigg PAIR. For. Against. Bowen. Smith, A. L. Majority for, 17. Amendment negatived. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved to in- sert, after " may," the words " if requested so to do by a majority of the parties thereto." The Committee divided on the question, " That the words be inserted." AYES, 8. Jennings Barnicoat Rigg Walker, W. C. Bolt Jones Jenkinson Reeves Pitt Bonar Kenny Shrimski Feldwick Louisson Gourley McLean Swanson Ormond Harris Twomey Walker, L. Kelly, T. Peacock Kelly, W. Pinkerton Williams. PAIR. Against. For. Smith, A. L. Bowen. Majority against, 10. Amendment negatived. The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved, That progress be reported. Some time subsequently, The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved, That this Committee do at once divide on the question in debate. Upon this question, the Committee divided. AYES, 21. Pitt Barnicoat Kelly, W. Shrimski Bonar Kenny Feldwick Louisson Swanson Gourley McLean Twomey Harris Ormond Walker, L. Walker, W. C. Jennings Peacock Kelly, T. Pinkerton Williams. NOES, 5. Bolt Jones Rigg. Jenkinson Reeves PAIR. For. Against. Bowen. Smith, A. L. Majority for, 16. Motion agreed to. The Committee accordingly at once divided on the question to report progress. AYES, 7. Barnicoat Jones Swanson Bolt Rigg Walker, L. Jenkinson NOES, 20. Bonar Kenny Reeves Feldwick Louisson Shrimski Gourley McLean Smith, W. C. Harris Ormond Twomey Jennings Peacock Walker, W. C. Kelly, T. Pinkerton Williams. Kelly, W. Pitt PAIR. For. Against. Smith, A. L. Bowen. Majority against, 13. Motion negatived. The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause as amended be a clause of the Bill." AYES, 19. Barnicoat Harris Kenny Bonar Jennings Louisson Feldwick Kelly, T. McLean Ormond Gourley Kelly, W. 