been properly tested, and yet before we have an opportunity of seeing the effect of our legisla- tion of last session we are called upon now to introduce legislation which, as I have said, may have the effect of setting aside the Boards alto- gether. Well, I submit that is not the way to legislate on great and important questions of this kind. I say that before we make a new law in regard to an important matter of this kind we should first see that what we have done previously has been thoroughly tested. I am not prepared to say that the constitution of the Boards is as perfect as it might be. I have suggested previously that it would be well to set up a Conciliator, who might have parties afterwards to sit with him, and they might form themselves into a Board of Conciliation if the Conciliator had failed to conciliate single- handed, with power to refer the dispute to the Court if necessary. I do not claim that this suggestion is original. This was a sugges- tion that arose out of a conversation between the Hon. Mr. Bowen and myself, and it was submitted to the Hon. Mr. W. P. Reeves at the time the original Act was introduced, but he did not see his way to accept it. I say 1 prefer that description of Board now, as I did then ; but, if we cannot have that, then I would sug- gest another proposal which may be worthy of consideration-namely, to reduce the numbers of the Board to three. That could be done by the Government. I have found in my experi- ence, when conducting cases before the Board of Conciliation, that it is an exceedingly difli- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 cult matter to make five men who have no prac- tical knowledge of the matters in dispute fully understand the question, and I believe that it would be very much easier to educate up three persons to a full bearing on the question than it is to educate up five, and at the same time there would be a certain saving in the expense ; so that I think that suggestion has something in it which may commend itself to the (iovern- Well, I hope before this Bill goes ment. through, these clauses to which I have referred dealing with the awards of the Court and Boards of Conciliation will be expunged from the Bill. There are some clauses in the Bill which I think are necessary, and they justify the intro- duction of an amending Bill. It is a very small amendment that occurs in clause 18. Under the Act of 1900 it is necessary, before proceed- ings can be taken to bring a dispute before the Board or Court, that a meeting of the union must be held, and a majority of the members of the union must be present and vote in favour of the proceedings. It is impossible to have such a meeting where federated unions are con- cerned, because they are not confined to any one locality, but extend to other parts of the colony, and I believe the insertion in the Act of 1900 of the words proposed will put that right. Clause 19 is rather important. It deals with a question like that of the miners at Waihi. There the members of the union made certain de- mands upon the employers, and the employers discharged eight of them. This could not have happened if the Bill introduced into this Council through this Council. At that time parties for and against the Act were pretty equally divided, and the result was that by small majorities some of the most important provisions were cut out of the Bill. It was provided in clause 4 of the Bill I have referred to that :- " For the purpose of extending the scope and operation of section twenty-nine of the principal Act, the following provisions shall apply :- "(1.) The duty imposed by that section shall not be confined to the case of an in- industrial dispute which has been actually referred to a Board or the Court, but shall extend to cases where the dispute is in course of negotiation or discussion prior to any actual reference, and shall in- clude the duty - " (a.) On the part of an employer, not to discharge any worker on ac- count of the dispute, or for the pur- pose of avoiding or evading the reference ; and " (b.) On the part of an industrial union or association, trade-union, or employer, not to directly or indirectly countenance or encourage any breach of duty by any party to the dispute, or by any employer or worker. " (2.) The breach of any such duty shall be deemed to constitute grounds for an industrial dispute, which may either be made the subject of an inde- pendent reference, or, with the con- sent of the Court, and upon such terms as it thinks fit, may be in- cluded in any reference already filed and pending before the Court at the time when such breach was com- mitted ; and in either case the Court, in its award or by separate order, may direct that the whole or any specified portion of the penalty im- posed shall be paid as compensation to any worker who has suffered loss of employment by reason of such breach : "Provided that such dispute shall not be included in any reference filed and pending as aforesaid unless the Court is satisfied that the dispute arose out of or was connected with the subject-matter of the reference." This clause was lost on division by two votes. In clause 5 it was provided that :- " It shall be deemed to be a breach of duty on the part of an employer if he discharges any worker by reason merely of the fact that the worker is a member of an industrial union or trade-union, or is entitled to the benefit of an award or industrial agreement by which the employer is bound, and with respect to every such breach the following provisions shall apply :- "(1.) If at the time of such breach the worker is entitled to the benefit of an award or industrial agreement by 