rule in this colony is that unless letters are specially addressed to be sent by another route they are sent by the Fr'isco mail, yet we find that the letters sent by each route are as fol- lows : - From England. By Fr'isco 595,717 :: .. . Federal 500,382 From New Zealand. By Fr'isco 535,029 .. Federal 209,877 Every one of the letters sent by the Federal route had to be specially addressed. I may point out that our Government act on exactly opposite lines to those adopted by the English Government. The English Government send nothing by the San Francisco route unless it is specially addressed. Sir J. G. WARD .- Because they have the full control of their own mails, and have a special agreement. Mr. MILLAR .- Yes, I admit that; but it shows that their treatment of this matter is Very different from the treatment of it by our Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is not an "all-red line." Mr. MIL.LAR .- How much of it is painted any other colour ? An Hon. MEMBER. - Two-thirds of it. Mr. MILLAR .- I would like the honour- able member to look at the map and prove it to me. I am sure he cannot do so. The Post- master-General spoke as to the actual cost of the service. Taking his own figures, they show https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that by an extra payment of $3,000 per annum we can get a fortnightly service under the British flag. The net cost to the colony of the Fr'isco service next year will be €16,304, which http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero will give us a three-weekly service under this 7s. 6d. proposal ; but the Federal service -a fortnightly service - will cost £19,470. Now, from a commercial point of view, which is the best ? Is there any comparison at all ? It is all nonsense to talk about a two or three days' difference. In respect to anything in which there is need for hurry at present word is now sent by cable, and no one cares a rap as to the two or three days' difference. I maintain that, so far as this colony is con- cerned, we should not pay a penny to a foreign company, and I have always understood that that was the policy of the Government. On every occasion for many years that we have been asked to subsidise the Fr'isco service it has been under British contractors-the con- tract was made with the Union Steamship Company of New Zealand ; and now the Union Company is excluded, and we are asked to pay more than we paid last year; a minimum of $15,000 is to be paid, and that is independent of what is carried. Then, the inward mail from Fr'isco is to be controlled by the American Go- vernment, and not by Messrs. Spreckels. An Hon. MEMBER. - They can make an agreement. Mr. MILLAR. - No; they have no more power to agree to any alteration in the con- ditions of the contract than we have. Washington. Mr. MILLAR. - We have no evidence of that, and until we get direct evidence of the good-will of the American Government I trust that this House and the country will not give any assist- ance at all. All I say is this: that we cannot find it in any of the official records that I have seen at all. I say that the whole of the evidence brought forward shows that this service is not one required by the colony. From a tourist point of view it is no use, from a mail-service point of view it is of very little use, and from a cargo-that is, a trade-point of view it is absolutely worthless, because with the excep- tion of a few bales of flax and a tew boxes of gum, averaging under 100 tons per month over the period, nothing is exported. That is the total exported from Auckland, and the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) knows as Chairman of the Harbour Board that the stay in Auckland of the mail-boat is about eight Lours, and during that time they employ forty men only, who get 10s. each, or a total of $20. Then, the whole of the produce bought consists of a few sheep, a few loaves of bread, and some vegetables, when the ship takes its departure. I challenge the honourable gentle- man to show that from any point of view the San Francisco service is worth $2,000 a year to Auckland, either from the purchase of produce or from the Harbour Board returns. I un- dertake to say the service is not worth more than $2,000 a year ; and yet he and others say that we desire to burst up Auckland by taking away $2,000 from Auckland. I can tell the honourable gentleman this, that if the Vancouver service is carried I shall support the terminus being at Auckland. The terminus of a service is worth something, but a port of call is never worth anything. I do not care if the Federal service terminates at Auckland. It is not a question of Auckland. What I object to is our being handed over to a foreign service ; and, whether it means breaking up this party, or any party, in the interests of the colony I shall do what I deem to be right. I do not care whether it means the Government leaving those benches or not. If they can only keep their seats upon those benches through the votes of the Auck- land men by selling New Zealand to another flag, I should be very sorry for i ; but I do not think they would be guilty of such a thing. I say we can get an effective mail-service through the Federal Government, and that we may get a suitable service via Vancouver, but that we should at once, if we can, get the Federal service. You cannot get it for a day or two; but the San Francisco contract does not expire until the 30th November, and there is ample time to deal with them and to get some arrangement made prior to that. I trust this House and country will approve of that, as I believe it does, because, go where you will, you can hardly find a single expression of opinion favourable to the San Francisco service excepting that of one or two persons who are more or less interested in it, and they naturally may be expected to support it; but if you take 