the Magistrate to deal with a case during the currency of a pension. The Magistrate, on the application of the Deputy Registrar, can deal with the case on its merits, and reduce or cancel the pension. On the other hand, should the extraordinary increase of income cease, the pension shall again be restored to the original amount. The next clause-No. 6 - gives power to the Crown and the Government to deal with the case in which, on the death of a pensioner. or the wife or husband of a pensioner, it is found they have died possessed of property which showed they were not properly entitled to a pen- sion. The clause enables the Crown to claim a refund not only of what has been taken by pensioners, but double the amount they received is to be paid as a debt due to the Crown in con- sideration of the frauds perpetrated. Clause 7 simply deals with persons who receive money for procuration of pensions or of renewal certi- ficates. It is a general penalty clause. Clause 9 refers to Maori pensions, and it gives the Magistrate the option, if he chooses, to order that Natives may get an allowance under the Civil List in lieu of getting a pension. I think this Bill has been required for the last two years. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I think the Bill is all right so far as it goes, but it does not go near far enough. It is to be regretted that this Bill did not form part of the original measure, for if it had it would have saved the colony a large sum of money. It is notorious that there are numbers of people doing away with their money and properties in order to get these pensions, and transferring their property right and left in order to secure the pension. Sir, there is one clause missing from this Bill that I think was supposed to be in it. What I refer to is the Destitute Persons Bill. In my opinion, it is ridiculous that well- to-do sons who are very well able to support their parents should allow their fathers and mothers to have the name of drawing the pension ; and, Sir, I think it is very unwise that this has not been put into the Bill. I do not know how we can get it in, but I think it should be put in before this Bill passes the Council -that the Destitute Persons Bill should apply to this Bill. Under that Bill you go further than saying that the sons must support their parents - you say they have to support persons other than their parents. Why that Bill should be put out of the way, and not be put into force with the Pensions Bill, I cannot understand. This question has been submitted over and over again to the Government, and in discussions on this Bill it has been said that pensions should not come out of the colony where there are sous well able to support the parents. The parents have educated the sons, and done every- thing for them up to a certain period of their lives, when they were unable to do for them- selves, and in turn they should do something for the parents, and not allow them to be burdens on the colony. It is evident that it was meant to put that into this Bill, because there is a side-note to clause 4 as follows: " Circumstances of relatives may be con- cumstances of relatives considered in that clause ? The clause simply says,- "4. On the hearing of any application for a pension or renewal certificate, if the Magistrate finds that any real or personal property has been transferred by the applicant to any person he may inquire into such transfer and refuse the application, or grant a reduced pension." That does not carry out the side-note to that clause ; and I would like to ask the Minister to bring down a clause making the Destitute Persons Bill apply to this Bill, and have it in- serted in Committee. I know of many cases myself where persons have got pensions who have no more right to the pension than I have. In fact, in some of the cases I know it to have been a disadvantage, and not a bit of good, because it has kept the recipients at the public- house; and for that class of people I do not think there should be a pension. No one objects to decent people getting a pension. They have come down in the world, and every one is glad to see them acquire the pension. But we should not allow these "pointers" to come in and get pensions to which they have no just right. The Hon. Mr. JONES .-- With a great deal the honourable gentleman has said I fully agree. It is a pity that the provisions that are contained in this Bill were not incorporated in the original measure, for if they had been, as the honourable gentleman has said, the colony would have been saved a considerable sum of money. But, of course, we can all be wise after the fact. The original measure was a very good one, considering the difficulty under which the Legislature was placed in dealing with quite a new subject. But there can be no question that in many instances parents of wealthy children are receiving this dole from the State, and that is, in my opinion, a very improper thing; and if those well-to-do children have not sufficient self-respect and honour to maintain their parents after what their parents have done for them, instead of foisting them on the State or leaving the State to give this dole, then I say they ought to be taught to accept their proper responsibilities. I quite agree with what the honourable gentleman said in that respect. I hope that, notwithstanding that the session is in its last stage, the Council will take some little time to endeavour to amend the Bill in this direction, so as to make those capable of supporting their parents do so. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I rise for the pur- pose of calling attention to one clause that has not received the consideration that I think it is entitled to. I refer to clause 7. If honourable gentlemen will read the clause they will see that a licensed Native interpreter is not allowed to charge any fees in connection with the work he does in enabling Natives to receive a pen- sion. It seems to me that the effect of that clause would be to prevent many Natives from ever obtaining a pension. There are only a certain number of people in the colony com- petent to fill in a claim for a Native, and it is not to be expected that these people, who 