from 6s. to 10s. a day. In the United States the representatives and delegates receive $1,041 a year, and travelling-expenses at the rate of 20 cents per mile. In Norway, the mem- bers of the Storthing receive 13s. 4d. a day while it is sitting -usually about twelve weeks. In Greece they approach near New Zealand : the senators are paid £20 a month and repre- sentatives £10. In Italy, neither senators nor deputies are paid, but they get free railway- passes and taxation concessions. In Spain they are not paid. In Germany, the salaries range from 9s. a day in Prussia to £1 in Austria. I need not quote the colonies, as that has already been done. Of course, I am quoting these figures not as having any direct bearing on what should be paid in this colony, but merely to give an indication of what is paid in other parts of the world. Now, the Hon. the Premier alluded to election expenses, and also stated that the advanced Liberals in the Old Country had urged that election expenses should be paid. My opinions on that point are these: I do not think our present system of payment of mem- bers is equitable. That is to say-and this was also alluded to by the Hon. the Premier-I do not think it is fair to pay members all over this colony exactly the same amount. In Wellington, as has been pointed out, members do not require nearly so much as members who live remote from this centre. They can attend to their ordinary occupation, and they do not require any leave of absence, and they are not put to anything like the expense that ordinary mem https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 bers are put to. Then, we have a difference even in our other electorates. An honourable member representing a town of eight or ten thousand people has not anything like the ex- / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero penditure that a member has in a country district. Mr. NAPIER .-- Far more. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - The honourable gentleman says, " Far more." We always get an interjection from that honourable gentle- man just as wide of the mark as it is possible to imagine. Now, let me show to the honour- able gentleman what I mean. He, Sir, repre- sents Auckland, and that is a larger city than ten thousand inhabitants ; and let me describe what his expenses are. First of all, he is never required to go from home; he can return to his own home every evening. He can advertise in his two daily papers, and he calls together his electors in a few of the halls in that town, and there the whole business ends, with the exception of some judicious canvassing on the honourable gentleman's part. But the honour- able gentleman has no huge travelling expenses; he has not to hire horses, he has not to hire rooms, he has not to hire thirty to forty places to speak in, he has not to travel through most remote and dangerous country-and yet he ob- tains exactly the same amount as a man who has to do all this work. I maintain such is not necessary. And, besides, the work of a country member is greater than the work of a member living in luxury as the honourable member for to be in the forefront in the matter of settle- ment, to see that roads are constructed, and to see that the educational advantages of the people are attended to. The member for a newly settled district or an old settled district is the medium between the people of a large and extensive district and the central authori- ties, and he has to see that all their wants are attended to, and that involves an enormous amount of travelling and considerable corre- spondence. And then, when he comes up to Wellington, he has to be perpetually in attend- ance on the powers that be to see that the interests intrusted to his care are properly at- tended to. What does the honourable member for Auckland City have to attend to? If he secures a service like the San Francisco mail- service or something in connection with a dock his position is assured for a considerable time. An Hon. MEMBER .- He did not secure it. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - The honourable member says, " He did not secure it." Will any member of this House say that the letter advo- cating the "mailed fist " the honourable gentle- man addressed to his constituents, and which he had wired through the length and breadth of this colony, did not do a great deal to assure his position in the constituency ? They will not ; but he assumes he did it all. Does the honour- able member mean to say that the speech which he described as magnificent, and that he had wired from this House to Auckland, and which message described members as being simply enthralled by the unusual eloquence which emanated from that honourable gentleman, did not help him in maintaining his position here ? That is all, evidently, that is required for a man to establish himself ; whereas a member repre- senting a country district has to give solid and substantial attention and benefits. They are level-headed, the people in the country, and not to be led away by this sort of half chaff. All this involves great self-sacrifice in the matter of time, and considerable expenditure, which is not forced upon those who represent our cities. Therefore I think, if the Premier wishes to carry a truly liberal measure, it is a reasonable thing to entertain a proposal that the Government might bear certain necessary election expenses on behalf of candidates for the House. Look at the expense alone in a country district : it is necessary to advertise in six or eight papers ; you have to hire from twenty to forty different places to speak in; and all the cost of hotel accommodation and horses during the whole of the time. The Premier said an election could be conducted for £60; well, we had the distin- guished and honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), who managed his election on 9s. Nature has not been so generous to the majority of men as to him ; he has such a pleasant manner that he has only got to address the populace and say, "Old George will do any- thing for you," and what is the result ? He is in on every occasion. If we could all do as he can we might win an election to represent a city ; but no member who ever sat in this Parlia- 