and that means that people who employ labour must go out of farming altogether. There is no escape from that position. Sir, I did not rise for the purpose of taking up the time of the House to any great extent to-night. 1 be- lieve the Bill before the House is a consoli- dating measure-one to simplify the existing law. I believe that is so, but I say distinctly and emphatically that if the labour legislation is fair it should be extended to the people in the country, and if it cannot be extended to them owing to the returns not being adequate, I say we have no right in this country by any system of legislation to favour any one parti- cular class. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Sir, I do not know why the debate upon the third reading of the Factories Bill should have extended in the direction it appears to have done, judging from the speeches of some honourable members, and particularly from the speech of the last honourable member. Why, Sir, the honourable member has gone into a diversity of matters which, whatever bear- ing they may have on other subjects, have little or nothing to do with the Bill before the House. But, as the honourable gentle- man has advocated and urged some views in regard to this matter which struck me as being singularly inappropriate, I think I should, at all events, say a word or two in connection with the matter. Now, there does appear to be an impression-or, rather, there is an en- deavour to create an impression-that at the present time in this country things are in a bad state in their relation to the employers and the workers of the colony, and more particularly in relation to the farmers of the country is there an attempt made to rouse ill- feeling. Well, I want to point out to honour- able members that which I think every fair- minded person in the country should concede- that if the great mass of the workers in the country were in a bad condition it would be far from satisfactory to the colony as a whole, and that the colony as a whole could not be in a prosperous condition if the great bulk of its people-the workers-were doing badly. Every intelligent Legislative Assembly finds out that in legislating in the interests of the workers it is also legislating in the interests not only of the farmers, but of every other section of the community. There should be no decrying one section of the community in this way. Now, I would point out to the honourable gentleman that one of the theories he put forth is a very unsound one. He urged that the labourers in the country districts should be paid the same rate of wages as is paid to the labourers in the cities, and therefore there would either have to be a lowering of the rates of the labourers in the cities to the level of those ruling in the country, or else an increase of the rates paid in the country up to the level of those that are paid in the cities. Now, the honourable gentleman, I presume, advocates the former course-the lowering of the rates in the cities-because he states that the labourers Mr. T. Mackenzie sequently, instead of the farm labourer being lifted up to the rate paid the labourer in the city, he argues that the rates of the city labourer should come down to the level of the country. I am one of those who believe, in connection with the matter of the $4.650,000 of money referred to, that the honourable member must recognise that if you have not got a good circulating medium in the to ns, and if by a low rate of wages the purchasing- power of the people is largely diminished, there cannot be that prosperity which exists at pre- sent, and which there should be, and that, if the workers are to be a poorly paid class of people, there must be a lowering of the purchasing- power of the country, and that would greatly affect all classes, farmers included, and also injuriously affect the industries of the country. Now, I do not for a moment urge that we should pay a rate of wages that is beyond the ability of people to pay. It would be impos- sible to continue to do that, as to aim at a rate beyond the power of the people to pay must soon bring about its own remedy. Natural laws would operate, and that result would ensue. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is now the case. Sir J. G. WARD .- In some cases it probably may be, but I say that is partly the result of the scare created in different parts of the colony where they have exaggerated the posi- tion ; and that is not by any means a desirable thing to do, and I affirm that does not reflect the true position of affairs. Take as a com- parison the condition of affairs now with the condition that prevailed not so many years ago. We should probably be told that the agricul- tural classes are not getting so much for their wool as a few years previously. That we all regret, but fluctuations will ever occur. Mr. MONK .-- The prices for our products are not due to this Government or any Govern- ment. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am much obliged to the honourable gentleman, whose store of wisdom, in furnishing me with that important piece of information, has been so generously and so spontaneously drawn upon for my benefit. I was going to point out that some members have alluded to the low values prevailing for some of our staple products, particularly wool. Now. I want to ask honourable members what is the difference in the position of the agricul- turists to-day with what it was not so many years ago, when 6s. and 7s. a bushel was being obtained for wheat, 4s. and 5s. a bushel for barley, 1s. 3d. a pound for hops, and up to 1s. and Is. 3d. for wool? Why, in those days the rates of freight between here and the Old Country ran up to $3, £3 10s., and $4 per ton, and the cost of conveying goods from the in- terior to the seaboard in the majority of cases was probably ten times greater than it is now-I am sure that five times greater would not be a high average. And, in retrospect, when we are endeavouring to judge of the position at the present moment, we ought to contrast the condition of affairs for- merly with their condition to day. And I say, 