exercises in the political affairs of the colony, consideration will be given to the desirability of disfranchising those residing in that city, as is the case with reference to the residents of the capital city of the United States of America ? This was a serious question, and it was put with a serious purpose. It had no relation, he might explain, to existing controversies. It had struck him, and more particularly since he had been a member of this House, that with the extension of the activities and functions of the State the power of Wellington over the cen- tralised administration and Government would rapidly become excessive, if it had not reached that position already ; and, as we had seen in other countries, it might happen that the ex- traordinary power of the capital might be- come a menace to the liberty of the people of the rest of the colony. There were all the Ministers of the Crown resident in Wellington, and all the heads of departments resided here, and practically what was the brain of the State organism was always here. The consequence was that we saw that a very great amount of in- fluence was exercised by Wellington which was not exercised relatively by other portions of the colony. Now, he thought in this matter we could not do better than refer to the example of the United States of America. The first article, section 8, subsection (17), of the American Constitution said,- "The Congress shall have power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over such district (not exceeding ten miles square) as may, by cession of particular States and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of Government of the United States." Mr. Bryce, in his work "The American Com- monwealth," said :- "The District of Columbia is a piece of land set apart to contain the City of Washington, which is the seat of the Federal Government. It is governed by three Commissioners ap- pointed by the President, and has no local Legislature nor municipal government, the only legislative authority being Congress." He adds : - " It is a gain that the multitude of no one city should be able to overawe the Executive and the Legislature." The spending-power of the colony, with the extension of the business of the State, was likely to become so great that the monetary question would be the question that would dominate the polities of the colony, and they ought to take time by the forelock and give this matter con- sideration. Possessed of the great benefits of a central administration, it was open to question whether Wellington should also have political representation. He hoped the Government would give a favourable answer to the question. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) could not agree that the entire brains of the Civil service were centred in Wellington. They had good men in Wellington, he admitted; but in the public service in other parts of the colony there were men who were equally as good. As to the political aspect of the matter, there was some- Mr. Napier the honourable member. The rivalry existing between Wellington and Auckland made it very awkward sometimes for the Administration. The change that was proposed would, of course, affect the representation of Wellington, and the action of the members who represented the city. He had had taken out the number of speeches made and the time occupied by the Wellington members from half-past seven to half-past ten during the session, and when he told the House that the time occupied many evenings between half-past seven and ten o'clock by the Welling- ton members was 75 per cent. it would be understood how unduly they trespassed on the consideration of other honourable members. Of course, members made due allowance, be- cause from half-past seven to half-past ten the Wellington representatives had their constitu- ents largely in the galleries, and some mem- bers were unkind enough to say that this time was taken up in speaking to the gallery, and not to the members. At all events, he could say, in answer to the question, that a great deal would depend on the action of the members for Wel- lington City during the remainder of the ses- sion. If they were considerate to other mem- bers, and allowed other members to get away home in decent time, we might overlook it ; but if they persisted in blocking the business of the country, as had been done in the past, it would then be a matter for the Government and the House to consider what should be done. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) made bold to say that the statement of the Premier was absolutely misleading, and he challenged the honourable gentleman to the proof of it. Mr. SEDDON said he would, if necessary, lay the return on the table. # OPPOSED RETURNS. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Premier, Why Returns Nos. 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, and 28, on pages 711 and 712, Order Paper No. 52, are opposed by the Government ? Some of the returns dealt with the "Tagus" incident. One of them dealt with the papers which the Pre- mier quoted from on a previous occasion, and which he had promised four or five times in the course of the debate to lay on the table. He (Mr. Allen) asked the honourable gentleman to fulfil that promise and to lay the papers on the table, and also to lay on the table other papers asked for in connection with the transport of troops by the "Tagus." He also asked the honourable gentleman to lay on the table a return dealing with the accidents and deaths which had occurred in the coal-mine in which he (Mr. Allen) was interested. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable gentleman was an adept at misrepresenting and misleading : but it would not do as far as he (Mr. Seddon) was concerned. No one knew better than the honourable member that the Government were not opposed to, and had not opposed, the laying of these papers and returns on the table. The honourable member knew that he had read most of the telegrams respect- ing the "Tagus." The other returns were 