as compared with Queensland. He thought it might be interesting to say that the return showed that the assumption of some honour- able members-namely, the member for Hawke's Bay and the member for Bruce-that Queens- land showed more favourably than New Zealand was without foundation. He moved, That the return do lie on the table, and be printed. It was as follows :- Miles of Railway open, Train- miles run, Number of Passengers, and Tonnage of Goods carried in New Zealand ( Year ending 31st March, 1901) as compared with Queensland ( Year ending 30th June, 1901). Queens- New Zealand. land. Average miles open .. 2,801 2,174 Train-miles run 5,788,112 4,620,971 .. Number of passengers 4,760,559 6,243,593 carried .. Tonnage of goods 3,339,687 1,530,440 carried . .. Motion agreed to. FACTORIES BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, On the previous evening he had unwittingly done an injustice to the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), who was appointed to draw up reasons for disagreeing with the amendments made by the Legislative Council in the Fac- tories Bill. He had substituted Mr. McNab's name for the name of Mr. Hutcheson, and he understood that Mr. Hutcheson was in the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 House at the time. Mr. McNab was one of the Managers in connection with the Old-age Pensions Bill, and it had been running in his (Mr. Seddon's) mind that Mr. McNab was appointed to draw up reasons in connection with the Factories Bill. He was entirely to blame for the error, and he regretted the honourable member had been overlooked. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) ac- cepted the right honourable gentleman's ex- planation and apology in the spirit in which it was given, as he felt sure it was an oversight. He might say he was in close attendance in his place in the House during the whole of the night and within reach of the Premier ; but no doubt owing to the press and hurry of business the honourable gentleman had overlooked the fact that he had been appointed. Mr. SEDDON would ask now that Mr. McNab's name be added to the Managers, and that the paper be signed also by Mr. Hutcheson. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) could bear out what Mr. Hutcheson had said as to his being in close attendance in the House. He (Mr. McNab) was asked by the Premier to draft the reasons, not knowing he was wanted to sign them, and that Mr. Hutcheson had been appointed a Manager. It was simply an oversight. Mr. SEDDON said Mr. Tanner's name had been substituted for that of Mr. Millar, and he wished to do Mr. Millar the justice to say that he was in the library at the time, and had not been away from the building that day. He Sir J. G. Ward names of Mr. NcNab and Mr. Tanner to the Managers, and he moved that that be done. Motion agreed to. # STATE COAL-MINES BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor, returning the State Coal-mines Bill with the following amendments :- " In clause 10, after ' Parliament,' add the words ' or for the construction, erection, or acquisition of buildings, plant, machinery, railways, tramways, hulks, ships, or other appliances or works, required for the working of any mine under this Act or for the supply of coal therefrom.' " In clause 11, after ' one hundred,' add ' and fifty.' "To clause 19 add the following proviso : ' Provided that moneys received under this Act in respect of the sale or supply of coal (in- cluding the moneys received from the Govern- ment Railways and other Departments) may, without further appropriation than this Act, be expended in or towards carrying out the pur- poses of this Act."" On the question, That the House go into Com- mittee to consider these amendments, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) hoped the Premier would explain the message. It seemed to increase the appropriations ; but if it was to remedy a mistake- Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that was what it was for. It struck him, on looking over the Bill yesterday, that, while he could raise the £150,000 authorised by the Act, he could only use the money in the purchase of a mine and in paying compensation, but otherwise bis hands were tied. If he purchased a railway and wanted to complete it, he had no power to spend a shilling thereon, and the work of deve- loping a coal-mine could not be paid for as the clause of the Bill first stood. This message was to remedy that defect, which was one of those mistakes which, he was glad to say, had been discovered in time. Mr. HERRIES said this alteration in clause 11 was a very large one. The Premier had power in clause 10 to raise £150,000. and he could raise that either from the Public Works Fund or from any bank or monetary institution. But clause 11 limited the amount he could get out of the Public Works Fund to £100,000, and the extra £50,000 the Minister had to get where he could. Now it was pro- posed to give them power to take the whole $150,000 out of the Public Works Fund : and. if that was done, what became of the Public Works Fund, which was attenuated to the very last degree ? At present the Public Works Fund was only kept alive by starving the Con- solidated Fund, which accounted for the de- ficit shown in that account for the half-vea: ending 31st October. If the Public Works Fund was still further depleted, what would happen to the settlers' roads and bridges ? The £150,000 proposed to be taken would 3.0. be wanted for the purposes of the Public Works Fund; and it was wrong, he 