containing votes for himself, in contravention of the terms of his appointment, and in causing by such message a discussion on the floor of the . House that has never had a parallel except under the present Administration. The proper course to increase a Governor's salary is by doing so during the term of office of the pre- decessor of the representative who is to gain the benefit. It is not at all unlikely, as the member for Motueka says, that we shall have another vote next year for another #2,000. I do not intend to go into the details of the entertainments, or into any other reason for objecting to the passing of the vote, beyond the constitutional reason that the Ministry has no right to bring down a vote during the currency of the term of the Governor which is a pay- ment directly to the Governor himself. If the powers conferred on the Governor by last year's Public Revenues Act had been directly brought under the notice of the Home authorities . if they had been told that whenever a paltry dis- pute of #137 arises, as was the case in the last dispute between the Auditor and the Colonial Treasurer, the Governor has to step in and authorise payment - what would the Home authorities think of the position of the repre- sentative of Royalty. Why, the King himself would not interfere in the Home-country in the administration of public affairs in such a way as the representative of the King is compelled to interfere in this colony at the present time. I say it is time representations were made to the Home authorities as to the rela- tions existing between the Ministry of the day and the representative of the King in this colony. And, if the authorities in the Old Country knew exactly what was going on here, there would be an alteration in the Royal In- structions and in the relative positions of the representative of Royalty here and the Govern- ment of the day that would prevent a continu- ance of this sort of thing. No man who looks at this question from a constitutional point of view can assent to this Bill; and it seems a great pity it has been thought necessary by the Government to deal with the expenses of the Royal visit in the way they have. So far as the amount is concerned, I do not cavil much at it. As the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) says, he spent more out of his own pocket in getting the Calliope Dock for Auckland than is involved in this amount. But it is not the amount at all, because I believe in the $70,000 that the colony is going to pay for the entertainments which took place from one end of the colony to the other there are many larger items more objectionable so far as degree of expenditure is concerned than this one. But I say it was a wrong thing, and it is improper for the Government to be continually bringing the representative of the King on to the floor of the House in the way they are doing : and when the discussion took place- one of the most painful discussions I ever re- member in the House-on the refund of duty a few years ago, the Premier then very distinctly led the House to understand that that would be Mr. Pirani colony ; yet year after year we have had the same thing going on, and I regret that the Premier has thought fit, for the sake of a paltry couple of thousand pounds, to bring His Excel- lency into the discussion, as he cannot fail to do by the measure now before the House. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- The Bill is a mistake, and, if it is possible for the Govern- ment to withdraw it at this stage, that is the course I recommend them to adopt. The Hon. Mr. Rolleston, in speaking in a former session of the remission of duty on Customed goods imported by His Excellency the Governor, re- commended a similar course in order to save His Excellency from the indignity to which he must inevitably be subjected from the discussion of such a subject. We are to-night in exactly the same position. Again, in this case, His Excellency has been badly advised by his Responsible Advisers, and again he must inevitably be subjected to indignity in consequence of that bad advice. If we are charged with speaking disrespectfully of the representative of the King, that is the answer. The Bill provokes plain speaking, and plain speaking is the thing demanded of us, for we are in the place where we are demanded of conscience to speak the truth. I do not speak with any warmth on the question, but I wish it not to be understood that my moderation of language minimises the strength of my opinion. First, let it be remembered that His Excellency the Governor was appointed at a salary of $5,000 a year. Last year we increased that salary by £2,000, making the salary #7,000; and we are now asked to vote another sum of $2,250. I think we ought not to be asked to pass this vote, for reasons I will afterwards endeavour to explain. At the outset I object to the title of the Bill. It is styled the " Royal Visit Expenses Bill." It is not the Royal Visit Expenses Bill. The bill for the Royal visit expenses amounts to £100,000. It is a Grant to the Governor Bill, that being the title of the vote which appeared on the estimates, "Grant to His Excellency the Governor, #2,250," and I ask why Parliament should be asked to vote, as a separate vote, £2,250 to His Excellency tho Governor when the colony up to the present moment has had served upon it bills to the extent of $70,000 for the entertainment of the Royal party, and we have in our possession the knowledge that bills to the extent of #30,000 more are still to come in. Putting it roundly, the cost to the colony is £100,000. After re- ceiving the Royal party with the loyalty and the feeling of veneration and respect with which they were received, and after under- taking to pay all the expenses in connection with that visit, I cannot understand why we should now be called upon to pay this extra $2,250 to His Excellency the Governor. It was such expenditures that gave 9.0. ground for the commentaries of Cobbett and Bradlaugh regarding the Royal extrava- gances which took place in their time ; and, if the comparison be regarded as extreme, I say there is good ground for the comparison. It 