did their work in a thoroughly satisfactory manner, and he thought, therefore, it was un- generous on the part of certain members to make general charges against them. If this discussion had no other good effect than this, he thought it would do this good -namely, that it would probably bring before the Minister of Railways and the railway authorities the neces- sity for doing away with level crossings. They had been discontinued in Australia, and it was time that they were done away with in this colony. If that reform was carried out, even though it might be done gradually-the most dangerous crossings being dealt with first-it would reduce the number of accidents to a minimum ; and he hoped the time was not far distant when level crossings would be finally re- moved from the railways of the colony. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said that, as the Minister had given him an assurance that he would deal further with the matter, he would not press his motion to a division. Words retained, and the report ordered to lie on the table. DEATH OF THE HON. M. HOLMES, M.L.C. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I regret to say that death has been again in our midst, and a very old and respected member of our Parlia- ment-the Hon. Mathew Holmes-has been called to his long home. I desire to move, " That this House do now adjourn till half- past seven o'clock this evening, as a mark of respect to the memory of the late Hon. Mathew Holmes, M.L.C." The late Hon. Mathew Holmes has been a member of the Legislative Council since 1866, and he has done good service to our colony in that capacity. During late years his health has prevented him taking an active part in public life ; but from his arrival in New Zealand up to the time of his illness he was one of those who took a deep interest in the colony, and he endeavoured to do his best to promote its welfare. His name will also be remembered in respect to the improvement of the stock of our colony, because he was the first, I believe, to import from the Mother- country pedigree horses, stock, cattle, and sheep, and in that respect he has done very great service indeed to the colony. It may be said of him-as it may be said of many others of our sturdy pioneers-that they have shown a noble example, that they have proved themselves worthy colonists, and that they have lived to see marked progress made in the colony. Per- sonally, the late Mr. Holmes was affable to all those who were acquainted with him, and he commanded the highest esteem and respect ; and although called away at a ripe age, we sincerely regret his loss, and will ever respect his memory ; and, as a token of respect, I move that the House adjourn until half-past seven o'clock this evening. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .-- Sir, I rise to second the motion proposed by the Premier. It is upwards of forty years since I first knew VOL. CXIX .- 5. five years since he became a member of the Provincial Council of Otago, of which I was then a member. Meeting him in the Council and at meetings of Select Committees, I may say I came to be pretty well acquainted with Mr. Holmes. I may also say that Mr. Holmes was a member of the Provincial Council of Southland, and, as has been said, he has been a member of the Legislative Council since the year 1866. That is a very long time indeed -- 80 long that the present generation know Mr. Holmes only as the Hon. Mathew Holmes. The Premier has stated that Mr. Holmes intro- duced prize stock into Otago. That is well known. He was what we may call a good and enterprising colonist. He introduced, as the Premier has said, prize horses, and prize cattle, and prize sheep. I am aware that some of the best horses we have in Otago can be traced to stock that were introduced by Mr. Holmes in the early sixties. It is only about a fortnight since a motion similar to this one was moved and carried in this House. I mean the motion expressive of the regret we felt at the death of Mr. Scobie Mackenzie. Mr. Mackenzie was in the prime of life, but in the case of Mr. Holmes he had reached a ripe old age, a good many years beyond the three-score years and ten. Still, it is only right that we should express our regret at the death of an old and useful colonist. I have much pleasure in seconding the motion. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) .- I would just like to say a word or two, as the late Mr. Holmes lived for a very long time in the dis- trict close to where I live. As has been stated by the previous speakers, the late Mr. Holmes in the early sixties chartered a vessel on his own account in which to bring the nucleus of our prize stock to the colony-that is to say, the first sheep and cattle of pedigree quality that came to Otago ; these were the pioneers of the best Leicesters we have ; and he was the pioneer importer of some of the best Lincolns in New Zealand, and also of other different breeds of sheep. He also imported into the colony stud Clydesdale horses that had a great reputation, and he repeated these enterprises from time to time until within the last few years. In fact, his stock is known now all over New Zealand as being foremost in the show rings, and their progeny have carried off prizes in all parts of the South Island, and in many places in the North Island as well. He was a very energetic man ; in fact, I may say he laid the foundation for bringing agriculture to a state of perfection in the South by importing not only stock, but grain of various kinds, and, as the shows began to be established he was in the forefront to encourage them, and by show- ing his stock all over the colony was an object- lesson to the farmers of New Zealand. In fact, I know of no man who has gone to such pains as the late Hon. Mr. Holmes in that direction. He has been a good colonist, a good citizen, and a kind and considerate neighbour, and will be very much missed in the colony. Motion agreed to. 