practically limit the punishment for perjury committed by persons in respect to applications and matters connected with old-age pensions .to a penalty of ten pounds." On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. "WALKER it was resolved, That the Council do not insist on its amendments in the Bill. # FACTORIES BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives, disagreeing with certain amendments in this Bill, and transmitting the following reasons :- "1. Definition of ' young person,' in the in- terpretation clause: It is not desirable to re- duce the age of boys to sixteen, on account of the fact that they will then be liable to overtime. "2. Clause 18 (1), subsection (c) : Five hours is too great an interval between meals. "3. Clause 19 may be agreed to. "4. Clause 19A is unduly extending time of employment of women and boys engaged in woollen-mills, an undue concession to one trade which is liable to cause irritation in other trades. "5. The amendments in clause 20, relating to persons employed in the sawmilling trade, are objectionable, as the employment is irregu- lar and cannot be evenly distributed over the different days of the working week, necessi- tating long hours being worked on some days. "6. The amendments in clauses 21, 22, and 23 are consequential on the definition of 'boy' in the interpretation clause. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 "7. Clause 31, 32, and 33 relate to holi- days in factories, and may be agreed to, being largely consequential, except in clause 32, sub- section (1) (a), where provision is made for the printing of weekly papers. "8. The amendments in clause 42, subsec- tion (2), and clause 65, subsection (1) are im- provements, and may be agreed to." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the Council do not insist on its amendments in the Bill. The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved, as an amend- ment, That the Council do insist on its amend- ments. Motion negatived, and amendment agreed to. The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved, That the Hon. Colonel Pitt, the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, and the mover, be a Committee to draw up reasons for insisting on the amendments. He did so because no honourable gentleman who had not sat on the Labour Bills Committee could understand the effects of the amendments, and as most of them had been made at his instance he thought he should have the opportunity of being on the Conference and seeing that the effect of the amendments was properly under- stood by the other branch of the Legislature. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN did not understand that the Hon. Mr. Rigg was one of the mem- bers who supported the principal amendments of the Council. The Hon. Mr. RIGG said the only amend- mills. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Well, that is the principal alteration of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said it was simply absurd to contend that the minority on the subject of the amendments in this Bill should be appointed to draw up reasons for insisting on such amendments, or should go on the Con- ference subsequently, and that the majority who supported the amendments should be ex- cluded. The usual practice in such a case, when the Council insisted on its amendments, was to appoint from among the majority who carried those amendments the members to draw up reasons for insisting, or to represent the Council in Conference. In this case it was members representing the minority whom the Hon. Mr. Rigg proposed, and that to his mind was a departure from the usual practice of the Chamber. Now, the members he should pro- pose would be the Hon. Colonel Pitt, the Hon. Mr. Jones, and the Hon. Mr. Jennings. These would be a fair representation of the Council, and therefore he proposed that as an amend- ment. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS also wished to call the attention of the Council to the im- portant fact just stated by the Hon. Mr. Kelly, that it was really the minority that was wishing to control the Council in this matter. He was perfectly willing, as he would have to leave that afternoon, that the Hon. Colonel Pitt, the Hon. Mr. Jones, and the Hon. Mr. Feldwick, who were considered fair in these matters, and cer- tainly not extremists, should be appointed the Committee for drawing up reasons. The Hon. Mr. JONES thought there should be at least one member on the Committee who had been a member of the Labour Bills Com- mittee, because it was very difficult indeed to understand all the ins and outs of these ques- tions unless one had followed them through the discussions in the Labour Bills Committee. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS pointed out that the Hon. Colonel Pitt was on the Labour Bills Committee, and they could substitute for one of the other names proposed that of the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON did not think it could be said that the honourable gentlemen proposed by the Hon. Mr. Rigg represented the minority of the Council. The Hon. Mr. Ris supported every amendment excepting the amendment regarding the woollen-mills. An Hon. MEMBER .- That was the most im- portant. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said, No : the most important amendment was the alterati a of the age, and the definition, of course, folle wed on the alteration of the age. The whole of the amendments that depended upon the lowering of the age were threshed out thoroughly on the Labour Bills Committee, and unless they bad a fair representation of the Labour Bills Com- mittee on the Committee to draw up reasons be thought most of the Council'samendments would go by the board. He would very much rather himself not go on the Committee, and that the 