An Hon. MEMBER .- Let us have a Commis- sion of inquiry. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I dare say & Commission might get at the truth; but in this case I am sure the honourable member of an- other place, to whom I have referred, will take the first opportunity of explaining to his con- stituents his firm's action in the matter, and I have no doubt that his explanation will be satisfactory. It may be that, through a rearrangement of the business, or through the introduction of new machinery, this firm of Bowron Brothers has been able to do away with a number of hands. No doubt if such an impression as I have referred to did exist in the minds of the public it would do the employers harm in their business, and such an employer should have an opportunity of refuting the statements or explaining matters. I trust, after this explanation, I shall not be accused of making an attack upon a gentleman for whom I have the highest respect, and a gentleman who would not, I am sure, do a dirty and an unfair thing of any kind whatever. Now, I feel in rather a disagreeable position, because I shall be forced to vote for the amend- ment proposed by the Hon. Mr. Rigg. When I say disagreeable, I mean it is disagreeable for any member of the Council to have to vote against a measure which has passed in another place-which is supposed to be the popular Chamber-by a large majority, and which has been supported by many of our friends ; but, when a member's convictions are as firmly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 rooted on any question as mine are in regard to this, I do not think there is any other course open to him than to vote against the measure, and I shall do so, though with a great amount of pain. I know that a large number of mem- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero bers, who are Radicals in their views in other respects, have chosen to support the amend- ments that have been introduced, but I think the amendments inserted will go a long way towards capsizing the legislation on this sub- ject we have already on our statute - book. Now, if the amendment of the Hon. Mr. Rigg is carried, it will give more time for consideration of the measure, and that is another reason why I shall vote for that amend- ment. I spoke this afternoon regarding the evidence taken before the Labour Bills Com- mittee on the unnecessary time taken in hear- ing cases by the Board, and I stated that I thought the cure for that would be found in making it impossible for any one to be made a Chairman of a Conciliation Board unless he was specially adapted for such work. I think, if it were possible to get a retired Magistrate or a man with a sound legal training, or even a retired Judge, on the Conciliation Board, the result would be different, and a very great benefit to all concerned. Then we should not hear the constant assertion that such-and-such a Board was not doing its duty, that it was allowing a case to drag on, and so forth. I did mark certain portions of the evidence which I wished to read out, in common fairness to the Chairman of the Wellington Board, but I do not wish to detain the Council .. any further to-night ; but I think if mem- bers will take the trouble to look through the evidence they will find that in many cases it was very difficult for the Chair- man to curb the lengthy statements of wit- nesses on both sides. This bears out the fact that, if we can get a man well adapted to hold the reins of office as Chairman, it will go a great deal towards shortening the proceed- ings. Now, as to the question of giving more power to the Conciliation Boards : The Chair- man, in his evidence before the Committee, pointed out that in many instances cases were referred to the Court, after being dealt with by the Board, because of the action of one or two employers who would not abide by the decision of the Conciliation Board, and I am sure it would be a great benefit if we inserted some- thing in the Bill giving the Board power-not an absolute power, but a power by which they could bring these unconciliatory employers to agree to the result if a certain majority agreed to it. It seems to me hard that a Board should take days and weeks in coming to a decision on a case, and when they have got the whole of the points placed in such a form that both the em- ployers and the workers agree to sign an agree- ment; simply because one or two small em- ployers, perhaps in an out-of-the-way corner of the district-it might be the employer of only one man-will not sign, the whole award is re- jected, and the whole expense has to be incurred again. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is precisely what has happened. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- Well, does it not prove that we should give this question of conciliation more consideration than we have done? I would be in favour of extending the powers of the Conciliation Boards, so that they could bring the one or two objecting employers back into line; of providing that a Chairman who has had a legal training must only hold office ; and also of providing that the evidence taken before a Board shall be reported, and may be used by the Court. On these three points I claim that further consideration is necessary. I deprecate the personal references that have been made to honourable members regarding volcanoes, and so on, more especially when they take place between our own col- leagues. However, when the debate comes to an end I am sure it will be recognised that the references have been made in the heat of debate, and the whole of such references will be for- gotten. As I have said, I shall be compelled to vote for the amendment of the Hon. Mr. Rigg. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I have been asked to state, in reference to remarks made by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson in connection with a firm in Christchurch, that the gentleman who is connected with that firm says that the honourable gentleman did not furnish him with the names. Had he done so he would have been in a position to give a satisfactory explanation. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I explained to that honourable member of the House that it was impossible for me to give the name, be- 