overcrowding may have had something to do with matter. It is necessary that I should have detailed reports. You are authorised to What has call in further medical assistance. occurred, in my opinion, points to one of two things, either the men should not have been put on board the steamer at the Cape, or else there are unfavourable conditions in construc- tion with the ship. " R. J. SEDDON." Then he sent the following :- " Colonel Penton, Clinton. " Lieut .- Colonel Brigade Surgeon De Lautour having stated in his telegram that the 'Tagus ' had been overcrowded, and this had bearing on illness of the men, any inquiry to be made should be heard while ' Tagus' is at Port Chal- mers and where the Brigade Surgeon is located. I asked Surgeon to give me report; and it will then be for Captain of 'Tagus ' to combat the allegations or otherwise. Not only that, but a number of men who have been on board will be leaving the ship, and you would only have the North Island men to give evidence at Wellington. Where we have had, as in this case, so many deaths and so much illness, it points to one of two things, either men should not have been put on ship at Cape, or else something wrong on board her, and advisable get at facts case, and that as soon as possible. "R. J. SK.DDON." Then, there was a complete backing-down, and he was informed there was nothing wrong. If there had been any blame attached to him (Mr. Seddon), would it not have come out at https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the inquiry which he ordered, and which ought to have taken place. He also pointed out that exactly the same kind of weather prevailed at Wellington as prevailed at the Bluff for a whole fortnight at that time; and between Cook Strait and the Bluff there was a difference of only 8 degrees in latitude, but the weather at the time was the same. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said it did not con- cern him what action the shipowners might have taken in respect to the port at which the vessel should arrive in New Zealand. And, as to the question of the route, all he knew was that there was a warmer route than the one taken, and on the recommendation of the doctor, through the Commanding Officer, that should have been taken. Did the Premier submit the cablegram with respect to the route to any medical man in Wellington, and get his opinion about it? If the Premier did not do so, then the honourable gentleman must take the re- sponsibility. It was as to what occurred be- tween Albany and the Bluff that the main charge was. If the men had come by a warmer route they would have landed in better health. The fact that they came by the cold route kept them in a weak state of health. In Dunedin to-day there are a great number of the men still on the sick-list Mr. SEDDON .- Only two, so I was informed by the Medical Officer's report on Saturday last. Mr. J. ALLEN said it was apparent that when the Premier received the cablegram he Mr. Seddon able gentleman had only thought for a moment he must have seen the seriousness of the repre- sentation as to the route, and he must have taken cognizance of it Mr. SEDDON .- When the men arrived at Worcester they were in splendid health. The officer commanding-Colonel Davies-reported from Capetown, on the 14th June, that the men were all well. It was at Worcester that the seeds of the trouble were laid, and between the Cape and Albany that the sickness occurred, and the trouble was caused at Worcester and on the train to Capetown. It was evident that some one had misled the honourable member for Bruce in the first instance. The honourable member had said that he ought to have sub- mitted the cablegram to the Commandant from <!-- PageHeader="1" --> Colonel Davies to a medical man in Welling- ton. He might mention that the cablegram was communicated to him by telephone, and he replied that it was then too late to alter the port of arrival in the colony. If the Com- mandant had thought the matter serious he would have made representations to that effect. The following is a list of the cases of illness on board the "Tagus," reported after the ar- rival at Port Chalmers : "For your information, I forward names of sick troopers per s.s. 'Tagus' : 1232, Corporal Bell, Wellington, malaria, severe ; 2537, Ser- geant W. F. Bell, Marton, pneumonia, severe ; 2365, Private F. W. Forbes, pneumonia, very severe ; 2394, Private J. Nicholas, Auckland, pneumonia, severe ; 2601, Private E. A. Harley, Christchurch, rheumatism, improving; 2630, Saddler W. Murphy, Cheviot, malaria, con- valescent; 2533, Sergeant A. W. Webster, Hokitika, malaria, taken ill this day ; 3641, Private N. T. Martin, Dunedin, ill. should go home to friends ; 1108, Sergt .- Major L. Murphy, Invercargill, malaria, taken ill this day ; 1109, Robert McAulay, Portobello, pneu- monia, convalescent, discharged home; Mc- Kechnie, Napier, enteric, dangerous (this man was sleeping or semi-comatose, could not get his number) ; 1121, Private H. Campbell, In- vercargill, pneumonia, convalescent ; 1015, Private J. P. Heenan, Dunedin, abscess of liver after enteric, very dangerous ; 1359, Lance- Corporal D. Trengrove, Pahiatua, colic, con- valescent ; 2613, Private F. Knox, Ashburton, malaria, convalescent ; 2380, Private A. E. Nicholson, Auckland, malaria, convalescent ; 1326, Private R. Rylie, Wellington, pneumonia, convalescent ; 1137, Private J. D. Maloney, Dunedin, convalescent : 1680, Private J. S. Robertson, Kelso, dislocation of shoulder : 2241, Saddler G. Fernandos, Wellington, jaundice, convalescent ; 2724, Private E. W. S. Peck, Taranaki, pneumonia, convalescent ; 1512, Private J. W. Groves, Wairarapa, bronchitis, convalescent ; 2441, Farrier W. E. Brown, Nelson, pneumonia, convalescent ; 1453, Pri- vate H. B. Patton, Auckland, pneumonia, convalescent ; 2687, Private A. W. John- son, Taranaki, malaria, convalescent ; 1091, Trumpeter W. Cheeseman, Wellington, malaria, taken ill this day ; 1402, Sergeant J. L. Long, 