places, where works of this kind were going on, it frequently happened that for want of some legitimate form of amusement some of the men employed fell into evil habits on Sundays and other off-days. This was probably the result of the craving for excitement inherent in human nature. The police made every effort to put a stop to excessive drinking, but as the law stood at present it was often difficult for them to obtain convictions. # FREEHOLD. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he will,-(1) Take immediate steps to stop any further sales of the freehold of Crown lands ; and (2) cease leasing any more Crown lands under the lease in perpe- tuity? In 1880 this country owned twenty million acres. Between 1880 and 1900 a large quantity of Native land was bought up. yet in 1900 the colony only owned fifteen million acres-that is, they had lost five million acres in twenty years besides what they had bought from the Maoris or private owners. In addi- tion to that, the colony had parted with a large quantity under lease in perpetuity, which was really worse than selling the freehold. Although nominally fifteen million acres of land was left, yet, as some eight million acres of that was barren mountain-tops and lakes, the colony, out of its area of sixty-six million acres, was really only left with seven million acres fit for use. In view of these facts, he thought it was high time to put our foot down and say that not another acre should be parted with under any condition, except the condition that there should be a periodical revaluation, say, once every twenty or thirty years. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, Before this could be done the law would have to be changed, and at this stage of the session he would have no hope of getting a Bill through. They had the honourable gentleman (Mr. Laurenson) the member for Lyttelton, and his friends on the one side against freehold or 999-years lease, and the honourable member for Waihemo and his country friends who would fight for the freehold. The House would have to settle this. He believed it would be a very tedious and rough business to settle this matter, and it would be well into the new year before a settlement would be arrived at. Besides, the law would have to be altered before anything could be done in the way the honourable mem- ber for Lyttelton wished. # NATIVE TIMBER. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Lands,-(1) To what extent, if any, the kauri, puriri, totara, and other native timber-trees are being planted in the planta- tions and forest reserves ? and (2), Will he have printed and circulated a leaflet showing how and what native timber trees can be planted, and the kind of soil and situation necessary to insure success ? This was a matter of very great importance. Experiments had been tried in the neighbourhood of Auckland, as reported Engineers, presided over by Mr. James Stewart, C.E. These facts were made known -the trees were in Mr. Hall's plantation : A kauri-tree planted in 1877 had reached a height of 36 ft., with a girth of 1 ft. 10 in. ; a kauri-tree planted in 1878-height, 34 ft .; girth, 1 ft. 11 in .; & puriri-tree planted in 1872-height, 39 ft .; a totara-tree planted in 1873 - height, 42 ft. This showed conclusively that these 5.30. valuable timber-trees could be success- fully planted and grown. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said there was no kauri, puriri, or totara grown from seed in the nurseries as yet. The report given by the honourable member wanted veri- fying to some extent, because he had been told by those who were acquainted with our New Zealand forests that the kauri-tree thrived only when it grew amongst large plantations of trees, and that it was very little use planting kauri-trees either singly or in small numbers. Those persons acquainted with the kauri could tell by the length of the trunk of the tree at what height the original forest was, that the kauri originally shot up through the surround- ing trees. When one heard of kauri-trees being several thousand years of age one could readily suppose that the kauri was of slow growth. He had heard persons say that they had seen kauri-trees growing for forty years close to their dwellings, and in that time they noticed very little growth in the tree. That showed that the kauri was a slow-growing tree. With regard to other trees, he believed there was no nicer tree that the puriri. As an ornamental tree or a valuable tree he did not think it could be beaten. . Mr. HERRIES said it would not grow where there were hard frosts. Mr. DUNCAN supposed that where there were very hard frosts it would not grow, and in that respect it was probably something like the kauri, and many other of the Australian trees. It was a very pretty tree. The following was the departmental reply to the question :- "No kauri, puriri, or totara have yet been grown from seed in the nurseries or planted out in the plantations. The other native timbers that have been grown are kowhai, broadleaf, black mapau, and white mapau. It was contemplated to establish a nursery near Kamo, north of Whangarei, but the necessary authority to secure the land from the Railway Department was not yet received. It was in that district that it was proposed to grow puriri, totara, and kauri, as it is far enough north to give them a chance of flourishing. It was also proposed to grow there some of the Australian eucalypts, such as jarrah, ironbark, sugar-gum, black-butt and the forest red-gum; but the Australian timbers are very liable to destruction by the gum-fly, and only a few species can be grown in New Zealand." PARIROA NATIVE RESERVE BILL. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that 7.30. he stated on the previous day, with reference to a point of order raised as to whether 