that people are able to say we are more sparing in recognising what has been done by her own sons in South Africa than the Imperial Govern- ment in connection with its dealings with its soldiers. I hope the Premier will get a copy of the Royal Warrant and put our own legislation at least on equal lines with the regulations which are in force in the Old Country. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I desire, in connection with this measure, to bring under the notice of the Premier a case for which I should like to see some provision made in this Pensions Bill. The case is this-it occurred in my own city : A member of one of our con- tingents met his death. He had a mother and a father living, and also brothers and sisters. He was in the habit of keeping the family going by his earnings when he was in New Zealand. When he went away he left an order on his pay, and that kept the family going also. When he died that source of revenue was stopped. The father is an elderly man and could not make very much-I think, about 208. to 25s. a week at the outside. In the family there were two grown-up daughters who were invalids, and the result was, when the son was lost, the family were placed in very distressing circumstances indeed. Now, it appears to me that a case of that sort is one that some provision might very fairly be made for under this Bill. May I suggest that in clause 2 we ought to insert, after the word " livelihood," in the sixteenth line, these words : " or where the mother as aforesaid was dependent upon the earnings or pay of the said officer, non-commissioned officer, or private"? Then the clause would read,- "The annual allowance payable under section twelve of 'The Military Pensions Act, 1866,' shall be payable to the mother of any officer, / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero non-commissioned officer, or private, as therein mentioned, who is not a widow, in any case where her husband is incapable through in- firmity of earning his livelihood, or where the mother as aforesaid was dependent on the earnings or pay of the said officer, non-commis- sioned officer, or private, and she is otherwise lawfully entitled to such allowance." The words I have suggested would, I think, meet such a case as I have referred to, and I think the House will probably agree -- and I hope that the Premier will see it in the same light- that such an amendment will be proper. Mr. HERRIES .- Supposing the husband and wife have been separated ? Mr. BARCLAY .- Then the husband will have to contribute to the wife in any case. Mr. HERRIES .-- Supposing the husband has cleared out. Mr. BARCLAY .- Then the woman would be entitled under this clause. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- It seems to me that the honourable member for Dunedin City has made a very sensible suggestion, and in Committee I, for one, will heartily support it, for without it this clause 2 will hardly have any effect. It is very seldom that any husband is quite incapable of earning something, unless he is a charge on the State or in receipt of an Mr. Pirani very husband may be a charge on the State, and the pension that comes under this clause might be swamped in supporting the husband, who might be in some Government institution, who might sue under the Destitute Persons Act, and the wife might have to pay the whole of the pension to some Government institution ; ; or else the wife might lose her old-age pension in consequence of the provisions under this Act. \-- I think that this pension, if granted to these 1 wives, should be inalienable, and not be able to be sued on under the Destitute Persons Act. But, Sir, I have to complain about the meagre- ness of the whole way in which we are treating : the returned contingenters. Now, Sir, last session we re-enacted a statute made in 1866. What was considered right in 1866 is considered right also in these enlightened times of 1900 and 1901. And, Sir, not content with re-enact- ing the clause of 1866, we made it still more meagre, because we did not include the rela- tives included in the Act of 1866. Now, the Act of 1866 provided for a pension to the sister. Clause 13 of the Act of 1866 says,- " If such officer, non-commissioned officer, or private shall have left no widow, child, nor mother, but shall have left a sister or sisters, being orphans, having no parent nor surviving brother, and having been dependent for support upon the deceased officer, non-commissioned officer, or private, an allowance equal to the ordinary rate of widow's pension may be granted to such sister or to such sisters collec- tively under extraordinary and special circum- stances, to be judged of by the Governor, but the allowance in such case shall cease when the \--- person receiving it shall marry or shall be in any other manner sufficiently provided for." Now, that is a very humane principle, and a principle the necessity for which the honour- able member for Dunedin City has pointed out; and this, which was enacted in those old and effete times of 1866, is not re-enacted in the Act of 1900, for what reason I do not know. The Act of 1900 only applies to the widow, child, or mother. A sister, even though she may be an orphan and dependent on the person who is killed or dies, is not allowed to get any- thing out of the pension. This was pointed out at the time to the Right Hon. the Premier, but he still went on and refused to put " sister ' in the Bill. And, as the honourable member for Dunedin City has pointed out, there are cases where sisters are dependent on the person who is killed, and it is now found they have no claim on the State. Now, I want to know why our soldiers who went to the front are to be treated any worse than the soldiers who fought in the Maori War. I believe they ought to be put on a better footing, because our soldiers of 1866 in the Maori War were fighting for the hearths and homes and in defence of their own country, whereas our contingents who went to South Africa were concerned in a quarrel which really did not affect them ; they went for the honour and glory of the British flag to & foreign country, and incurred more danger to health than those who fought for New Zealand. 