The impression on my mind was that they desired to come under the Act, for this reason : they stated that they had been unable to secure from the department an increase of their wages to bring them in proportion with what they would receive outside; they had not been able to secure that which would have put them on the same footing as those in private employ- ment. For many years past the Trades and Labour Conference have carried a resolution that the Act should have general application, and those employed in the Railway service have never raised any objection to what they urged. There is one other point I would like to refer to. The Minister, in giving an account of the vote taken-I may be mistaken, but the impression left on my mind was that the vote was taken amongst all those employed in the service. Sir J. G. WARD .- The statement made by me is strictly in accordance with facts. The vote was taken in the workshops only. Mr. SEDDON .- I am in a position to con- gratulate the House on this occasion. I think our time has been well spent, and I am sorry that some of the speeches we had on the Bill in Committee were not reported, because I am sure they would have given to the world a general explanation of the labour laws, and would have met to a great extent the ob- jections that are raised against their work- ing. The member for the Bay of Plenty was determined to have something to say on the third reading of the Bill. He spoke of my not having given an opinion upon https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the amendment bringing the Government ser- vice under the operation of the Act. Well, Sir. I cannot understand myself the honour- able member's weakness in respect to this matter. He desired to have my opinion and the opinion of my colleagues upon it, and said he would be quite satisfied if he got that opinion. Why should he desire to place mem- bers of the House in an unconstitutional position, and a position which would be con- trary to the wishes of the people of the country ? I have heard the honourable member, and other honourable members, claim that the power of the purse was with them; and then in the next breath we find the honour- able gentleman wishing to take away from honourable members the power of the purse, and to hand that over to the Conciliation Boards or to the Arbitration Court. I cannot understand the honourable gentleman claiming the privilege, and then wanting to divest him- self of that very privilege which the people who sent him here have sent him to safeguard and maintain. I say that Parliament is the high Court to which every person in the colony has the right to appeal. All the servants of the Crown have the right to appeal to Parliament, and we, as the high Court, review yearly the payments made to the servants of the Crown quite different from those under an award of the Court or the Board. They have no one to review annually their payments, and I may say in this respect that triennially and after a general election the high Court of Parliament it makes to those whom it employs. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not the classified ones. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, the classified ones are, of course, exceptionally situated ; but there is no necessity for review where Parliament has fixed by classification the payments of its servants. The honourable member, I think, had to-night read out to him the authorities which are extant upon that point. You can- not divest yourself of the responsibility : the Crown is supreme; and in respect to putting & burden upon the taxpayer, that can only be done through the Crown itself. The honourable member not only asked us to do that which was unconstitutional, but he wished to take away from Parliament the power which is inherent to the position of Parliament ; and I think myself that that is a complete reply to the honourable member's desire for an opinion ; and the reasons why the Ministry could not- it is not for the Ministry-I say we should have to alter our Constitution ; and why the honour- able member should want to alter the Consti- tution and take away from the powers we have, and which are ours by virtue of the position we hold, I do not understand. What is more than that, I say this: I have always held that we should as a State be, as it were, a beacon laying down the payments which shall be a guide to those outside, and I say that the State in that respect has been a great advantage to the workers of the colony ; and it cannot 4.0. be said, when the honourable member comes to reason it out, that the servants of the State are placed at a disadvantage as compared with those who are otherwise employed. An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes; 7s. a day is below the current rate. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member forgets that he has himself given a complete answer to that. He said that practically all were driven out from private employment-that is, that the aged and infirm were driven out, and that the Government service was their salvation. Now, I can speak with knowledge upon the subject, and I say that those who are employed are receiving a fair wage, and it will be seen on examination that this is right. You would not have the State pay- ing more than is paid by private employers. There may be, of course, exceptions where private employers pay more, but those cases are exceptional ; and then the honourable member forgets that there are concessions given by the State to its servants which are not given by any private employers. I may say, too, that it does not encourage one to ac- cept amendments in Committee, when, after I have done so, the honourable gentleman tells me that I have had to accept the amendments, that I have had to swallow bitter pills, and that the Bill itself has been so mangled by the ac- ceptance of these amendments that practically it is unworkable. I say I do not think that should come from the honourable member. It does not encourage one to accept amendments, and I have accepted them because I believe they will improve the working of the law, and that 