that it is winter overland in the States at the very time New-Zealanders would go by it to visit the Old Country. There are several ways in which we could, I think, carry out a better mail-service. It might be a day or two longer. I would ask honourable members to bear in mind that the table quoted by the honourable the Postmaster-General shows the average time taken on various routes. I contend that the minimum time should be quoted, for the reason that we are now paying nothing but poundage rates to the Union Steamship Company for carrying mails to Australia for the purpose of joining the Federal route. If we were to give the Union Company a concession I have no doubt they would save us three or four days. They would run steamers to catch the Federal mail, which, being a fort- nightly mail-service, would be of more value to our business-men than the present three-weekly service, and by subsidising that line it would no doubt lead to better results. I confess that I see no possibility of New Zealand, within the next few years, being able to adapt the Van- couver service to our needs. There is a ques- tion of building faster steamers than those on the line at present. There is also the question of the contract with the Queensland Govern- ment. Both of these reasons prevent us con- sidering the Vancouver route. If we are going to assist any company, I say let it be that one that belongs to New Zealand. At the present time we have various short services which the people of New Zealand would like to see im- proved. Take, for instance, the service between https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Lyttelton and Wellington. That service, I un- derstand, the Union Company will improve in the near future, and there is no doubt they would improve it still further if a concession were / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero given to them. I know they have a monopoly of the services round the coast, and that they have losses on particular lines; but when we have anything to give it should be given to the company that is doing our own carrying trade, and we should include in any contract pro- vision for an improved fast ferry-service from Wellington to Lyttelton. I recognise that others wish to speak; but I wish to dwell for a few moments on the fact that Spreckels and Company are not at all likely to stop the ser- vice even if they get no subsidy at all, especi ally with the £52,000 subsidy given by the American Government ; and the fact that it is for the purpose of exploiting trade in the Aus- tralasian Colonies will oblige them to continue to touch at Auckland both in and out with only such rates for mail-matter as are given to other lines. I see no reason why we should give the large amount of 7s. 6d .- four times as much as is paid by Ne . South Wales. Mr. MASSEY .- What do you pay by the Federal service? Mr. BUDDO. - Only postal rates. Mr. MASSEY .- You pay 12s. per pound. Mr. BUDDO. - That is for the whole dis- tance. This proposal is for 7s. 6d. for the sea voyage across the Pacific alone, and then there are other charges. Mir. Buddo Mr. BUDDO .- Inland charges, and charges across the Atlantic. The whole has to be added together, and amounts to a much larger sum than 7s. 6d. per pound. The return we have gives the whole of the particulars, and I am simply giving the facts I find in the Post Office return. The member for Franklin quoted a special trip made by a Spreckels liner which re- sulted in a twenty-six days' service. But every steamship company who wishes to advertise can knock off a few days, and we may be certain that that rate would not be kept up, and in all probability they will not run their boats except at the minimum rate of speed. We find Van- couver was only a one-day longer service ; but we may come to the conclusion that this service is not available at the present time. The colony as a whole has no objection to the Fr'isco service running at ordinary postage rates. But, I venture to say, this House will not have the approval of the country if it goes on the unpatriotic lines of supporting a line of steamers that are not only retained by the American navy, but used as training ships, and subsidised specially by America to exploit trade in the Australian Colonies, and not in the interests of our export trade. I shall record my vote against the proposal for any additional payment to the Fr'isco service except the usual postal rates. I am quite willing that Auckland should be the port of call, and I am delighted that Auckland should have all the privileges we can give her : but I am against any special payment to a line that in no way assists our export trade, and strongly urge that some British line should be employed to convey our mails to the United Kingdom. We should aim at cheaper cable rates and a regular fortnightly service vin Australia for our business-men, and this can be obtained via Melbourne and Suez. And we must bear in mind that any assistance we render to the Federal mail-route must be of advantage to the Commonwealth of Australia, and therefore in the interests of good trade rela- tions. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I desire, in the first place, to compliment the Postmaster- General for the businesslike, and I think con- vincing speech with which he introduced these resolutions ; and I should like, also, to disclaim any approval of the aspersions which have been cast on the honourable gentleman personally by a portion of the newspaper Press in the North. I feel satisfied that the public of Auckland do not approve of those aspersions, and those who know the honourable gentleman recognise that the patriotic zeal of some writers in the Press has led them into making statements regarding the honourable gentleman that cannot be justi- fied. There is one thing of which I wish to disabuse the minds of some of the southern members, and that is the assumption that there is any wish on the part of Auckland, or the people in the North, to obtain anything for themselves which is either unjust or which would militate against the prosperity of the southern portions of the colony. We have no hostility to a Federal mail-service, and we are 