to Australasia is commendable in the very highest degree, and when that is established I venture to think that these cable rates will come down. We have been labouring under what might be called a "cursed monopoly " in the Cable Company. So much has that been the case that the Eastern Cable Company has extracted enormous profits from all those using its cables, and has been enabled to construct no less than two million pounds' worth of cables from profits alone. I think we should devote ourselves, as the Post- master-General has done, in connection with cable negotiations to reducing the cost of these cables. The question, then, of a fast mail- service will not be so important. We know that our goods are conveyed by slow-going steamers. It is not as if we were using steamers that do the distance in forty-five days, but quite a number of these cargo steamers take as long as sixty days to do the journey, and a great number of the papers required in connec- tion with the mail-service are papers connected with cargoes. I know, of course, that placing orders is a material thing ; but if you can get a reliable fortnightly service to deliver your mails when you expect them, you can do what you require in connection with the execution of business fairly satisfactorily. This is a question I had considerable experience with during the three years I was in the Home-country, where I had to carry out, as members may be aware, great trade operations with leading companies in this colony. If you get your mails really regu- larly on the date expected it does not matter much for a few days either way. Now, we had https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) making a statement that, I think, is not quite correct. He said, with the exception of the portion of the journey over the Pacific, that then the mails were conveyed by American railways, and then by fast American steamers. Now, surely the honourable gentleman must know that the Vancouver service, if it was sub- sidised and established, does not send its mail by fast American steamers. Now and again they use a fast American steamer; but the honourable gentleman must know that the leading shipping lines connecting with America are British, and that in very many instances the mails go in these British-owned vessels. Then, we have the honourable gentleman giving us a table of the time which it took to deliver the mails by the Federal and other services. Now, what we want to do in that connection is to improve our steam service with Melbourne and Sydney, and then you would have the mails delivered in something on the following lines :- "Comparison of these tables will show that the Fr'isco mail could be delivered at Auckland in thirty days on an average, Wellington thirty- two days, Christchurch and Dunedin thirty- three days for a three-weekly service. On the other hand, a weekly Federal service, with Wellington as the local terminus, could be de- livered at Wellington in thirty-eight days, Auckland forty days, Christchurch thirty-nine days, Dunedin thirty-nine days. An improved Mr. T. Mackenzie New Zealand Shipping Company and Shaw- Savill Company, running the same speed as the P. and O. and Orient liners, would average on both the outward and inward voyages thirty- five days." Now, that alludes to a Direct service on speedy lines like the Orient, which I do not think, of course, we could at present afford; but if we improve the connection between here and Aus- tralia we could have a shorter period of delivery than that mentioned by the honourable mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), and, of course, he must know that is so. Our present connection is not on the best time, and if these lines were improved I think we could then have, as I have indicated, a speedier service. Then, the honourable gentleman referred to our trade with America, and he said there was over a mil- lion and a half of trade between this country and America, the increase being all in favour of America, and, of course, this is quite correct. Let us analyse this trade, and see how it. will work out. We find that our import trade from America in 1900 was: on the east coast, £959,000 ; and on the west coast, £103,000 : total, £1,062,000-that was what we imported from the east and west coast of America. Our ex- ports to the east coast amounted to £424,000, and to the west coast £34,000; so that really there is very little trade with the west coast of America at all. The great bulk is with the east coast, and of that $424,000 no less than £378,000 represented kauri-gum. Now, kauri- gum cannot be obtained in any other country but New Zealand, and it was no compliment to us for the Americans to take our kauri-gum. It gives the American varnish manufacturers an advantage they would not otherwise possess if they did not get it from us. And I say it would be a very great advantage if the British manu- facturers got the whole of the kauri-gum, be- cause that would give them a superiority in the manufacture of varnish. I merely point out that what they take from us they can- not get from any other country in the world. Let us examine how our trade with America stands. Every year America is increasing her exports to us and every year is buying less in return. Ten years ago our imports from America were $361,000; last year, $1,062,000. Ten years ago America took from us $583.000 worth of goods'; last year she took only £456,000. Yet the Auckland members would have you believe that our trade was steadily "increasing." Then, let us take the trade we are doing with the west coast of America, which the advocates of the Fr'isco service would have us believe is in a healthy and progressive state, and which they would per- suade this House would be dreadfully crippled were we to discontinue the subsidy to the Fr'isco service. Why, it is decaying now ; it could not possibly be worse. Take the past three years : in 1898 the exports to the American west coast were $286,000; in 1899, €45,885 ; and in 1900, only $33,560. In 1898-and this is rather an interesting point, because the member for Auckland City (Mr. 