North of Auckland, and if that was the way they were to be thanked for helping the North of Auckland he would be inclined to let the North of Auckland help itself. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said the motion he had moved was moved in a perfectly bona fide manner, and he was quite in earnest over it. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said he was not going to find fault with any honourable mem- bers, but with the Cabinet. He thought the Ministers had reason to feel regret, and even to blush, for the manner in which they had treated the North of Auckland district. There was only too much truth in what honourable gentlemen had said in complaining of the amount allo- cated to the North, and to the expenditure upon a railway that had been pressed upon the attention of the Government year after year, and for which many definite promises had been made. He felt ashamed of the iniquities on these estimates. There was a large amount of money which could only be called wasted, whilst there was such a very small amount awarded for roads. The Premier had asserted in the House that no one had more consideration for farmers than himself ; but that was not his (Mr. Monk's) feeling, but rather that the farmers were ignored, because in this House there were too few of them to be considered, which was a strong argument in favour of their combining for the protection and recognition of their claim to an equitable share of the public money. He had no doubt the Premier spent money https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 where there was the most pressure. The amount that had been spent over the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall might well make their visit to be remembered by the country people with regret rather than thank- fulness, when they were made to suffer all kinds of inconvenience, and to contribute large sums of money upon this and the other items for mere show and fites to be found throughout the estimates. Much as members and the people generally sympathized with Royalty and the people of Australia in connection with the in- auguration of the Commonwealth. they felt that more economy and care should have been exer- cised. It was impossible to defend the manner in which this expenditure had been conducted during the last six months. It was not well for us to be extravagant at the cost of works that the people must have or else suffer in conse- quence. If the prosperity of New Zealand was to be achieved at all, the community would have to slave for long hours with low prices, and compete with the energy of the world in selling their products. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) must express his regret at the manner in which the moneys for the Public Works Fund had been allocated. The Minister for Public Works in his Statement said that after bringing down his public works estimates he had a sum of $300,000 odd not then allocated ; also, there was an extra quarter of a million voted for the Public Works Fund, and yet they found an allocation of only $178,000. Why should not the unallocated Mr. Palmer placed on the supplementary estimates ? Even that was not allocated. He must call attention also to the wretched amount put down to roads and bridges. Out of the €178,000 allocated to Public Works Fund only $38,000 was for roads. He must say the Minister for Public Works Was treating the back-block settlers and the roadless people with a hard-heartedness which he (Mr. Herries) had not thought he was capable of. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said the amount placed on the supplementary estimates for roads in his own particular district was very small inderd. especially when many applications hall teac made for important works. The only distru: that had come off well in this respect was Westland. Westland altogether received abos; as many thousands as other districts did hun- dreds. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Paldie Works) wished to reply to the statements wheni the smallness of the vote for the railway norte of Auckland. He had received the following letter during the session from a gentleman in that district :- "Komokoriki, 5th July, 1901. "DEAR SIR, -While the settlers here nete with pleasure the business-like manner work s progressing on the Komokoriki Section. vet the committee would respectfully draw your atten. tion to the imperative need of pushing on the permanent survey. "It is alike to the best interests of the rai. way and to the settlers that it should be price- cuted without delay, so that the work can go on uninterrupted. " The committee hope that the continuity of policy that has obtained latterly shall be main- tained .- I am, &c .. "ALFRED WOODCOCK, Jun., "Chairman, Ahuroa Railway Committee. "The Hon. the Minister for Public Works." This showed the settlers had confidence in the Government, and the result would show that their confidence was not misplaced. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked why the Minister did not reconcile that with the wes on the estimates. To-day he had received a telegram from the very gentleman the Minister mentioned-Mr. Woodcock-protesting acs LX the smallness of the grant for the North of Auckland Railway. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said. In his opa.a. the Minister for Public Works had done } best to distribute the money at his dispo it it such a way as to give a reasonable amount of satisfaction to members who are prepared :: accept a fair arrangement. He was sorry iic so much money was being expanded in ton! ! to put New Zealand on a war footing, an : Lt hoped such expenditure as had lately takt: place in this direction would not take place again for many years to come. If half or :w- thirds of this money had been devoted t. r.i: and bridges, the effect on the colony wouldl hat been most salutary. 