members generally. To my mind, the manner in which the Auckland papers have dictated to their representatives and to the rest of the colony has been the quintessence of impertinence. I think it is well to put some of these sayings on record, and I ask if free men in this colony are to be dictated to by one section of the colony in the way the Auckland papers have spoken to their members, and to other members of the House. Here, for instance, is the way they speak of the Postmaster-General, who has been doing all that any one could do to foster this service consistently with benefit to the colony. This is the way one of the papers speaks of the Postmaster-General :- " It is very evident that there has been a telepathetic sympathy between our Postmaster- General and some pawky Scotchmen largely interested in southern shipping." I ask honourable members from the South, I ask Mr. MeLachlan, who, I suppose, is one of the pawky Scotchmen, I ask every southern member to rise and vote against this when members of the House are thus spoken of. Here, again, is another nice refined reference when speaking of the proposals. The writer calls them "the Jesuitical resolutions of the Hon. Sir J. G. Ward." An Hon. MEMBER .- What paper is that in ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- In the Herald. . Then, again, there is this : "He is trying to pay for the penny postage and favourite expenditure in other directions by economizing on the San Francisco mail-service." Now, I say, as one sitting on the Government benches, I have too much respect for the Postmaster-General to see him maligned in this way. And the only way to demonstrate my disapproval is to vote against him and his proposals. It is paradoxical I know, but it is consistent and logical. Then, again, will the Wellington members mentally note this. Let the honourable gentlemen who represent Wellington listen to this :- "To encourage the insatiable greed and aggrandisement of Wellington, the Postmaster- General is ready to ignore the superiority of the present line." Again I say that that sort of language is such that no self-respecting member for Auck- land could indorse, and I urge them to rise as one man and smite these papers hip and thigh by voting against the San Francisco mail-service. This service is called the " Auck- land ewe-lamb," but, judging from the above specimens of writing, it is a very black sheep indeed. Then, this is the way Auckland mem- bers are autocratically dictated to. Why, I would sooner resign my position in the House than that a paper in my electorate should dic- tate to me in such a way. An Hon. MEMBER. - You would not take notice of it. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - I would take this notice of it : that I would not keep silence or allow it to pass without protest. This is what they say :- "The Auckland members are expected to sacrifice every other political consideration to understand that any slackening upon this all- important question will imperil their parlia- mentary career." Well, again, I ask the Auckland members have they read these papers? I am sure they have not read them, otherwise they would have taken some action to show they were not going to submit to such dictation. I really expect some of the Auckland members, in consequence of this kind of writing, to say they are going to walk into the "Noes" lobby when the House comes to a vote. Mr. SEDDON. - Do you expect them to im- peril their political life ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I think they could take their chance of that, for it is simply the vapourish utterances of the so-called "mass meeting " of sixty-four people in Auckland the other evening. I see that one of the speakers at that mass meeting used these words : - "They should be prepared to say to their representatives, in the event of their returning without doing their duty to Auckland in respect to the three great questions discussed that even- ing, ' You can take a back seat.' " Now, Sir, I am perfectly certain these papers are not voicing the opinion of Auckland. I have too high an opinion of Auckland and of the Auckland members to believe that. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was a Dunedin boy who said that. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I do not know who the man was who said it. I find he was one of the speakers at this huge mass meeting of sixty-four people. Then, again, we have not only the action of the papers, we have not only the disrespectful attitude of a section of the Auckland representatives, but I go so far as to say that it is discreditable, and in the very worst taste, that we find a member not only attending a Government caucus where the subject was to some extent discussed, but that he has telegraphed up to Auckland a report of what he imagined he said, and what he threatened to do: "Threatened the Govern- ment, if they did not bring the San Fran- cisco proposals down and put them through, he and the other Auckland members would leave the Government party." Picture to one's self this fin de siècle Samson at the feast of Dagon, with arms extended to encircle the pillars of the temple of Seddonia, and with one herculean effort bringing destruction-"at his death more than they which he slew in his life." This sort of thing is nauseating to myself and others, who perhaps might have given a more calm and logical consideration to the question but for the insufferable bounce, bluster, and dictation of the Auckland Press and the egoism and rhodomontade of the senior member for Auckland City. Well, Sir, I pos- sibly have spoken at greater length than I in- tended to do, but I feel what I have said, and it is my intention to vote against the San Fran- cisco service for the reasons-short, simple, and brief-which I have laid before the House. It may be thought I have taken just a superficial view of the matter, but, at any rate, these are 