to which we must not more closely refer, persist in endeavouring to make an arrange- ment with Messrs. Spreckels for the con- tinuance of this Fr'isco service. I conclude, as I began, by saying that this is not a ques- tion affecting Wellington. What does it matter to Wellington whether one steamer a month or three weeks dodges into port, and leaves again after a stay of about eight hours? Of what possible benefit would that be to us? What can it matter to us? You can see constantly at the Queen's Wharf here, any day of the week, five or six steamers larger than Spreckels's boats. That is not a matter of wonder and jubilation. But the arrival of a large steamer in the Port of Auckland constitutes a red-letter day. The people of Auckland rush down to the wharf and beam with delight. The return which I hold in my hand shows that during the last year 5,000 tons of cargo arrived at the Port of Auckland from San Francisco. Fancy ! Five thousand tons in a year ! Why, there is one boat now at the Wellington wharf which carries twice that amount of cargo. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- In rising to speak at this particular juncture I must confess that, to a certain extent, I am placed in a rather awkward position, because, of the three speakers who have already spoken on this question, two were decidedly hostile to the Fr'isco service, and one-not the last speaker-I think I may say, "damned it with faint praise." All three speakers used a great many words in their ad- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 dresses, but I am afraid that not one of them used many sound arguments, as I think I shall be able to show presently. The only argument used by the last speaker was that, according to the arrangement made between the Oceanic Company and the United States Government, in the event of the United States being involved in war the vessels now employed in the service would be withdrawn. Does the honourable member not recognise the same argument ap- plies to vessels trading between Australia and the Mother-country in the event of Britain being involved in war ? Mr. FISHER .- It applies only to specially selected boats. Mr. MASSEY. - It actually applies to some of the ships at present trading between the Mother-country and New Zealand, and the honourable member should know it. A' great deal has been said about the all-red route, but may I remind the last speaker of this: Would it not be a benefit to us, in case of England being involved in war, if our mails were carried under a neutral flag, and therefore not be liable to any interference? And is not that an argu- ment in favour of the Fr'isco service ? Now I come to the speech of the Postmaster-General. There is one opinion expressed by the honour- able gentleman with which I agree. He de- precated many of the statements which have been made in regard to our mail-services, and particularly in regard to the F'r'isco service ; and I wish to say this: that I hope that, in considering the important question which is Mr. Fisher all the unwise, silly, and injudicious statements which have been made with regard to the Fr'isco service, and that they will simply remember An Hon. MEMBER .- Who by ? Mr. MASSEY .- I will not say who by ; but I trust that honourable members will simply remember that we are here as the represen- tatives of the people and as the Parliament of this country, and that it is our business to make arrangements for the best, the fastest, and the most efficient service between this colony and Europe. I may say in passing that I no more approve of the shipping laws of the United States than do the speakers who have preceded me, and I hope that there will be an improvement in that respect. But is it to be said, as has been suggested by those speakers, that we are to increase the postal distance by over a week between this colony and the great centres of population in Europe with which we do business simply to express our disapproval of the American shipping laws ? I sin- 8.0. cerely hope that we have too much wisdom, at all events, to do anything of the sort. If the San Francisco service is costing us too much, if it is costing more than it is worth, that is another matter ; but in this connection let us remember, as has been admitted by, I think, the Post- master-General, that many years ago-I think. over thirty years-the Australian Colonies paid £100,000 for a four-weekly service, and for boats which in point of size, speed, and con- venience were not to be compared with the boats at present engaged in this trade; and that was purely an American firm. Then, the Post- master-General referred to the now famous letter written by the passengers of the " Moana," and he used that as an argument in favour of his proposal. It may be used as an argument in favour of the proposal now before the House, but it certainly is not an argument in favour of the abolition of the San Francisco service. I will not read the letter as it is of too great a length, but let me say shortly what it is. The passen- gers commence by setting out that the Oceanic Company requires a subsidy of $30,000 from New Zealand. I need hardly say that the Oceanic Company has never demanded anything of the sort. They asked, I believe, at one time for a subsidy of £26,000, but I have reason to believe that the Oceanic Company are willing to con- tinue the present service and at the present rate, which, I need hardly say, is a long way short of $30,000 a year. Then, going on, the passengers say,- " While fully recognising the value to the colony of such a fast and up-to-date service as is contemplated under the new contract, we cannot refrain from expressing our sincere hope that a modus operandi may yet be found whereby an equally suitable service may be secured in which British vessels can partici- pate. Possibly the publication in New Zealand of the above cable message, and the explanation contained in this letter, will, by drawing atten- tion to the matter, help to strengthen the 