It has been shown by the number of cases settled in and the number of cases carried to the Arbitration Court that the majority of those who have disputes wish to go to the Arbitration Court rather than to the Conciliation Board, because they get their dispute settled in less time, the expense would be less, and the de- cisions would be final. So, therefore, I think we will do well to allow the parties to a dispute the option of going to whichever tribunal they wish, either the Arbitration Court or the Con- ciliation Board. Then, Sir, the next ques- tion arises, Can either party take them there? I say, Yes; and that should be the case now. What happens at present ? One party can take them to the Conciliation Board. They must go there if one party to the dispute says so ; and if the Conciliation Board has not settled a dispute to the satisfaction of one of the parties the matter is sent to the Arbitration Court. Why cannot one party take the matter to the Arbitration Court, instead of the Act requiring the dispute to be sent there from the Conciliation Board? My idea is that when disputes go to the Conciliation Board they have passed the conciliation stage, and have gone to the fighting stage ; and when they have reached the fighting stage you should take them at once to the final and deciding Court. My idea of a Conciliation Board is that the Government should appoint an independent Chairman, but that each party to the dispute ought to select its own members-it may be persons connected with the trade or not -- and that these delegates https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 should discuss the matters in dispute across the table, and, if necessary, refer any point of difference between them to an independent Chairman. In many cases I have seen this course followed, and I have been a party along with others who have settled disputes in this way that never became public. My honour- able friend Mr. Jennings and myself once had a little experience of that. That is the time for conciliation, and not when it has reached the stage that it goes before the Conciliation Boards. The Conciliation Board as at present constituted has proved a failure, and I think we in Dunedin, who have the best Board in the country, have not settled many cases-a great many have gone to the Arbitration Court. Well, we should go direct to the Arbitration Court, or give the parties the option of saying which Court they will go to. If that option is given, and the Arbitration Court can be gone to direct, disputes will be settled quicker and at far less cost than now. I think we shall do well if we retain that clause which gives either party the right to go to the Arbi- tration Court at once. Then, we have heard a great deal about these marked men, and it is said that if the experts appointed in a dis- pute belong to that particular trade they will suffer. That has not been my experience. admit at once there have been instances of it ; but my opinion is that if any one in a trade would have been a marked man I would have been, and that has not been the case. I have been both an employer and an employé, and Hon. Mr. Pinkerton back to the bench again, would give me work to-morrow and make me welcome. I refer to the firm of A. and T. Inglis, of Dunedin, one of the best employers in the country. I had a dispute there once. It did not affect the rest of the employés, and I fought it through, and I had the respect of the firm and the men. I think the marked-man busi- ness has gone a little too far. I admit this : that in the days gone by, before trade-union- ism was as far advanced as now, persons who took a prominent part in the promotion of unionism were marked men ; but that time has gone by. Unions think they ought to have the right to say whether it shall be their men or some one outside the particular union. I can remember a case in which a dispute was settled by the Hon. Mr. Jennings and myself, and neither of us belonged to the particular union. It was settled in a way satisfactory to the employer and the employés. If you take the number of cases that have gone before the Conciliation Boards you will find that the great majority of cases have had to go on to the Arbitration Court. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Conciliation Boards. have settled points. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- These points could just as well have been settled by the. Arbitration Court. The gentlemen of that Court are men of experience. The Judge at the head of it is accustomed to take evidence, and he knows when the parties are going too far. That gentleman, I am convinced, would not like things to go on for weeks and weeks, and state- ments to be made that do harm. Disputes would be quicker and better settled before the Arbitration Court. Now, Sir, long before the Conciliation Board or the present labour laws came into existence the bootmakers and tailoresses had Boards of their own, and they referred disputes to these Boards, and in almost every case they were settled to the satisfaction of both parties ; but since the present Concilia- tion Boards were set up trouble arose, and they have not been so satisfactorily settled since that time. While I do not advocate the setting. up of special or private Boards, as in this Bill, I think something might be done to reduce the amount of friction and trouble caused by the various disputes, and the roundabout and cumbrous way they have to go about them. It has been said that awards run for two years, and a renewal is desired, and that, before a renewal can be obtained, unless they come to some settlement themselves they have to go through all this trouble again. Why should that be ? Surely the Arbitration Court is quite able to settle all these things. I think that the parties to a dispute might have the option to say to which Court they will go, and I venture to say this : that, given that option, in almost every case they will go direct to the Arbitration I Court. We have also been told that certain employers will not settle matters. It does not matter which party refuses, either party has the right to say, " You shall go to that Court." Surely that is far better than it is when we 