good man ; but the appointment was conferred able member for Hawke's Bay and the gentle- by the Executive Committee of the Association. men opposite that the resignation of Mr. Hon MEMBERS .--- Oh ! Mr. SEDDON said he was well recommended. Now, he was going to emphasize this point: that there were no paid canvassers by the Government either in connection with the Patea or any other electorate throughout the colony. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay did not mince matters, and was not over particular what he said about the Government. Captain RUSSELL .- Hear, hear. Mr. SEDDON said, Then they must agree to differ. In the Electoral Bill of last year, he believed, they passed a clause making it almost criminal to canvass. He had heard it said that the co-operative workers were paid voters for the Government ; and the late sitting member, Mr. Haselden, attacked them and said it was a shame they should make 10s. a day. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able member could not refer to that. Mr. SEDDON said he would not pursue that matter any further. Then, with regard to the honourable member for Egmont, who said that gentleman had got a friend and did not know because he had taken some action in respect to the requirements of the Patea district he had incurred the displeasure of Ministers. Nothing of the kind. He might say that in some in- stances matters had come direct to him (Mr. Seddon) from the district, and he had acted as member for the Patea district, because that district was placed in a most unfortunate posi- tion. He was not going to blame the Opposi. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tion, but he did say if there was any scandal in connection with the Patea seat it was due to the fact that for nearly the whole of last session that electorate was disfranchised. The sitting member had made up his mind never to come back to the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. SEDDON said that gentleman had left the colony, and it was stated unmistakably that he was going to be domiciled in South Africa. He had no intention whatever of coming back, and he said so. Mr. FLATMAN. - It was in the hands of the Opposition last session. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. SEDDON said, At all events, he was not on the rolls? The next question was, as it had going to be thrown off the trend of his remarks. If there was any scandal attached to it, it was by reason of the fact of a gentleman leaving the colony for good, and not resigning, and leaving his district disfranchised for two-thirds of the session. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about New Ply- mouth ? Mr. SEDDON said the question of a sitting member who had not left the colony for good, but who was away on business in the interest of the colony and of the district he represented, and who had gone Home with the entire con- currence of his constituents, was entirely dif- ferent : and the House, recognising that, had granted him leave of absence from time to time. The clectors of Patea were entitled to the fullest Government of seeing that the Returning Officer sympathy. Then there came another phase of George Hutchison was in New Zealand, and that it was held over till Parliament assembled. And what reason possible was there for that ? Was it that the sitting member should draw the salary without penalties ? Mr. MASSEY said there were penalties last session. Mr. SEDDON said, At any rate, the question was, Why should that resignation have been withheld, when it was a matter of such moment now, as laid down by the member for Hawke's Bay, that there should be no postponement ? If it was so urgent that the election should take place now, why was it that the resigna- tion, being in the hands of a supporter of the Opposition- Mr. MASSEY .- Who was it ? Mr. SEDDON said, Mr. Mullock, Mr. Hutchi- son's manager. Mr. MASSEY said he had never heard the name before. Mr. SEDDON said, Well, the honourable it. He simply said that the person was re- sponsible for losing five weeks of the session to the Patca electorate. He was the gentleman who held the resignation, and there was such a close affinity between that gentleman and Mr. Haselden that he could simply say that the resignation was held over with the know- ledge and with the consent of some one who held the view held by the leader of the Oppo- sition, namely : "We will not put in the resig- nation until the session starts, because if we put it in then Ministers cannot get away from Wellington to take part in the election." An Hon. MEMBER .- Absolute nonsense. Mr. SEDDON said, That may have been the reason why the resignation was not tendered, and it was quite open to him to put that colour upon it. He called that reasonable and fair criticism, and it was turning the tables on the member for Hawke's Bay. There was another matter that members did not seem to know and realise, and that was that nearly 50 per cent. of the electors did not vote ; and the question was, should they be given an opportunity of getting been declared no election, should they ever have been struck off the roll? That opened up a very wide field. The reason why he asked for a fortnight's extension was that the electors claimed that, owing to the day of the election being wet, and regarding it as a certainty with two Government candidates in the field, they did not vote. Now that we asked for three days to give them a chance of getting their names on the roll, it was not right or generous that he should be met in the way he had been that afternoon. Personally, he thought that both Mr. Heslop and Mr. Haselden were sufficiently well known ; and it was for the electors to decide who was to represent them in Parliament. There was the responsibility on the appointed saw that the rolls were complete, and 