House could attend. Mr. SEDDON said, if members were appointed as delegates they could attend, but that would be for the Conference to say. He thought it would be well to keep politics out of the matter. He should say that the Conference would be open, but that would be for the Conference itself to decide. STEAMERS BETWEEN NEW ZEALAND AND SOUTH AFRICA. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Go- vernment, Whether, seeing that this colony is likely to be affected by the proposed Australian tariff, the Government will, with all possible despatch, arrange for a line of steamers to run between New Zealand and South Africa? He would like to ascertain from the Premier whether anything had been done in the matter, or whether the Government intended to do any- thing. He was of opinion that if it was necessary now to subsidise a line of steamers between New Zealand and South Africa, it was also necessary over twelve months ago, and he thought that these steamers should have been running now. The matter seemed to be unduly delayed, and he felt sure that the country was anxious to know whether the Government in. tended to do anything in the matter or not. If this matter was further delayed, some other country would obtain the whole of the African trade. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was the in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tention of the Government to submit proposals to the House in respect to establishing a line of steamers between New Zealand and South Africa. Mr. FLATMAN .- It ought to have been done long ago. Mr. SEDDON said they had at the pre- sent time a line of steamers running every six weeks, but the conditions and circum- stances were such that there was no certainty, and the freights were so high that they did not prove a success. The Government thought it was necessary that something should be done, and proposals would be made, and he thought they would be adopted; and he be- lieved they would be in the best interests of the producers. He thought the colony might go as far as $30,000 a year, which was rather a heavy subsidy, but still he thought it was worth it. Germany subsidised her steamers with the view of promoting her trade ; France was doing so, and America prac- tically was doing so. We would, of course, be handicapped until we resumed our normal condition and got other markets for our pro- ducts ; and we must bestir ourselves, and the Government would submit proposals to the House later on, and he hoped those proposals would be carried. In the meantime the Government were ascertaining what could be done. His own view of the matter was this : They must not go in for speed, or passengers. They wanted vessels of the tramp class, which would carry large weights on a small coal- consumption. Time was not essential. He stores at the Cape, or else they would want a hulk there, so that they could place their meat and produce upon it, pending the disposal of the produce and sending it away into the in- All these matters had engaged the terior. attention of the Government, and they had complete proposals to submit to Parliament. INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION ACT. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) asked the Premier, Whether he will explain why he stated in his speech on Labour Day, as reported in the New Zealand Times of the 10th October, "that the amendments in the Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act, as made by this House, would destroy the principle of the Act by 'wiping' out con- ciliation," when clause 6 of the new Bill enacts, "Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore con- tained, it is hereby declared that in any part of the colony, whether included in a district or not, and whether a Board of Conciliation has been duly constituted or not, a special Board of Conciliation shall, on the application of either party to the dispute, and in the prescribed manner, be constituted from time to time to meet any case of industrial dispute"; and, fur- ther, that in case of non-agreement the dis- pute can be referred to the Arbitration Court by either party? He would like the Premier to give an explanation of the statement he made when he addressed the labour unions on Labour Day in Wellington to the effect that the changes that were made by the House in the Bill were for the purpose of doing away with conciliation, while, as a matter of fact, the only object was to change the Board of Conciliation as at present constituted to a Board of Conciliation that would consist of the employers and the unions. There was no in- tention whatever of doing away with the sys- tem of conciliation and arbitration. The Pre- mier stated, "The change would destroy the principle of the Act, which was that there should be conciliation." " The change he referred to would wipe out conciliation." "He was a plain, blunt man, and said what he knew to be truth. They must stand by the principle of conciliation." He (Mr. Willis) said that the object of those who brought in the amendment of the Act was to make changes which would be in the interests of arbitration. The Pre- mier's remarks conveyed the idea that those who made these changes were the enemies of the Act, and that it was their desire that the principle of arbitration should be done away with, when, as a matter of fact, it was only done in the interests of that particular prin- ciple, because it was hoped that under the new system it would work better in the future than it had worked in the past, and give more satis- faction both to employers and workers. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member for Wanganui was not generous in the manner in which he had placed this question on the Order Paper. The honourable member desired to shirk a responsibility and to cast it upon the member for Palmerston. The amend- 