that it applies to everything that a tourist who comes round wants to take with him ; and I think it is a good thing they are allowed to buy what they want, so long as the curios are not of any great value to the colony. Still, if this Bill is carried out as it is it would entirely stop this, because any Customs officer might stop an article when a passenger was leaving ; and, anyhow, they would have to write down to the Governor in Council to see if the colony wished to purchase it. There may be such things as a small carved paddle, or small mat, or walking-sticks, which tourists often buy, and they will have to write down to the Govern- ment or go through some red-tape process to know if the Government want to purchase it before they can take it away from the colony. I say that would be putting the tourists to a lot of inconvenience which they should not be sub- jected to. There is no reason why these small things, which are of no practical value to the colony, should be subject to the provisions of this Bill. But I would like to see the Bill amended in some way so as to make it apply really to important things, leaving the ordinary small curious in just the same position as they are now. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is the intention. Mr. HERRIES .- "That is the intention"; but what I complain of is that the Bill goes much further than is the intention of the honourable member. An Hon. MEMBER .- One word in clause 4 would put it right. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. HERRIES. - Yes, it may be amended in Committee; but the Bill as it stands would affect the tourist traffic in a serious degree. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is all to be left to the regulations. Mr. HERRIES. - The regulations have to receive the approval of the Governor in Council only, and are not submitted to the House. There is a more serious matter, however, and that was mentioned by the member for Auck- land City (Mr. Fowlds), and that is that it might put a stop to a very good habit which exists amongst the Natives of executing carv- ings, which habit should be encouraged to the utmost possible degree ; and great credit is due to Mr. Nelson, of Whakarewarewa, in getting the modern part of his fine house carved. We should encourage the production of copies of the old carvings, and unless you have tourists who are able to buy these things the Natives naturally will not carve them. The same remark applies to mats. It would be a great thing to get the Maori women to weave the beautiful mats which they used to weave ; but what is the use of them doing so unless they can get a market for them ? If the tourist is not allowed to take them out of the colony except by going through a lot of red-tape, I say that the market will be closed, and that will be a matter of some concern to the colony. I do not offer these criticisms in a captious spirit. I do not oppose the principle of the Bill ; we all agree with the principle of the Bill : but I think some provision should be made so that the small Mr. Herries under the provisions of the measure. I agree that all important curios-curios of historic value, meres, carvings of whares, and other things -should be kept in the colony. I would, how- ever, ask the Minister if he cannot in Com- mittee devise some amendment which would minimise the objectionable parts of the Bill to. which I have alluded. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City). - I also con- gratulate the honourable gentleman on having introduced this Bill; but I differ from those who have said that its provisions are too dras- tic. I do not consider that the provisions of the measure are drastic enough. I would like to see a law passed similar to that which exists in the Kingdom of Italy, under which there is an absolute prohibition against the export of any articles of archaeological or historical value or relating to the history of the country. It is our imperative duty to preserve all the memo- rials and the priceless treasures of the great Maori race, and that is what this Bill is in- tended to effect. It is not intended to inter- fere with traffic in modern productions, or the articles referred to by the member for the Bay of Plenty. Under section 7 it would be possible so to frame regulations, which the Governor in Council is empowered to make, as to pre- vent any inconvenience through a too extensive interpretation of the phrase " Maori relics." I should like to see an amendment of the Bill as far as the interpretation of " Maori relics " is concerned. Of course, the term " Maori" will embrace our fellow-subjects of the Cook Islands, which are included in the extended boundaries But the term " Maori " of New Zealand. would not include the race of islanders on the other Pacific islands, now included within the boundaries of New Zealand, and which are out- side the Cook Islands. I would urge that the museum the honourable gentleman refers to as likely to be established should include, as was the intention of the late Sir George Grey, the relics and memorials of the various races of the Pacific islands. There are endowments which have been given for the education in New Zea- land of the children of Pacific-islanders. Sir George Grey looked forward to the time when there would exist a great Pacific Federation, of which New Zealand should be the centre, and he, as Governor, made grants of land, most of which is now held by the Anglican Church, for the education of children of the Pacific- islanders. I think the memorials of the various races of the Pacific islands ought to be preserved in a national museum here. Many of the best collections have been already scattered. There was a magnificent collection of curiosities from the various islands of the Pacific in the possession of a Wellington citizen- Mr. Kohn- some years ago-a collection that. I believe, was of great historic and scientific value. I believe that collection has been seat- tered ; but there are several other collections that ought to be secured, notably in the United Kingdom. Now, with regard to the fear that has been expressed of interfering with the rights of those who have been engaged in the 