the land. That was to get over the difficulty where a number of small holdings extended over a large block, so that they might get revenue out of the land not required for their own homes by leasing it. To do this the Council must make the land accessible, open up the block by forming tracks, and culverts must be constructed, so that the persons who intend to lease it may get on to the land. Well, all that requires money, and there was no way of pro- viding it if it was left in the hands of the in- dividual Native owner, so it could only be done by the Council acting as the trustees of the owners. They might borrow money from the lending institutions of the Government, and get revenue obtained by leasing the land that was not required for use by the Natives themselves. That would pay interest and sinking-fund on the money borrowed to improve the leasing- value of the block. Surely that is a good object, and I cannot see a better way of getting the land owned by Maoris into actual use than that. When that is done, revenue will be derived, and can be applied to those purposes. In a year or two the Natives will get possession of their own homesteads, which are under the Act inalienable. Of course, this takes time. It is impossible to deal with three or four million acres of land in a rapid or hurried fashion ; it must be dealt with by accurate sur- vey, in order to give satisfaction to the Natives and secure to them a sound title. I think myself the Bill is a very good one, and that these amendments will make the provisions of the present Act workable. An Hon. MEMBER .- How about the question of papakainga, raised by the Hon. Mr. Wil- liams ? The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- That is to get land for the Natives to settle on. The Natives must first get their interest defined by the Native Land Court, and the Native Council itself, after the interest is located by survey, deals with it, and then the Native owner gets a permanent title. The Natives have their interest in the land defined by the Land Court ; but it is not located, but power is given to the Maori Councils for them to locate the land and give a title. It takes time, but in the meantime all these inter- ests in the land are protected, and the land not required to be used by the Natives is utilised for the benefit of the Natives who have a claim to the surplus land. The Hon. Mr. TOMOANA .- Sir, I wish to say a few words on the Bill now before the Council. I do not think there is any necessity for honourable members now to discuss this Bill at any great length, as it is now before the Council and they have had an opportunity of seeing what the Bill proposes. For the last thirty years, since there has been a Parliament in this country, the Natives have continually petitioned to have the provisions of the Treaty of Waitangi respected. The Acts relative to the Native lands, for many years passed, have not been framed according to the wishes of the Natives, but according to the wishes of the European members of Parlia- a member of the other House, and he then urged there should be one law for the Euro- pean and one for the Native. The members then said that would not do; but that the Maoris should be allowed to manage their own land, provided that the land was subdivided, and each Native's interest was defined ; but instead of that being done a number of different Acts were passed which did not carry out the wishes of the Natives. For instance, there was & separate Act passed for the West Coast settle- ment reserves, and then there was a Public Trustee appointed who was given power to deal with some of the lands; and we do not know to this day whether those Acts are working satisfactorily or not. When I was a member of the other branch of the Legislature I in- troduced a Bill myself, asking that power should be given to the Natives to set up Committees to inquire into and settle the Native titles to the land. There was a good deal of discussion on that Bill, which was eventually passed, but it was passed without furnishing any authority to the Natives, who were therefore unable to do any work under it. The members in the Parliament have never offered to point out to the Natives the direction in which legislation should go to carry out their wishes; but directly the Natives bring forward any Bill, then they are all ready to point out the defects in that Bill. What the Maoris desire is that there should be an Act passed based on the conditions stated in the Treaty of Waitangi. When the Treaty of Waitangi was first agreed upon between the two races it was equivalent to an engagement between the two parties, and the Native chiefs then all agreed that the authority over the land and over the people should be vested in the Queen ; and, in return, it was stated that Her Majesty would return to the Natives the management of their lands, their fisheries, their forests, and their eel- weirs, and such like. From that time to this the Natives have been continually begging for a just and equitable law under which they may deal with their lands. They have had to come year after year asking for fresh legislation. I will not detain the Council long, but I could speak for a lengthy time on the provisions of the Treaty of Waitangi, and on the objections made by honourable members to this Bill. It has been stated that the Natives are afraid of this Act, and say they will suffer under it. It is my opinion the Natives have been spoken to by the Native agents, and have been told that they will suffer if the Bill is passed. I feel sure it is so - the Native agents have been telling the Natives they will suffer under the provisions of this Bill. I believe also that these agents are the cause of most of the trouble in the Native Land Courts in connection with the settlement of the titles to Maori blocks. I believe, too, it is owing to their proceedings in the Courts that the Judges are liable to give wrong decisions in the cases that come before them ; because in certain cases where the matter is left to the Judges 