by "W. Gray, Secretary to the Post Office," appears in parliamentary paper F .- 6B. I will read the second paragraph of this letter to Mr. Dunnett, the New Zealand representative of Spreckels and Company :--- "Your letter was submitted for the con- sideration of Cabinet ; and Sir Joseph Ward desires me to say that Government is unable to accept Mr. Spreckels's proposals, but has de- cided to offer him a subsidy of £12,000 a year for five years for the service in question, subject, however, to ratification by Parliament. The Postmaster-General will be glad if you will at once communicate with Mr. Spreckels and oblige him with an early and definite reply." That letter is dated 21st August, 1901, less than two months ago. Surely that indicates in the clearest possible manner what was the in- tention of the Government in the matter-that they have made up their minds that the Fr'isco service is to continue. If any further proof were needed it is to be found in the internal evidence that can be gleaned from the resolutions them- selves, which clearly points to the intention of the Government to carry on the San Francisco mail-service with Spreckels. Now, I do not in- tend to detain the House at any great length on this matter, but I should like to ask, in the first place, this question : Is it desirable that the San Francisco mail-service should be continued ? Mr. BOLLARD .- Aye. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Well, I have no doubt the honourable gentleman's voice and vote will be given in that direction, and I shall be very pleased to hear his arguments when his turn comes to speak. The honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) this afternoon discussed this matter from the Imperial or national standpoint. Sir, what is the position of the Spreckels Company in that behalf ? First of all, Spreckels can only carry our mails under the American subsidy in steamers that have been built and are owned in America. Secondly, only an American citizen can be the Thirdly, these vessels can be offi- contractor. cered only by American citizens. And. fourthly, as the Hon. the Postmaster-General knows, nearly the whole of the crew have to be Ameri- can citizens. That is the position, and we are asked to subsidise this company under such conditions. Sir, when I think that during the last year or two we have had some of our prominent politicians, under the influence of the Imperialistic spirit, shouting themselves hoarse about the old flag, how they spoke of sending our sons to die for it, and how they spoke of the willingness of this country to spend its last shilling, if necessary, for the defence of the Empire; and then when I see this Go- vernment endeavouring to shut this House up to sending our mails under the American flag, under the circumstances I have stated, I ask myself how much of the patriotism we have blown about so much during the past few years is really sincere when we come to bed-rock. Whatever the Government may think, the people of this country are not desirous of sub- sidising the Stars and Stripes whilst the Union Mr. G. W. Russell jingoistic stop out on this subject, but I recog- nise that ever since President Cleveland was President of the United States the foreign policy of that great country has been materi- ally altered. The Monroe doctrine has gone by the board. They have entered upon an entirely new career as a republic, and though I do not say we are to regard them in the sense of being commercial foes, because I do not wish to imply that such will be the position, yet I cannot shut my eyes to the fact that they have entered upon a career of competition with Great Britain so far as the trade with these colonies is concerned ; and it is not for us at this juncture to throw our weight as a State into the scale with America as against the shipbuilders, shipowners, and seamen of our own nation. Now, Sir, I am going to refer to a very important document I have in my hand. It is the report of the Post and Telegraph Department, dated the 26th August, 1901, and it contains some very valuable informa- tion. It is signed by Sir J. G. Ward, the Postmaster - General and Electric Telegraph Commissioner, and is forwarded to His Excel- lency the Governor. Quoting from pages 18 and 19, I find this :- " Reference was made in last year's report to the fact that the Oceanic Steamship Company, of San Francisco (the J. D. Spreckels and Brothers Company), had secured a ten-years contract from the United States Government for a three-weekly service between San Fran- cisco, Auckland, and Sydney by American-regis- tered steamers, and that the United States maritime laws had been applied to the Hawaiian Islands, under which British vessels were pre- vented from trading between San Francisco and Honolulu." A little lower down I find :- "It was, however, fully recognised that it would be impossible for the Union Company to continue, as Messrs. Spreckels had secured an American subsidy of over $50,000 a year for their own vessels ; and the 'Moana' had already been shut out from carrying passengers and cargo between Honolulu and San Fran- cisco - a very profitable section of the ser- vice." But now I come down to give you the Post- master-General's opinion of the service, which is contained in this report. He says,- . "The service is not now looked upon with that favour it formerly was, especially by business people in Great Britain, who have repeatedly complained of the great inconveni- ence they suffer through the irregular delivery of the colonial mails. The effect of this may be gathered from the fact that, notwithstanding the increased frequency of the service, there has been a material falling.off in the volume of mail-matter sent from Great Britain by way of San Francisco. The last inward mail from London comprised 256 bags only, as against an average of about 450 by each mail under the four-weekly running. Instead of the three- weekly mail, under an accelerated time-table, diverting mail-matter from the Federal service, 