these Boards. At the same time, it might be fairly reasoned that as the County Councils and boroughs elected the members of the Hos- pital and Charitable Aid Boards, and as they themselves were elected by the people in the first instance, therefore this was a system of popular representation, and a very convenient one too, because it saved the trouble of an election ; and arrangements were sometimes entered into by which certain members of local bodies-of those who lived near to the place where the Hospital and Charitable Aid Board met - were elected to it, so as to save the travel- ling-expenses the Board would otherwise be put to. There were objections to the present Act, but they were chiefly owing to the size of the districts, which this Bill did not affect. At the same time, clause 5 of the Bill, unless it were amended, would be practically unworkable, because, as the honourable member for Eden had pointed out, the period for which mem- bers of various local bodies were elected were different. Borough Councils were elected for two years, and County Councils for three years, and therefore unless this clause were amended it would be impossible to have the Board elected at the same time as the local bodies, because their terms differed. There was one clause that he strongly objected to, and that was clause 4, which said,- " Every person who is entitled to vote at the election of a member of a local authority shall be deemed to be an elector under this Act, and shall have one vote, and no more." That would be an insidious attempt to do https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 away with the present county franchise. The present franchise gave up to three votes, and this seemed to him to be an attempt to do away with the property vote in the county elections. He had never heard any objection in the coun- try districts to the manner of election of the Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards, and the present was a very convenient way of electing them, though he had heard objections to the size and unwieldiness of the district. It had stood the test of time and gave satisfaction, and under those circumstances he did not think it should be changed without very good reason being given. He hoped the Minister would give some reason for the proposed change, and explain how he was going to dovetail in the various methods of election of local bodies. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) could not see how this Bill was to be worked properly. In the Tuapeka County there were three boroughs, and these three boroughs had only one vote amongst them, and he could not see how they were going to arrange to vote for an election. The present Act seemed to work very well, and there had never been the slightest complaint. By this Bill too large representation would be given in proportion to the amount paid. He would like the Minister to tell them how the electors were to arrange the vote. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said this Bill in- volved an important alteration of the existing law, and, like previous speakers, he would have been better satisfied if the Minister had given intended. Members of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards were at present elected by County and Borough Councils, and in places where the Counties Act was suspended they were elected by the Chairmen of the Road Boards. He was willing to admit that the latter form was not altogether satisfactory. A very important point was raised by the honourable member for Eden as to the length of time that members of these Boards were to be elected for. It was not quite clear in the Bill, and he hoped the Minister in his reply would tell them what was really in- tended, and that in Committee he would have a clause prepared dealing with this particular part of the subject. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) said that the revolution in the method of electing mem- bers of the Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards enacted by this Bill was one which had been demanded by a majority of the people of the colony. At the same time, the Bill required some effective alteration before it could become a workable measure. He was not quite clear as to who, under the Bill, would be eligible as a candidate for office ; nor could he see in the Bill any provision for nominating candidates. Clause 5 said that every election under the Act should be held on the same day and in the same manner as in the case of members of the local authority. One could quite understand that ; but no provision was made as to who should be eligible as candidates for election. Mr. MASSEY said the original Act did that. Mr. COLLINS did not think so. Clause 7 of the original Act provided,- "For every such district there shall be a Dis. trict Board of administration, to consist of the following members : namely, one member for every borough and county respectively in the dis- trict having less than eight thousand inhabitants, and two members for every borough and county respectively having more than eight thousand inhabitants. The said members shall be elected by the Councils of the boroughs and counties on the fourth Wednesday in November in each year, and shall come into office on the first Wednesday in December ensuing next after their election." There was no provision at all, therefore, for 'an election such as would be demanded under this Bill ; and it would be necessary to say who should be eligible for election to the Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards. One of the first things he did on coming to the House was to bring this matter under the notice of the House, so that women should be eligible for election to these Boards, and he would still like to see that reform carried out and em- bodied in the Bill. If the Bill stated that any one who was eligible to vote was also eligible for election it would meet the case ; but, as dra xn up, the Bill was so incomplete that he very much doubted if an election could take place under its provisions. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said the member for the Bay of Plenty was of opinion there was no necessity for this Bill. The honourable gentleman had also said the pre- 