in the future, let the titles be individualised, Crown grants issued to the various owners ; let them sell in the open market to the best ad- vantage, always subject to restrictions as to the area-according to the quality-that each settler shall hold, thereby preventing that bane of settlement, land monopoly. If the owners are unwilling to sell, let such a tax be imposed as will either compel them to do so or cultivate like any other settler. The vexed question of the ' settlement of Native lands ' will thus be disposed of for ever. "Sweep off all cumbrous Acts from the statute-book, and bring in a simple Bill in the direction I have indicated, and Parliament will vindicate its claim to righteous legislation. " Why should we be compelled to sell or lease our land to the Government alone, for & price that is frequently only a third or a fifth of what private individuals are prepared to give ? "You are the dominant race ; do not abuse your power. Opposition on our part, save by legal means, is hopeless. I therefore appeal to that spirit of fair-play which is pre-eminently the boast of the British people, and call upon you to see that simple justice is done us in this matter. The Government has no power to enter upon and take possession of a European's land without giving him its full market-value. We have an equal right to be put on the same footing, and this right, in the simple spirit of justice, I call upon the public to grant us, since the Government appear unwilling to do so." He would ask honourable members if that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was not the multum in parvo of the whole ques- tion, and was it not the strongest argument and denunciation against the Native legislation of the present Government? He (Mr. Fraser) contended that there was in this letter the real feeling of every Native whose opinion was worth knowing in the North Island. He might say, however, that the Native who wrote that letter-a letter which demonstrated his ability - could not lease an acre of his land, nor could he administer it. He could not deal with his lands in any way, but must hand them over to the tender mercies of this Native Council or Board. The Native Minister, or the member for the Northern Maori District (Mr. Heke), or any one of the other Native members, were allowed to vote for legislation of a most im- portant character, and yet they were not allowed to deal with their own land. He had insisted -but there was only a small minority be- hind him - that it should be left to the Natives to decide whether this legislation should affect them or not. Nothing could possibly be fairer. It had been advocated that there should be the referendum. That was no doubt eminently fair in a ques- tion where there was a dispute between the two Houses, and why should there not be a referendum on the Native question? It was monstrous to think that the Natives should be allowed to vote on most important questions affecting the State, and indirectly the Empire, and yet that they should not be allowed to Mr. A. L. D. Fraser ter had introduced an amendment under which it was possible for a majority to say whether any land should be placed under the Adminis- tration Boards and the Council. That should apply all through the Act. He did not think it was necessary he should express regret for having kept members up all night. It had not been pleasant to him. It had been the hardest twelve hours' work he had experienced ; but he would undertake the same task again to break down what he considered a manifest injustice- an injustice that would live. It would be found in the future that a stronger line of demarca- tion had been made between the Natives than had ever existed before. Instead of bringing them in with the rest of the colony in aspira- tion, faith, and sympathy, a barrier was being erected that would keep them further than ever from the rest of the colonists. Mr. CARROLL .- It keeps their land further away. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER said, he supposed no honourable member had had more to do with land transactions than the Native Minister him- self. The Native Minister knew very well that he (Mr. Fraser) had never had anything to do with Maori land transactions in the way of sale. He had never in his life, directly or indirectly. purchased a single acre of Native land. His work had been on behalf of Natives and Euro- peans in the Courts. He might have been an independent man to-day if he had chosen to take advantage of opportunities that had been thrown in his way. He spoke now as one look. ing through the Native eye, as one who wished the Natives to be protected from the Govern- ment of the day, and, to an extent, protected from themselves. There were occasions when Parliament should step in and help them against themselves, and legislation to meet this could be brought down ; but now they had leris- lation that was going to bring into power & professional Court, with professional Judges and professional hopes of self-benefit. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) was 11.30. not going to join in the denunciation of the last honourable gentleman against the Bill. He recognised that an important new departure in Maori legislation had been entered into last session, whether rightly or wrongly time would show, for the Government was re- sponsible. He did not agree with the principle of Maori Councils, but, having got the Act of last session, and found it unworkable as was prophesied, it was their duty to make it mere workable, and all last night he was honestly endeavouring to do that. He did not think this Bill was all it should be as an amending Bill. He believed we would have to amend it next session ; and next session he, at all events. would endeavour, as in this session, to amend it to make it workable. But he did strongis object to this forcing of legislation through by sheer exhaustion. Men well acquainted with Maori matters like the honourable member for Waitemata, who could and would give valuable assistance in this legislation, would not submit to this "jacking " of important legislation 