Vice-Regal representative, to go back for years and rake up old ashes that I thought were buried for ever? What has been the aim and object of some honourable members? Has it been to elevate His Excellency the Go- vernor, or the Parliament, in the eyes of New Zealand and the world ? Certainly not. The tendency, if not the desire, has been to degrade everything, and to detract from the honour and glory that attached to this colony on account of its hospitality during the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to New Zealand. The people have had a fair amount of invitations. I have had invita- tions, but, for my part, I never participated in one of the functions, and I do not regret it. His Excellency the Governor has surely a perfect right to select his company and say who shall eat at his table. No one would seek for a moment to place a gentleman occupying his position in the humiliating situation of being compelled to invite every one who think they ought to attend his functions. I will say this as regards His Excellency Lord Ranfurly: that a man more accessible and ready to mingle with all classes, and more disposed to throw off that reserve that severs the Governor from the generality of the people, we have not found occupying bis exalted position in this country. He has travelled from place to place, from municipality to municipality, he has mingled with Mayors and Councillors and leading men in each place where he has gone, and he has always been prepared to shake hands with every https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 one who came in front of him, rich and poor alike. He has patronised our public festivals, he has attended the openings of some of our rail- ways, and he has mingled with the people to an extent which I think no other Governor of New Zealand has ever done before. I say His Excellency the Governor has been an example to bien occupying that position. Now, some references have been made to Mr. Commis- sioner Holmes and Mr. Donne. I believe these gentlemen carried out their duties not only with ability, but in a way that helped to pro- mote the success of the festivities that took place. What I wish particularly to say is this : that I am satisfied the people of New Zealand As a whole are not likely to begrudge the pay- ment of the money due to the Governor in connection with the work that he had to per- form. He was unsparing. I am satisfied that he gave away most freely not merely his time, but largely from his own private purse in main- taining his high reputation and securing a name for hospitality that will continually attach to New Zealand in connection with the Royal visit. How would we have compared with the Colonies of Australia if we had not treated the Duke and Duchess of York as we did? I say it would have been a severe reflection on the people of New Zealand if they had not been entertained by His Excellency and by the Go- vernment and the Mayors and leading citizens of the colony in a manner worthy of a great occasion. And, having earned a name for hos- pitality, what are we doing to-night? Are we Are we not endeavouring to besmirch the lustre which the colony has acquired by what it did on that occasion ? I much regret that so much adverse criticism has been bestowed on the Bill. If it had been passed almost in silence we would have been consulting our own dignity and the dignity of the colony. I trust honourable mem- bers will look at the matter fairly, and, when the division takes place this evening, no matter what their feelings may be with regard to economising the public funds as far as possible- I believe there is no member of the House more determined to see the funds properly adminis- tered than I am myself-I hope they will prove that they can rise above sordid or paltry con- siderations, and accept the responsibility of voting for this expenditure; I say that, seeing we have placed the Governor in this posi- tion, we should unhesitatingly pay the amount claimed. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- Sir, I feel the position is a very unpleasant one, and my censure rests entirely upon the Ministers who have placed us in this position. I think it is from a want of business method or we should not have been placed where we are to-night. Last session a sufficient sum of money was placed at the disposal of His Excellency to do all the entertaining and spending which was requisite for him to do. The rest should have been done by the Ministry of the day, and then the name of the Governor would never have come before this House, and His Excellency would not have been in the position in which he now is. From the remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Maori District it seems as though he wanted to make a nice little complimentary speech, and that it was discourteous to offer any objection to what was done ; but my idea is that we ought to have propriety before we are complimentary. We have a position of responsibility to the taxpayer. I believe, however, in being gene- rous, and I am very sorry we are placed in the position we occupy -- that we have to make any remarks upon what has taken place in connection with the visit of their Royal Highnesses to this country. My opinion is, Mr. Speaker, that we ought to have been content to expend £30,000 or £40,000, and to have done it in a different manner from that in which it has been done. The taxpayers would have then been well satisfied, and there would have been no less an expression of kind- ness and courtesy, and there would have been no room for remarks to the effect that the expenditure had not been administered rightly, With such as have been made this evening. regard to the remarks of the honourable mem- ber for the Northern Maori District, he knows very well that when distinguished Maori visitors come in and are entertained by Maori tribes all are present-every one is there. But one of the most disfiguring features, if there is one feature more disfiguring than another, among the indecorous incidents in connection with the visit of their Royal Highnesses, is that it has been made, as I have said before, a 