question before the House is not a new one, and, if it presents any different aspect to that which it wore twelve months ago, I take it that the reason for that difference is very largely due to the action of one or two Auckland mem- bers themselves, and perhaps in some way due to the action of certain officials in the City of Auckland. Now, Sir, I regret that any prejudice should have been imported into this question on account of the way in which the matter has been handled by members of the House, and even persons outside the House. I would, how- ever, briefly point out how unduly the import- ance of this question has been magnified, so far as Auckland City is concerned ; and assuredly some of the members for Auckland, or, at any rate, some of the people of Auckland City, can scarcely realise that they, to a very large extent, are disparaging that city when they by their language and by their writing lead the country to suppose that the very existence of that city depends upon Mr. Spreckels. would like to know who is Spreckels. It is assuredly a new thing that the question of the trade of a city depends on a particular arrangement with this firm. Auckland existed as a city before we knew of the name of Spreckels, and the probability is that it will continue to live as a city long after the name of Spreckels is forgotten. But, as I said before, Who is Spreckels? The member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) has used very exaggerated language. In referring to this matter in a communication to the Mayor of Auckland, he said that he was glad to see that Aucklanders were united to prevent this injury to the Empire and to the colony. Injury to the Empire ! Injury to the colony ! Sir, it is understood throughout the colony that some opposition was to be shown to the renewal of this contract, and the Auckland people-so we are led to understand-are now united. The Auckland people are now awakened, and the " mailed fist " is to come down, and why ? Because the safety of Auckland City, the safety of the colony, the existence of the Empire, is threatened by the remote probability of the arrangement with Mr. Spreckels being interfered with. I say the " remote proba- bility," because it is generally understood that they will not be interfered with. It is gene- rally understood that the arrangement has been made, and that the arrangement will be continued, and that the Fr'isco service will exist as it has done hitherto. As an honour- able member has said, we have practically passed the motion for this service by passing the vote on the estimates. But as the honourable member for Auckland City to whom I have referred - besides, I think it an altogether improper insinuation that the safety of the Empire lies in the hands of Mr. Spreckels : I beg emphatically to deny that statement-the honourable gentleman said that all Govern- ments appreciate the "conciliatory power of the mailed fist of a united people." The Auck- landers are at last a united people, and it is a united people which resents the suggested member says, " For thirty years our province has been plundered, and if it is necessary to prevent further humiliation, we must allow party politics to slumber for a period and fight as one man "-the honourable member should have said " as one mailed fist "-" for our rights." Now, this can scarcely be pleasant reading to the Aucklanders. For thirty years their pro- vince has been plundered ; but the plundering of the province for thirty years is nothing com- parod with this humiliation-the humiliation of Parliament questioning an arrangement with Messrs. Spreckels. Sir, it is astonishing what it takes to bring some people to recognise the fate in store for them-the danger which lies ahead, and the disaster which may befall them. Auckland is threatened with the direst of all disasters, and the people of Auckland are fast awakening to the necessity of a solid combina- tion representing a united front, all combining their fists in one, and mailing that fist to pre- vent this disaster. But there is a covert threat I in this, and, Sir, I would just read these words : "We must allow party politics to slumber for a period and.fight as one man for our rights." "We must allow party politics to slumber for a period." We-that is, the member for Auck- land City-must allow party politics to slum- ber. Sir, this is a covert threat. It is prac- tically a threat that unless the Messrs. Spreckels are considered, the Liberal party in this House is to lose the wondrous and useful services of at least one of the local trinity. If it be true that the Liberal party is to lose the services of the gentleman with the mailed fist, then, so far as we are concerned, the mailed fist will become a severed hand. Sir, I should regret exceed- ingly that we should lose the distinguished services of that gentleman. But I do not think we shall. It is one of those covert threats with which we are becoming somewhat used during the session. There is no doubt that it has been due to indiscreet threats of this kind, and telegrams of this kind, that Auckland has largely to thank for at least some of the opposition which has been manifested towards this service. It has allowed the im- pression to get abroad that the Auckland mem- bers are coercing Parliament and every other portion of New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. COLLINS .- I know they could not coerce my honourable friend. I know that he is " sound upon the goose " so far as this ques- tion is concerned ; but there is no doubt about it that impression did get abroad-that the whole of the Auckland people were up in arms, and that the northern part of the Island of New Zealand was almost ready to declare itself in open revolution unless the arrangement was made with Messrs. Spreckels. Well, now, Sir. I say the question wears a somewhat different aspect from what it wore when it was under discussion last year, and that is very largely the result of the injudicious action of one of the Auckland City members. Now, let me go back to the discussion of last year. When the matter was brought before the House at that 