latest trouble,' said he, 'and one that has brought me keen disappointment, was the colony's failure to respond to my call for New Zealand Volunteers for China."" What on earth do we want to go to China for ? "My demand was dubbed ' far - fetched,' ' quixotic,' ' ultra - Imperialistic.' But the Press and my colleagues are wrong. This is no extreme, impulsive scheme of mine. always try to look a long way ahead." I believe in looking a long way ahead, but not so far as China. Even his colleagues thought him wrong. " Eventualities may arise in connection with the adjustment of affairs in China that will necessitate New Zealand coming to the fore." Well, let me see, Russia, Austria, Germany, Italy, France, England, and America have not been able to settle it. Mr. SEDDON .- Nor Japan. Mr. FISHER .- "Nor Japan." They have not been able to settle it ; but New Zealand is going to settle it. The interview proceeds :- "We lie, geographically, in a direct sea-line from Chinese ports ; three weeks' sailing will bring any foreign warship to our shores. Were we to send New Zealand soldiers to help in the defence of British rights in China we would make them feel our power." Mr. SEDDON .- As we have done in South Africa. Mr. FISHER .- " As we have done in South https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Africa," says the honourable gentleman. agree with that. "But," says the honourable gentleman :- " But, to my profound regret, my foresight is misinterpreted. An opportunist I may be, / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero but an opportunist in the more sane sense of the term. It is not the mere raising of a handful of Volunteers to take their share with the allied forces in China, as they are so valiantly doing in South Africa, but it is the Imperialistic value of this action ; the keeping at high pressure of our sense of Imperial re- sponsibility and the glorious lesson of Empire." Now, I can understand how the people of England applauded the desire on the part of the people of New Zealand to lend every aid they could to the British nation in the settlement of their trouble in South Africa. I would ap- plaud every effort made by any colony to assist in the maintenance of the British Empire, but I do not understand why we should be struggling at the leash to assist all the great empires in their dealings with the Chinese Empire. I do not know what could have possessed the statesmen of Australia and New Zealand to send men to China. Their aid- I will not say was of no value, because I take the symbol of empire to be of more value than any physical value of the men. It is the symbol of empire, of our desire even to the uttermost of the dominions of the great British nation, to assist each other wher- over possible, and particularly wherever neces- But in this case it was not neces- sary. There was no national appeal. The sary. Mr. Fisher front. I am aware the Victorians-and I think the Queensland men-were allowed to go, but they were not asked for, and as soon as convenient they were sent back. I am glad New Zealand did not put its foot in it to such an extent that we should have our men sent back after being sent to China. One can under- stand a colony like New Zealand, or any other British colony, assisting the Mother-country in any time of difficulty ; but I do not understand I why that feeling should extend to the acquisi- tion or annexation of a useless group of islands. This attempt to place upon those islands a con- stitution sufficient to govern any British colony is to me absurd. I will not use any stronger term. It is in the second place absurd, 3.30. because the proposed Bill will inevit- ably place upon this colony an additional burden which the people of this colony ought not to be called upon to bear. I do not wish to labour this subject any further. I shall call for a division, and I hope some honourable gentle- man will be kind enough to become a teller with me in order that my opinion on this Bill may be placed on record by my vote in this House. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty). - I must compliment the last speaker on his speech, and I shall be quite prepared to stand with him as teller in the division he has announced his intention of calling for, because it seems to me that the Bill which we have got now is even worse for the colony, and worse from a constitutional point of view, than the one we had before it was amended. Now, Sir, there I is one word which I object to in the last honour- able member's speech, and it is the word "an- nexation." Now, I maintain that these islands were not annexed by New Zealand. It is a common term, but a misleading term, and, I think, has misled the Premier. What has hap. 1 pened is merely that the boundaries of the colony have been extended to include these islands, which were previously British posses- sions. Therefore the Premier's argument which he used on the second reading of the Bill, about ceded territory, falls entirely to the ground. These islands are part of British territory, and are now included in the boundaries of the Colony of New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON .- You are wrong in stating the Cook Islands were British territory. Mr. HERRIES .- They were a British pro- tectorate, except Aitutaki, on which the flag had been hoisted. The Cook Islands, except for Aitutaki, were protected, but Aitutaki was 1 a British island, and Penrhyn was so also. Niue was not, but Palmerston, Suwarrow, and Manihiki Islands had been annexed. So that all the islands except Niue were practically British territory before being joined to New Zealand. Even if the Cook Islands were to be considered a semi-independent State, it is only Great Britain, as a sovereign State, that could annex; this colony could not. If the Cook Islands were to be considered as independent territory, they were annexed by the British Empire, and then our boundary was extended so as to include them, and therefore all our 