meaning of "The Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act, 1885") founded for the free maintenance or relief of orphans, or of the aged, infirm, sick, or needy, and which is in receipt of assistance by way of subsidy from the public funds. There is no doubt, Sir, that these institutions have every reason to ask from the State every consideration, and that the funds for their maintenance should all be devoted to the purposes for which they are contributed without any deductions in the way of rates or taxes. I would like to call attention to the proviso, which might be noted. Some of these institutions have got a considerable area of agricultural land attached to them, and it is not thought wise or necessary that these farms should be free of rates. They are the profitable parts of the institutions, so a proviso has been attached to this Bill that the remission of rates shall not apply to any charitable institu- tion occupying an area of land greater than one acre if within a borough, or three acres if out- side the bounds of a borough. I hope the Council will give the Bill a second reading. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at three o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 17th October, 1901. First Readings-Payment of Members Bill-Mili- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tary Pensions Bill -- Payment .of Interest on $500.000 New Zealand Debentures Invest-d by Public Trustee-Waimate Hospital District Bill -Ocean Mail-service -. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Local Bodies' Goldfields Public Works and Loans Bill, Local Bodies Loans Bill, State . Coal-mines Bill. PAYMENT OF MEMBERS BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor, transmitting draft of a Bill in- tituled " An Act to provide for the Payment of Members of the General Assembly," and recom- mending the House to make provision accord- ingly. The House divided on the question, " That the message, together with the Bill, be referred to the Committee of the Whole for considera- tion." AYES, 33. Arnold Flatman Kaihau Bollard Fraser, A. L. D. Lawry Carncross Gilfedder McGowan Hall Carroll Mckenzie, R. Hall-Jones Colvin Mclachlan Duncan Hogg McNab Field Hornsby Millar Fisher Mills Houston Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker Napier Steward Tellers. Palmer Tanner Barclay Parata Ward. Laurenson. Seddon NOES, 25. Allen, J. Russell, G. W. Herries Hutcheson Russell, W. R. Atkinson Thompson, R. Bennet Lang Buddo Lethbridge Thomson, J. W. Collins Massey Willis. Mackenzie, T. Fowlds Tellers. Meredith Fraser, W. Pirani Graham Monk Rhodes. Hardy O'Meara PAIRS. For. Against. Morrison Smith, G. J. Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 8. Motion agreed to. # IN COMMITTEE. The Committee divided on the question, "That the Committee recommends the House to make provision in accordance with His Excel- lency's message." AYES, 33. Hall Arnold Millar Barclay Hall-Jones Mills Bollard Palmer Hogg Carneross Hornsby Parata Carroll Seddon Houston Colvin Kaihau Tanner Duncan Ward Lawry Field Witheford. McGowan Fisher MeKenzie, R. Tellers. Flatman MeLachlan Laurenson Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Napier. Gilfedder NOES, 24. Allen, J. Russell, W. R. Lang Lethbridge Smith, G. J. Atkinson Bennet Massey Thompson, R. Buddo Mic . enzie, T. Thomson, J. W Meredith Collins Willis. Fraser, W. Tellers. ()' Meara Hardy Rhodes Graham Herries Russell, G. W. Pirani. Hutcheson Majority for, 9. Motion agreed to. Resolution reported to the House and agreed to, and Bill read a first time. MILITARY PENSIONS BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting draft of a Bill in- tituled " An Act to amend ' The Military Pen- sions Act, 1866,' and to extend the Provisions of ' The Military Pensions Exten-ion to Con- tingents Act, 1900,' so as to include the Sixth and Seventh Contingents." and recommending - the House to make provision accordingly. The House resolved itself into Committee of the Whole. 