the Bill ? Mr. J. ALLEN. - No, not the wheelbarrows ; but the State is to deliver the coal, and is to enter into competition with the coal merchants in the various centres where the State esta- blishes the coal depots. And how they are to deliver the coal and carry on this small business with barrows and drays and so on I do not know. I presume it is to be a cash business. An Hon. MEMBER .- How does the State deliver parcels from the railway now ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- By contract. An Hon. MEMBER. - Cannot they do the same with this ? Mr. J. ALLEN .-- No, I do not see how they But I want to know whether this is to can. be a cash business. Clause 8, subclause (1), states,- " The Minister shall lay before each House of the General Assembly full particulars of such resumption or contract; and, unless within ten days thereafter a resolution disapproving of the same is passed by either House, the same shall be deemed to be approved by Parliament." I object to the method by which Parliament is to be consulted on this matter, because I can easily conceive that Parliament might not be consulted at all. How is the resolution to be brought up? Supposing a member wishes to move a resolution disapproving of the resump- tion of a certain area, how is that resolution to come up for consideration unless the Govern- ment give special facilities? It should have been provided for in another way. Parliament should pass a resolution before the resumption of the area of land could take place. In clause 9 power is given to raise £150,000 ; but in this Bill there are no particulars given as to the rais. ing of the money or the interest to be charged, and no time is specified for the currency of the debentures. The debentures which are referred to later on are not the debentures which are to secure this money at all. Those debentures are only the debentures which are to be given the proprietors of the area resumed, if they think fit to take them. Nothing is said as to the rate of interest, or as to the currency of the debentures on which the £150,000 is to be raised under clause 9. Then, Sir, I wish to refer to clause 15-that is, the question of the sinking fund. This Bill provides that after the net surplus profits, if there is anything remaining, it is to be utilised for a sinking fund, and pro vision is made in clause 15 that that sinking fund shall not be more than 5 per cent. ; and if it is more than 5 per cent., then the price of coal is to be reduced. This, also, is put in the Bill in a peculiar fashion, for there is no pro- vision in the Bill for raising the price of coal if there is a loss, and there is no provision in the Bill for raising the price of coal if the sinking fund does not come up to 5 per cent .; and knowing, as I do, and as some other members in the House do, what the coal-mining industry is, I hold that, as your capital is being worked away each year, it is absolutely necessary, if the State is to carry on in a financial way, to make provision for an ade- in a certain number of years, because the coal goes, and in a certain number of years nothing will be left, the mine must be abandoned, and provision must be made for your capital being replaced by the sinking fund. In this Bill it is assumed there are to be profits, and that they will amount to 5 per cent. ; and it also says if they amount to over 5 per cent. the price may be reduced. But there is nothing to face the other side of the question-that is, the possible loss, and the amount of sinking fund not being provided up to 5 per cent. In my opinion, 5 per cent. is not enough if the sink- ing fund is to replace the loss of capital. But, even if 5 per cent. is enough, there is no provision in the Bill for that 5 per cent., except under certain conditions. In this respect it is doing that which is very harsh and injurious to the interests of the colony. In conclusion, I wish to point honourable members to this fact : that this is quite a new departure. It is assumed-I do not think that it will follow-that it will be in the interests of the State itself, and of the consumers of coal. I say that time alone can prove that, if we do establish this experiment ; and I shall be very much sur- prised, assuming the Bill becomes law this session, if in the course of the next six or eight years honourable members will not have bitter experience of the fact that the State cannot produce the coal as cheaply as the right honourable gentleman has assumed it can. I shall be surprised if members find that the State can produce the coal as cheaply as the private owners. This Bill can only be in the interests of a certain portion of the community. Those are the coal-users. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who are not ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- There are lots of people who are not coal-users-the people in the bush districts, for instance; and nearly all the country people, or a great many of them at any rate, are not coal-users, and they have, therefore, no interest in the Bill. Yes, they have an interest in the Bill. They have the interest of having to share in the provision for making up any loss if loss is made. I do not think that is fair to them. They gain no bene- fit if any benefit is to be derived, and if loss is met with they provide their portion of the loss, because that loss will be charged to the Consoli- dated Fund. Therefore, Sir, I think the Bill is one that is entering upon dangerous ground, one which I do not see the need of. Rather would it have been better for the State to have encouraged private ownership of mines, and so have increased the competition among pri- vate owners. Then, possibly, we might have had cheaper coal, though I myself do not believe-except in individual cases, where per- haps a monopoly does exist-that you can get cheaper coal than now, either from the State or any one else. Coal-mines, as far as I know them, are worked on the cheapest lines, and I do not believe that coal can be produced any cheaper than at the present time. I do not know whether it can be conveyed by sea cheaper 