Harris Reeves Barnicoat Jones Swanson Bowen Walker, W. C. Peacock Feldwick Pitt Gourley NOES, 5. Twomey. Bolt Rigg Smith, A. L. Jenkinson PAIR. For. Against. Shrimski. Jennings. Majority for, 6. Amendment negatived, and rest of the amendment withdrawn. The Hon. Mr. JONES moved to insert, after clause 194, the following new clause :- "The provisions of the last preceding section are hereby modified in the case of woollen- mills to the extent following, that is to say : Women and boys may be employed therein - "(a.) For not more than forty-eight hours, excluding meal-times, in any one week ; and " (b.) For not more than eight hours and three-quarters in any one day ; and " (c.) For not more than four hours and a half continuously without an interval of at least three-quarters of an hour for a meal." The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved to report pro- gress. The Committee divided. AYES, 3. Swanson. Rigg Smith, A. L. NOES, 12. Peacock Gourley Barnicoat Harris Pitt Bolt Smith, W. C. Bowen Jones Walker, W. C. Kelly, W. Feldwick PAIR. For. Against. Jennings. Shrimski. Majority against, 9. Motion lost. The Hon. Mr. REEVES moved, That the Committee do at once divide on the question in debate. The Committee divided. AYES, 10. Kelly, W. Barnicoat Gourley Jennings; Peacock Bolt Pitt. Jones Bowen Feldwick NOES, 5. Walker, W. C. Harris Rigg Smith, A. L .; Reeves Majority for, 5. New clause agreed to. Bill reported, and read the third time. The Council adjourned at twenty minutes past eleven o'clock p.m. Monday, 4th November, 1901. Second Reading - Third Readings-Local Bodies' Loans Bill-Cook and other Islands Government Bill-Government Railways Department Classi- fication Bill-City of Auckland Loans Consoli- dation and Auckland City Borrowing Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. SECOND READING. Maori Lands Administration Bill. THIRD READINGS. Public-school Teachers' Salaries Bill, Local Bodies Goldfields' Public Works and Loans Bill, State Coal-mines Bill. LOCAL BODIES' LOANS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, this is a Bill which aims mostly at consolidation. There are only five sections in which there is any new law. Section 4 is the first one, en- abling a local authority to pay preliminary ex- penses and the first year's interest out of loan. It is also provided that the intention to pay such expenses or interest shall be stated to the ratepayers before they vote on the question. Clause 5 enacts : "It shall not be lawful to pay out of any loan the cost of maintenance or repair of any public work or undertaking for which the loan was raised." Clause 6 en- ables the local authority, whenever it is deemed advisable, to deposit with any bank any sums of money at the credit of any loan account, upon such terms as the bank under local autho- rity may agree. Section 19 is also new. It is merely a formal matter, relating to debentures and coupons, providing : "The yearly interest on every debenture shall not exceed 5 per cent. on the amount thereof, and shall be payable half-yearly or otherwise ; and separate coupons for each sum so payable in the form numbered (4) in the First Schedule hereto, and numbered consecutively for each debenture, shall be at- tached thereto." The section also provides : "It shall be sufficient if the signatures of any persons to any coupon are lithographed on the coupon, or impressed thereupon by means of a stamp." Section 81, I think, is the only other section that requires attention. It refers to loans to boroughs of a population of more than four thousand. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .- I beg to second the proposal. I am very glad the Go- vernment have brought down this Bill. There is no doubt it is important to consolidate all the Local Bodies' Loans Acts and to put them into one. There is also one other matter of great importance in it. In the original Act it pro- vided that where part of a district raised a loan, then that part of the district, whether it had the means or not, was obliged to raise a rate and pay the loan out of it, whereas when the whole district raises a loan it can pay for the 