Premier laid down another principle in his speech-the worst principle of the Tammany rule in New York-that only those members who vote for expenditure have any right to get any share of it for their districts. He ridiculed the idea of the member for Waitemata, who opposed borrowing money, expecting to get any such thing as loan-money spent in his district; and he put it very clearly that those members who took the responsibility of voting for loan-money were the only ones whose districts had a right to share it. That is exactly the principle of Tammany rule in New York ; there every man who helped to enable the boss to put his hands into the public exchequer got a share of the money. It is not often the Premier so clearly expresses the principles which rule his dis- tribution of public money. In regard to the Auckland District, most members know as well as can be-and I am surprised the Auckland members do not know it - that the member for Waihemo is simply joking at their expense. He recognises, as well as the majority of mem- bers do, that the Government plays fast and loose with the Auckland members, because they know those who support the Government do as the Ministry pleases; they protest ever so much, and send telegrams threatening all sorts of things against the Government ; but when the crucial time takes place, and the Govern- ment require their votes in the " Ayes " lobby, they obey the Government as meckly as any pet lambs. Mr. NAPIER .- What is the crucial time ? Mr. PIRANI .- When a vote is proposed in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 volving the question whether the Government is to remain on those benches, or whenever the . Premier pretends the existence of the Govern- ment is at stake, no matter what the treatment Auckland gets, they docilely follow the Govern- ment. There is no question about it, Auckland is not fairly participating in the expenditure of public money. You have only to read the par- ticulars of the different expenditure to see that very little is done, except under compulsion, by the Government to develop a district which must be, if properly developed, one of the greatest sources of wealth in the colony. So far as the North Island Trunk Railway is con- cerned, it is simply ridiculous that a Govern- ment that has been in power for ten years, with unlimited money under its control, which has the power to borrow as much as it pleases, should be meddling and muddling with the railway in the way they are doing. It is not a question of party but of common-sense, and I cannot understand any man attempting to justify a Government which deals with public works in such a wilfully wasteful manner as the present Government. Under the co-opera- tive system of large public works at least 30 per cent. extra is expended in carrying them out. Mr. HALL-JONES .- You do not know any- thing about it. Mr. PIRANI .- I may not know anything about it, but I know just as much about it as the honourable gentleman does about marine matters, and that is very little. But I do know Mr. Pirani tive system, and I will give him an instance. On a road between Pahiatua and Palmerston an offer was made by a contractor to make a dray- road 16 ft. wide for $3,500, and to put down a thousand-pound bond that he would carry the work out in eighteen months. An Hon. MEMBER .- What length ? Mr. PIRANI .- The whole length of the forma- tion and metalling; and the Government has spent $7,600 on that road by co-operative work, and all we have now is a track from 3 ft. to 12 ft. wide. They have been something like seven years attempting to form that road ; and no more satisfaction will be obtained out of that road than will be got in connection with the North Island Trunk Railway. It is a shameful waste of public money to try and carry on the railway in the manner adopted at present. Why, up at Mangaweka, on that line, it is stated that they have actually buried 50 tons of iron, which has been wasted in an attempt to construct the Makohine Viaduct. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh ! Mr. PIRANI .- There is no need to have Taranaki ironsand converted into iron when you can go up there and find the iron buried. And the most extraordinary tales are told as to the manner in which these co-operative works are being carried on. If the present Government are going to continue that line as it has been up to the present time it will be forty years, and not four years, before it is through. As was pointed out by the member for Waihemo in connection with timber forests, the Government for years past have been forcing the destruction of timber by settlers who have taken up land with good timber on it because 3 railway has not been made up to where the tim- ber can be obtained so as to bring it to a market. I have no doubt the same result will follow in connection with the large totara forests on the Waimarino Plains if the present rate of pro- gress is not hastened ; and, altogether, in con- nection with this North Island Trunk line, there has been almost criminal carelessness in pushing it on. I say that it is ridiculous to put on the estimates £160,000 for that huge work when we find £100,000 for the Midland Railway. An Hon. MEMBER .- They did not spend it. Mr. PIRANI. - If the honourable member will look at last year's expenditure he will find that they have spent money on the Midland Railway by transferring it from other votes. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is exactly the opposite. Mr. PIRANI .- I say that the Midland Rail- way, no matter when it is finished, will never pay for the grease on the wheels that are used in connection with it. If the money spent on the Midland Railway had been spent on the North Island Main Trunk line the earnings would have been sufficient to pay for the other works which are required now in other parts of the colony. While the railway is being con- structed at its present rate of progress it will be nothing but a burden and a monument to the muddling of the present Government. It seems to me that when the works can be 