of his colleagues, and which, undoubtedly, was the turning-point in the industrial history of this colony, and which gave an example to other parts of the world. But to say that Mr. Seddon has not been a good, conscientious, and intelligent Minister of Labour is to say a thing which is not justified. He has done his best to keep abreast of every live question of the duy, and if he is not ecstatic as some people, and not carried away on the froth of agitation, but has got some common-sense ruling his mind, it is all the more to his credit, and all the more to the credit of his administration, and the result is that he brings down a Bill endeavouring to smooth over difficulties that experience has shown existed in the Hon. Mr. Reeves's legislation ; but that is not abandon- ing the principle of the original Act. The present Bill does not in any shape or form mean that the Premier is giving up his interest in labour questions. In fact, it shows how carefully he studies them : that he sees there are two sides to every question, and that he endeavours to meet the questions which ap- pear to him to be real live questions of the day. As I say, it was a matter of great pain to me that the Hon. Mr. Rigg should have made references of that kind to the Minister of Labour, because I know they are quite unwar- ranted. But, on the other hand, it has amused me to see how the real enemies of the measure have taken advantage of this Bill to play off their old game on it. They look, of course, upon it as revolutionary and horrible in every sense of the word, and they are only too glad to be able to "rub in" all they can as regards the amendments which are proposed in this Bill. I agree with the Hon. Mr. Rigg in thinking that a great deal too much has been made of the Wellington Conciliation Board. They, I think, have been very unfortunate in having a most hostile Press. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- 1 am only expressing my opinions ; the honourable gentle- man had his opportunity the other day. I say they had a most hostile Press, and the Press of Wellington has been only too glad to show up all the ridiculous features of this Board, and has never said a word in their favour. An Hon. MEMBER .- They could not have done .otherwise. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, I differ. I do not think anybody is quite as bad as he is painted ; and, certainly, this Board, I have no doubt, from what I can learn, has done a great deal to expedite the business of the Arbitration Court. Honourable gentlemen seem to think that it is very easy indeed, by wiping off the Conciliation Board-because that is what many members of the Council are endeavouring to do -they say it is very easy, by wiping off the Conciliation Board and preventing any of the expenses of the lower tribunal being incurred, not only to save money, but to gain expedition in the hearing of cases, and in other ways to speed the wheels of justice. Well, I believe my- self that, if the Conciliation Boards were unfor- Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker the opposite thing would be found to eventuate. These Boards have been doing useful work, perhaps in a clumsy way as to some of them, but I believe in a very honest way. Perhaps it might have been done better if they had been presided over by a legal gentleman. In fact, the Wellington Board was presided over at one time by a legal gentleman. Perhaps it ought to have continued to have been presided over by a legal gentleman ; but, in spite of that-in spite of the fact that these Boards have been presided over by laymen -- the work they have done has been of an exceedingly conscientious kind, and a work that has assisted the Arbitra- tion Court to a most incalculable extent. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Is this the Wel- lington Board ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Every Board in the colony. We did not have Mr. Justice Cooper before us to give evidence, but I am quite certain that if we had we would have found him admitting his work was lightened ten- fold by the work done in the preliminary in- vestigations by the Boards, not even excluding Wellington. Now, it is very unfortunate that a tribunal of this kind should have been made the object of ridicule and derision by any respect- able Press, still more in a city like Wellington, which is supposed to be able to focus public opinion ; and, considering that both neas- papers represent a considerable amount of commercial enterprise, I think it is still more to be regretted, because it shows they are absolutely, blindly, and criminally ignorant of the true interests of commercial enterprise. These Acts are intended to smooth over diffi- culties that must inevitably from time to time occur between capital and labour. Not even the Wellington newspapers can run without labour, and they must inevitably, therefore, be dragged occasionally into disputes with their employés. Why, therefore, should they aggra- vate troubles of this kind ? Why should they be the persons to endeavour to bring into ridi- cule tribunals that were endeavouring to meet the difficulty, and in a needless way to defeat the objects of these beneficent Acts? I can- not conceive such judicial blindness on the part of newspapers, who not only ought to have suffi- cient intelligence to carry on their own affairs, but are also supposed, like the moon, to lend reflected light to the rest of the community. Yes, Sir, I am quite certain that if the whole weight of conciliation and arbitration is placed on the shoulders of the Arbitration Court, great disappointment will ensue. In the first place, delay must ensue. That is evident, because we have had it in evidence that the first work of the Conciliation Board is to bring the parties together, and to find out how many points they are likely to agree upon, and how many they are sure to disagree on. And supposing there are twenty or thirty counts in a case, it takes a little time. I do not think that really the work of the Boards has been treated with enough consideration, and enough consideration given to them, es- pecially in the matter of detailed work. But I 