economically with the member for Hawke's Bay than with the member for Waihemo on the question of the "balance of trade," and even, perhaps, of the Imperial Zollverein ; nor have I any sympathy with much of the blather and the bigotry that has passed for patriotism in this colony and elsewhere during the last two years ; but I say that to me, at any rate, it is plain business and common-sense to be unwilling to subsidise a service that involves the exclusion of our own people. That is why there is such a strong feeling against the pro- posed deal with the Spreckels Company. My colleague, Mr. Hutcheson, has reminded us that he realised a year ago what would happen ; but when the incident occurred at Honolulu in June last year, and the "Moana " could not take passengers and cargo on to San Francisco, we felt it was a real grievance, and there was a feeling of shame that we, as Englishmen, should be placed in such a position. Now it is admitted by the Postmaster-General, the mem- ber for Franklin, and others, that it is a hard- ship, and one we are entitled to resent ; and although they say it is a matter that should be treated on business lines, it is remarkable to see their application of business principles to this problem. The Postmaster-General says we should use "moral suasion " to have the wrong redressed. Well, if I were ever to try moral suasion on a crocodile, I should prefer not to attempt it from the inside. Even from the inside I might move it to tears-crocodiles are said to be very much disposed that way when they have got the right side of you-but the tears would not get me out. The parallel is exact. We are to allow Spreckels to swallow us, and then to use moral suasion with him to let us out again, or, rather, to use moral suasion to get Spreckels to go to Congress with the view of having the navigation laws repealed in our favour in order that we may cut his throat and throw him over. An Hon. MEMBER .- No; we do not ask for the repeal. Mr. ATKINSON. - The honourable gentle- man says, No; but, unfortunately, that I think is what he will have to ask for. Whether re- peal or modification, we shall have a poor chance of getting it after we are swallowed. Now, on the 9th of January, on the San Fran- ciso mail-boat in Sydney, the Premier said :- " If the Spreckels Company kept on fair and legitimate ground its success would be sure, but the moment anything was done unfriendly to his colony or nation he would resent it in a way that would not be forgotten." What could be more unfriendly-more bar- barously unfriendly-to the colony than the navigation laws under which the Union Com- pany are deprived of the privilege of trading between Honolulu and San Francisco ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- That law was in operation before Mr. Seddon spoke. Mr. ATKINSON .- The honourable gentle- man need not remind me of that. I do not suggest it was passed for Spreckels's benefit at a moment's notice, and, of course, it was during Mr. Atkinson spoke. But the question now is, whether we are to renew or not. The honourable mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) said Mr. Spreckels was not to blame in the matter. It may not be Mr. Spreckels's fault, it may be his misfortune; but the result is, so far as we are concerned, that Spreckels has the whip hand, and our own fellow-subjects are penalised. I consider this deal with Spreckels entitles me to call this route "the all-green line." We were very green to enter the engage- ment, and I am certain our own colour-green -was reflected in at least one of his eyes at the time -the other was doubtless closed. The line I should prefer I may call the "all- blue line"-a direct long sea-service. The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), by the way, was a little out in his geography ; I will not say he was at sea, for it was on shore he was most out. He told us there was no such thing as an all.red line. The all-blue line, at any rate, will be as good as an all-red line, because so long as Britain holds the seas the two colours for this purpose are practically identical. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Waihemo say that he considered it not at all impracticable to establish a regular Direct service to the Old Country. The importance of having such a service for the carriage of our produce out- weighs immeasurably the question whether or not we shall have our letters delivered two or three days sooner or later. Failing this route, I should prefer to see arrangements made for the Federal route. I am sorry the Govern- ment treated the proposals of the New Zealand Shipping Company with regard to the Van- couver route so very cavalierly. A suggestion was made by that company, in a letter dated 2nd August, 1900, and they received a reply from the Postal Department on the 11th April, 1901, a delay of more than eight months. The company then replied that it was too late, as they had parted with their interest in the service, or a part of it. The member for Auck- land City (Mr. Fowlds) said there were eight days' difference between the Federal route and the Fr'isco route. He was much fairer in that respect than his colleague, Mr. Napier, who insisted on comparing the time-tables under present arrangements, when there is no connec- tion in Australia with the Federal route. There is, however, a test which neither of them applied, though it is a much fairer one 1 than the time occupied by a single journey. The real test is the time when you can get a reply to a letter, and, if we test the respective routes in this way, the differ- ence in time becomes much less marked. Of course, the three-weekly period is in 1.30. itself highly inconvenient, as our calen- dars are adjusted to multiples of two, and the three-weekly period is inconvenient both to the business-man and the amateur. But, of course, we are a mere incident in Mr. Spreckels's cal- culations and dealings, and the result is that the inconvenience of a three-weekly period is aggravated by the fact that the time-table is ar- 