leading. It should, of course, have been "From 1 to 20," and then members would have understood that it is to schools up to twenty that the £100 applies. That, of course, is intended as a capitation of £5 per head. Some members, in dealing with this phase of the question, have said there is no minimum. Well, there is nothing to prevent the Boards themselves fixing a minimum and fixing also that there shall be a contribution by the parents so as to augment the amount provided by the State. Mr. MONK .- That would never do. Mr. SEDDON .- That is done at the present time. I may say there may be a danger ; but it is safeguarded, I think, and some Education Boards in this respect have, I think, gone too far. I know that in the Marlborough District, the Auckland District, and even in the West- land District, the state of things disclosed in the evidence shows the Boards have gone too far in dealing with the matter. However, I will deal with that more in detail later on. Then, I come to the exception taken because there were no ladies on the Commission. I do not myself disparage that suggestion ; but the fact is I question very much whether women, to deal with questions affecting women, would be the wisest thing. However, I may say the amounts we have decided upon, upon which the estimated cost has been appraised, are based upon the average of the last three years. The average expenditure of the Boards has been £62,150. Now, the member for Pal- merston and other members have stated that we have made special provision for the Boards in respect to their expenditure. I have no desire whatever to suggest for a moment that the Boards have not been economical in their working; but I do know that they have been occasionally extravagant in their administra- tion, and I also know that the teachers have felt this, and that is to a great extent why they hail this Bill with joy. Whenever the Boards have got into difficulties there have been amended regulations reducing the teachers' salaries, and the unfortunate teachers have been the sufferers. This Bill prevents any- thing of that kind, and I am satisfied, with this responsibility taken from the Boards, the Boards can conscientiously effect savings. In connection with the question of transfers, I think there is only one case I know of where the moneys from general account have been transferred to the building account. Strange to say, an application was made to transfer the moneys back to the general account, but the Auditor-General stepped in and said the law would not admit it. We have been told by one or two members that the department is drifting, that it has no head, and ultimately, I presume, they wish us to infer that chaos will reign supreme. That is incorrect ; but the honourable member for Wel- lington City was Minister of Education, and it might be said that the Minister of Education should be in this House. I ask the question now of all those gentlemen who talk about real live Ministers of Education, and who talk about the Education Act, and what should be done by way of amendment - I ask what has been done during the last twenty three years. I say there has been no alteration or amendment made. I remember fighting-and I fought as bitterly as ever I did in my life-in the session of 1887 when a blow was struck at the teachers of the colony by doing away with the training of teachers. I remember when the general average was taken away, and when the strict average was applied. I say a grave mistake was made then, and a blow was struck from which the Education Boards and the teachers have never recovered. I again say that at that time an attempt was made to increase the school-age ; and I ask, seeing that oc- curred, Was that the way to improve educa- tion by having a real live Minister of Educa- tion? So far as my experience has gone, so far as teachers are concerned, and as to education generally, we have been doing better work during recent years than has been done in the years gone by. I must say this in de- fence of the Education Department : that we have now a system of technical education, and I ask, what was done in that direction before ? Now, I come to some remarks made by the member for Bruce, and I must express my regret that, when nothing else can be said in reference to a measure before the House, we have this cry of " Taihoa, taihoa !"; and the House is urged not to do anything this session, but that the Bill should be circulated, and that the House should pass the second reading and pro- ceed no further. Reforms and progress could never be made on such lines as that, and I can only understand it on the ground that, whilst the measure itself could not be taken exception to, this would be the means to prevent its further progress. I do not think there are many members who desire that there should be delay in respect to this Bill. I say, let us place it on the statute-book, let us- carefully watch its working, and our ex- perience will teach us the direction in which it may require amendment; and then next session we can, if necessary, make the requi- site amendments. The honourable member stated that he had not read the evidence, and because honourable members had not read the evidence he said that was another reason for postponement. My opinion is that if we postponed the Bill until members had read the evidence we would never pass the Bill. I hear members from time to time crying out for evidence, and they want that evidence printed, and one would think that when that evidence left the Printing Office they would rush at it. and peruse it word by word. I undertake to say that 95 per cent. of the members of this House, if their constituents were to take one of these papers and question them upon it, would be found to be unacquainted with its contents. I may say that, as the Commission was taking evidence, I watched carefully all that took place, and I could tell pretty well the gist of the evidence taken in each town, and, under those circumstances, I think I had a. better command of the question when I 