nate position, I hope the Government will take steps to see that no such abuses occur again, because, no doubt, had I been absent from home and not able to defend i Bill, which would lessen the revenue of any local myself I might as well have been put off the property altogether. In the interests of the department, and in the interests of the Govern- ment, either the law should be amended and we should go back to the conditions of 1894, by which the Government would be responsible to take over the properties at the valuation of the officers of the department, or steps should be taken to appoint valuers who have some knowledge of land-values. At the present time landowners are not protected at all, for every protection has been swept away, and they are placed entirely at the mercy of the officers of the department and the witnesses they employ. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua). - I regret very much that at this late hour any members should be compelled to detain their fellow- members, more especially in view of the weary session we have had ; but, still, there are oc- casions on which duty compels us to speak in this Chamber, otherwise we might just as well remain at home with our constituents. I came here to represent my constituents, and as long as I have a grievance I shall stand up and represent it here in the House, notwith- standing the protest of the Right Hon. the Premier. I wish to speak with regard to clause 9 of the Appropriation Act, and in re- gard to the Woodville Borough Council being improperly and unfairly deprived of its subsidy on rates. This borough adopted the rating on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the unimproved value, an Act which was generally approved of not only by members of this House, but by the Government of the country ; and yet, by the fact of their adopting that Act, the Woodville Borough Council have lost revenue approximately amounting to the amount of £43. Under the rating of the old Act a rate of 1s. 3d. in the pound was struck, which brought in a revenue of £600 odd. But in order to comply with the rating on unimproved value so as to bring in a similar revenue, a rate of 3gd. was struck, and, instead of the usual subsidy of $110, they only received two - thirds of that amount. In the first year. it was deducted, and was afterwards remitted by the Govern- ment. In the second year a similar circum- stance occurred, and in the third year they granted a subsidy without any reduction at all. But, strange to say, in the fourth year the Go- vernment retained from the borough the sum of $42, and by the Government treating boroughs that adopted the rating on unimproved value in that manner I consider they have done them an injustice. The effect of the Government doing that is a deterrent to any borough or county adopting the Rating on the Unimproved Value Act. I hope the Premier will reconsider the importance of this matter, and will deal out justice to boroughs that have adopted the rating on the unimproved value. I hope that, instead of deducting the sum I have stated from the Woodville Borough, he will at once give his ! he was going to claim credit for the amended sanction and authority to have the amount re- mitted. That is the only reason for my rising at this late stage to protest against such a clause being introduced into the Appropriation body that adopted the Rating on the Unim- proved Value Act. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - This has been a most remarkable session, and I am delighted we have come within sight of "Chicago "; and, if I may allude to the members as I see them on the benches, one and all must come to the con- clusion they will arrive there in a pretty sound state, notwithstanding the nineteen weeks and a half we have been here. Sir, the criticism we have had with respect to the Appropriation Bill, to my mind, shows that whilst there have been statements made which have not been in accord- ance with the facts, still there has not been that rancour that I have noticed in previous sessions at the conclusion of the sessional work. First of all, I wish to reply to the statement made by the member for Riccarton as to there being anxiety as regards our financial position. I may at once relieve that honourable gentle- man's anxiety. It is quite true that our expen- diture this year is extraordinarily high, but there are reasons for it which are well within the knowledge of the honourable member. What ought to weigh with him and other honourable members is that, although there has been this abnormal expenditure, we are still in a position to more than pay our way. I am satisfied we shall this year have a surplus of about a quarter of a million. The results for the past seven months of the year justify that belief, and we have the best five revenue-producing months still to run. We have £100,000 to the good, although our calculations of revenue for this year are below that of last year. Next year, 1902, if we make no further reduction in reve- nue, there must be over half a million surplus, because the abnormal expenditure which has been caused this year will not recur. To have attained such a position, while making reduc- tions in railway rates and reductions in taxa- tion of nearly $300,000 last year, and this year to have over £200,000 over normal expenditure, and a surplus, is a position which should re- lieve the honourable member of his anxiety. If not, the honourable member is a pessimist of the first water. Then, again, members must take some responsibility for the increased ex- penditure, and I was surprised at the honour- able member twitting my colleague the Minis- ter for Railways in respect to the increased railway expenditure. The honourable member himself did what he could to increase that ex- penditure. Will he say that they should take from these railway men the extra 6d. a day we gave them. It comes with an ill-grace, I think, for the honourable member for Riccarton to draw attention to the increased railway ex- penditure. What has the honourable member been doing this session ? After my colleague had announced that we were bringing in a Railway Classification Bill, which would mean increased expenditure, the honourable member appeared very impatient, and it looked as if 