of view the mail-service was of very little use to Auckland. But the Auckland people looked upon this as a colonial question, and Auckland, by its geographical position, must necessarily be the port of call. The Postmaster-General admitted that even if the Vancouver service were established Auckland would have to be the port of call, and the same with the Federal service. Honourable members were going to attempt to throw this service out-he hoped they would not succeed-simply because they talked about the English flag and giving it to a line of boats of our own. The thing was non- sense. Why did the people buy such large quantities of American boots? He expected that if a great number of these honourable gentlemen examined their boots they would Were members find them American-made. going to give up the quickest and cheapest service possible for the colony ? We could not establish a Federal mail under £27,000 a year ; and the Postmaster-General said the Fr'isco service could not exceed a maximum of £20,000; and he said, with all sincerity, that members should pause before they threw out the Fr'isco service. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he would like to help to guide the House on what he looked upon as one of the most important questions we had had to deal with for a very long time. He would briefly state what had led to the pre- sent situation, and it was the cutting-out of the boat of the Union Steamship Company as one of the three steamers in the Fr'isco service. If the service had been left as previously there would practically be no opposition to the pro- posal to renew the service. Then, we had the American shipping laws brought to bear, be- cause there was no colonial steamer in the service, and that the service was not conducted as it was before because only American vessels carried the mails. He said this had led to a hostile feeling against the service. No single speaker attempted to prove that any other ser- vice was an improvement on the Fr'isco service as a mail-service, and he challenged any honour- able member, having regard to the country to be served and the geography of this colony, to do so. Therefore, when they admitted the fact that the service could not be improved upon, they disagreed with matters of detail as to how the service was to be performed. The difficulty now simply was as to the manner in which the service should be performed. If members admitted that to be the situation, they must confess that it was that feeling which ac- tuated, in a great measure, those who were pre- pared to vote against the proposals now sub- mitted. There were some members who felt that the Government had not gone far enough. He might say that he was prepared to go further -and he and his colleagues had considered this matter, and they felt that there were honour- able members who had not strong feelings on the matter, but who felt that they would not like to see the Fr'isco service lost to the colony. When he was in Australia the Australians said that New Zealand was fortunate in having friendly towards it, because it gave New Zea- land an advantage as compared with Australia, and they had shown that they were not favour- able to it. They had withdrawn their sup- port from it, and they would simply laugh at New Zealand if we were to cut off the Fr'isco service. He was not at all pleased at the attitude taken when we were asking that there should be a reconsideration as to the shipping laws of America as applied to our New Zealand service. He was of opinion, however, that reprisals would never do any good with a country like the United States. He would rather depend upon our giving what we considered a business-like subsidy, and make our representations when the time came later on when we could reconsider the matter. If the North Island Main Trunk Railway were completed, and the South Island could get its mails as they would in the course of a short time, he felt sure that the House would unani- mously carry the Fr'isco mail proposals. Before we needed to renew the service that railway would probably be completed ; and then what would be the position if they had driven away the Fr'isco service ? They would then have the South Island members going on their knees and asking that this service should be brought back. The best thing to do at the present time was not to irritate. The best thing to do was to act as a business man would do. A business man would make the best terms under the existing circumstances. Later on, when the Vancouver service was free, then they would have the railway completed between Auckland and Wellington, and then, with other developments, the Australian Com- monwealth and New Zealand could deal with the matter in a manner to the satisfaction of all concerned. At present they could not im- prove upon the San Francisco service. Because of some injudicious statements in the Press of Auckland, members of that House, as sound common-sense men having a grave responsi- bility, should not be influenced in trifling matters of that kind, but they should 11.30. vote for what they believed to be in the best interests of the colony. His advice was to continue the San Francisco service. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) said he intended to vote for the San Francisco service for one year only, and he would therefore vote for the amendment proposed by Mr. Millar, as he be- lieved the proposals were the best in the mean- time, but the advantage gained by the service was small. The increases were not sufficient to continue such an expensive service, and the Americans had not as yet, nor were they likely to, reciprocate and grant concessions. Other arrangements would have to be made by Vancouver, with the port of call at the most convenient centre for distribution of the mails. New Plymouth would be the shorter, and despatch of mails from that centre could be by sea and rail. It was not fair, however, to look at the matter entirely from a commercial point of view. Concessions had already been granted in the penny postage and in a reduction of the 