if there is no such person or no such person able and willing to act, then the surviving or continuing trustees for the time being, or the personal representatives of the last surviving or continuing trustee, mav, by writing, appoint another person to be a trustee in the place of such first-mentioned trustee. The second part of that clause provided that a trustee might act for the whole or any part of the trust property. The number of trustees could be increased, or the trust property divided into different branches with different trustees, and trusts might be created for the purpose of dealing with the different branches of the pro- perty according to their requirements. He thought the Council would find that the Bill pretty well covered the whole ground, and not only brought the law up to the English standard, but made it apply generally to the circumstances of the case as recognised here. He moved the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. ## ADJOURNMENT. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the Council do nom adjourn. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI wished to say a few words on this mo ion. On the previous Friday they had adjourned at a quarter past three, the same on Tuesday, and now an ad- journment was moved at the same hour, though they had plenty of work on the Order Paper to go on with. He could not see why business should be left over to the last moment, and wished https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to call the attention of the Council to the posi- tion. He did not for a moment mean to say that the honourable leader of the Council was playing with them, but he would remark that members did not come to Wellington to idle http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero their time away. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at a quarter past three o'clock p.m. ## HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 26th September, 1901. First Re .ding - New Business after Midnight - Officers of Parliament - Royal Visit Expenses Bill-Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Canterbury College Empowering Bill. NEW BUSINESS AFTER MIDNIGHT. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- As I promised the Right Hon. the Premier last night, I have to announce that, as the House has now approached within measurable distance of the end of the session, it is my intention to make the custom. ary announcement that facilities will be given Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker . when they are reported to the House after twelve o'clock at night. I think I am justitied in making this announcement. I find that last year it was on the 7th September that the Hon. Sir Maurice O'Rorke, Speaker of the House, made a similar announcement. It is now the 26th September, and I think I am justified in concluding that not many weeks will elapse before the session concludes. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I think that before a decision on the point is given it is customary for the Right Hon. the Premier to give the House some idea of the business ho intends to proceed with. It has not been a customary thing, without notice to members, that Bills should be taken in all their stages at all hours of the night without our having an idea of what is to be put before the House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I called attention to the matter during the honourable member's absence. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not to the business to come on. Mr. SEDDON .- No, not in respect to the business, but in respect to taking new business after twelve o'clock at night. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Looking at the Hansard, I do not see that any such an- nouncement was made by the Right Hon. the Premier before Mr. Speaker made that intima- tion. The very first order of business appear- ing on the 7th September is the intimation that I have just referred to. I therefore think that I am justified, after waiting for three weeks after the date on which the intimation was made last year, in making it now. Mr. HERRIES -Do I understand that that only refers to Bills that have been through Committee-that these may have their third reading after twelve o'clock ? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - Agreeing to amendments and third reading. Mr. HERRIES .- Not second readings. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- No. OFFICERS OF PARLIAMENT. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I notice by May that during the absence of Mr. Speaker the Deputy-Speaker has all the powers and privi- leges of Mr. Speaker. In connection with that, two vacancies, I understand, have arisen in connection with the permanent officers of the House. I would like to ask, if you have no objection to state, whether you have made any recommendation to the Government in accord- ance with the rule for the filling of those two vacancies. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I may state that only one vacancy has arisen, through the non- acceptance by Mr. Crow of the appointment to the Hansara staff. Another temporary vacancy has been caused by the illness of one of the Hansard staff, Mr. Russell. After consultation with the Chief of the Hansard staff and the Premier, it has been decided that during the present session no permanent appointment should be made to fill the vacancy created by 