made by a Board that is absolutely composed of townspeople, who do not know our require- ments ? " Let me instance the printing business - and I claim to know a little about that occupation. Why should an award made here in Wellington apply to Feilding or Taranaki, or other country districts? The Wellington extreme trade-unionists strove for that ideal ; but it is impossible to carry it out; and in striving in that direction they are weakening the Act altogether. I would draw attention to a return which was placed before members to-day. It appears to be incorrect in, at any rate, one particular. I have a very distinct recollection that the saddlers, who referred their case to the Board of Conciliation at Auckland, did not accept the recommendations at all, and they appeared before Mr. Justice Martin, and that case was settled by the Arbitration Court; whereas it says here that this particular case was settled by the Board. Now, there is another clause of this Bill, clause 6, and I entirely disagree with the action of the Labour Bills Committee in striking it out. I hold that in the past experience we have had, in connec- tion with the Boards of Conciliation and the Court of Arbitration, and believing that it is better not to utilise the machinery too much so as to cause it to come into contempt, that it would be well if the special Boards of Concilia- tors were kept in. This would allow the mem- bers of different trades to negotiate with their employers without the intervention of strangers. My honourable friend and some other mem- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 bers of this Council hold the belief that a man would be marked. Well, unfortunately, in the Waihi dispute it has been the case that men were dismissed from their employment. I regret very much that that has happened ; and it only strengthens the case of those who hold the view that a man will be marked if he sticks up for his trade. In the Waihi case, and . also in the case of the Allendale miners, men, unfortunately, were dismissed for voicing the views of their co-workers. For that reason, I support the amendment of clause 19 of this Bill. which will prevent any such dismissals for the future. In the majority of cases, I believe, employers will not interfere with members of a union if they appear on behalf of their fellow- workers in regard to increases of pay, or what- ever may be decided upon in bettering their condition. I know and can cite quite a dozen trades where men who have appeared before Conciliation Boards and Arbitration Court have not been dismissed from their employment for sc doing. This Act is merely in its early stages yet. It is still in the experimental stage; and I believe the intentions of its promoter, the Hon. Mr. W. P. Reeves, will be carried out in this colony yet. The intention of this Act was to prevent disastrous strikes- no one would like a repetition of the great strike of 1890. I would be very sorry to see anything that might cause it to be expunged from our statute-book ; but it was never in- tended for the purpose of taking every small dispute before the Board or Court. I know a Hon. Mr. Jennings for an increase of 6d. per day, could very easily have been settled by the persons engaged in that dispute if outsiders had not interfered. But that outside interference raised unneces- sary irritation, and the matter was fought out, and, after all, the 6d. per day was not gained. These men were working forty-five hours, and were getting $3 per week. There is no "sweat- ing " or underpay in such a case as that, and it should never have been cited. I agree with my honourable friend in his concluding remarks, that if this Act is carried out with the expressed good-will of every one, it will tend to prevent such a disaster as occurred here some ten years ago -- and that was the intention of the Act. I believe, however, with my honourable friend, that the spirit of the people of this colony is such that it will prevent any falling-away in regard to "sweating" or other disabilities that workers may writhe under. Our political system is the most complete for reaching an ideal democracy that the world has seen. That is the reason we should be careful, and not raise artificial restrictions, or have undue in- terference with rational liberty, and be the manufacturers of abuses. Those who profess to speak on behalf of the workers should en- deavour to realise that cast-iron rules are pre- judicial to business, and the lever should not be. pressed too far. If it is it will assuredly react on the masses of the people. The time has arisen for us to forget in this colony that there are such people as democrats, Liberals, Conservatives, or labour people. The new type of politician should be neither of these - be should be a Nationalist. I think there should be a higher ideal in this colony, seeing what has occurred in the neighbouring Common- wealth of Australia. A great aspiration has been brought to life in Australia; and we do not know what the possible effect of their tariff or fiscal proposals will be. We should go carefully, slowly, and cautiously now, and not go to the extreme, to the possible injury of our workers. There is no country on the face of God's earth that has the conditions that labour has at the present time in New Zealand. Forty- eight hours is almost universal. I do not know of one trade that is working more than forty- eight hours; 1 know many are working less. On the other hand, we know that in Australia in various industries they are working fifty and fifty-six hours. At Home, in America, and on the Continent the hours are very much greater, and we have to compete against these places. Therefore it behoves us not to push the rail- way-car too far or we may find the car off the track altogether, because the points have not been well secured. I may be as one erving aloud in the wilderness in my views, but I have noticed that it is not those who are always crying out on behalf of labour who are the most sincere. I intend to support the amendments brought down by the Bill; and I hope that what has been said here to-day may have the effect throughout New Zealand of making those who are rushing to extremes pause a little bit, and try and have a little more consideration in 