I think, be on the part of those who really understand the question and who have sup- ported the special Boards-I think their dif- ficulty will be to confine their remarks within anything like reasonable limits, for it is a sub- ject on which they can talk from now almost to Doomsday. I cannot see for the life of me how any member of Parliament with a know- ledge of the good the Arbitration Act has done, and with the knowledge that it is likely to do good in the future, and with a knowledge of the import of the new proposals, can support such a clause as this. I am quite sure, if we had gone a little bit further and made this compulsory as to special Boards, that there is nothing more likely than that to bring about discord and disagreeable feelings between the workers and the employers. The Hon. Mr. Pinkerton will bear me out readily, I think, when I say that a special Board of Con- ciliators has been set up times without number, more especially by the bootmakers in New Zea- land, who have taken more advantage of this method of dealing with disputes than any other body. I do not suppose you could get ten out of a hundred bootmakers to say that they would again undergo such another experience as that of the ten years before the coming into force of the Arbitration Act. The effect of this special Board of Conciliators was that those who took part in it, although they may not have been dis- charged from their employment just at once, in a very short time the place that once knew them knows them no more. They had to go. And https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 while some of them left their employment in the factory in which they were engaged with light hearts, and went next door to ask for employ- ment, having taken part in the settling of a dis- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero pute which might not have been altogether to the employer's detriment, they were there also refused employment. Those men had to be shunted out of the trade. We have heard it said that there is not an ex-President or ex- Secretary of the Bootmakers' Union now in the trade. I do not know how far that is true, but I can say that I know of a large number of ex- officers of the Bootmakers' Union who are now altogether out of the trade, and also a large number of unionists who have taken a certain amount of interest in trying to better the con- dition of their fellow-workers. They have had to bear the brunt. In connection with this the Hon. Mr. Rigg put on record the other day a few of the names of those who had suffered round about Wellington in this way. Since then the Secretary of the Canterbury Trades Council has been good enough to send me a list of a few-though he says there are many more -of the names which to his knowledge within the last six months have had their services dis- pensed with. He goes so far as to say that they were dispensed with on account of the action they took in endeavouring to bring about agree- ments ; but he says these persons have been discharged from their regular employment, and he also gives the positions held by the persons which he names in the union, and says that this union has brought cases before the Board within names :- Union. Name. Office. Employers. Vice - Presi- H. Revell ... Woollen Kaiapoi Mills dent Woollen Factory. W. Clark ... Tinsmith's President Taylor and Oakley. Currier's W. Murphy President Bowron ... Bros. Ditto. T. Gofton Representa- tive T. Corlett Ditto F. Newton Tanner's ... Witness Secretary - Wells - Cooksley President "Promoter - Wilson I do not know what the position of "pro- moter " of unions is. There was no such posi- tion in my time. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is how the trouble has arisen. An Hon. MEMBER .- He is an organizer. Office. Union. Employers. Name. Bowron Tanner's Promoter ' - Barnett Bros. Representa- J. Milne Ditto. ... tive Currier's ... Son of above J. Milne : l'. Hare Representa- ... tive Range- Scott Bros. J. Ford Secretary ... makers' Ditto - Lane .. - Douglass Butchers' Steel. - Robert- Secretary ... son The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON. - It will be seen that one of the men is classed as " Son of above." Apparently the sins of the parents are being visited upon the children. There is one point I want to dwell on in this list : There are eleven names I wish to lay special stress upon, because they were curriers and tanners, and all discharged from the one employ -namely, Bowron Brothers-within the last six months ; and the secretary of the Trades Council in Christchurch says these men were discharged because of their action in bringing a case before the Conciliation Board against the employers. I have spoken to a representative of this particular firm, telling him I was going to publish these names, and make it known that these considered they had been discharged from their employ for belonging to unions, so that that gentleman-a member of Parliament for whom I have the greatest respect-can put himself right on the first opportunity. Some of these men had been in this employment, I am told, for a considerable number of years. An Hon. MEMBER .- Have other men replaced them ? The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- To a certain extent, I am told. An Hon. MEMBER .- To what extent ? The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .-- I cannot say ; I have not that information before me. An- 