and when new members were .appointed he hoped that justice would be done to that province, and particularly to the Waikato por- tion of it. He was glad to hear the remarks the Premier had just made with reference to the necessity of the farming community being letter represented in the Upper House, but, as the member for the Bay of Plenty had a ques- tion on this day's Order Paper dealing with that question, he would not enlarge upon it at the present time. Mr. SEDDON said he was very pleased that the honourable member was bringing this matter before him, and his diffidence was most com- mendable. Coming events cast their shadows before, and the honourable member seemed to b .. paving the way and trying to convince Ministers that he was just the sort of man to call to the Legislative Council after the next general election. # APPOINTMENTS TO LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) asked the Government, If, in considering the names of persons to be appointed to the Legislative Council, they will take into earnest considera- tion the claim on the colony of the late Tamati Waaka Nene and appoint one of the late chief's grand-nephews to a seat in the said Council ? During late years appointments of Native repre- tentatives to the Legislative Council had been limited, so far as the North Island was con- cerned, to the East and West Coasts. The late / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Major Ropata represented the East Coast ; he succeeded by appointment to the late Mokena Kohere, of the East Coast ; and he thought it was about time, if the Government intended electing any more members to the Legislative Council, that the Northern Maori District should have some consideration, and descendants of the late Tamati Waaka Nene particularly, he thought, should be the proper parties from whom the selection should be made. There were very good members of this family, and it would be a very good thing on the part of the Government if they could see their way clear to appoint one of those men to the Legislative Council. Mr. SEDDON regretted that the honourable member had placed this relationship to this late chief as a claim for consideration, because, in respect to our Legislative Council, they could not recognise hereditary rights either European or Maori. Even in this case indicated the relationship was rather remote -- they were not even grandsons, but grand-nephews. What the Government did recognise was this : that there ought to be further representation of the Native race in the Legislative Council ; and in con- sidering this, and in making any recommenda- tions, they would certainly bear in mind that the representation ought to be distributed widely, so that there should be representation of the different parts of the colony, and that those called were worthy of the race, and would make worthy representatives if brought into the Council. Mr. HEKE said it was not his intention to fluencing the Government. It was simply that there was a moral claim on the part of these people. # FEDERATION COMMISSION. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether he will name a date for the discussion of the report of the Federation Com- mission ? He had said nearly all he wished to say on the question of the appointment of the Federation Commission, and the £3,800 which it cost, when discussing the subject in Com- mittee of Supply. The investigations of the Commission, and the mountain of evidence which had been piled up, had created a feel- ing of ridicule in the public mind, ridicule ex- tending even to the belief that the average member of Parliament was the most gullible gobemouche in creation. It was not a matter of much concern to him what the honourable gentleman's opinion might be of Parliament, individually or collectively, but he objected to people in other countries regarding the mem- bers of the Parliament of New Zealand as a pack of fools. After the statement made by the honourable gentleman to-day in regard to the remaining business of the session, it was absurd to hold out any hope that there would be time to discuss the report in such a manner as would do justice, not to the report, but to the subject. He said it was unreasonable to suppose that there would be time for the dis- cussion of the report of the Federation Com- mission. He wished to ask whether the subject was to be discussed, or whether the report and evidence were to be buried-as he thought they should be-many fathoms deep. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, At the beginning of the session he had promised an opportunity to discuss the report and evidence, and he was prepared later on to name a date. # APPOINTMENTS TO LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Premier, Whether, when recommending to His Excellency the names of those to fill the vacan- cies in the Legislative Council, he will take into consideration the fact that the farming community is greatly under-represented in the Council ? The Premier had practically answered this question by saying that he would see that the small farmers were represented. There were a great number of squatter representa- tives in the Council, and it was time the small farmers were represented. He trusted the honourable gentleman would not indulge in the cheap joke of offering a position in the Council to himself, or intimating that he desired it in any way, because he hoped to keep his seat in the Lower House until he could see the right honourable gentleman hurled from the Govern- ment benches. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it looked as though the honourable gentleman thought he (the Premier) would be there for some little time yet on those benches. It did seem to him, when one found on one Order Paper four ques- 