may be a genuine difference of opinion as to the interpretation to be placed upon certain clauses of an award, but, as soon as an inter- pretation is got from the Court, I believe the employers will readily abide by the award, and loyally endeavour to carry it out. The reason for the alteration made may be this : that if there is an alleged breach of the award the Inspector of Factories may look into the matter and come to the conclusion that he could not secure conviction ; in that case it is evidently better not to institute proceedings than to institute proceedings and not secure a con- viction ; and, by inserting the word "may," the Inspector is given the right-I presume, after reference to the head of the department- to determine whether he should take proceed- ings or not. I do not believe there was any ulterior object in altering the word. The alteration of section 21 is, I think, another good alteration. The right honourable gentle- man did not refer to the alteration made to the clause in the other place. The posi- tion now is that if a dispute is desired to go direct to the Court of Arbitration, either party must, previous to the hearing of the dis- pute by the Board, give notice that they so desire it to go straight to the Court. That is only fair, because, if they thought there was no chance of coming to an arrangement, the notice should be given before the Board entered upon the hearing of the case. I had not intended to have said anything in connection with the Bill, because I recognise that after the Bill had been passed by this House, and sent to another place, and had come back in what I think is a slightly amended form, it is for us to agree to it and get it placed on the statute-book ; and if the Premier had confined his remarks to mov- ing that the amendments be agreed to, it would have been much better. The early part of his speech was an attack on the employers of this colony, and an attempt to incite trouble in the industrial world. Sir, from the high and honourable position he occupies, and from the responsible position he occupies, he ought to have weighed his words very much more carefully than he appears to have done- because I venture to say that unless we can get industrial peace in the colony there will be a serious outlook for us. The honourable gentle- man, instead of attempting to stir up strife, ought, on the other hand, to do his best to make the relations between employers and employed of the most amicable character ; but his speech to-night was of the reverse character, and more likely to create friction and trouble than to allay it. I hope the working of the Act during the next twelve months will prove that the amend- ments that have been made have improved the Act, and tended to the more amicable working of the industries of the colony. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- When a battle has been fought and won, Sir, it is neither wise nor generous on the part of the victor to be too particular as to the language used by the one who has been defeated. The Premier has made use of intemperate language, no doubt from Mr. G. J. Smith acknowledge that he has made a good fight for what he believes to be in the cause of concilia- tion and arbitration. I, at any rate, will do him the justice to say that ; but he must re- member that a large number of members of both Houses of the Legislature are equally com- petent to judge as to whether the present system is working well or whether a better system can be instituted. I regret that the Premier has made use of statements that are not correct. He says, in the first place, that the position is going to be reversed. Sir, there will be no re- versal whatever. It has been, I think, the uni- versally expressed opinion of the people of this colony that we should have conciliation and arbitration. But the system has been working so badly that the time had come when a change should be made. We must, of course, make allowances for a little heat on the part of the Premier, but when he makes a statement that a large number of employers are doing their best to destroy the system, I think he can hardly believe such a statement himself, be- cause he must know it is contrary to fact. The employers generally have shown no hostility to the system. They have been quite agree- able to have these disputes placed before the Boards or Courts in a fair manner, and that in all cases the awards should be carried out without murmuring. But when we come to the awards of the Conciliation Board of Wel- lington, and when we find that the proceedings have been prolonged for days and weeks, and when we know that men composing these Boards are appointed at a fixed rate per day, and that the longer these disputes last the better it is for them, and the longer will they receive their pay, on reflection it must be admitted that the system is not altogether as good as it should be. Now, what is proposed under the amended system! At present the Conciliation Board - per- haps composed of butchers or bakers - has to try disputes relative to totally different trades, and I think it must be admitted that their opportunity would not be as good as where the different trades settle the disputes among themselves. The intention of the clause in regard to conciliation was, that before going there an opportunity might be afforded to the employers and employés to settle their own dis- putes-that we should have a Board of Conci- liation appointed from either side, with an inde- pendent chairman, and let the case be fairly tried. If either party was not satisfied then, there is always the Arbitration Court open ; and why should we be afraid of the Arbitration Court? Their judgments have been just, and, I believe. throughout the colony there has been a feeling of satisfaction-that in all cases their findings have been considered fair and aboveboard. Sir, the Premier stated, with regard to my first clause, that when I submitted it to him he laughed at it as an absurd clause. Well, Sir, a great deal of thought had been bestowed on that clause by those who had some knowledge of the matter. I do not speak of myself, because the clause was 