very extensive one, and in the few remarks I have made in moving the second reading I think I have touched upon the main points. am sure honourable members will feel with me that some such measure is necessary ; that it is about time a national museum was esta- blished in this colony; that steps should be taken by the State to collect all articles of value, such as carvings, works of art, and historic relics of the Maori race; and that the State should have the first right to secure such valuables. I ask the assistance of the House to amend the Bill if necessary-to modify it, or to strengthen it-so that we may gain our object without committing any injustice on curio dealers or collectors of Maori art on modern Sir, I move the second reading of the lines. Bill. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- I 9.30. have nothing at all to say against the principle contained in the Bill, and I should have been glad to have seen the measure enacted years ago, as I believe it would have been of great advantage to this country. I believe if this Bill, when passed, is adminis- tered in the spirit and in the direction indi- cated by the mover it will prove to be a most beneficial measure. I have no doubt it can be so administered without undue hardship. But I want just to emphasize one point touched on in regard to those people who have already made large collections for the purposes of busi- ness. After the State has had a fair and reasonable opportunity of purchasing the relics https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and curios that have been so collected, I hope it will not place any unreasonable restrictions in the way of these people disposing of them to those who care to buy. There are in various parts of the colony very large collections that have been made for the purpose of supplying the wants of tourists, and it clearly would be an injustice to prevent those people disposing of them in the best market after the Government had declined to purchase them at prices which they are willing to accept from all and sundry. It would be a great hardship to those people to have these things tied up in their hands, so that they could not dispose of them to anybody. Then, there is another point that requires to be borne in mind, more espe- cially in regard to the administration of the Act. It is a wise thing to encourage the Maoris in the production of works of art and curios of all the different kinds. It is good for them, and it would be quite an industry, as it is now, to some extent, in the country ; and if this Act were drastically administered it might put a stop very largely to the possibilities of dealing in such articles, and consequently in their produc- tion, because the State would not be in a posi- tion and would not care to fill a museum with replicas. While the Act is right in principle, and while I think it ought to have been brought into operation years ago, I believe the whole success or failure of it, and the good or the harm that it will do, will largely depend on the way it is administered. But the remarks made by the mover were quite satisfactory to me on Mr. Carroll by future Administrators, I have no doubt the Act will work smoothly, and will be of benefit to the colony. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I have to congratulate the honourable gentleman who introduced this Bill. I think it is distinctly a step in the right direction, and it comes with a particularly good grace, emanating, as it does, from a gentleman who can lay claim to the proud honour of having in his veins the blood of the Native race of this country. I congratu- late the honourable gentleman upon having in- troduced such a measure. I consider the Bill, although it may in some respects require modi- fication to meet the views of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), can be made perfectly workable, as its primary object is to preserve the history of the Native race as contained in its carvings. We know that dealers have been perambulating from one end of the colony to the other buying up all the works of art and curios they can secure, and tourists from other countries have bought them and distributed them throughout the world. I know that in the Old Land some of these works are greatly prized, but in other places they are thrown into a corner of a building and never looked at again. The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) said that this Bill, if not properly administered, might interfere with the de- velopment of Maori art amongst the Natives. I do not think that will happen, because, if the Minister who is in charge of this Bill will adopt the method that prevails in Egypt, it will not in the least degree interfere with the sale of works which are not required by the colony itself. In Egypt all their art treasures, I understand, pass through the Boulak Museum, and it is from that museum that tourists purchase what they require; and they are able to purchase the articles at a reasonable price. Of course, there is nothing made there now; but, if there were any of these beautiful carvings that were not re- quired here, visitors might be able to obtain them at this proposed New Zealand museum, and probably on more reasonable terms than at present prevail. Of course, there is little legis- lation bearing on the subject to be found any- where. In Italy they safeguard the works of art to a considerable extent, but the laws that are to be found there are in their criminal code law and in their amendments, which would not be applicable to this country. If this Bill goes through the House, it should contain the pro- vision that all works of art should first be offered to the Government; and, in the second place, that the Government sanction should be first obtained before any are permitted to leave the colony. First of all, the Government will have the option of purchase, and will sanction the exportation of them afterwards ; and if that is insisted on in this measure, then a very great step will have been taken. Some- thing might also be done in connection with the discovery of works of art. I think if treasures are found in caves on private property some allowance might be made to the people owning 