years from the initial payments in 1886 to the 31st March, 1900, the fish preservers, curers, and exporters in the Auckland Dis- trict received bonuses amounting to £4,103; in the Otago District, £5,152; in the Welling- ton District, $238 ; in the Marlborough District, $61; in the Westland District, $348; in South- land, $60 ; and Canterbury does not even figure in the return at all. The amounts paid annu- ally vary considerably-from £271, the mini mum, to £1,194 as a maximum ; but they show that the bonus during the last year or two has increased very rapidly. Whether that may be attributed to the canning of whitebait on the west coast of the South Island, or some method of preserving adopted in the South for the fish sent over to Melbourne, is a question which for the moment I am unable to answer ; but, with- out going into the important question which has been touched on by two or three speakers, I can simply sum up what I have to say in expressing my regret that the operation of the Act has not been more successful than it has been, and, in the circumstances, I believe the Government will be perfectly justified in repeal- ing the bonus at the date specified in the Bill and bringing an unsuccessful policy to a termi- nation. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti). - Perhaps one of the causes of " The Fisheries Encourage- ment Act, 1885, not being so successful as the last speaker could wish, is that the bonus has not been given on a larger quantity of cured or canned fish exported. The return which has just been read shows that Otago got about $5,000 of the total amount of the #9,000 odd bonus paid. The explanation why Otago re- ceived such a large amount is the fact that there the barracouta is very plentiful, and is to Otago the same as the mullet is to Auck- land. There are unlimited quantities of barra- couta during certain seasons, and while the benefits of this Act was realised-that is, while the bonus of 1d. per pound to each exporter was payable in respect to the first 200 tons of fish exported pretty well the whole of that money was paid in the first few years of the operation of the Act, and then, after the first 200 tons, the bonus for cured fish was re- duced to ¿d. per pound. Well, that is a very small bonus; but the export of fish would have continued, notwithstanding the smallness of the bonus, but for the tariff which was imposed on our fish exported to Victoria. Melbourne was the great market for the smoked barracouta of Otago. They put on a duty of something like 2d. per pound. Of course, with our ¿d., we could not cope against that. Now, I should very much like to see the Government adopt the maximum bonuses paid in 1885. There is no doubt that a very large industry sprung up on account of the encouragement that the Act provided, but the quantity upon which the greater bonus was paid was so small that the industry had not time to get fairly established. The question of the new tariff of the Commonwealth has been referred to by several honourable members, but we must re- not yet been accepted. I think it is probable it will not pass. There will be very bitter oppo- sition to that tariff in the Federal Parliament, and it is possible it might lead to the defeat of the Federal Government. But there is no doubt that, if they succeed in putting a prohi- bitive tariff upon our exports, it will be the duty of this Parliament to consider the question of an altered fiscal policy. Mr FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I listened with interest to the speech of the Premier on this question. The honourable gentleman deprecated any allusion to the recently announced Commonwealth tariff, and immediately himself plunged into a brief but very general discussion of the whole question. In the course of his remarks the honourable gentleman was good enough to inform us that he had at some former period told the House what the Commonwealth tariff would be-that it would be made somewhat higher than the New South Wales tariff and somewhat lower than the Victorian tariff. Now, that displayed marvellous penetration. The honourable gentle- man, again, said that, in consequence of the introduction of this new tariff, it would be necessary to find new outlets for New Zealand products. I do not know why the honourable gentleman informed us that we should have to cast about for new outlets for New Zealand products, because in the discussion of the Cook Island Bill a few days ago he informed the member for Franklin that the Cook Islands Group would take all the products that Australia now takes from us. I was surprised also at the allusion of the honourable member for Kaiapoi during this debate to the newly announced Commonwealth tariff. The honourable gentle- man said it was hardly anticipated that the Commonwealth would have proposed such a tariff as that. Well, I do not care to ask whether the honourable gentleman is as yet merely at the novitiate stage in politics; but I would like to put this question to him, or any other person in this House or out of it: what else did he expect ? New Zealand, in the matter of Australian federation, has adopted, whether rightly or wrongly, for weal or for woe, a policy of isolation. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I must ask the honourable gentleman not to continue a dis- cussion on the Federation question in debating the Fisheries Encouragement Bill. The ques- tion of the federation of this colony with Aus- tralia has nothing to do with the Bill. Mr. FISHER .- I am merely commenting on some statements made by the Premier during this discussion. Mr. DEPUTY SPEAKER .- I allowed that, but I cannot allow it to go any further. Mr. FISHER .- Then, the whole subject of my speech is cut away. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I am very sorry, but the rules of the House compel me to con- fine the discussion to the Fisheries Encourage- ment Bill. Mr. FISHER .- That gives me a very one- sided task. This is a Fisheries Bill, and that 