turns and bends, and at every single one of these bends in this long Waikato River there was a recognised chief, which is the origin of the saying, "He piko he taniwha, he piko he taniwha," meaning that at every bend there is a taniwha ; a taniwha meaning in this applica- tion a chief. Subsequent to this, Matene te Whiwhi went right through the island to select a suitable chief as king. The first chief he visited, and upon whom he proposed that the kingship should be conferred, was Turoa, of the Wanganui Tribes. And, Sir, when the proposal was taken there, and they looked into the matter, they found that the fish of that dis- trict were only toitoi and kakahi-small fish, and of very little value. Therefore the chiefs of that district were not suitable men from whom to select a king. Then, after that, Sir, they went with this offer of the kingship to Tongariro in the centre of this island. One of the principal chiefs of New Zealand lived there ; his name was Te Heuheu. There was a widely known saying in regard to this chief : " Ko Taupo te moana, ko Tongariro te maunga, ko Te Heuheu te tangata "-"Taupo is the sea (or lake), Tongariro is the mountain, Te Heuheu is the man "; and the people who knew all about these matters, and had a desire to set up a king, went to Te Heuheu and pro- posed that he should accept the position. They found that the only fish in that lake were kokopu and koaro. They therefore decided that, for that reason, even the chief Te Heuheu was not a suitable person. They next went to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 east-to Rotorua. They went to the chief Te Amohau, and offered the position to him, and afterwards to Te Kani a Takirau. But they found that the fish produced by the Rotorua lake were only koura and kakahi ; and their final resolution, after having gone round and person- ally carefully examined into the position in each place they visited, was that there was no one in any of those tribes suitable to be made king. They then brought the proposal back to Wai- kato, and eventually Potatau te Wherowhero was made king. However, I say that before he was publicly set up as king he was actually the king by right. Previous to that time the people knew he was entitled to the kingship through his direct descent from Jehovah, or Io. That being so, if the members of this House de- cide that this man is no longer to be called by the name of " king," that will not take away from him the kingship he holds by hereditary right of descent. If the House objects to the name of "king," let us go back to the Deity himself and urge their objection there, and if they suc- ceed in establishing an objection against the Deity himself, then the objection to Mahuta being called by that name might be allowed. The Native Minister himself denies the right of that man to be called by this name Sir, I thought the Native Minister was one of the few people who really did possess a comprehensive knowledge of the ancient history of the Maori tribes of this country, and, in my opinion, he ought to tell all members of the House what is the true position in regard to the question. may, perhaps, be quite new to them, but I can assure them that the Native race is fully aware of the correctness of what I say. It may be that the Native Minister is of opinion that the Maoris throughout the Island are ignorant of the course they should pursue in order to obtain the accomplishment of the object they desire. Sir, that is all I propose to say under that head. If the House so desires, I could lay before it a genealogical tree of the various tribes throughout the Island, traced from the source I have named. Now, to come back to the Bill, I wish to say that, generally speaking, its provisions will not affect the honourable member for the Southern Maori District, as the Maori lands in the South Island are in quite a different position from the lands in the North Island. Neither will the Bill directly affect the honourable member for the Eastern Maori District, as there is only a very small balance of available land in the honourable member's electorate that is not already either under lease or under some other system of management that precludes it from being operated upon by this Bill. With regard to the honourable member for the Northern Maori District, the same remark in a sense applies to him, because there is only a small available area of land in his electorate that might be brought under the provisions of the Bill. I should say I am probably beyond the mark in estimating that about 400,000 acres is the total of the available land there. But, Sir, when we come to deal with my district- with the Waikato-we find that vast areas of land were taken from the Maoris there by conquest. There is also, however, a large balance of Maori land yet remaining in my electorate. I say this, Sir : That being the posi- tion, this Bill most directly and most particu- larly affects the Maoris throughout the district I represent-the people who have sent me to this House-and I therefore say that I will use every endeavour I can to frustrate the passing of the Bill unless certain amendments I shall move when the Bill is in Committee are agreed to. Sir, to-day I received a telegram from con- stituents of mine, as follows :- " Otorohanga. " We have received the copies of amendments you intend to move. They are most clear and satisfactory to us. Use your best efforts to ob- tain their inclusion. Kia ora. "ORMSBY, and PEPENE." These two gentlemen were in Wellington as delegates representing a large section of my electorate last month. Sir, I now call on the Native Minister and request him to meet me as fully as he can in accepting the amendments 1 shall propose, and which I believe to be in the best interests of my people. I claim that this Government ought to specially consider my people and myself, and for this reason : Since I came into this House, in the year 1897, I myself, personally, have kept the Government in office. If I had not had my seat in this House they would not have kept theirs here. I refer the House to the division-lists of that 