Board, and sheeted home to the honourable gentleman the attempt made to get the land below its value, and he did not then attempt to deny it-he did not apply personal and offen- sive words to the honourable member for Waka- tipu. Here is Hansard, and what are the facts? The facts of the case are these :- "Mr. Meredith wrote suggesting the cutting- up of the Glentui Estate, there being a good demand and fair values ruling, also urging the risks of decline in value." Now, the honourable member wrote to the Board about that, and he spoke to me about it, though he has stated he did not speak to me about the selling of the Glentui Estate. Then, the next communication received-I quote an extract. He asked the Board to quote for five hundred to fifteen hundred acres of Glentui, part pastoral and part agricultural, adding,- "I am aware that at the close of last session of Parliament you signified your intention of having the property cut up and offered for sale by November of the present year. I therefore anticipate your subdivision by approaching your Board at the present time." The Board replied, and asked the honourable gentleman to name the exact portions he asked us to quote for. On the 12th May he wrote and described the land, which comprised pretty well the pick of Glentui. The Board advised him of their preference for offering the land for sale by public competition. On the 28th May the honourable gentleman, without any re- quest at all from us, and after we had told him we were going to submit the land to public competition, wrote, "I make a defi- nite offer of the Government valuation of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 land, plus 5 per cent." This was equal to £2 4s. per acre, and the honourable member described the land which he wanted to pur- chase. We declined, thanking Mr. Meredith, and said the Board was not unmindful of his desire to offer it to the public, and had so decided. The representation made by him to the Board was that there was a general desire on the part of his constituents that this land should be put up to competition, and he came behind his constituents to put in an offer for fifteen hundred acres of the estate at a price equalling £2 4s. That is what he did ; that is how he served his constituents. Then, we put up this land for sale by auction, and the land he offered the Government valuation for, plus 5 per cent., and equal to £2 4s. per acre, brought over £6 per acre ; and some portions of the estate fetched $8 per acre. Now, if you take the difference on fifteen hundred acres as be- tween £2 4s. per acre and over £6 per acre, you will find there is a matter of £6,000. All I know is this : that from that time, when we refused that offer of the honourable mem- ber, that honourable gentleman's manner to- wards me in the House has been considerably changed-he became a candid friend ; and cer- tainly last night, when the honourable gentle- man made the reference he did, I took it for granted that that was still rankling. Then I come to this other question : If the honourable member thinks for a moment that he hurts my Mr. Seddon feelings, or any other member does in reference to what has been stated in the House, they make a very great mistake. I say that on the West Coast, or wherever I have been, my life has been a good one, and probably had the honourable member been placed under the same circumstances he would have been, figura- tively speaking, one of those who would have been found wallowing in the gutter. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think that remark should be applied to any honour- able member. Mr. SEDDON .- Very well, Sir. The honour- able member evidently is not as considerate to me as I am to him, and I withdraw that remark. But you, Sir, and every other member in this House, who have known me for very many years are well able to judge between us. I do not require any one to become my sponsor. My position in the country is quite sufficient, and it is well known. I owe nothing to any one in this House for my position-I owe it to the people of the country and the people among whom I have lived for nearly forty years, and they will find that my life has been circum- spect and good, that the callings I have fol- lowed have been honourable, and the world knows I have ever been a good member of society. I place the honourable member's remarks before the country for what they are worth. He went out of his way in resenting my remark. which was simply " We are not in a Sunday-school." An Hon. MEMBER .- No. You said he was not teaching in a Sunday-school. Mr. SEDDON .- I said, "We are not in a Sunday - school ; and the honourable member must not forget that he is not dealing with Sun- day-school children." The honourable mem- ber was lecturing me, and it was quite enough for me to fight several members without his interference. If the honourable member had left me alone he would not have been in the position he now is, and he has himself to blame for it. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, I desire to make a further personal explanation. The Premier has misrepresented me. The letters read by the Premier are mine, and they are absolutely correct, and I am delighted the Pre- mier read them to the House, and I hope the Press will take notice of them. Where the honourable gentleman misrepresented me is in the figures he quoted. I made no quotation in the shape of figures for the land, and I offered neither £2 4s. nor any other price. I made no offer in the shape of price. The Assets Board asked me to make an offer, and I made an offer. The offer was that I was prepared to give the land- tax valuation of the property, plus 5 per cent. At the time I did not know what the taxation valuation was ; but I knew the valuator, and I knew that he was a shrewd, capable man. The honourable gentleman has the correspondence there; and, in fairness to me, should place the truth and the whole truth before the House and country. I ask him to do this. My reputation is at stake as well as the honour- able gentleman's. I desire to cast no reflection 