decessor. In fact, it was part of the arrange- ment. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) pointed out that on the main estimates $350 had been passed for this very purpose. The Committee divided on the question, " That the item be struck out." AYES, 17. Hall Symes Atkinson Hutcheson Barclay Tanner Laurenson Thompson, R. Buddo Mckenzie, R. Collins Tellers. Meredith Hornsby Ell Russell, G. W. Millar Guinness NOES, 16. Rhodes Allen, E. G. Heke Carroll Ward. Kaibau Lawry Duncan Field McGowan Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Colvin Palmer Hall-Jones Parata Majority for, 1. Item, £50, struck out. Vote as amended agreed to. CLASS XV .- DEFENCE DEPARTMENT. Vote, Defence Department, £180, agreed to. Vote, Stores and Magazines, £193, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, $4,054. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked for particulars about the steamer "Nile," which had been purchased recently in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 6.0. Auckland. Mr. HALL-JONES said this vessel had been purchased in connection with the defence-works in Auckland. Hitherto they had been hiring a boat to carry stores, et cetera. The "Nile" had been reported on by the engineer-surveyor before being purchased, and it was considered a good purchase for the colony. Vote, £4,054, agreed to. CLASS XVI .- POLICE DEPARTMENT. Vote, Police Department, £270, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, £338. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked for an explanation of the circumstances under which $55 was set down as a further allow- ance to ex-Constable Patrick McGill. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) could not remember the circumstances now. This was a further allowance given for injuries re- ceived while in the service. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said, In reference to the £183 set down as compensation to Daniel Hannan, ex-sergeant of police, this sergeant petitioned the House some few sessions ago, and the Committee had no recommendation to make. Mr. McGOWAN believed the petition was re- ferred to the Government. Mr. SYMES had a very distinct recollection of sitting on the Committee, and he thought there was no recommendation. Unless there Buddo was a better answer forthcoming he would move to strike this item out. the Government as a necessitous case. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said that the member for Riccarton had referred to ex- Constable Patrick McGill as having been some time out of the Force, but, if he was not mis- taken, the man had been out of the Force more than once. Colonel Hume submitted to the Police Commission a report from Sergeant McDonald to the effect that this man was drunk while on duty at a racecourse. He was accord- ingly dismissed by the Commissioner in Novem- ber, 1890. The Commissioner then had power to act on his own initiative ; but a new Minister. of Defence, Mr. Seddon, came into office in January, 1891, and one of the first of his ad- ministrative acts was to reinstate the drunken officer. Mr. McGOWAN said he was not able at the moment to give the information asked for. But, at any rate, this ex-Constable McGill was a very old officer, and it was under a strong recommendation that the sum had been placed on the estimates. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) would move, That the item, " £55," be struck out. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said, in reference to Daniel Hannan, ex-sergeant of police, for whom there was #183 put down as compensation for loss of office, that officer had several black marks recorded against him, and it had been proved that he was connected with some busi- ness that no police officer ought to have been mixed up in. If he was entitled to it at all, the amount should have been put on the estimates some years ago. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this sum of £55 was put down as an allowance for Constable McGill as he did not get his full compensation on retirement. He had been many years in the service, and it was believed he ought to have got his full compensation, and this was the balance of the money due. As to Constable Hannan, that officer was not mixed up with anything at all. The transaction upon which he was called upon to resign was some busi- ness transaction, altogether unconnected with his duties as a police officer. There had been no black mark against him. Mr. SYMES moved to strike out the item, " Compensation for loss of office to Daniel Hannan. ex-sergeant of police, $183." Con- stable Hannan had already petitioned the House, and the Public Petitions Committee had reported against him. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item, ' Compensation to ex-Sergeant Daniel Hannan, £183,' be struck out." AYES, 11. Barclay Laurenson Tanner. Meredith Ell Tellers. Rhodes Hornsby Atkinson Russell, G. W. Symes. Hutcheson NOES, 18. Allen, E. G. Duncan Hall Fraser, A. L. D. Hall-Jones Colvin Guinness Heke 