future years. If the time comes when further taxation is required, taking the precedent of this export duty, we may have an export duty on wool, on frozen meat, or on some other article of a similar description. That is one point which I wish to draw attention to. Another point is that the value of the timber exported from the colony in logs is comparatively small. I have before me the export tables for the year 1900, and I find that the total value of hewn timber logs exported was £8,290. On the other hand, the value of the sawn undressed timber exported to Australia amounted to about $190,000. Now, I gather this measure will not affect the sawn undressed timber at all-only if it be exported in the shape of flitches. I do not know what size may be laid down in connection with flitches in order to bring them within the four corners of the duty ; but it appears to me, looking at it from the point of view I have stated, that about $190.000 of the #240,000 exported of sawn un- dressed timber will not come within the pro- visions of the Act. I do not see what is going to be gained by putting a duty on the eight or nine thousand pounds' worth of logs that this Bill is apparently intended to meet. There is another point, and that is this: We hear that the labourers engaged in connection with the saw- mills are likely to be thrown out of work. Well, I do not think such a result as that is likely to follow from the Australian tariff. Mr. MEREDITH .- It does not affect the South Island. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It may not affect the South Island, but I am not speaking from the point of view of any particular part of the colony. But I wish members to understand that this timber duty certainly will not affect the Australian tariff, and, therefore, if we are going to put an export duty on timber for the purpose of conserving the interests of one par- ticular industry, we need not be surprised if an agitation springs up for the imposition of an export duty also on other articles in which a large number of persons are interested. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- I am sorry to say I cannot support this Bill, and I hope the Minister, after hearing the discussion on it, will hold it over until next session. I have received a communication from a sawmiller up north protesting in the strongest language against the passing of this Bill, and had it not been that I have packed up my letters and papers and sent them away, I would take the opportunity of reading it to the House. How- ever, this sawmiller points out that if a duty is put on it will create a huge monopoly for the benefit of the large timber sawmillers of Auckland, and that the small owners of bushes and dealers in timber will be the sufferers. He points out that the real object of this agitation is to create a huge trust or monopoly in the province of Auckland; and I hope the Minis- ter will see the wisdom of considering this matter, and of withdrawing the Bill in the meantime till next session. If, after the Australian tariff is passed, we find it to be Mr. G. W. Russell be dealt with next session, but I think we should be doing a foolish thing if we were to hurriedly push this Bill through. In fact, Sir, we scarcely know what we are doing, and we may be, instead of assisting the timber in- dustry, injuring it very materially for all we <!-- PageHeader="i" --> know. Certainly, from the letter of this saw. miller, he makes out a very strong case in my opinion, and the effect of it will be, as he says. to injure the settlers who are the owners of timber, and injure the small dealers or traders in timber, and, in fact, it will create a huge monopoly for the benefit of two or three large companies. Under these circumstances, I hope the Minister will hold the Bill over until We should be careful not to next session. anticipate the Federal tariff. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Trade and Customs) .- Sir, I shall make it very clear that this Bill was not brought down in any spirit of retaliation whatever. I wish to state that em- phatically, because I have on my file a Bili that was drafted nearly three months ago, when Cabinet considered it advisable, in the interest of the better working and conservation of our timber, to have an export duty placed on roug. timber. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Will you place a copy of that Bill on the table ? Mr. MILLS. - No; that could do no good. but I will show it to the honourable gentleman if he wishes. As I say, I wish that point re conservation made very clear to the House and to the country. Then, honourable gentlemen will recollect that a tariff was passed by the Federal Parliament, and why ? To denude our forests, and cut the timber in Australia. True, it is only a tentative measure, but it is the law at present ; and I would point out to honcur- able members that, if you once change the avenues of trade, the results must be very serious. The honourable member for Mar den has just said, Let this Bill stand over for s year, in the interests of a few small settiers: and to that I reply, that in the meantime you will paralyse the industry, and all the raw timber in these logs would be taken from us, and the industry of working them up would be established in another country, while our own sawmillers would be deprived of that trade. If you once allow a change to take place, such as the honourable gentleman re- ferred to, you could never bring that trade back. Therefore I should like placed on record in Hansard what the Australian tariff really means to us. Now this tariff as passed by the Commonwealth is as follows :- Duties. "Architraves, mouldings, and skirtings of s. d. 5 0 any material, per 100 lineal feet .. " Timber, dressed, n.e.i., per 100 super- 3 0 ficial feet "Timber, undressed, n.e.i., in sizes of 12 in. by 6 in. (or its equivalent) and = over, per 100 superficial feet "Timber, undressed, n.e.i., in sizes of 7 in. by 24 in. (or its equivalent), and upwards, and less than 12 in. 