Amendment negatived, and vote, £44,088, agreed to. CLASS XII .- WORKING RAILWAYS DEPARTMENT. Working railways, £1,152,000. 7.30. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) wished the Minister to make a statement as to whether the new classification scheme and the superannuation scheme were to be proceeded with this session. . Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the Railways Classification Bill and the Super- annuation Bill had received a very great deal of consideration from him for some time past. The difficulty in the way of preparing an amended classification scheme alone was partly due to the large service, and to the large amount of money involved; but he was glad to be able to tell the Committee that next day, or the day following at the latest, he would bring down by Governor's message the Railways Classification Bill, dealing with the whole department. It would make a material alteration that would be for the benefit of the department as a whole. He could not very well state the conditions of the Classification Bill, further than to say that the measure involved an increase in the wages of the staff of about £28,000 a year. It removed a great many anomalies that had existed ; it changed the system of grading officers and the staff generally throughout the colony, and placed them on a better footing altogether. The measure, he thought, was one that would commend itself to members generally; and he had every hope https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that when the railway employés received the Bill -- and he would have sent it out for their consideration when he brought it down to the House, and if it had been possible to do so he would have done so sooner-they would also be well satisfied. He might also say the Government had agreed to the Super- annuation Bill, which was now on the Order Paper, being introduced, and it would be sent to the railway staff throughout the colony. Under the superannuation scheme as it would be submitted to the House the railway em- ployés themselves had a right to be consulted, inasmuch as it was proposed that they should When the be contributories to the system. scheme was submitted to them he had reason to believe it would commend itself to the staff as a whole. It was, as the name implied, a humane measure, and at the same time it did justice to a large body of men, many of whom were subject to accident, and for whom no provision was made at present, either for themselves or their families, in the event of death. He regretted exceedingly he had not been able to introduce the Classification Bill and the Superannuation Bill before asking members to consider the Railway estimates, but he thought that when the measures were brought before the House honourable members would find themselves in a position to commend both of them. He did not say the measure would be regarded as perfect either by members or by the railway employés, but he believed they would recognise that an honest effort was made to improve their status, and make their conditions better. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said there was a vote under the Hurunui- Bluff Section for wages and buildings, and miscellaneous items. He would like to know if the Minister had pro- vided for the renewal of railway-stations in North Canterbury, and especially Kaiapoi and Rangiora, that were at present quite out of date. Sir J. G. WARD said that provision for necessary extensions, both for railway-stations and in connection with other matters pertaining to the railways, would come before the House on the public works estimates. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) wished for some information with regard to what he might call a purely local matter. A week or two ago he introduced a deputation to the Minister, asking that the Rotorua express should stop at the Township of Tuakau on sale days. All that was asked was that Tuakau should be placed in the same position as other townships at which sales were held, and where the train stopped. It would be a great convenience to the farmers and others who attended the sales. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) drew the attention of the Minister to the charges on the Lyttelton-Christchurch line. He quoted the following table to show the charges on the Auckland-Manukau, Picton-Blenheim. Dun- edin-Port Chalmers, and Invercargill-Bluff lines, as compared with the Christchurch- Lyttelton line :- Christchurch- Port Chalmers. Invercargill- Blenheim. Auckland- Dunedin- Manukau. Lyttelton. Picton- Bluff. d. d. \| d. d. d. Foreign coal, per 3.6 3:05\| 3.75 5.25 6 ton, per mile 0.88 Timber, per 1.14 1 1 1 100 ft., per mile 0.94 Wool, per bale, 1-71 0.6 1.5 ... per mile 1 6.87 3.94 5.25 3.3 7.57 Grain, per ton, per mile 9:28 5.52 6 General mer- 5 8:37 chandise, per ton, per mile Fares, Return- 0:52.0.75. or id. 1:05 0.75, or 3d. 0.85 Second, per mile 1-28 First, per mile 0.88 1:12 1.5 , 1.12 In every case the Lyttelton-Christchurch line was at the top of the scale of charges, and vet it was a fact that more traffic went over this line than over any other port line in the colony. It was not right this line should be penalised as against the other lines of the colony. Mr. LANG (Waikatoi wished to ask the Minister whether it would be possible to change the time of the Waikato express, and the ordi- nary train leaving Auckland for Waikato. If the express could be made to leave at half-past nine a.m. and the ordinary train at eight a.m., it would be a great convenience to the public generally, 