that would be a matter well worthy the con- sideration of the House. Mr. HALL.JONES said, If any application were made to the Government for a subsidy, and the circumstances justified it, he would recommend that it be granted. Vote, £31,810, agreed to. Government steamers, £13,500. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) desired information with respect to certain trips of the Government steamers "Tutanekai" and ". Hinemoa." He might mention that the " Tutanekai " made a trip to the Macquarie Islands in March, 1899, in search of the schooner "Gratitude." She brought back from those islands 86 tuns of penguin-oil. The " Hinemoa" also made a trip to those islands in April, 1900, and brought away 42 tuns of oil, for which the freight paid was £74. The cost to the country of that visit to the Mac- quarie Islands was £300, so that the colony lost $226. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked for details of the item, " Working-expenses within or outside the colony, £17,000." Mr. HALL-JONES said, In reference to the trip of the "Hinemoa" to the Macquarie Islands: In the first place, a boat called the ". Gratitude " had been sent to the islands and had not been heard of for some months, and it was supposed she was wrecked at the Mac- quaries ; and, as there was very little in the shape of provisions on the islands, the trip of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the "Hinemoa" was justifiable. They did find the "Gratitude" wrecked on the islands, and the crew had been living on the small quantity of provisions that were there. The second trip was necessary because the owner of the boat could not get any vessel to go with provisions to the men working on the islands. The reason only a small quantity of oil was brought back was that the captain had in- structions not to wait if the weather was bad, and owing to the very bad weather they were unable to take on board a larger quantity. The balance of the oil was there to this day. Now, the following were the details of the £17,000 for working-expenses: £18,794 was expended last year out of the two votes, " Working - expenses," and "Repairs," et cetera. These were the items : First, in re- gard to the "Tutanekai ": - d. B. Provisions 1,786 13 4 .. Coal 1,886 14 11 . . Wages of crew 4,128 12 4 .. Stores 1,238 5 6 Repairs 489 5 4 Extra labour 350 17 3 Washing ship's linen 54 16 7 Expenses putting vessel on slip 175 0 4 Maintenance of crew injured on 14 vessel 5 0 Medical attendance on crew 47 0 7 Medicines 3 48 11 . Artificial arm for member of crew 17 17 0 Repairs to Hokianga Wharf 23 0 0 VOL. CXIX .- 18. service of vessel 0 0 18 .. .. 17 10 0 Towage of vessel .. .. 24 5 3 Sundries . . £10,321 5 8 Then, the " Hinemoa " was as follows :- 8. d. Provisions . 1,521 4 10 .. Coal 9 10 . 1,181 .. Wages of crew .. 3,559 15 4 .. Stores 971 10 3 . Repairs, &c. 862 13 8 Extra labour, loading, &c. 1 10 110 Expenses putting vessel on slip .. 80 19 6 Washing ship's linen 27 14 .. Towage of vessel to and from slip 0 0 7 Medicines 9 9 10 Medical attendance on crew 3 11 8 Maintenance of injured seamen . . 29 6 2 Adjustment of compasses 5 5 6 . Repairs to Hokianga Wharf 52 10 5 Gratuity 0 5 0 New boat 23 12 6 Sundries 8 17 2 £8,472 16 3 Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked why it cost 50 per cent. more this year for pro- visioning the " Hinemoa " than it did last year. For the year just finished the amount was £1,521, while for the previous year it was £1,005. Mr. HALL-JONES said he could only ac- count for it by the fact that some of the accounts for the previous year had not been sent in by the 31st March of that year, and they had been included in this £1,521. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked at what salary Captain Post was appointed commander of the "Tutanekai " on the death of Captain Fair- child. Mr. HALL-JONES .- £350. Mr. GUINNESS asked if the salary had been increased since. Mr. HALL-JONES said it had been increased to £375. Mr. GUINNESS asked if the Minister did not consider that a very small increase to an officer of Captain Post's long service. Mr. HALL-JONES admitted it was small, but it was higher than that received by the captain of the "Hinemoa." He proposed to give each of these officers an increase, so as to more nearly approximate the salaries paid by private employers. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked if the Minister did not think it would be better to get rid of the " Hinemoa" altogether, and hire or charter a vessel when occasion required. He thought the "Hinemoa " was costing the country too much for the work she did. Then, he thought there should be more particulars of the trips made by these vessels. The Minister should furnish details of what the vessels were doing, the time occupied in the trips, the recoveries from pas- sengers and on account of cargoes carried for private individuals, and so forth. 