votes might have got a larger number of votes. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the honourable gentleman was mixing up the two ballots. D was voted out in one ballot because he was absolutely lowest, and the next ballot was to see whether C or B was to stand out. D had nothing to do with it. The Hon. Mr. JONES said, Supposing there were four candidates and three were left, and two of these had an equality of votes, if the one who had just been balloted out had not been in the ballot in all probability one of the two candidates who were equal would have had a larger number of votes than the other. That position might easily occur. He understood, when it was suggested that the services of the Clerk should be called in to decide the matter, that he should only be called in as a last re- source-only in the case of an impasse, to use the language of the honourable gentleman re- presenting the Government. The next clause effected that object. It said there was to be a second ballot in the case of an equality of votes, and that then the Clerk was to decide by lot. But where there were more than three candi- dates there was no necessity for the Clerk's ser- vices to be called in. It was only when the Council could not come to a decision that they should obtain the services of the Clerk. If they were going to do that before it was absolutely necessary, then the Chairman should be elected by lot, and they should not have election by ballot at all. If he was wrong in his estimate of the situation, he would like some honourable member to point out his error. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK concurred that there was a possibility of a triple or quadruple tie, and if they resorted to lot at that stage they might put out the very man the Council most wanted. It was quite time enough to resort to lot between the two last candidates. If two candidates received so much confidence that each had a level half of the Council with them, then he thought it did not matter which man won. He thought the clause was better as it stood. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER did not think the honourable gentleman exactly appreciated the position. It was not for the successful can- didate the lot was to be cast, it was to run out one or two outsiders ; and, supposing they put that to the ballot, how did that operate against the final selection of the Council, or compel them to elect a man whom they did not like ? The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said he would support the clause as it stood. Supposing there were thirty members of the Council and a ballot took place, the clause provided, in the first place, that a man must have an absolute majority of the members present and voting before he was elected. Supposing one had fourteen votes, another ten, and another six, the man who received the highest number had not a majority, and therefore under the regula- tions a second ballot must take place. Well, in a second ballot, with thirty present, it was just possible that each might get fifteen, and in that case it was absolutely necessary for Hon. Mr. Jones the two candidates should be elected. It was a very simple matter, and far better for the Council itself to decide this than for it to be done by lot, which was a most unintelligent way of selecting a candidate. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON thought the Hon. Mr. Kelly was somewhat wrong in his contention. Suppose, for the sake of argument, that of the thirty members fourteen voted for one candidate, and the other candidates had eight votes each, then the ballot or lot was to be taken to determine which of the two having each received eight votes, should retire. It was not the winning member, but the member to be rejected, who was affected by the lot. Amendment negatived, and paragraph agreed to. Paragraph (g) .- "Where the number of members balloted for does not exceed two, or is reduced as herein provided to two, and there is an equality of votes, the votes shall be taken again, and if there is again an equality of votes the Clerk shall determine by lot which of the members shall be elected, as if he had obtained a majority of the votes of the members present and voting." Agreed to. The Hon. Mr. RIGG desired to move the following addition to paragraph (g) : "The number of votes received by each member in any ballot to be declared by the Clerk forth- with." Agreed to. Paragraph (h) .- "On the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Chairman of Com- mittees, such vacancy shall be filled up as speedily as possible, and in the manner herein- before provided, the date of the election being fixed by the Speaker." The Hon. Colonel PITT moved, after the words "Chairman of Committees," to insert the words " during the session." The Hon. Mr. PNIKERTON asked, Could there not be a vacancy at any other time than during the session ? The Hon. Mr. WALKER said that it could only happen during the session, as this was an annual appointment. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said, Did not the amendment suggest the possibility of a vacancy during the recess ? He did not think it was necessary. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said, As it stood it. would be effective. A vacancy might occur at any time, and it would be filled up during the session. The Hon. Colonel PITT obtained leave to. withdraw the amendment, and it was with- drawn accordingly. Paragraph (h) agreed to. The Hon. Colonel PITT moved, That the. following words be added : "Any member shall be entitled to examine the voting-papers prior to the Speaker declaring any member elected to be Chairman of Committees." The Hon. Captain BAILLIE asked the honourable gentleman not to move this. They had two gentlemen as Clerks who had 