298 passengers landed during the twelve months by the Fr'isco mail-boat ; that is, from Fr'isco to Auckland, 298 passengers. Then, there left get information to show me that America is not Auckland 433; the boats were running twelve trips, and that is the sum total of the passen- gers for the twelve months. Then, from a cargo point of view, we find the enormous amount of 1,069 tons. All these figures I am giving are twelve months' figures, not the last twelve months America's exports have ex- amount per trip. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is ten years ago. Mr. MILLAR .- Well, I am going to give you the figures year by year. I would not attempt to mislead the House and the country by simply taking the one year, but I want members to have a fair estimate of the value of the service. Here is the actual return, and the figures for ten years show that during that period there were landed in Auckland from San Francisco 3,081 passengers. There left Auckland by the same route 3,940 passengers ; and yet we are told this is the tourist traffic of the colony. We are supposed to be a travelling public, and yet in ten years those are the figures in connec- master-General-that it is cheaper. I thought, tion with this celebrated route which the Post- master-General has been trying to persuade the people of the country is of such enormous value to us. Now, it is absolute nonsense to say there is any large amount of tourist traffic by this route. There is not, and I will tell you why. It is because the tourist season of New Zealand is the winter time in America; and you will never get English tourists to make a winter voyage to America. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 So far as the Vancouver service is concerned, practically the same thing applies. You will never get much passenger traffic, either by the San Francisco or the Vancouver route, for http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero that reason. Then, from the cargo point of view, what do we find? 31,000 tons imported into the colony in ten years, or an average of 3,000 tons in twelve months. Why, there is not a direct boat coming out here which has not double the quantity in one trip. And then we find that outwards the total amount comes to 8,331 tons. And, Sir, I hear or read that some honourable members for Auckland are going to smash things up generally if they lose this service. I thought these honourable mem- bers had greater respect for the place they repre- sented than to say it will be affected either one way or the other by a paltry service like that. Yet to read some of the statements, members of this House are to be taken by the throat, and the colony and the Empire are to be absolutely ruined if this service does not go through. The honourable gentleman says the Empire is going to be ruined. I would like to know how it is that bonourable members who have stood on platforms in this colony and advocated the sending of our sons to the front to maintain the integrity of the British Empire-and what is maintaining the integrity of the Empire but up- holding the commerce of the Empire ?- can say that a line like this ought to be subsidised-a line which belongs to a nation which is the bitterest opponent the Empire has commer- cially. Mr. MILLAR .- The honourable gentleman says, " No." Well, will he tell me where I can the bitterest commercial opponent of the British Empire. An Hon. MEMBER .- Germany is. Mr. MILLAR. -- Germany cannot look at America ; and now to-day we read that for the ceeded those of Britain, showing that she is a still more formidable rival than ever. And this is the time that the Government has chosen to ask us to subsidise this line, and still further increase the advantage of America. Then, what about the grand old flag? I have heard members talk about the grand old flag that was going to wave over us, but it is not good enough for them to have flying at the mast-heads of our mail ships if we are to believe the Govern- ment. Because a certain route is faster and cheaper our own flag is to be drawn down and trampled in the mud to suit cheapness. That is the only argument advanced by the Post- Sir, we had a higher respect for ourselves than to consider for one moment the proposals of the San Francisco people. I thought that last year, when we gave the Government twelve months to negotiate for a different service, that they would have taken advantage of it; and the Ministry had the opportunity. When they were in Australia they might there have made inquiries about the Federal service, but nothing was done until now, when there is an alterna- tive proposal put in here which is practically subject to the approval of the American multi- millionaire. It is nothing more nor less, be- cause we cannot move hand or foot for the Vancouver service if he likes to accept the pro- posals of the Government. I am one who is not going to support it in any shape or form. Our own flag is good enough for me, and I am not prepared to go and help the American people in any shape or form. "The honourable gentleman knows-because it was pointed out last year-that these vessels are built accord- ing to the lines of auxiliary cruisers, and he knows that they are built specially for that purpose. He may not know, but I can inform him, that each of these vessels carries six cadets for the American Government -three on the deck, and three in the stokehole-who are being trained for naval purposes for the American Government. And yet we are asked to give them 7s. 6d. per pound for our mails. I am rather surprised that these proposals ever should have come forward. Then, we are told about the great friendliness of this na- tion. It has been friendly; but what is the latest instance of their friendliness ? What appeared in yesterday's paper? That the American Consul at the Philippines had notified his Government that the cable concessions to England had expired, and that as the Philip- pines was a conquered country the Americans should do the same to England as England had done to the Boers. And this comes from the re- presentatives of this splendid nation on whom 