Aet dealing with money-lenders sending circu- lars to infants, which is omitted as not neces- sary in this colony ; and there is another point of difference which is not an alteration for the better. It is in the direction of the remedy which the Hon. Mr. Bowen seems to advocate -namely, limiting the rate of interest. The definition of "money . lender " excludes any person " bona fide carrying on the business of banking or insurance, or any business in the course of which and for the purposes whereof he lends money," and there the English Act stops : but this Bill goes on to add, "at a rate of interest not exceeding ten per centum." To me this seems a most undesirable innovation. If I am not mistaken, in the Bill originally passed by the House of Lords there was a schedule which limited the rate of interest which should not be considered usurious to 15 per cent., but that clause was struck out when the Bill went through the House of Commons. This was a great improvement in the Bill, and it is a pity that such a limitation should have been intro- duced into this Bill. With this exception, the Bill is word for word the same as the English Act, with such verbal alterations as are neces- sary to adapt it to this colony. The Hon. Mr. Reeves is opposed to the Bill, but his arguments appear to me a little contradictory. He began by saying the Bill would have no effect what- ever. I must confess I am a little sceptical as to whether it will have much effect ; I think it may do some good, and, unlike some other Bills that are before us, it will not do any harm. But, then, the honourable gentleman went on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to argue that it would have a good deal of effect, for he quoted cases where he thought that money - lenders would be prevented from making loans at a high rate of interest, and / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero thereby hardship would be inflicted on poor people. The Bill does not prevent any loans from being made; it does not take the line of saying that a money-lender shall not be entitled to recover a debt for which interest has been charged above a certain rate ; all it says is that in any case where a money-lender sues to recover money lent the Court shall have the power of examining the case, and if it finds that the money-lender has acted harshly or uncon- scionably in any way-for that there are such cases cannot be denied-then the Court shall have power to fix what rate the money-lender is entitled to recover. That is all the Bill does, and our Courts are to be trusted, I think, with that power. I do not want to take up the time of the Council on this occasion. Perhaps it might be as well to refer the Bill to the Statutes Revision Committee, but I trust they will not make any material alteration in it. It is an experiment, but it is one for which we have a very good example, as it is being tried in the United Kingdom, and so long as we stick to the lines of the Imperial statute we cannot go very tar wrong. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - So much has been said already in favour of this Bill and so little against it that it is very difficult to find anything fresh to say. I also thought the only VOL. CXIX .- 17. tent ; but that has been dealt with so com- pletely by the honourable gentleman who has just sat down that it is unnecessary for me to allude to it now. I am one of those who do not think that Utopia will be realised in a few years-I think it is a long way off-and conse- quently we must conform with our surround- ings and legislate for the present, and not for the future. I believe that money-lending is not altogether an evil, and I will give an instance of it. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- It is the borrowing that is the evil. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I do not know where the honourable member is going to draw the difference. The exactness of the Hon. Mr. Jones is always so extraordinary that he now draws a distinction between borrowing and lending. I know a Cheviot settler who bor- rowed every penny that enabled him to take up a holding there, and that man is worth thousands to-day. Sir, in this case money- lending and money - borrowing - in order to suit the Hon. Mr. Jones-was a good thing ; it blessed him who gave and him who re- ceived. I do not see why this Bill should be condemned because it has not reached the indorsers of bills. It may be desirable to reach them, but if we mitigate the evils is not that something ? I notice the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith has a genius for amending Bills, and I give him every credit for it, and if he can amend this Bill in the direction of reaching the indorsers he shall have my vote and support. But if we cannot reach them let us reach such as we can. Some people may be reached under this Bill. It practically sets up a Court of equity to examine into such accounts as are brought before it, and to assess what is a reasonable and fair rate of interest. I think it is far better to allow discretion to the Court than to lay down a hard-and-fast rule. The Hon. Mr. Lee Smith, who made a very able speech on this subject, complained that under this Bill those persons interested in dredging who borrowed at 20 per cent. could not get the money. Again I say, if he can frame a clause to meet this he shall have my support; but in the mean- time this will do a little good. It is not exactly what I wish it to be, but the very fact that any borrower has the power to take a lender before the Court will make that lender more careful than he would otherwise have been. I do not know how far the power exists at present ; I think it exists to some degree, but there should be no harm in giving the Court the definite power laid down here. The greatest objection I have to the Bill is to the definition \- - of "money-lender." So far as I can see, I do not know that anybody will be caught by the Bill unless the definition is changed : "' Money- lender ' includes every person (whether an individual, a firm, a society, or a corporate body) whose business is that of money-lending." So far as I can understand, this means that the person lending the money will not be engaged in any other business except that of money- lending. If that is the meaning, then there 1 