trating the birds and flowers of the colony. In the schools they had pictures of the birds and animals of other countries, but they had no pictures of New Zealand birds. And in dis- tricts where the bush had almost entirely disappeared, or was far removed from the homes of the young people, unless the children had the means of travelling to where the birds were they had no means of knowing anything about our natives birds or flowers. He ventured to say that, in the neighbourhood of Christ- church, there was not one child out of two hundred-except, perhaps, those who visited the technical museum-who had even a small knowledge of the beautiful birds of New Zea- land. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he had no doubt it would be very desirable if illustrations of the native birds and flowers of New Zealand were exhibited in our public schools. He might point out, however, that the preparation of such sheets would in- volve the expenditure of a very large sum of money. Mr. ELL .- The expenditure would not be recurring. Mr. HALL-JONES said, No; but there were many more urgent calls for expenditure. The Government would consider later on whether these illustrations should be prepared. LUNATIC ASYLUM ATTENDANTS. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Govern- ment, If they will consider the question of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 shortening the hours of officers and attendants at lunatic asylums, and increasing their sala- ries? This question was one that deserved the consideration of the Ministry. The work of these officers and attendants was hard, and it was of a most wearying and trying nature -- almost more so than any other class of work. Whilst other officers and workmen in Go- vernment employ had had their salaries raised, almost nothing had been done in that way for the officers and attendants in this department. Dr. MacGregor, the Inspector- General, recommended in his annual report that the salaries should be raised, and he (Mr. Bollard) thought the Government ought to take this matter into consideration and reduce the hours of duty of these officers and attendants, and pay some attention to the question of in- creasing their salaries. All the attendants, both male and female, have been badly treated in our lunatic asylums in the matter of hours of work and salaries. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) said this was only another illustration of many other cases brought before the House, which, if the request were granted, led to in- creased departmental expenditure. The honour- able member asked that the hours of labour of these officers should be shortened, and that their salaries should be increased. If the Go- vernment reduced the hours of duty to eight hours a day that would mean that they would have to increase the number of attendants by 25 per cent. Mr. Ell be made an exception of ? Mr. HALL-JONES said, Because they had exceptional privileges. The position was this : that these officers had a full day's holiday every fortnight. That meant twenty-six days in the year. Then, they got a clear month's holiday every year. They also got alternate Sundays ; and, besides that, they received liberal leave during the week. He might say he did not believe in excessively long hours for lunatic asylum attendants. Although the work, to his mind, was not hard, still it was very wearying and trying; and he promised a short time ago to have the whole matter thoroughly gone into. As to the question of salaries, the honourable member had re- ferred to what Dr. MacGregor had said in his report. The honourable member would note that on the estimates that recommendation had to a considerable extent been given effect to, and the consequence was that it had in- creased the estimates. An increase of £25 a year was to be given to artisan attendants, and that was a fair increase for one year. The question of dealing with the hours of the at- tendants - shortening the holidays or increas- ing the number of attendants-would be con- sidered by the Minister in charge of the depart- ment. # HARBOURS. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister of Marine, If he will take steps to furnish the British Admiralty with reliable information regarding the depth of water and other facilities for accommodating in the prin- cipal harbours of New Zealand war-vessels and other ships under the control of the Imperial authorities, in order to obviate a repetition of the disappointment caused by the refusal of the commanders of the "Ophir," " Orient," and "Tagus," and the flag-ships on the Aus- tralian station, to visit the southern ports of the colony ? The people in Otago and South land had reason not to be satisfied with the way in which they had been treated in respect to the visits of ships under the control of the When the "Orient " Imperial authorities. came to Port Chalmers with the Imperial troops she anchored inside the heads, and the troops had to be transferred to tugs and were then taken on to Dunedin, while at the same time there was plenty of water to accommodate that ship, or even a ship of much larger draught, at the wharf at Port Chalmers. Through that vessel not being taken to the wharves very bitter disappointment was caused to the people of Port Chalmers. The people there had made provision for enter- taining the troops, and they were thus prevented from doing so. Then, there was the case of the "Ophir." The fact that this vessel did not visit Port Chalmers caused disappointment to the people of Otago. The commander of the "Ophir " absolutely refused to bring the ship to Port Chalmers. The consequence 4.0. was the visit of the Royal party was curtailed by one day. The commander of 