ary estimates, making it clear, in as few words member for Franklin were somewhat ill con- as possible. that Mr. Rhodes only permitted sidered. The honourable member said that the Government to incur this expenditure in Ministers and their Private Secretaries were his house. well-enough provided for, but it apparently did Mr. ALLEN said that, as the Government not strike him that these gentlemen might have had not accepted his first suggestion, he would wanted new frock coats and silk hats, or that like to ask the Minister if he would pass the it was necessary for them to get a new rig-out. item as it stood, and. when supply was reported, recommit the wording of the vote, and put coats or silk hats included in the items. For in the words that were in the Bill in connec- the information of honourable members he tion with the Governor-namely, "for and on might say that the total extra expenditure in- behalf of the colony." He would like to ask curred by Ministers and their Secretaries during the ruling of the Acting-Chairman if it were the Royal visit amounted to £231 16s. 5d., possible to recommit the wording of the vote independently of the usual travelling - allow- alone. ance. The sum of £171 13s. 2d. was incurred The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said that the by Ministers. The total amount included whole item, both words and figures, must be some charges that really ought not to be recommitted for consideration. regarded as charges either by Ministers or Mr. J. ALLEN said he would like to ask the their Secretaries. They had, for instance, Premier if he would accept this suggestion. an item of some £14 for a reserved car over There was not a single item, except in regard the Manawatu line. One Minister had also to the Governor and Mr. Rhodes, worded in included travelling-expenses amounting to £13 this way, and in respect to the Governor the 10s., but all the other items were made up of wording had been altered in a Bill dealing with extra charges which were made against Minis. the question. He would undertake to say that ters and their Secretaries. Of course, in travel- members on the Opposition side would accept ling, throughout the colony, at that time the the suggestion without debate, and if the expenses were exceptionally heavy. He might Minister would only accept the suggestion it say that at one place in the colony, where he would get the item out of the way. usually would have paid $2 10s., his account Mr. SEDDON .could not accept the sugges- for the same service came to £17 10s. tion, and would not allow the Government to be put in a false position. If the suggestion was accepted it would be said that the Government members seemed to think that Ministers made had been forced at the last to alter the item by a profit out of the allowance given to them for Governor's message. He would not allow mem- travelling ; but, as a matter of fact, anybody bers opposite to put the Government in any who was willing could have the whole of his https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 false position. The item was put on the esti- travelling-allowance if they would pay the ex- mates in proper manner, after careful considera- pense he was put to on occasions when he went tion, and in good faith. If a proposal was made about the colony. to recommit the estimates for the reconsidera- tion of the item it might mean that Supply "That the item, 'Grant to Ministers and their would be intercepted by a motion before the Secretaries, in reimbursement of expenses in- Committee-of-Supply stage was reached, and to curred by them, including £150 for ordinary travelling-allowance, £350,' be omitted." adopt such a proposal would be simply wasting time. The best course to take was to pass the item and say no more about it, and he would, Allen, J. if possible, avoid any further vote for Mr. Atkinson Rhodes on the supplementary estimates. If Mr. Ell Rhodes or any friend of his had said to him Gilfedder (Mr. Seddon) some days ago that there was an Hardy objection to the wording of the item, and Haselden that Mr. Rhodes might be placed in a false Hutcheson position, it was just possible that by a Go- vernor's message the words " for and on behalf Allen, E. G. of the Government " might have been added, and in that way anything such as had been Arnold suggested might have been avoided. At the Barclay sathe time, this was unnecessary, for every one Bennet knew the expenses were incurred for the colony. Collins However, he had heard no objection to it at all, Colvin and the first he had heard was when the item Field came on that afternoon. Flatman Amendment to reduce item, "Grant to Mr. Fowlds Rhodes, Mayor of Christchurch, in reimburse- Fraser, A. L. D. Millar ment of expenses incurred by him, $247," by Fraser, W. El negatived, and item agreed to. Graham Mr. HUTCHESON could not help thinking Hall that, as far as the grant to Ministers and their Sir J. G. WARD said there were no frock Mr. MASSEY asked if that was at Rotorua. Sir J. G. WARD said, No; some honourable The Committee divided on the question, AYES, 19. Symes Lang Laurenson Tanner Thomson, J. W. Lethbridge Meredith Monk Tellers. Pirani Herries Rhodes Massey. NOES, 36. O'Meara Hall-Jones Parata Hogg Russell, G. W. Hornsby Houston Seddon Smith, G. J. Kaihau Stevens Lawry McGowan Thompson, R. Mckenzie, R. Ward Willis. McNab Tellers. Carncross Mills Napier Palmer. Majority against, 17. 