the best interests of the colony. There was nothing selfish in the matter at all. Therefore I object to language of the kind being used, especially when it comes from one who should know better-from one who has a much wider and, shall I say, more cultivated vocabulary than is possessed by many other members of this House. It would certainly be better if terms of this kind, hurtful as they are, were not used on an occasion such as the present. Mr. HERRIES .- He is not here just now. Mr. SEDDON .- I care not whether he is here or not. When members make remarks of that nature I have a right to reply to them, and I have replied moderately to the remarks made by the honourable member. He also said the Imperial Government "had" us. In other words, he wished to infer that the Government of New Zealand had been incited by the Im- perial authorities-that the Imperial authori- ties wanted to be relieved of a responsibility, and that we were taken in by the Imperial authorities. I say at once that such a sugges- tion is unworthy. The Imperial authorities have taken up quite another position, and it was only on being pressed by the colony that they conceded that which we now possess. I therefore take this opportunity of saying there is no foundation whatever for the statement the honourable member has made. Objection has also been taken that this is legislating by Order in Council. It is nothing of the kind. The laws are already passed, and it is only saying whether the laws that have been passed shall apply to the Islands. I will give a prece- dent : the New Zealand laws, as a whole, do not apply at the present time to the Chatham / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Islands. Mr. HERRIES .- You cannot modify them. Mr. SEDDON .- Ah, there you are. It seems to me that when an assertion is made, and proof of it is given, honourable members do not take kindly to it. I repeat what I have already said : that. as the general laws now stand, there are certain parts of New Zealand to which they do not apply, and cannot apply, except by-what power ? Either by Order in Council or by a special Act of Parliament. Therefore it is no- thing new. The same power exists under pre- sent laws. The member for Franklin says that as we now stand the Old-age Pensions Act would apply to the Natives of the Islands. Yes, it would apply to them if the Governor in Council said so, but if he does not say so it does not apply. I do not see that it should. They have not been in the colony for twenty-five years. Any person who came into the colony on the 11th of June last cannot claim the pension, and say they have been in New Zealand twenty-five Years. Such an argument shows to what extent honourable members will go in their remarks. The honourable member is now blushing. He sees that the Natives have formed part of the colony for only twelve months, and that there- fore they will have to wait for twenty-five years before they are a burden cast on the colony. Mr. MASSEY .- You admit the burden will be cast on the colony, then ? Mr. SEDDON .- It may be, then. And by making such a statement the honourable member proves to me he is convinced the Old- age Pensions Act has come to stay. Now, with regard to what the honourable member for Franklin also said, I wish to say that in the hour's speech allowed to me to move the second reading of the Bill I used the time to the best advantage, but there was a lot of information that I could not possibly give within the limited time. There is, for instance, the position of Mr. Smith, the late Surveyor-General. That gentleman has placed his services at our dis- posal without reward. He takes a great in- torest in the Islands. He is prepared to go to Niue and to establish Government control of that island, and all he asks is his travelling- expenses. Well, I have given him an imprest of $100. He is to go there, and he will be there for three months, and practically establish local government on Niue. Now, Niue will be one of the most profitable islands we have. There will be a large trade from Niue, and it will practically cost us nothing. An HON. MEMBER .- What does it produce ? Mr. SEDDON. - Copra, pineapples, cocoa, oranges, bananas, et cetera. It has about five thousand of a population. It is close to Tonga, and there is a large trade from Australia to Tonga, and from Tonga to Niue, and, I take it, much of that trade will come to New Zealand. I could not give that information in the time at my disposal when moving the second read- ing of the Bill. A great deal has been said in regard to the " white man's burden." I can only say, in this respect, there is no burden at all. Looking at the question from a colonial and a humanitarian standpoint, we cannot evade our responsibilities. What is the case at present ? A large number of these islanders come from our islands. The Act allows three hundred annually to be taken from these Islands ; it is specified where they are to go to. In the one breath we are told by the member for Bruce that the population of the Islands is falling off. Why? By the loss of three hundred taken annually under the labour con- ditions. I once had a controversy with Sir George Grey on this question, which may be worth reading some day later on, and when the question will be better understood. Here at once is one of our duties, and instead of the population decreasing, my opinion is you will have the islanders developing the Islands. And in doing so they would be developing New Zealand. Take the financial position : the Island of Penrhyn it will cost you nothing ; Palmerston will cost you nothing; Aitutaki will cost you nothing ; Pukapuka will cost you nothing : these are all producing-islands. Take the revenue of the islands which cost nothing, and are not included in the balance- sheets of the Cook Group, and even with the loss of your Customs the Islands will as a whole be self-supporting. I may say also at once that we are not going in for highly paid officers; I do not think we want more than we have at present ; but I do say you can treble the pro- ductiveness of the Islands at little cost to the 