not worth his salt. I have been speaking to some of the workers in this city during the past few days, and I complimented them on the suc- cess of Labour Day. I sincerely complimented them on the respectable and well-to-do appear- ance of the men and their families, and that is a sentiment with which every member of this House will agree. We are all pleased to think that the tendency of our laws in this country has always been in the direction of lifting up-a betterment tendency; but, in speaking to these people, they said to me, "We do not want less than forty eight hours & week ; we are quite satisfied." And any man who stands on the floor of this House and agitates in favour of the workers in our factories having forty-four or forty-five hours a week is no friend to the workers in this colony, and is no friend to our industries. We know, as practical men, that if the relations between capital and labour-between the pro- ducer of the raw material and the manufac- tured article -are strained, the result will be disaster, and that mainly to the factory worker. It is like a sword with two edges. If it strikes capital on the one hand, it strikes labour on the other. Sir, to show that the figures quoted by the member for Riccarton were well con- sidered, I may say I have looked through the blue-books for last year, and, notwithstanding the operation of our labour laws for the past eleven years, and the encouragement given to industries in the shape of high protective tariffs, I find there is a large quantity of goods imported at the present time that should be manufactured in the colony. I am not going to waste the time of the House by quoting figures largely, but I have three sets of figures to submit to honourable members. The value of boots and shoes imported last year, with a 221-per-cent. protective duty, reached £185,617. The value of woollen piece-goods, with a 25-per- cent. tariff, reached £305,598 ; and even blankets, with a 20- per-cent. tariff, reached £10,672. These three items alone amount to $501,978. The raw material we produce in this colony. The hides are produced and tanned here, and sent to America or to England ; the wool is grown here, and is shipped to America or to England ; and the woollen goods and the boots and shoes are manufactured in Britain and in America. en they come back to us, and we import to the extent I have mentioned. What does that mean ? That we are actually buying boots and shoes and woollen goods made by the artisans in Britain and America. We are finding the money to employ them. Now, having the raw material here, and considering the number of people we have who are ready and willing to avail themselves of employment, why should we not be able to produce those articles and place them on the market to compete with the imported article -yes, imported under a prohibitive tariff. One manufacturer, who gave evidence before the Labour Bills Com- mittee-a Mr. Cole, from Auckland, who is engaged in the boot trade-was asked the ques- tion, " How does it come that the Americans Mr. Meredith article, in the shape of boots to what we <!-- PageHeader="\- -" --> can produce in New Zealand and place them on the New Zealand market for less than we can produce them?" His answer was, "The Americans have the latest and most im- proved machinery. For every thousand pairs of boots turned out by New Zealand there are a million pairs turned out in the United 1 States of America. Each man in charge of a machine used in the construction of a boot becomes such an expert that he is able to turn out four or five times the quan- tity of work in eight hours that a fac- tory-hand could turn out in New Zealand." In other words, to produce a certain quantity of boot-work in America costs 9d., but to pro- duce the same quantity of the same work in New Zealand costs 38. 3d. Now, I say this is a question for this House to consider, and it is a question for the Government: What are we going to do to increase our manufactures in the colony, to find employment for our people, and to maintain a fair day's wage? The Kaiapoi factory at the present time employs one thou- sand two hundred hands, but the output of that and other woollen factories is to supply local demands. Sir, we can never become a manufacturing nation, we can never make up \---- the raw material into the manufactured article in this colony, unless we are prepared to send that manufactured article into the world's mar- kets. Hence the absurdity of our high Customs protective tariff. It may be asked, How are we to compete with Japan, where the labourers work twelve hours a day and receive from 3d. to 2s. 6d. per day? How are we to compete with the Chirese, who are now getting hold of the secrets of our Leeds, Manchester, and Birmingham industries, and who, on account of their numbers and cheap labour used for the manufacture of these commodities, will place them upon the world's market in the near future? This is a question worthy of the consideration of every member of this House. Now, Sir, it struck me very forcibly that there is something wrong in connection with our industries further than I have already stated. I went down to the wharf at this port a few weeks ago, and I noticed there a large steamer which had arrived from the United States of America-the "Tomoana," of 10,000 tons. She had a cargo of manufactured goods of great variety. She had on board manufactured iron rails for the Government of New Zealand, and a variety of other manufactures. I estimated that the cargo of 10,000 tons, taking it on an average of #15 per ton, was worth #150,000. Now, if you put $50,000 down for the raw material, and €100,000 for the enhancement of that raw material by skilled labour, then of that £150,000 worth of manufactured goods introduced into New Zealand, we are paying to the United States of America $100,000 for the purpose of employing their workers. Sir, labour is a working-man's capital. If a capitalist invests £1,000 in a freehold the law protects him. If the mortgagee is not up to date with his interest the mortgagor has power 