tions have proceeded, we have come to a dead- lock. The final reply from Mr. Spreckels, through Mr. Dunnet, of Auckland, is, " Offer declined." Presumably some one must climb down, otherwise all our talk bas been in vain. But when I read through this correspondence I could not help being struck by the tone of authority, the tone of superior power, used to- wards the Government of New Zealand in a manner that does not make one feel proud of being a colonist of New Zealand. Here are the terms used by the Auckland representative of the Oceanic Steamship Company :- " I beg to state that, considering the sum offered is less than what was paid for a four- weekly service at a slower rate of speed, I can- not submit the offer to Mr. Spreckels, fearing that it would probably cause him to break off negotiations with New Zealand, and lose a service that is without question far ahead of any other in its benefit to the colony. Trusting that the Government will approach the matter in a more liberal manner,-I have, &c., " GEO. DUNNET. " The Secretary, General Post Office, Wellington." This gentleman, who represents the San Fran- cisco proprietary, was actually afraid to transmit the insulting offer of the Postmaster-General to his principal for fear he might wreak his dire vengeance on this unfortunate country. It is a case of American bluff-" two jacks and a razor against a full hand," and that is what it has been all along. Having arrived at this stage of the negotiations, evidently we have arrived at a point where somebody has to climb down. And I want to know who is going to climb down, Spreckels or the Government of New Zealand ? Before dealing with the proposals, I would like to devote one or two remarks to some argu- ments that have been made by honourable members who have preceded me. The honour- able member for Hawke's Bay says this service means keeping us in touch with seventy mil- lions of English-speaking people. Well, in the United States of America proper there are con- siderably more than seventy millions of people. But a more heterogeneous mixture of nationali- ties and races than that constituting the popu- lation of the United States cannot possibly be found in any other country in the world. And, as to their being our kith and kin, let me dis- illusionise the honourable member who may entertain the idea that the people of the United States are practically of the same race and blood as ourselves. In some of the Eastern States people of German origin outnumber those of British origin as two to one ; and yet we are told that they are our own kith and kin. I have lived in different parts of the United States. I have seen the people there from New Orleans to San Francisco and from New York to Baltimore; and although there are many traits in the American character that I know how to admire as well as any man alive -nobility of character, and many admirable qualities -- when it comes to a question of con- fict of commercial interests the average Ameri- can citizen knows no sentiment but the Ameri- can almighty dollar. His whole business is based on the pure consideration of profit, and the strictest interpretation is given to all business negotiations. Whenever a ques- tion of national interest arises in the United States the whole country is aflame ; they know no nationality but the American nationality-and the very worst opponents that the British people could meet in trade-or, God forbid, in war-will be the people of the United States. True, as long as our interests run on parallel lines to those of the people of America all will be well ; but the descendants of the Pil- grim Fathers, even to the present generation, have not forgotten the days of Boston Harbour. It has been stated that unless we keep up this connection we may close the door against our trade with America. But the same honourable member who used that argument told us that eight-ninths of our trade with the United States is done with the Eastern States, and is carried round Cape Horn, largely in British bottoms chartered by American exporters, par- ticularly in New York. Now, what class of goods do we principally get from America ? Kerosene is the bulk of the export from the United States to New Zealand. Next after that comes woodware. As long as the ash and hickory forests remain in the Eastern States so long will we deal in that line with those States. But is it necessary that we should have this mail connection in order to maintain our trade with the Eastern States ? Again I say, No. A great many importers in New Zealand have English buyers in London, who transmit their American orders to New York from London by the fast mail-steamers across the Atlantic. Now, what do we grow in New Zealand that the Pacific Coast States can- not compete with ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Wool. Mr. HUTCHESON .-- They have a protective barrier against us, and will continue it. As to wheat, why, the Columbia River District will grow more wheat than can be grown from one end of this colony to the other ; and, as to fruit, why, California can "lick us hollow " in anything that grows on bush, tree, or vine. There is nothing that we can grow in New Zea- land in regard to which they cannot beat us in the United States. Kauri! Why, there are forests in Oregon that are out of all comparison with your little bushes of kauri. An Hon. MEMBER .- Kauri-gum ; they have no kauri-gum. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Kauri-gum ! Well, I believe one case went as a sample by the mail- steamer ; but the rest goes round the Horn to the Eastern States. Do you know what this San Francisco mail-service is going to do for us ? It is going to enable the Eastern States to send over their gaol-made goods and surplus manu- factures that they are running out of the country at a price less than they cost to pro- duce, in order to regulate the local market for their trusts and combines. I have seen panelled doors of American pine-probably made in the gaols of California-sold in our auction-rooms in competition against the local Sash and Door 