running to this colony, unless, as I say, the agreement with Queensland was broken-which we could not expect - or unless an alternative arrangement with another line of steamers could be brought about. I say we ought, notwith- standing our support of the Fr'isco service, to have power to enter into a contract for a Van- couver line to New Zealand also. We ought to have an opportunity of developing trade with Canada, and we should, I think, obtain the authority of the House to enter into negotia- tions for a service of that kind. And here I may say that the mails hy this route would, according to the information furnished to me, only take a day longer in reaching London, or in reaching Auckland on the return voyage -- that is, one day longer both ways than the Frisco route. Honourable members in dis- cussing these proposals should therefore re- member the very important fact, that we cannot enter into a Vancouver service in a hurry. We may negotiate, and we may take all the steps necessary to bring about a contract in the course of two or three years, as the case may be, but you cannot have an actual Van- couver service to New Zealand in a few months. Members ought to understand that. Then, again, why did the Government suggest that the further alternative proposals con- tained in these resolutions should be autho- rised by the House? For this reason : we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that Mr. Spreckels is a keen man of business, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 naturally and rightly wants to do the best he can ; and if we simply ask the House to give us authority to negotiate with him for the Fr'isco service alone, in all probability we should find considerable difficulty in having what we think suitable terms made to carry out this service. But if the House gives authority to the Government to establish a Vancouver service and a Federal service, upon fair lines, on the figures in the return submitted to honour- able members, it would be a different matter. We certainly could get some satisfactory service arranged if honourable members realised the fact that the colony must have definite arrange- ments made for the proper carrying on of its mail-services, and that we ought not to be left in the position of negotiating with one line only, but that we ought to have an alternative, and therefore we ask for authority to negotiate for a Vancouver service, and a Federal service also. I think it should be realised that it is the safe way, the strong and a sure way to bring about suitable arrangements for the con- tinuation of the Frisco service, and, failing that, then one-or even both - the others, instead of being, as we are now, in the unsatis- factory position of receiving from the owners of the steamers merely negative answers, or asking higher figures than Parliament will agree to, apparently in the belief that by bringing a little pressure to bear they would be able to obtain from the colony what we are not prepared to pay. The net cost of a fort- nightly Federal service would be £19,417; the net cost of a Vancouver service would be would be $16,304. The Federal service would require to be carried out by agreement with the Federal Government of the Aust alian Com- monwealth, and if it allowed us to come in on a population basis our payment to the main line would be $12.306 for the right of sending the whole of our let ers by the P. and O and Orient Company's vessels. If we did not come in on the population basis it would cost us $20,383 a year. That was on the present rate of payment ; but I have no doubt that the Commonwealth would agree to our coming in on a population basis. An Hon. MEMBER -That would be from Sydney. Sir J. G. WARD. From Sydney or Mel- bourne. Now, in order to place the whole position before honourable members, I will give the details of the cost to the colony for the San Francisco, the Vancouver, and the Federal mail-services :-- San Francisco Service .- Homeward. DR. £ Payment on homeward mails 15,463 .. United States and Atlantic transit 6,132 .. Interprovincial service 5,000 .. Mail-agents, special trains, &c. 1,500 . . CR. 28,095 Estimated postages 11,791 .. .. Net cost .. £16,304 .. .. Vancouver Service .- Homeward. Payment for Pacific conveyance 20,000 Transit across Canada, United states, and Atlantic 6,624 .. Interprovincial service 5,000 .. Mail-agents, special trains, &c. 1,500 .. 33,124 And the postage recoveries .. 11,791 .. Leaving the net cost .. £21,333 Federal Service ( Fortnightly). - Homeward. DR. Payment to contracting States (popu- lation basis) 12,306 .. Transit, Sydney to Adelaide .. 2,220 .. Transit through Italy and France 2,936 .. Intercolonial service, say 10,000 Interprovincial service, special trains, 5,000 &c. .. £32,462 CR. Estimated postages .. £10,788 From London Post - office - Transit of inward mails, Sydney to New Zealand .. 2,257 13,045 . $19,417 Net cost 