Commerce at Wellington and Christchurch, and, I believe, also by other Chambers. Then we have the opinions of leading men of com- merce, in which they state that they are per- fectly content with a slower service so long as it is regular, and they urge as much as possible an all British connection with the Old Country. To me it appears that the Vancouver service is the one that this country should endeavour to secure, and that Auckland is the port to which it should go. Of course, it is impossible for me, with the time-limit, to discuss the merits of the case, and I know too it is impossible to enter into a contract with a service of the sort for a year or two; but we should prepare for it now, and even if the service is a day or two longer than the service by Fr'isco, it is, for urgent reasons, the one we should adopt. Through our losing all connection there some time ago, the trade the Queensland Government had secured in frozen meat has been very considerable, and the trade with Vancouver so developed that stuff was shut out, because they were unable to carry the quantity the people required. In Vancouver they have a large population of miners and millers and others, and at certain seasons of the year our produce will be much valued there. If the San Francisco service were discontinued I am sure it would not affect our trade relations with America to any extent, because the statistics I have quoted show that our trade with the west coast of America https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 is decreasing enormously. According to the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) it was nearly £300,000 in 1898, while it is down to $35,000 now. If that is so under those so-called favourable trade circumstances of connection with mail-service, it cannot go back further if we had no mail-service at all connected with it. Of course, there is also the objection to the San Francisco service that we are not able to place any of our New Zealand vessels in the trade, nor employ British sailors. That is a trade that was developed by our own colony, and we have spent vast sums of money upon it, and now we find the fine fleet of steamers in connection with the Union Company is not permitted to trade at all. It is a serious thing that America should have stretched the Monroe doctrine so as to include Honolulu. I think that is almost a stretch of the law; but still the fact remains that we are now excluded from doing trade on no less than one-third of the extent of the Pacific, which is a most serious thing to us. Personally, I have no antagonism to the Auckland people having the service ; but I do think the service should be by Vancouver, and I do think that the Port of Auckland should be the port to which that service should go. And I think that if we do not now make a stand and say that until the American Government extend to us some trade concessions, then we shall seek some other mode of mail communi- cation; and I venture to think if the colonies do make that stand the astute Americans would meet us and enter into such a reciprocal trade as would be to the mutual advantage of both countries. I believe in keeping on friendly people, and are more in touch with us than any other nation in the world, and I believe, with the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), that in the long-run blood relationship will tell. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member's time is up. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- I should like to say something on this important subject, and I shall try to condense what I have to say as much as possible, because all the arguments in favour of the continuance of this historic mail- service have been well and forcibly put by other speakers, and it seems a waste of time to repeat or emphazise them. I have listened with very great care, and have found nothing I can dignify with the name of argument that has not been met by what other speakers have said before. Let me say that I consider that a great deal of unnecessary heat and bitterness has been generated on both sides in connection with this question. I do not propose to trace the genesis or apportion the blame of the bitterness that has been imported into the discussion of what ought to be a mere matter of business. Even sup- posing we admit sentiment, the highest senti- ment is altogether on the side of the continu- ance of the service. An attempt has been made by some speakers to-night to make it appear that the people of Auckland and the members for Auckland City have believed that the very existence of the northern city depends on the continuance of the service. I do not know where they got their impression from I have never seen anything in the papers or heard any- thing from the platform in Auckland to give such an impression. As a matter of fact, I agree entirely with those who say this is not specially an Auckland question, that it is a colonial question, and any benefit the people of Auck- land can derive from this service above what is derived by the citizens in other parts of the colony is so small as not to be worth mention- ing. The honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) said he did not believe that the profit accruing to Auckland from supplying the ships exceeded #2,000 per annum, and probably he was not very far out in that contention ; and surely the whole of the people of the largest city in the colony are not going to go bankrupt because of the withdrawal of a profit of $2,000 a year. How is it, then, that this question raises so much heat in Auckland and among Auckland members when it comes up for dis- cussion in the House? I think I can give the answer. The reason is this : The Fr'isco service has been the best mail-service the colony has ever had. It has existed now for over thirty years, and is the best that can be had ; and the people of Auckland naturally feel astonished when any one opposes a mail-service which is the quickest and cheapest the colony can have. When they see the bitter opposition, and hear remarks made in opposition to the service, they wonder what can be at the bottom of it all, and the only explanation that offers-and it is not removed or modified by what has been said to-night -is that the whole trouble arises because the ter- 