Williams. Swanson Pinkerton Pitt NOES, 6. Bolt Rigg Jones Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Reeves PAIR. For. Against. Smith, A. L. Bowen. Majority for, 13. Clause agreed to. Clause 24 .- "Where workmen engaged upon different trades are employed in any one business of any particular employer, the Court may make one award applicable to such business, and embracing, as the Court may think fit, the whole or part of the various branches consti- tuting the business of such employer. Before the Court shall exercise such power, notice shall be given to the respective industrial unions of workers engaged in any branch of such business." The Committee divided on the question, "That this clause be a clause of the Bill." AYES, 21. Pinkerton Kelly, T. Barnicoat Kelly, W. Bolt Pitt Bonar Shrimski Kenny Feldwick Louisson Swanson McLean Twomey Gourley Walker, W. C. Ormond Harris Jennings Peacock Williams NOES, 3. Jenkinson Rigg. Jones https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 PAIR. For. Against. Bowen. Smith, A. L. Majority for, 18. Clause agreed to The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved, That the follow- ing new clause be added to the Bill :- "The definition of ' Industrial dispute' in the principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion of the words ' trade-unions ' after the words ' industrial unions,' wherever they occur in the definition." The Committee divided. AYES, 4. Jennings Bolt Jenkinson Rigg. NOES, 19. Bonar Kenny Pitt Feldwick Louisson Shrimski Gourley McLean Swanson Ormond Harris Twomey Walker, W. C. Peacock Jones Kelly, T. Pinkerton Williams. Kelly, W. PAIR. For. Against. Bowen. Smith, A. L. Majority against, 15. New clause negatived. Bill reported. The Council adjourned at twenty-five minutes past twelve o'clock a.m. Monday, 28th October, 1901. First Reading-Vaile Stage Railway System-Trustee Bill-Aid to Public Works and Land Settlement Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past seven o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Victoria College Site Bill. VAILE STAGE RAILWAY SYSTEM. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) brought up copies of correspondence with re- ference to the Vaile stage railway system, and moved, That they do lie on the table, and be printed. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked if there was any possibility of a trial of the system being made on some portion of the New Zealand railways? There was no need to go into the whole matter fully, as the Minister himself was at one time a supporter of the Vaile stage system. It seemed to him (Mr. Pirani) there was a large number of members in the House who desired to see some trial of the system made in the coming year. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the correspondence he had brought up showed the Government was prepared to have a trial of the system on the Auckland Section of rail- ways under a guarantee. The matter had since been referred to the Railways Committee, and Mr. Vaile himself had been before the Com- mittee and given evidence, and the Government was now waiting for the report from the Com- mittee before considering whether any other steps should be taken. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) said the report of the Railways Committee would be down in a few days, and he hoped to submit to the House certain reasons why a resolution should be adopted recommending the Government to make a trial of Mr. Vaile's system on the Auckland railways, without imposing the onerous conditions contained in the corre- spondence now placed before the House. Motion agreed to. TRUSTEE BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) brought up the report of the Committee appointed by the House to draw up reasons for disagreeing with the amendments made in this Bill by the Legislative Council, as follows :- "That this House disagrees with the new clause 64, for without some restriction it means an undesirable extension of the existing law ; but if the clause was so amended by having provision made for obtaining the consent of a Judge of the Supreme Court or a District Court Judge to the registration of any share, in that case there would be no objection." He moved, That the House agree with these reasons. Motion agreed to. 