but why should he cast a slur on my reputa- tion ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I say that the honourable member did state a price. Mr. MEREDITH .- Prove it. Mr. SEDDON .- I say he offered us the Go- vernment valuation, plus 5 per cent., which was equal to £2 4s. an acre. Mr. MEREDITH .- That is not correct. Mr. SEDDON .- I say that the Government valuation, plus 5 per cent., was £2 4s. per acre for that very piece of land he made the offer for, and which fetched over £6 per acre. The honourable member admits what the Govern- ment valuation was. An Hon. MEMBER .- No; he said he did not know it. Mr. SEDDON .- If the honourable member says he did not know the Government valuation -well, of course, he is a capable farmer, and should know- An Hon. MEMBER .- He says he knew the Go- vernment Valuator. Mr. SEDDON .- If the honourable member says he was not aware what the valuation was, I, of course, accept his statement ; but I must ask honourable members to bear this in mind : that when a man is offering to buy fifteen hundred acres of land, he would natu- rally ascertain how much he would require to provide in order to pay for it. As a matter of finance he certainly must make arrangements as to whether he is going to pay £1 an acre for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 fifteen hundred acres, and find £1,500, or, if it was worth and was to cost £8 per acre, he would have to find £12,000. The difference is only a sum of £10,500, so that honourable members must take the honourable gentleman's statement for what it is worth. 1 say, at all events, that the Board had their calculation made, and what this fifteen hundred acres would come to on the offer made by the honourable gentleman, which was the Government valua- tion plus 5 per cent., which came to £2 4s. an acre. The land fetched over £4 an acre more than offered by Mr. Meredith ; and if his offer had been accepted, £6,000 would have been lost Last session the honourable to the Board. member for Wakatipu said the same thing, and the honourable gentleman took no exception to it. Mr. MEREDITH .- I do not object to the Premier reading what the member for Waka- tipu said, but I hope I shall have the same right when replying. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- If the Premier misrepresents you, you will have the same opportunity of explaining as the Premier. Mr. SEDDON .- The best way out of the difficulty, if the honourable member has no objection-I cannot, as a member of the Board, lay the papers on the table. The honour- able member himself brought the question before the House in the attack he made upon the Board, after we had refused his offer. He kept back the main facts, and it was then replied to by the honourable member for Waka- Hansard of the member for Wakatipu, which the honourable member did not take exception to at the time. But, as the honourable mem- ber has no objection to the letters and com- munications of the manager being laid on the table of the House, that will be the easiest way to settle the question at issue between us. Has the honourable member any objection to that ? Mr. MEREDITH .- Not the slightest. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, then, if the honour- able member will write a letter to that effect to the Board requesting the same to be done, I will urge the Board to approve the letters being laid on the table of the House. I repeat that the Government valuation, plus 5 per cent., was more, and that £2 4s. per acre was the value of the offer made by the honourable gentle- man. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No, it was not. Mr. SEDDON .- That was the calculation made, and this was placed before the Board : that the honourable gentleman's offer only came to a little over £2 an acre. The result was, then, that we had previously decided to place the land on the market. It was placed in the market, and brought over £6 an acre, and if we had reserved one portion of it till the next sale it would probably have brought £8 per acre. While, Sir, I have been accused from time to time of bettering my friends in my position as trustee, I did not see my way of giving the honourable member the land he applied for. And, what is more than that, he was petition- ing for the land to be thrown open for the people, and then behind the backs of the people he put in an offer for fifteen hundred acres. This struck me as being smart business; in fact, it was exceptionally smart business. Mr. MEREDITH .- The honourable gentle- man has again misrepresented me ; he persists in his misrepresentation. He states I made application for the best block on Glentui. That is not correct, and I can refer honourable mem- bers to the member for Kaiapoi, who knows the country well. The block I applied for is situ- ated on the south side of the road, commencing at the Gorge Bridge, as you go towards the homestead, the greater portion of which is second-class grazing land. I am very glad the Premier has come down to my contention that I offered the land-tax valuation plus 5 per cent. This is more than the Government gives for land under the Land for Settlements Act. Mr. SEDDON .-- The honourable gentleman is wrong. The manager of the Assets Com- pany says, "Mr. Meredith describes the land, which comprised pretty well the pick of Glen- tui." There is no getting over the fact that the very land the honourable gentleman offered £2 6s. for-according to the member for Bruce -brought over £6, and some portions of it £8. It would have been making the honourable gentleman a present of £6,000, and I did not do it ; I was not prepared to give a Government supporter that which belonged to the share- holders of the bank and to the colony. 