sponsible Advisers of the Government, have ad- vised that this money should be voted, I do not see how the House can with dignity refuse to pass the amount placed before it. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) .- I repeat the expression that has been already made by mem- bers-that it is to be regretted that the feature of the discussion has taken the form in which it already has gone. My view of the whole question is that as Parliament undoubtedly ex- pressed the wish by which an invitation was sent to their Royal Highnesses to visit New Zea- land, then it devolved upon some one to take the high position of host to represent the people of the colony, and that position is undoubtedly realised and acknowledged to be placed in the hands of His Excellency the Governor. We all know, also, that there are social phases of the treatment given to our visitors that we out- siders do not know anything about, and we must allow some license to the host of our distinguished visitors in dealing with such matters. It is no argument to say, as has been said by the honourable member for Dunedin City and the honourable member for Wairarapa, that, because the salary of the Governor had $2,000 added to it last year, it was not proper for this House to pass the extra amount for disbursements to be made by the Governor in extending courtesies to our visitors. We must all regret what has been said in this debate when we consider that what is said will reflect back on the reception we have accorded to their Royal Highnesses, and will detract to some https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 extent from the splendid receptions given to them. We ought to try to avoid that. The essence of the argument of the member for Wairarapa was that it was not proper for us to pass this Bill to enable this sum of money to be paid because His Excellency acted in a certain way by sending out invitations to a special few. That, of course, raises the thought that what was said by the honourable member arose from a disappointed heart. We cannot, however, control His Excellency as to whom he should invite, and, no doubt, as the Minis- ter for Railways has pointed out, the Go- vernor has extended courtesies in the different centres of the colony. I may mention that he has invited all soldiers, and the old soldiers are not classed amongst the highest in our society. But I rose specially to speak on this matter from a Maori standpoint. It is our custom, if we have to receive a high and distinguished visitor, to show every courtesy, and we always try to avoid anything which will belittle the reception given to such visitors. The honour- able member for Waitemata says that accord- ing to Maori custom we simply give a quid pro quo. What is the feature amongst all nations in receiving distinguished visitors ? If you were invited by the Imperial Government to go to England you would receive especial at- tention because of the good reception their representative received at our hands, and that would be their recognition of the effort made by us in receiving the Royal visitors. It is the case all over the world. I simply wish to say now that the Bill ought to receive the Mr. G. W. Russell support of members of the House for no other reason than that we invited the Royal party, that His Excellency the Governor had, perforce, to be the acting head, and that he must know of expenditure which was incurred for the benefit of the visitors. That being the position, we do not want a discussion on the Bill, and arguments brought forward in regard to it, for such treatment of the measure would only re- flect on the grand efforts the colony made in receiving our visitors. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentleman who has just sat down has mis- represented me. I do not think he did it pur- posely or designedly, but he certainly did mis- represent me when he attributed personal motives to me in my opposition to this Bill, and said that my remarks showed that I had a disappointed heart. Sir, let me tell the honourable gentleman that I was the re- cipient of invitations which I did not accept. Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - There was a blend- ing of common-sense and outspokenness in the speech of the honourable member for the Northern Maori District, and I felt that it was very refreshing. The spirit of that speech, I think, might well have been emulated by others who have taken part in the debate. For my own part, I must say I exceedingly regret the debate that has taken place. With reference to the measure that has been presented to the House, I wish to say that I have given it & great deal of consideration, and I consider it would not be wise to allow the Bill to pass its present stage without saying a few words with regard to the opinion I have formed. The vote we are asked to pass is no doubt a very con- siderable one, $2,250. But why is the vote necessary ? We invited Royalty to visit New Zealand. We have had a very good festival. The people have enjoyed themselves. The Go- vernment have piped, and the people have danced ; and the dancers must pay the piper. Sir, we are not in the habit of doing very <!-- PageHeader="!" --> unwise things, but if we do what is foolish I do not believe in "whipping the cat." What is there to be gained by crying over spilt milk ? We cannot gather it up again. We must put up with the consequences, and the more grace- fully we do so the better it will reflect upon ourselves. The money has been spent by the Governor of the colony. Mr. FISHER .- Where is the authority ? Mr. HOGG. - The authority has been given to His Excellency, otherwise this Bill would not have been submitted to us this evening. I have, at all events, that confidence in the Vice-Regal authority of New Zealand to know that nothing that would detract from the high and honourable character he bears would be submitted to an Assembly of this kind. Mr. FISHER. - This House controls the public purse ; where is the authority ? Mr. HOGG. - " Where is the authority ? " That is only in keeping with some of the senti- ments expressed this evening. I am very sorry to have heard these sentiments, because they do not reflect very creditably on members of this 