being away from his business and attending to Parliament on the one side, you will generally find it represents the whole of the hono- rarium on the other. Then there are the dual expenses. No doubt some members will say there is no necessity for members of Parlia- ment to maintain a position ; that they ought to be exactly what they are at home when they are in the City of Wellington. Well, I do not care who the member may be, I say, whilst here there are ever-recurring expenses. Every day almost there is some call or other, and each member is desirous of doing like his fellows, with the result that at the end of a session he finds himself behind. I could give cases that I know of, and which cannot be denied. Take a member who comes into Parliament after a hotly-contested election. No man likes to be defeated, and, though he does not go in for lavish expenditure, yet before he becomes a member of the House he finds himself £50 or £60 out of pocket for legitimate and reasonable election expenses. We must recollect that when the writs are issued he ceases to be a member, and there will be, at all events, an interval of a month or two months from the time he was a member before he receives anything at all. You must deduct this from the first 8.0. year's honorarium. A month or two afterwards he comes to Wellington to represent The time he is here his his constituents. salary is not sufficient. He is still his elec- tion expenses to the bad, and he goes on from the commencement of the Parliament to the end. The colony has had his services, and he is left in a worse position than when he started. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 This is a stubborn fact, well within the know- ledge of a large number of members. I con- sequently ask the House, Does the colony wish that to go on ? In my opinion it does not. say that an additional #60 per annum would make the difference, and it is not asking too much. Contrast this with what is paid in the other colonies. We have it often put before us that we should do as they do in the other colonies. Well, the Colony of Victoria, in the sixties, paid $300 a year. Take the population and the position of Victoria then, and contrast it with the position of this colony, and it is not at all unreasonable that we should put our colony on the same footing as Victoria In New South Wales was in the sixties. they pay a sessional allowance of, I think, £50 or £60, in addition to the salary fixed by law. This brings them up to the same amount as is paid in Victoria, and they deduct nothing for absence. This brings up the amount I am asking the House to vote. We come now to the latest Parliament-namely, that of the Commonwealth. The salary fixed there is £400. I say New Zealand is in a better posi- tion than any of the State Parliaments, and they make no reduction owing to the Common- wealth Parliament coming into existence. Then I come to a material factor, to which I call honourable members' attention-namely, remuneration paid by the people to those re- in the Melbourne Parliament the great majority of members go home by the night train, and make a practice of doing so. Mr. Seddon Mr. TANNER .- Then they knock off earlier than we do. Mr. SEDDON .- Of course they do ; but there is this difference : if you did that, you would be sitting here all the year round. Owing to the configuration of the country, the members there can attend to the business of the day, come down in the evening, attend Parliament, and go home the same evening. There are some parts of this colony to which members cannot go home at all during the session. They come here in June, they have to leave their business and everything else behind them, and they do not return to their homes until October or November. An Hon. MEMBER .- Leave of absence. Mr. SEDDON .- If they have leave of ab- sence they have to pay the cost of their pas- sages ; and if they are away from a sitting of the House £2 is deducted from their salary. When honourable members really look at the situation I cannot understand why there is this feeling engendered as against the passing of this measure. My own feeling is this : if you want your work done well you must pay for it. If you want your work done cheerfully, give an adequate return for it. I say the same thing applies to members of Parliament as applies to any ordinary work in life. Then I must take members from the colony to another country. I have been rather disappointed to find some of the advanced Liberal members of the House objecting to these proposals. Why, the Liberals at Home not only advocate the pay- ment of a salary, but they also advocate the payment of election expenses, so that we are behind as compared with the Liberals of the Mother-country. We know, of course, that in the Mother-country there has been representa- tion in the House of Commons of various I interests, and that members have received payment at the hands of the persons or the interests which sent them to Parliament. And when you come to recollect what has been paid to members of Parliament representing the working-classes at Home with what we are fixing under this Bill, it will show you that the workers in the Mother-country put their hands in their pockets, and are prepared to pay much more than we are asking to be paid under this Bill to honourable members. I think that an argument of this kind should have weight with honourable members. I now come to another phase of the question-namely, there are mem- bers in the House to whom the payment of the additional £60 a year is nothing-thell circumstances are such that they do not feei the receipt or not of that amount. It would be all the more generous on their part - it would be all the more in keeping with what I conceive to be the duty of one so favourably situated - to wish that this extra amount should be received by others who are not so well placed. Then we have to consider this: Is the amount asked for in the Bill a fair presenting them ? The whole thing is summed up in those words. I say the amount asked is | reasonable ; that fair representation, devotion 