and, so far as he knew, Mr. Rose was as clear and active and efficient as ever he was. The Government had not laid down any hard or fast age-limit when an officer should retire on pension, but that matter was now under con- sideration. If such a rule were laid down it would mean that we would save some of the higher salaries, and give juniors an opportunity to rise in the service. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) was surprised to find honourable gentlemen objecting to the salary of the Collector of Customs at Auckland, because he was one of the oldest of Customs officers, and stood next the Secretary of Customs, and also because he had greater responsibility in Auckland than in any other port of the colony. This officer collected the largest Customs re- venue in the colony. He knew Mr. Rose, and knew he was as active to-day as he was at forty years of age. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) said that, as Mr. Rose's salary was reduced at the time of retrenchment, and as most of the other officers then reduced had had their salaries reinstated, Mr. Rose naturally thought he was suffering an injustice when his salary remained unaltered. He thought the Government had done right in granting this increase, but they might as well have gone the whole length, and re- placed the salary at £600 instead of £575. But there was involved in this question a larger one, that had been touched upon by various speakers, and that was the question of the re- tirement of officers at a given age. He ad- mitted that Mr. Rose was a very competent officer. But he wished also to draw attention to the position of the Landing Surveyor at Auck- land, who received $350; that was less than the salary paid to the officer holding a similar position in Wellington. He believed the Land- ing Waiter at Auckland had seen longer service than the Landing Waiter at Wellington. The Landing Waiter at Auckland only received the same salary that he got ten years ago, and the salary he now received was £50 a year less than that paid to his predecessor when the present officer took charge ten years ago. If the Go- vernment had carried out the regulations this officer would have received a larger salary years ago. As to officers retiring at a certain age, he thought the regulations ought to be observed faithfully. He moved, That the vote be re- duced by £1, as an instruction to the Govern- ment that all officers over the age-limit of retirement should be retired. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) did not in- tend to oppose the increase to the Collector. He desired to heartily support what had been said by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) with respect to the Landing Surveyor at Auckland. He was a very old and very efficient officer. Officers holding similar positions in other ports had received increases, and he did not see why this officer should have been overlooked. He hoped provision for an increase of this officer's salary would be made on the supple- mentary estimates. Mr. Seddon see why an active and experienced officer should be retired against his will. He had no objec- tion to a man retiring if he wished to do so at a certain age, but he did not think an officer should be retired while he was fitted to dis- charge his duties efficiently. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) denied that he wished to repudiate a contract. He had merely given his opinion with regard to the general question of pensions. He did not agree with the amendment of the member for Auck- land City (Mr. Fowlds) as to the compulsory retirement of officers at a certain age. He thought that in the case of a strong, healthy man his matured judgment at the age fixed for retirement was of great value to the State. Of course, there were men in the service who would be useless at the age of sixty. He thought, after all, it was a question for the de- cision of the Government whether or not a public servant was to continue in a responsible position ; and if he was not, then the Govern- ment should have the backbone to retire him. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) supported the amendment of the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). The honourable member for Waihemo would surely agree that what- ever the rule it ought to be uniform. The regulations said Civil servants of a particular rank should retire at the age of sixty. Here was an officer over sixty who ought to be re- tired for this reason, if for no other : that his non-retirement was unjust to those below him who were entitled to promotion. It did not only refer to younger men, but also to other men of higher rank than these young men who might be denied their legitimate promotion by being compelled to retire at sixty in a subordi- nate rank. The only way to act honourably, as far as the Government were concerned, and justly so far as Parliament was concerned, was to apply the rule equally to all. Then there could be no charge of favouritism. It had been bruited abroad in non-official circles that there was an intention to either separate the Customs and Marine Departments and ap- point a responsible head to the Marine De- partment, or to appoint an assistant secretary in the Customs Department to assist the Under-Secretary for Customs in the adminis- tration of both departments. The increase in the work of both departments justified such a step, but the work of the Marine Department had increased in greater proportion than the Customs. Formerly there was an Under-Secretary for Marine, Mr. L. H. B. Wilson, and the work of the department had now grown to such proportions that there ought to be a separate head, acting either in conjunction with Mr. Glasgow, or independent of him and acting under the direction of the Minister of Marine. He would like to know whether the meditated intention of the Govern- ment would be given effect to or not. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said it was a puzzle to him, as it must be to other members, to under- stand on what system or basis these salaries 