shall be established, and the logical result will be that they will claim the right to say under what circumstances the teachers shall be ap- pointed also. When that is reached our educa- tion system will have entered upon a critical period. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - While I agree with a great deal that has been stated by the Premier in introducing this Bill, and while I agree with the principle of the measure, I want to say this, as one who has consistently sup- ported the principle of a colonial scale of salaries for public-school teachers : I am exceed- ingly disappointed with the report of the School- teachers Commission, embodied as it is in the Bill now before the House, and for this reason : that it does not do that justice to the country school teachers to which they are entitled, and which they deserve. This is especially the case in teachers of schools with an average attend- ance of under twenty. In the Auckland Pro- vincial District, with which I am best ac- quainted, there are a large number of such schools. The Auckland Board of Education has been paying the teachers of these small schools at the rate of from £100 to £114 per annum ; but in the Bill now before the House, which is supposed to be an improvement on the existing system, we propose to pay them at the rate of €5 per head for the average attendance. I have here a long list of schools, and I shall quote a few instances showing the effect of what is proposed :- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Salary. . posed. Reduc- Name. tion. Pro- School. sent. l're- - - Blakey, F. E. .. Albertland N'th 108 75 33 (15) Downard, F. N. R Owhiwa (15) .. \|108 75 33 Green, B. M. Mahurangi Hds. 108 28 80 .. (16) Hill, J. C. Greenhithe (17) 108 23 85 .. Birss, W. Opua (17) 108 23 85 .. Females. Gledhill, E. A. Kariotahi (16). . .. 85' 80 5 Jane, A. J. Matamata (15) 80 75 5 .. Brain, E. E. Te Puke (11) 78 55 23 .. .. Usher, A. Waiau 70 50 20 . . .. I think I have quoted a sufficient 9.30. number to show that, as far as the schools with an attendance of under twenty are concerned, the proposals of the Bill are grossly unfair. And, Sir, that will tend to impair the efficiency of many of our small country schools, because any fairly good teacher would rather leave the service than be satis- fied with the miserable pittance offered to him by way of salary. Then, there is another and a larger class of teachers not fairly treated. I refer to the teachers of schools with an attendance of between thirty and sixty. Of Mr. G. W. Russell crease for those teachers, but that increase is not in proportion to the increases pro- posed to be given to the teachers of larger schools. One would have thought that on an occasion like this, when a readjustment was being made, special consideration would have been given to the teachers of schools in country districts, because they have to put up with a great many drawbacks and disadvan- tages of which the teachers in towns know very little. But the Commission have evi- dently gone on the principle that "To him that hath shall be given, and from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." Under this proposed system one of the difficulties which at present exists will be still further accentuated-that is, the unwilling- ness on the part of teachers in towns to go into the country districts. I have heard over and over again of cases where female teachers, who were receiving from $40 to $45 per annum in the cities by way of salaries, actually refused to go into the country districts when offered salaries at from $70 to $80. I noticed that Mr. Bagnall, the Chairman of the Education Board at Auckland, in giving evidence before the Com- mission, referred to this particular point, and in answer to a question he said,- " In this district, with regard to the smaller positions, we find that female assistants will remain in Auckland at a salary of $45 a year rather than take a similar position in the coun- try at $70 a year." Then, he was asked,- " You think they prefer to remain in town on account of the social and other advanages of city life ?" And his reply was :- " ] can only suppose so. I have not friends in the positions. My experience as a member of the Board shows it is difficult to get a female assistant to go into the country." In the face of such evidence, coming from a man of Mr. Bagnall's experience, we can come to no other conclusion than that the proposals in the Bill are inadequate, and that in some respects they are no improvement on the present position ; and that is the opinion of many of the teachers in the country districts. I have presented a petition on this subject from sixty head-teachers in country schools in the Auckland Provincial District, and I shall quote what they say :- "We, the undersigned head - teachers of country schools under the Auckland Board of Education, do herewith respectfully protest against the colonial scale of teachers' salaries being made lower in the form presented by the Commission to your honourable House. We deem it necessary to bring under your notice the following incongruities, and pray you to alter and amend them, so that the colonial scale will be of material benefit to us. Male teachers of schools of an average attendance of thirty do not, under the proposed scale, receive any increase at all ; and schools of forty, fifty, and sixty average only 3}, 3%, and 13 per cent. increases respectively. It is difficult to realise 