invited to the functions and there were those who were not invited; but it was a very singular thing that the invitations all ran to one "colour," and the non-invitations to another. Mr. SEDDON .- You are doing the Ministry a great injustice. An Hon. MEMBER .- Were you invited ? Mr. MONK .- It is none of your business whether I was invited or not. It is my business to make a plain statement of a fact. That is a discreditable characteristic that will never be forgotten or effaced in connection with the functions, and not even the semblance of such treatment should have been associated with them. What I wish to impress upon the House is, that the functionaries appointed by the Government and the permeating control of all the functions were extremely partisan. Well, Sir, the business method should have been this : that while leaving His Excellency to direct what should have been done-and we should have been pleased to accept with feelings of con- sideration any suggestions he might have given to our Government as to what expenditure should take place and the manner in which it should be made-I say that his name should not have been brought upon the floor of the House in the form in which it has been brought here. I say, I have been consistent in this re- spect : With regard to the £380, I objected to it, and honourable members have since learned that it was a most illegal payment. I say it was a payment that, had I been His Excellency, I would not have allowed my name to be con- nected with-dragged on the floor of the House, with the indignity inseparable from such a trans- action. And I believe the Governor himself knows better-that he knows his name should http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero not be associated in the manner it has been mixed up with these matters, and he himself should have taken care that the etiquette, if nothing else, belonging to his class should not be so ruthlessly traversed. Now, what is the feeling of the country, Mr. Speaker ? It is that no regular account has been kept of this expendi- ture. It is the talk of the colony, associated with wild rumours of wrongdoing. That is a very unpleasant feeling, and the manner in which the Premier laboured over the introduc- tion of this Bill in its second reading this even- ing rather confirmed my suspicion that there was not a businesslike method with regard to this expenditure ; but it has been the disburse- ment of a reckless scatter-cash frenzy, the accounts of which ought to have been 10.0. sent in to the Government of the country, and the Governor's name should not have appeared along with them. If there is anything about which I feel concerned as an element in public ethics it is the dignity of Parliament and the dignity of its public officers, and it seems to me that the Premier indeed aims to ignore what he describes as the " musty, fusty precedents " of the past. He scatters them to the wind, and in doing so the traditions of the past, and the experience of past Parliaments and of past generations, Mr. Monk placed in the discreditable position in which on this occasion we find ourselves. I am bound to vote against it on principle, because I am re- presenting here the taxpayers of the colony. I do not vote against it for the amount, but for the manner in which such expenditures have irregularly taken place. The taxpayers never intended the public treasure to be disbursed with the partiality which was exhibited in con- nection with the Royal visit; and, altogether, these things make me feel it to be my duty to quietly vote against it. One could make a long and an impassioned speech on the matter, and could say things that would be very disagreeable indeed, and the pity is they would only be too true ; but I shall refrain and say only what is necessary. But I feel it my duty to express a very strong objection to the manner in which - and repeatedly-the Premier has placed us in the position of having to object to his method of dealing with public moneys. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley). - Sir, before the Premier replies I desire to say a few words on this occasion. I have to compliment honour- able members who have spoken on the frank and free manner in which they have expressed themselves. Nothing has been said to-night in any shape or form by any honourable member that has been derogatory to the dignity of this House, or in any way at variance with the usual decorum that characterizes members when they address you, Sir, on questions of import- ance. Indeed, the only remark I have heard this evening in the debate that was derogatory to it and tended to lower the debate was the unfortunate reference by the Premier to blankets, sheets, and glassware provided at Government House for the reception of the Royal visitors; and it is a matter for regret that any member of the House should so far forget himself as to refer to these small matters in connection with His Excellency the Go- vernor and the reception of their Royal High- nesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. Sir, I notice in looking through the pages of the House of Commons debates that whenever the question of the marriage- portions of the sons and daughters of Her late illustrious Majesty was before the House each member of that Chamber expressed him- self in the ordinary manner that he would express himself upon any other vote that was submitted to the House, and there was <!-- PageHeader="\--------" --> never any suggestion on the part of the Marquis of Salisbury or his predecessors in office with the view of blocking discussion or discouraging members in speaking on the question before the House. The Premier this evening, in moving the second reading of the Bill, hoped there would be no debate. Then he suggested that the question should be discussed with bated breath, that we should approach the question with a sort of timid feeling --- with a feeling of servility and adulation, which, in my opinion, is entirely alien to the feelings of the people of this colony, and to the members of the House who represent them in this Chamber. Fifty years ago the Japanese looked upon their 