tremely misleading. When one knew that the railways in Queensland extended over a vast area of dry country, where the decay was but little and the timber had double the strength and durability of New Zealand timber, it brought the comparison into one of comparatively little worth ; it was impossible to judge of our own ex- penditure from that of other different places. There was also this to bear in mind with regard to the Queensland position : that Queensland had unfortunately a deficit, and undue economy may have been practised in railway maintenance. He hoped in the future the working railways maintenance returns would be made up in such a way that there would be adjacent columns showing the amounts per mile of the expendi- ture out of revenue and out of capital, setting out under different headings the classes of expenditure. If they got some such return as that they would know exactly how the money was spent, which up to the present time the country and honourable members were in ignor- ance of. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the honourable member spoke of getting returns in the last days of the session ; but he might say that "the jellyfish " had succeeded in getting from the Government a lot of things, but they had not succeeded in getting assistance from the honourable gentlemen sitting on the Oppo- sition benches. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he did not quite understand who the honourable member for Wellington included in the term " jelly- fish," but he would like to point out that it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was impossible, even for the strong-back gentle- man who sat in his (Mr. Pirani's) corner, to force out of the Government anything in the shape of returns. If the department did not prepare the returns, or if they did, and the Minister did not lay them on the table, he did not see how it was possible to compel these returns to be placed before them. At the same time he must admit that there was a very great deal of work in preparing the returns that were granted towards the end of the session, and it seemed to him that there should be some arrangement by which all the returns that were needed could be granted unopposed early in the session, and they could have them placed before them. He would also like to say that B .- 1 had never been so late in being laid before Parliament as this session. It was an important return, and one that was practically prepared immediately after the end of the financial year, and it seemed rather unfair that Parliament should, on the eve of the termina- tion of the session, not have a full statement of the accounts of last year. It had been said that in other colonies the full accounts were not available any sooner than here; but, of course, in making that statement the Minister did not take into consideration the fact that in New Zealand all our accounts were preaudited, and were therefore ready for perusal almost at the end of the financial year; whereas in the other colonies they did not audit the accounts until after payment, and therefore they could Captain Russell of the financial year, so that we were, at least, three months ahead of the other colonies in that respect. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said, Regarding the information asked for by the member for Bruce in the return to which he had referred, he found that that information could only be given after considerable delay, and it would involve much labour and cost to the department. The General Manager for Railways, in referring to the return, reported that it would be an extensive return, and would take a considerable time to prepare. It would take perhaps a year or two to get out the re- turn. In reply to the member for Hawkes Bay, he might state that honourable member took exception to the absence of returns fur- nished by the Government, and regretted that a return such as this had not been laid on the table before. No honourable member on the other side of the House had asked for a return such as had just been laid on the table, and he laid the return on the table in consequence of strictures made by some members with respect to this matter. It would seem that the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay, in making com- parisons between the New Zealand railways and the Queensland railways, wished to put the Queensland railways in a superior position to those in this colony. He (Sir J. G. Ward) only wished to say that in a matter of com- parison you must not only take the mileage, but you must also consider the configuration of the country through which the railways pass. With respect to the statements as to the expenditure on the railway-lines out of capital and revenue, he was glad to be able to say that the statements of some honourable members opposite were not borne out by the facts. In conclusion, he might say that he would be very glad to get the freight mileage for the honourable member as soon as be possibly could. Motion agreed to. PUBLIC HEALTH BILL. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) brought up the following reasons for disagree- ing with the amendments made in this Bill by the Legislative Council, and moved that they be agreed to, and transmitted to the Legisla- tive Council : - "New clause 2A : (1.) Provisions of this clause may entail some hardship upon back- country parents if they had to appear at the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court to claim certi- ficate of exemption, and the Magistrate might be apt to give a hard-and-fast ruling. "(2.) That while small-pox is not in New Zealand the danger of unvaccination is not so great." Motion agreed to. GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS DEPART. MENT CLASSIFICATION BILL. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) moved, That the amendments made by the Legislative Council in this Bill be agreed to. Motion agreed to. 