this respect, but he could not divest himself of the charge of the conduct of this Bill, and he must sacrifice his own feelings and must ruth- lessly disregard his feelings to consult the wishes of his fellow-members who desired to proceed with the business of Parliament. In this matter he must be a slave to duty. It was his duty to appeal to members of the House that they would give fair consideration for a few moments to this measure in his charge. It was not difficult to understand, because the preamble disclosed the whole of its purport. There was no hidden meaning in it, and after it passed through Parliament it was to be subjected to the intelligent scrutiny of the burgesses of the city. He had not lost hope yet with regard to it. They had come to that period of the session when an honourable member must be conciliatory and humble, and appeal to the right honourable gentleman who tyrannized over this House to be merciful in his great strength, and give them a few minutes for the consideration of this Bill. While there was life there was hope, and they were not without hope that there would be time even yet to give consideration to the Bill this session. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) was sorry that as a new member he should find himself in a very important position. He had hoped some members of more experience would have asserted the rights of the House, because after all it was the rights of the House, and not the rights of any locality that were really at stake in the motion they were now considering. He https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 could not emulate the eloquence, the research, and the wide experience of the mover and seconder of the motion, but he hoped he would not transgress the rules of the House like the honourable member for Palmerston, whom he had been the means of calling to order for accusing the Premier of "dodgery," and like his senior colleague (Mr. Hutcheson), who had incurred the censure of the chair for attempting with obvious impropriety to discuss on this motion the details of a local Bill. There were ten local Bills still remaining on the Order Paper, and the House was entitled to insist, even at this late stage, that the Local Bills should receive fair consideration, or, at any rate, should be put to the vote. With regard to the local Bills, the position was that every one of them had been before a special tribunal-a special tribunal of experts, presided over by the honourable member for Nelson- and every inquiry had been made into them. It would be an insult to the grey hairs of the venerable Chairman of the Local Bills Com- mittee to treat the local Bills as proposed by the Premier, and therefore in the name, not of the parish pump, but of humanity, he called upon the House to support the amendment. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) did not quite understand the position taken up by the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson). If the honourable gentleman wanted to give his Bill a chance he should allow the House to take Mr. Hutcheson for the consideration of local Bills, in accord- ance with the Standing Orders, and since then the Government had given two other extra days for their consideration. It was certainly not the fault of the Government that the Wel- lington Bill had not come on. Under the cir- cumstances the honourable member had no right to say the Premier had not given the House an opportunity of discussing the Bill. He thought the member for Welling- 7.30. ton City (Mr. Hutcheson) had chosen his ground badly in attacking the Premier, because he declined to render further assistance to pass the Wellington City Recreation-ground Bill. The Premier had given every facility for the passing of local Bills this session, and had given two extra days, and yet he had re- ceived no thanks for extending to those honourable members so much consideration. On the other hand the Premier was now charged by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) with being the sworn enemy of Wellington ; but in this particular case he (Mr. Fisher) said the Premier was the sworn friend of Wellington, because he was in a position to say that four-fifths of the ratepayers of Wel- lington did not want this Bill passed, and they had asked this House by petition not to pass it. Let him call the attention of the House to the fact that this question of the purchase of Mira- mar had been before the people of Wellington for five years past. On one occasion it was fully ventilated and discussed at a large meet- ing held in the Skating Rink, at which the proposal was publicly denounced in language without measure ; and here, again, on this second attempt to pass this proposal through the House, he was asked by a petition of 573 petitioners to oppose it, and he challenged any man to question the genuineness of any one of these signatures. Why should the House be asked to pay $75,000 for a property which was valued on the first occasion for taxation pur- poses at £25,000, and on the second valuation for land-tax purposes at $36,000? What he wanted was that the people should have a fur. ther opportunity of discussing and scrutinising this question for the purpose of discovering one thing only-and he believed the honourable gentleman could not tell them that-namely, who was going to get the difference between the £36,000, at which the property was valued. and the $75,000 which the Corporation had contracted to buy it at. He would like to ask whether a city like Wellington, which at the present time paid rates to the extent of 3s. 6d. in the pound, and which would shortly spend £350,000 on electric trams, should be asked te expend £75,000 on a purchase of this sort which would confer a very questionable benefit on the city. He had shown that when this Bill came before the House earlier in the session the votes on division were equal, and the Speaker gave his casting-vote in favour of the Bill proceed- ing. In the face of that, could it be said tha: there was any strong desire on the part of the House for the passing of this Bill? There cer- 