Royal party in New Zealand. And the member members of the House another contrast. How for Riccarton said, "On your reply will rest often does a Committee report to this House on how I shall vote on the subject ; if it is for pro- the case of a man who has been maimed in the visioning the Royal party, then I shall vote for public service, and has perhaps died, leaving a it." widow and children? The Committee, I say, Mr. SEDDON .- "Extra cost of entertain- makes a recommendation that the widow and ing." orphans shall be granted only a pittance. Can Mr. HORNSBY. - No; "provisioning the anybody remember when any Minister of the Crown has got up and asked the House to vote Royal party." Mr. SEDDON .- I will get my Hansard proof. a couple of thousand pounds for such people ? Never! Yet we have the Premier of the colony Mr. HORNSBY .- It has transpired since that all the provisioning at Auckland was by asking us to vote this money to the Governor- contract. We know the Government has to for what? For private entertainments or semi- pay for the provisioning and the accommoda- private entertainments held by the Governor. tion at Searl's Hotel, in Wellington. And I say, Sir, if a country gentleman were to Mr. SEDDON .- They were not the Royal hold a great banquet, a reception at his home, and was then to go among his friends and ask guests. Mr. HORNSBY .- Indeed ! Were they not them to subscribe the amount it had cost him, members of the Royal party ? But if the some people would have a good deal to say honourable gentleman will allow me to pro- about it of an uncomplimentary nature, and to cred he will have the right to reply later on. me the one case is even worse than the other. Then, at Te Koraha, in Christchurch, the colony So far as the discussion of this matter is con- foots the Bill ; and at the Fernhill Club, in cerned, I feel at liberty to speak very plainly, Dunedin, it does the same. The whole of the because I am one of those who has never yet cast of providing food and " medical comforts " "stretched his legs under the mahogany" of for the Royal pair is already on the estimates. the Governor. I have been invited ; but of set Now, Sir, shall we be honest and say what this purpose I declined to go, because I knew the money which is claimed by the Governor was question of the Governor's salary would come for-what this amount represents ? I will tell up, and if I had eaten a man's salt I would not the House. like afterwards to criticize him or his affairs. An Hon. MEMBER .- Blankets. But in this connection, Sir, one very strange Mr. HORNSBY. - No, not blankets, not and remarkable thing has happened. Last year, sheets, not glassware, which are to be made when the Governor's Salary and Allowances use of in the Government steamers ; but it Bill was before the House, while it was passing was for the specially got-up receptions for a and afterwards, there were certain functions at https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 favoured few at Government House, Auckland Government House to which members of this and Wellington, and in other places. Sir, I House were invited. Every Saturday night want to put a contrast before the House in this there was a sort of parliamentary dinner. matter. In this building where we are at the There have been no parliamentary dinners present moment, there was a reception held this year. At any rate, the rank and file of by the Government of the country which was the House have not been bidden to the feast. a credit to the colony -one of the best func- And, Sir, I am reminded very forcibly of, and tions ever held in this or any other country. am constrained to quote, a verse of one of the It was truly a representative gathering of the Breitmann ballads :- people ; it represented all classes of the com- munity without distinction. It was worthy of the great occasion ; and I take this oppor- tunity of congratulating the Government on that reception. Had all the arrangements been carried out in the same way it would have been very much better than it has turned out to be. But what about the receptions that I say, Sir, that this may be a coincidence. I were held by the Governor at Auckland and do not say it is not, and I do not say that it is ; Wellington ? What about the receptions held but I leave members to say whether or not it is for a special coterie? Sir, the people stood a coincidence - and a powerful one at that ! outside and were splashed by the mud from Now, Sir, finally, let me say that I shall vote the wheels of the vehicles in which these against the passing of this Bill, and I do so on . specially honoured guests drove to these the principle that we have no right to be asked parties ; and now the people-" the mob"- to vote this amount of money. His Excellency are asked to pay for it. If we take the the Governor is now paid a very large salary, amounts and add them together-that is and if he was put to a little extra expense in \- to say, the rise in salary provided for last connection with the entertainment of the Royal year, and add to it this £2,250 which we are guests, I want to say we have more than made now asked to vote - we find that the Governor up to him for it. We were told, not in this 1 has cost us in one short year something like House, but on one or two occasions, as an in- $11,900. And I say that this colony is not ducement to the passing of the Governor's able to stand it ; and, speaking as one of the Salary and Allowances Bill, that "presently there would come an occasion which would representatives of the people, I say that I, for one, will not stand it. I want to bring before entail upon His Excellency the Governor a Hans Breitmann gife & barty Vhere ish dat barty now ? Vhere ish de lofely golden cloud Dat fload on de moundain's prow ? Vhere ish de himmelstrahlende stern -- De chtar of de spirit's light ? All goned afay mit de laager beer- Afay in de ewigkeit! 