Seddon Ward Hall Wilford Steward Stevens. Tanner Willis. NOES, 14. Allen, J. Lang Symes Collins Thomson, J. W. Monk Ell Tellers. O'Meara Fraser, A. L. D. Russell, G. W. Hutcheson, J. Smith, G. J. Pirani. Hardy Majority for, 23. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to. TOUR OF THE DUKE AND DUCHESS OF CORNWALL AND YORK. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I move, That the following address be presented to His Excellency the Governor for transmission to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, for sub- mission to His Majesty the King :- " We, the members of the House of Repre- sentatives of New Zealand in Parliament assembled, respectively beg to submit to your Majesty our congratulations on the safe return of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwell and York to England, and our thankfulness for the goodness of Almighty God for having mercifully watched over them, per- mitted their enjoymont of good health, and protected them from perils by land and sea." Sir, I think that will simply be giving expres- sion to the wishes of the people of the colony and of the members of the House. We are all delighted to know that their Royal Highnesses have arrived safely in the Motherland. We https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 are all delighted that the visit has been paid to us, and, as expressed in this resolution, we are delighted that after the perils of the ocean they should have arrived safely at the Mother- land, and should, during their visit, have enjoyed good health. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- I rise to a point of order. Our Standing Orders say distinctly that there shall be no business transacted after half-past five o'clock. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Motions of this sort are generally received with the indulgence of the House, even if it is a few minutes after the usual time for rising. I think members know that, at the end of the session, the Hon. the Speaker continues to sit sometimes up to six o'clock. It is with the general indulgence of the House that this is done, and I think that only one or two members are objecting. Captain RUSSELL .- I second the motion. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I object to the fulsome terms of this motion. We have been nauseated with this sort of thing in the re- cess, when the House had no opportunity of putting into plain language what our feelings were, and I certainly object to the House being saddled, at this time of day, with language of that kind purporting to come from the members of this House. Just let me read it, and mem- bers will see :- " We, the members of the House of Represen- tatives of New Zealand in Parliament assembled, respectfully beg to submit to your Majesty our Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to England, and our thank- fulness for the goodness of Almighty God for having mercifully watched over them, permitted their enjoyment of good health, and protected them from perils by land and sea." Every honourable member knows that, so far as good health on a trip of this sort is con- cerned, it depends almost entirely upon himself. The fact that our recent visitors are in good health surely is sufficient without referring to it in terms of such toadyism as we have in this resolution. I think it would be sufficient to pass a resolution authorising the sending of a message expressing our pleasure at the safe arrival of the Royal visitors. I do not think those who receive messages of this sort are pleased with the greasy flattery contained in them. If we could get at what the feelings of members really are in regard to this resolution. the Premier, I am sure, would modify it. The terms of the resolution are not in any sense in accordance with the desires of members. I move, as an amendment, That all the words after " England " be struck out. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- The time has now arrived when every self-respecting man in this country should make a stand against this greasy toadyism. I beg to enter my strongest protest against the vulgar syco- phancy contained 'in the language of this mes- sage. I shall support the amendment to strike out all the words after " England." If it suits the Premier to indulge in this sort of thing, let him do so in his own name, and not in the name of the colony. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- This is not a matter on which many words need be used or ought to be used. If the amendment is pressed to a division I shall vote for it. I think that any independent manly mind in this colony must revolt at the inflated and sycophantic language used in these addresses. It is not from any feeling of disloyalty that I speak in this way. because there is no man in New Zealand who is more loyal to his country and to his sovereign : but I do protest against it being represented that the people of New Zealand approve of such language as it is the custom to use in these addresses presented to the Governor. The sacred name of the Great Eternal is dragged into resolutions of this nature in such a way as to be nauseating in the extreme. I shall sup- port the amendment in the hope that future addresses may be no less loyal, but more truly dignified and respectful in their wording. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I will ask that. whatever we do, let us be unanimous. I may say that the precedents in our Journals, on occasions of this kind, or a similar kind, have been followed. As we all know, the Address from the Throne contains an expression of thankfulness to Almighty God, and asks His assistance ; and our prayers in opening the daily proceedings in this Chamber also ask Divine guidance and blessings. I may point out that the resolution passed by the Legislative Coun- cil is similar to this, and, under the circum- 