Wednesday, 30th October, 1901. Bill discharged-Criminal Statistics for Licensing Districts-Advances to Settlers-Surplus Crown Lands-New Zealand Railways Repairs-Native Civil List -Co-operative Labourers in Patea Electorate - Survey Department Nominal Roll -Crown Lease Surrenders - Government Ser- vice Appointments and Promotions-G. Brown- Herbert E. Easton-Patea Electoral Roll-North Island Main Trunk Railway - Calliope Dock - Wellington Graving dock and other Works-Ex- port Duty on New Zealand Timber-Accommo- dation for War-ships at Port Chalmers-Breach of Privilege - Long-service Medals - Bonus on Kerosene and Paraffin-wax-Bonus for Shale-oil -Close Settlement at Johnsonville-Reciprocity with America-Kapuatohe and Kahiwahi Blocks -His Excellency the Governor-Licensing Act- Royal Review in Christchurch-Messengers and .Orderlies-Federation Commission Report-Re- presentation of New Zealand at the King's Coronation-R. H. Elliotte-Mrs. E. H. McDonald -Topographical Plans- Carriage of Butter- Post-office for St. Leonard's-Totalisator Betting by Telegraph - Auckland - Waikato Railway- Government Railway Time-table - Lambs de- stroyed by Seagulls - Halswell Post-office-Pal- merston North Post-office-Railway Expenditure -Government Railways Department Classifica- tion Bill-State Coal-mines Bill-Maori Lands Administration Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. BILL DISCHARGED. Government Railways Department Classifica- tion Bill. # CRIMINAL STATISTICS FOR LICENSING DISTRICTS. On the motion of Mr. ELL (Christchurch City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the criminal statis- tics for each licensing district for the years 1896 to 1900, both inclusive. # ADVANCES TO SETTLERS. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return, supplementary to return 232B, showing the names of the solicitors receiving the fees set forth in the said return ? # SURPLUS CROWN LANDS. On the motion of Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return giving the names of all lands declared by the Crown to be surplus lands : such return to show,-(1) The name and area of each block, and where situate; (2) such blocks sold or portions of such blocks sold, and area of same, and balance in hand ; and .(3) blocks leased, or area of such blocks leased, .term of leases, and balance in hand. NEW ZEALAND RAILWAYS REPAIRS. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return setting forth, for each financial .year .from 1880 to 1901 inclusive, in respect of number of sleepers each year (a) removed, (b) relaid and cost, and (c) respaced and cost ; and (2) the rails each year, with weight speci- fied, (a) removed, and (b) relaid and cost : the return to specify in every case the items charged to revenue and to additions to open lines, or other loan-money. # NATIVE CIVIL LIST. On the motion of Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the particulars of the expenditure under the heading " Native Civil List " to the 31st March, 1901, in con- tinuation of previous returns of similar expen- diture. # CO-OPERATIVE LABOURERS IN PATEA ELECTORATE. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return giving the number and names of the co-operative labourers employed by the Government in the Patea Electorate during the six months ended the 21st October, 1901, and also giving the date on which each man com- menced work. # SURVEY DEPARTMENT NOMINAL ROLL. On the motion of Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden), it was ordered, That the nominal roll of the Survey Department be laid upon the table of the House. # CROWN LEASE SURRENDERS. On the motion of Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing (1) the number of sur- renders by Crown lessees, and (2) the total area of Crown lands converted into freehold by such surrenders, for a period of five years ended the 31st March, 1901. GOVERNMENT SERVICE APPOINT- MENTS AND PROMOTIONS. On the motion of Mr. FISHER (Wellington City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the permanent appointments and promotions, giving names and salaries, made in all departments of the Government service since the 1st February, 1891, showing under separate headings those appointments or promotions which carry a salary of $400 and over, $300 and over, $200 and over, and £100 and over. # G. BROWN. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motucka) brought up the report on the petition of G. Brown and 101 others, of Tuakau, to the effect that the Com- mittee recommended that the petition be re- ferred to the Government, and he moved, That the report do lie on the table. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said this petition had reference to a road in the Tuakau district, in his electorate, which the Railway Depart- ment proposed to close. He wished to say 