for building a home for the aged poor, the neglected children, sailor's home, et cetera-all Costley's gifts to the people. There were also Mckelvie's rare and artistic presents to the Art Gallery of Auckland. Then, there is this last gift of Dr. Campbell's. I say that we should in every way encourage and hold up as bright examples those persons who by their own efforts have been accumulators, and who return those accumulations to the people. The only regret I feel with regard to Cornwall Park is that the name the Maoris gave the district in the early days has not been perpetuated - the name of "Tamaki"-especially on account of its romantic meaning : "Tamaki," of a hundred lovers. Any measure which the Government may propose for the purpose of encouraging such bequests deserves the favourable considera. tion of every one in Parliament. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY. - I do not think that Scotchmen should be pointed out as being singularly deficient in generosity. Generosity is not a matter which depends on nationality ; it depends more on individual instincts and a yearning to benefit suffering or ignorant hu- manity so as to benefit the race. Mr. Carnegie, the millionaire, who was in many respects a typical Scotchman, though he earned his wealth in America, did not forget the old country to which he belonged, and devoted large sums to promoting education in Scotland. I think these gifts for public purposes are com- mendable when people can afford it. Some- times it is found that people who cannot afford https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 it give more in proportion to others with much greater means ; but, if we consider the vast sums given in the past by bequest for useful public purposes which have been simply wasted or misapplied, I am not surprised that the wealthy who are willing to give are in doubt whether it is wise to give at all. It makes people shrink from giving money when they see how much has been devoted to purposes for which it was never intended. The best uses which I think money can be devoted is by utilising your spare capital during your lifetime ; you can then see that the money is well spent in the true interests of the people. However, I think climate has something to do with a generous instinct, and Auckland men have set a good example to the rest of the colony in this respect ; private endowment for public purposes has been frequently made there, and so long as such a generous instinct exists we ought to encourage it. With respect to the Hon. Mr. Louisson's statement that a legacy for public pu: poses made in Christchurch had to pay some thousands in legacy duty, I cannot understand it, as the Act of 1883 seems to specially provide for remission of such duty in such a case. The pre- sent Bill only enlarges the scope of the principal Act .. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- I wish to make a personal explanation in regard to what the ho. Mr. Kelly has said. I understand the reason why so large a legacy duty was imposed was because there were some very slight restric- of Christchurch. This alone, because the poor of Christchurch were mentioned instead of the poor of New Zealand, rendered it liable to legacy duty. If there is the slightest restriction in regard to the direction of a bequest it im- mediately becomes liable to a duty, because it is not for the general benefit of the whole colony. Another sum was left for a wing to the Christchurch Hospital, which cost some £6,000 or £7,000, all of which had to pay legacy duty. This, I consider, is very wrong, and it is likely to deter other people from making similar be- quests. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I only wish to say, in reply, that apparently this Bill does not propose to go so far as some honour- able gentlemen think it should. I do not think it is competent for the Council to enlarge the scope of the Bill, because it would be inter- fering with taxation. I am not prepared at this moment to argue whether all charitable gifts should be absolved from every condition of paying legacy or succession duty. I was not aware of the circumstances to which the Hon. Mr. Louisson referred, that succession duties are payable in case of the bequests to which he referred, but I would only point out that the Bill does not deal with those questions, which should be dealt with in another way. I have every sympathy with giving every encourage- ment to persons who die wealthy to devote by will their substance to doing good after they are gone; but, on the other hand, I have a cer- tain amount of regard for the axiom that every property, once in a generation, should pay its dues to the State as a sort of insurance premium for the maintenance of good law and order. For that reason I should not like off-hand to. state how far (Government is prepared to go in the remission of all dues whatever. I am quite. sure we cannot in any way add to this Bill so as to make it include charitable bequests in the wider sense. Bill read the second time. TRUSTEE BILL. The Hon Mr. W. C. WALKER, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it was rendered necessary by the present state of the law in New Zealand ; it was an endeavour to. bring the law relating to trustees up to the English standard. It had been brought before the Minister in a memorandum which showed the necessity for it, and pointed out that it was. advisable to bring our law up to the point of view of the English law. The difficulty nowa- days was that trustees could hardly, without a considerable amount of trouble, get free of the duties placed on them, and were obliged to act through an attorney if absent from the colony. Clause 2 specified that - "Where a trustee is dead, or remains out of the colony for the space of twelve months, or desires to be discharged from all or any of the trusts or powers reposed in or conferred on him, or refuses or is unfit to act therein, or is in- capable of so acting, then the persons nomi 