tery was to be put. One of the opponents of the measure, like Silas Wegg, had dropped into poetry over it, and he (Mr. Hornsby) would like to hear if the objection had been disposed of. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) said there was ob- jection manifested to the Bill by a number of local residents. They petitioned the House, and their petition came up for consideration by the Local Bills Committee when the Bill was being dealt with, and the Committee had, he thought, met the views of all the parties in connection with the measure. They had altered the Bill so that the cemetery was no longer to go to the municipality as a municipal reserve, but as a recreation reserve. And, in regard to the objections of those whose friends were buried in the cemetery, the proposals of the Bill had been altered, so that application must be made to the Colonial Secretary before any removal of the bodies took place; and whoever applied to get the permission of the Colonial Secretary to effect such removal must advertise the application in a paper cir- culating in the Borough of Gore for some three weeks. That would insure that when any re- moval was proposed all the parties who con- sidered they were affected would be able to place their representations before the Colonial Secretary, who would then decide whether it was right that such removal should take place or not. He thought that met the views of the Borough Council, and also the views of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 petitioners. Motion agreed to. MONEY-LENDERS BILL. A message was received from the Legislative Council intimating that the Council had passed the Money-lenders Bill with amendments, and requesting the concurrence of the House in those amendments. Mr. HALI. - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the amendments were not of a very extensive character. If honourable members would refer to the Bill he would indicate the alterations made. In subsection (4) of section 2 certain words had been added. The words added were : "including any payment or de- duction by way of premium, fine, or foregift." Then, an amendment which might call for rea- sonable criticism was a proviso to subsection (3) of clause 3. Clause 3 dealt with cases coming before the Court, and subsection (3) of the clause with the position of a borrower bring- ing cases before the Court. Provision had been made as to the time within which cases might be brought, and words had been added to pro- vide that the borrower, in bringing a matter before the Court, should do so within twelve months after the closing of the transaction. Subsection (8) of clause 3 was passed by the House in this way : "For the purposes of this section (but for no other purpose) the expression ' money lender' includes any person who lends money for interest." To these words had been added the following : "at a rate, including any payments or deductions by way of premium, annum." He thought that was a reasonable amendment ; that there were few alterations, and that in some respects the Bill was improved. He therefore moved, That the amendments made by the Legislative Council in the Bill be agreed to. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) asked the Hon. the Minister if he had given effect to a promise he had made in regard to subsec- tion (4) of section 2, as it appeared in the original Bill as introduced. By striking out that subsection certain companies were no longer included in the exemption list. He had pointed out the case of two companies in Dun- edin that were acting very much in the same way as the Public Trustee acted. They man- aged estates for private persons, and necessarily, therefore, had to invest moneys on mortgage. Surely it was never contemplated that they were to be treated as usurers. He had pointed this out to the honourable gentleman. who had, in reply, told him that he recognised the force of the argument, and would endeavour to get an amendment put into the Bill in the Upper House. Now, he would like to ask the Minis- ter what he had done in regard to that. Mr. HALL-JONES promised he would look into that matter and see if there was any neces- sity for doing what he suggested. and if there was anv necessity provision would be made. He had been advised that the Bill met what was asked for, and that the word "person". would include a company. The clause which was struck out in the House was dealing with a body corporate, under which a corporation was empowered by special Act of Parliament before the passing of this Act. Mr. W. FRASER .- They had got a special Act of Parliament Mr. HALI,-JONES said, Very well ; they would then come under subclause (4) of sec- tion 2, under which, if a company was lending money at a less rate of interest than 10 per cent., it need not be registered. If it was lending at more than 10 per cent. it must be registered. He perceived that there was another amend- ment in the Bill that he had omitted to refer to In clause 3 there was a new subclause, (3A), to the following effect : "Where it appears to the Court that any person other than the money-lender has shared in the profits of, or has any beneficiary interest, prospectively or otherwise, in the transaction which the Court holds to be harsh and un- conscionable, the Court may cite such person as a party to the case, and may make such judg- ment in respect to such person as it may deem fit." It would be seen that it was optional for the Court to cite such a person as a party to the case, and to make such a judgment as it might deem fit. In explaining the amendments just now he had overlooked this particular new sub- clause. Mr. W. FRASER said the Minister had not answered his question. He thought he was entitled to an answer, and he had just pointed out to the honourable gentleman that subsec- 