ander had the selection of the tradespeople. Sir J. G. WARD asked if the honourable gentleman was quite sure of that. Mr. RHODES said he was in the house him- .self with Captain Alexander when the latter went into the details as to the necessary altera- tions of the house and as to the selection of tradespeople. That was before Mr. Rhodes left the house. Mr. Rhodes may have recommended tradesmen, but it was only for the approval of Captain Alexander, who really made the selec- tion. Captain Alexander went into the smallest details. There was no redecorating necessary, as the house was a new one. A small permanent addition was required, and was paid for by the Mayor, but all other additions were only of a tem- porary character, and were afterwards removed. If the discussion had done no other good, it bad, at any rate, removed an impression from the minds of members that the Mayor had acted as host to the Royal visitors and had been re- imbursed for the expense he had been put to. But, as far as the people of the colony were concerned, the misapprehension still remained, and this item on the estimates was a record for all time that the Mayor had been repaid his expenses-a record that was not true. As for these tradesmen, he had not paid a single penny of their accounts himself. They were still to be paid, and would be paid by the Government, so it could not be a matter of reimbursement. This was, of course, one of the things that would be trotted out against the Mayor at election times, and it was somewhat ungenerous, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 considering the trouble and expense the Mayor had been put to, that the Premier should have allowed the matter to appear in this way on the estimates. Mr. SEDDON said the matter had been care- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero fully considered, and there was no other way possible of doing it. Mr. RHODES was not accusing the Govern- ment of malice prepense. It may have been an oversight, but it was a pity it was done. How- ever, he realised that no further good could be done by prolonging the discussion, and he would have to be content to let the matter remain as it was. Sir J. G. WARD would not like any misap- prehension to exist regarding the position of the matter. There seemed to be an impres- sion on the mind of the honourable member for Ellesmere that the Government had put Mr. Rhodes's name on the estimates for ul- terior purposes. That was absolutely without foundation. He would give the history of the whole matter, and members could then judge for themselves. A letter was sent by Mr. Rhodes to Mr. Donne on the 16th July, forwarding the whole of the accounts, some of which were made out in the name of Mr. Rhodes, and some in the name of the residence only. When the accounts arrived, Mr. Donne went through them, and sent them to the Minister, with a memorandum saying he considered the accounts were reasonable, and recommending them for payment. The accounts were marked, " 30/7/01. - For Cabinet consideration." He Mr. Rhodes wording of the item on the estimates, and it was somewhat unfortunate" that the accounts were sent to the Government by Mr. Rhodes himself, as they were. The Government had not sent an account to Mr. Rhodes. All the accounts and the details had been sent by Mr. Rhodes himself to the department. That was the position. Mr. Rhodes was not the host in Christchurch &t all. It was the Government on behalf of the colony. Mr. Rhodes placed his house at the disposal of the Royal party, and it was a very fine thing for him to do - an action that was much appreciated by the Go- vernment and, he was sure, by the whole of the colony. It appeared, however, that some honour- able members were confounding two things. Mr. Rhodes gave a public entertainment in Christchurch -one of the finest ever given in the colony. It was given entirely at his own expense, and was much appreciated by every person who was privileged to be present. Mr. Rhodes also placed his private house at the dis- posal of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, but he was not their host. It was the colony who was the host, and the colony and not Mr. Rhodes, therefore, had to pay the accounts. Mr. PIRANI said it was not put very clearly on the estimates. Sir J. G. WARD said, Well, at any rate, it was the colony who was the host, and it was the colony that would have to pay the accounts. The accounts were sent by Mr. Rhodes to the Government, and, as a matter of course, the item was put on the estimates in Mr. Rhodes's name. There was no other way of doing it. Some days before the Duke and Duchess went to Christchurch the preparatory arrangements had been made at Mr. Rhodes's house. He understood the family had to leave some days prior to the arrival of the Royal party to make room for a number of servants, which consisted of no less than about seventy-five people. Many things that were necessary were ordered by Mr. Rhodes under authority-indirectly or directly under the authority of the Government, per- haps - and Mr. Rhodes had properly sent every account to the Government. Well, what could the Government do but put the item on the estimates ? Everybody recognised that Mr. Rhodes had placed his house freely at the dis- posal of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York ; but, as he had said before, the colony itself was the host, and the colony had to pro- vide the money for the cost of their entertain- ment in Mr. Rhodes's house. That was the whole position. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said the Govern- ment did not act in the first place in a business- like manner : they should have had their agent to make the necessary arrangements, and he should have arranged for the accounts to have been sent in to the Government. That was the first blunder. Then, the item should have been worded something like this : " Amount of £247 charged to Mr. Rhodes by mistake, which should have been charged to Government." That was the second blunder, and had led to all this discussion. 