came up for payment during the first part of this year, and it is quite likely that during the succeeding half the expenditure would be very much less than it was in the second half of last year. But, Sir, we are placed face to face with this fact: that at the six months we had available of loan-money and of balances -including the balance available still from the Consolidated Fund, which amounts to £190,0 0, new loan £1,250,000, and balance at the 30th September of #352 399 a total of available money at six months' time of £1,792,399. Well, it seems a tolerably large amount available, but when one looks at the Appropriation Bill and the amount that has been appropriated for public-works expendi- ture, and looks especially at the column which authorises the Government to enter into lia- bilities beyond the appropriation I refer to column 9 of the Fourth Schedule, where autho- rity is given to enter into liabilities of close upon £1,000,000 - £929,000 - one begins to wonder again where we shall finish up on the 31st March next, and whether we shall have ways and means to meet our liabilities. On the 31st March last we were unfortunate enough to finish up in this position : that, taking all the liabilities into account that had been incurred by the Crown, we had not ways and means under the Public Works Fund to meet them. Now, the Premier met that by saying that he had another half-million in the Consolidated Fund which he could transfer ; but at the time be said that he had no authority to transfer it to the Public https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Works Fund. I do not think he could say now, at any rate, that at the end of the cur- rent year he will have half a million to trans fer from the Consolidated Fund to the Public Works Fund. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Mr. SEDDON .- I will have a quarter of a million. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I certainly hope the Pre- mier may, in the interests of the colony ; but, even if he has a quarter of a million, it seems to me we are running our finance too close now to be sound. I do not mean to say that our expenditure is going to exceed our ways and means, but unless great care is taken I venture to say there is a great probability of our having incurred liabilities for which we have no avail- able moneys in our ways and means. I think it is to be deprecated that, even in regard to liabilities or contracts that have been entered into, the colony should en'er into them not having provided some means of securing moneys to meet these liabilities. I do not think we ought to exceed our ways and means in that direction, and I hope the ill perpetrated last year in so doing will not occur again on the 31st March next. Sir, I have no more to say. Although one would have liked to have a good deal more to say on this Appropriation Act, I am aware that members are all desirous of finishing up, and therefore I will not de- tain them any longer. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- I do not want to take up the time of the House at any length. If the honourable member had been place in connection with financial matters, he would have heard my reply to the speech of the member for Riccarton-and I personally dealt with those matters now referred to by the mem- ber for Bruce, while the Right Hon. the Pre- mier covered a good deal more ground than I did in the same direction-he would have found, by the statement he now makes and that made by the honourable mem' er for Riccarton; that the difference between the figures of the honour- able gentleman and the member for Riccarton regarding the estimated deficiency is about £100,000. The honourable member for Ric- carton made the deficiency £328,000 for the half-year, and the honourable gentleman makes it, in round figures, #150,000. Mr. J. ALLEN .- What do you get ? Sir J. G. WARD. - I think that the honour- able member's figures are not very far out. I think they are fairly accurate ; but we require to take into consideration in connection with these matters the fact, which the honourable member appears to have overlooked, that our re- venue shows an increase up to date this year of £118,243. That increase is a most important factor. Had we a falling revenue, then there would be some reason to be afraid, but that element should fill us with hope and encourage- ment. In addition to that, I cannot but refer to another important feature in the finance of last year which is also a significant factor in dealing with this matter - namely, that £300,000 per annum in the shape of taxation was re- mitted to the people of the colony ; and when we know from the Colonial Treasurer that he contemplates this year, judging from the re- turns to hand, having a quarter of a mil- lion surplus to pay into the Public Works Fund from the Consolidated Fund, I say that, even though the expenditure has increased abnormally-and it is largely upon non-recur- ring items there is no tangible ground for taking a pessimistic view of the future. There is, I repeat, no ground whatever for any fear as to the future position of the affairs of the country. Prudence in its management will be required, and also, I venture to reaffirm, some- thing like vigour and a little boldness in carry- ing on its affairs, both of which, I am sure, are elements that are not wanting on our side. The Opposition, we know, is able to introduce a vast amount of talk and of criticism. That is their stock-in-trade. Policy they have none. I be- lieve I am right in saying that this is the most talkative House the country has ever seen, and the Ministers find themselves, nine times out of ten, when it is desirable they should talk, compeiled to make up their minds to sit quiet, in order to allow the outpourings of honourable members who are criticizing us to go on in their sweet uninterrupted way. An Hon. MEMBER .- The honourable member for Rangitikei, for instance. Sir J. G. WARD .-- No; the honourable mem- ber for Rangitikei (Mr. Lethbridge) has not been very talkative ; but this must be said of the honourable gentleman : that whenever he does talk he talks common-sense, and for that. 