was not on the evidence of prejudiced indi- viduals, but on the evidence of Mr. Green, the Inspector of Mines, that the Commissioners had founded their report. If the honourable member was agreeable, he would read the evi- dence of Mr. Green. Would the honourable member take exception to that course ? Mr. J. ALLEN. - Lay the whole of the evi- dence on the table. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member took exception to that course, but he could not complain about having received this corre- spondence principally from the Inspector :- [Extract from Coal-mines Report, 1901.] " Inspector of Mines Office, Dunedin. " Allendale Colliery, Shag Point (A. Gil- landers, Manager) .-- (19/4/99) : Continued work in the seam proves that the coal is still variable in thickness, the minimum, so far as yet seen, being 3 ft. 6 in., and the maximum thickness 8 ft. Taken as a whole, the roof is rather bad, and the coalfield disturbed by numerous small faults. In the new mine the solid workings are approaching the old mine-workings, where the coal is still standing in pillars. The ventilation is very fair. The attention of the manager was drawn to some minor matters in connection with the working of the mine, verbally, and also by letter under date of the 22nd April, 1899. A fatal accident occurred at this mine on the 13th April, 1899, the particulars of which will appear under the head of 'Accidents.' (26/9/99) : There is now a considerable area of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ground opened out, and the work of extracting the pillars near the rise of the field has com- menced. A cross-measures tunnel, driven from the bottom level, has cut an underlying seam 4 ft. 6 in. thick, so far as proved. This seam is from 30 ft. to 40 ft. (vertical) below that hitherto worked, and as yet very little has been done in it. Ventilation very fair on the whole, although near the old workings the air was slightly charged with black-damp. This was perhaps all the more noticeable on this date, in conse- quence of the ordinary work of the pit being suspended for the day owing to falling-off of de- mand, and advantage being taken of this to effect needed overhauls to the pumping plant. The steam was necessarily cut off, and as the ventilating power is largely augmented by the heat from steam-pipes the decreased ventilation for the time being is easily understood. Mr. Gillanders subsequently informed me that he had improved the ventilation generally through- out the mine. "J. HAYES, Inspector of Mines." " Office of Inspector of Mines, Dunedin, 14th May, 1900. "SIR, -On the occasion of my visit to your mine (11th instant) the air was dull in No. 2 North level face (Dunn's), also in the bord faces in the vicinity. These places being some distance from the airway, it is necessary that measures be taken by you forthwith to provide these places with an adequate amount of venti- lation, so that they shall be in a fit state for Mr. Sedilon working and passing therein (see section 33, subsection 1). - Yours, &c., " E. R. GREEN, Inspector of Mines. "A. Gillanders, Esq., Mine-manager, Allen- dale Colliery." " Dunedin, 19th June, 1900. "SIR,-The survey of your mine is con- siderably overdue. Please attend to this matter .- Yours, &c., " E. R. GREEN, Inspector of Mines. "Mr. A. Gillanders, Manager, Allendale Colliery, Shag Point." " Dunedin, 23rd June, 1900. "SIR,-I enclose tracing of your mine, to be filled up to date, and returned at the earliest opportunity .- Yours, &c., "E. R. GREEN, Inspector of Mines. "Mr. A. Gillanders, Mine-manager, Allen- dale Colliery, Shag Point." " Dunedin, 22nd November, 1900. "DEAR SIR,-In regard to our conversation of yesterday, please see . The Coal-mines Act, 1891,' section 33, subsections (39), (40), and (47) ; section 36 ; section >0. Also see appended Special Rules applicable to Coal-mines. - Yours, &c., "E. R. GREEN, Inspector of Mines. "Mr. A. Gillanders, Mine-manager, Allen- dale." " Shag Point, 24th November, 1900. " DEAR SIR,-I am in receipt of yours of the 22nd, and have duly noted contents. The matters referred to will be attended to at once. - Yours, &c., "A. GILLANDERS, Manager. "The Inspector of Mines, Dunedin." " Office of Inspector of Mines, Dunedin, 29th March, 1901. " Re non-compliance with section 33, subsec- tion (1). " Coal-mines Act, 1891," on the 21st instant, at the Allendale Coal Company's Mines, Shag Point - Mine manager, Alex. (Gillanders ; General Manager, Allan MeIn- tosh ; Secretary, W. Everest, all of Shag Point. "I HAVE to report that whilst visiting this mine, as above, accompanying the Coal-mines Commission, I found that, -- "(1.) There was a deficiency in the ventila- tion at the pillar face workings, No. 2 North level, off No. 2 jig. main seam. The air was not conducted to the faces, the stentons were not stopped off, and the air naturally took the nearest route to the return, leaving the working faces unsupplied ; the air where Hinks and Son and Wilson and Mebellan were working was polluted with black-damp from the waste, the temperature was high, and the men were work- ing under very uncomfortable conditions. " (2.) There was also inadequate ventilation in the new workings which underlie the main seam, and have only recently been opened up. 