in the South Island I could understand the pushing of those railways ahead ; but, as rail- ways should precede settlement, the case is just the opposite. We have three million acres of good agricultural land unoccupied in the North Island, and if that belonged to an enter- prising company or an enterprising Government they would at once run the railroad into it, and then offer the land for sale, so that it would add to the revenue of the Crown, and, by reason of the population that would be settled there, lessen the debt per head of population. What, however, is the case? Last year when I wanted the land opened up I was told that one hundred thousand acres would shortly be opened up in the North Island. After twelve months I am told that sixty thousand are to be opened up, or forty thousand less than was to be opened up a year ago; and none of it has been opened up yet. If our South Island friends see the importance of allowing all the railway expen- diture to be in the North Island until these lands are settled they would show that they are statesmen in the truest sense of the word. The Premier says it is imperative that the colony should complete the railways, and let the settlers bring their produce to the markets. Well, take the district of the honourable mem- ber for Waitemata. Forty years ago the settlers there-the Albertland settlers-were brought out under great promises of what a great country it was for the farmer, and after forty years' resi- dence there they have neither railroads nor https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 decent roads ; consequently many of them have had to leave the district for the southern dis- tricts, where there is a decent railway service by which they can bring their produce to the / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero market. I say these men have been making up the financial deficiency in the railways in the past, before we had such an able Minister as the present Minister for Railways, and there was a deficiency of £300,000 a year. They had to put their hands in their pockets and make up that deficiency-the poor settlers of the North Island had to contribute to make up the loss in the revenue. Why should not some of the excess of the present earnings go back into the pockets of those people, and help to make roads and extend the railways for them, where better results could be obtained than from railways running in any new parts of the South Island you can mention as requiring railway-construc- tion? I am going to point out another thing. What brought Victoria into trouble some time ago? It was the fact that they there com- menced to extend their lines of railway into the interior country, and into unprofitable districts away from main centres of population, and where the industries were such as would not support the lines ; and we are falling into the same mistake in the South Island, and yet ignore the north of Auckland requirements, where there are 38,000 Europeans and 9,000 Maoris, and magnificent agricultural land for railways to be constructed ; but we cannot get the Minister for Public Works or the Premier to go up and see what is wanted. If they would do that they would be convinced at Railways says that if you go on increasing the mileage of the railways you must increase the engines and rolling-stock, and provide for an extension of traffic at a very large cost. How is it possible for us to overtake that 542 miles start that has been given to the South Island ? I hope that honourable members will take the subject into their serious con- sideration, and do what is right. Is it right to go on piling up this discrepancy, to go on in- creasing the unfair excess in railway-construc- tion which exists in the South Island as against the North ? We are not grudging the South Island what it has got; but it is time that earnest and sincere attention was given to the northern position. I trust in future members will do what is right and fair, that fair-play will be given to us, and that before any more money is spent in the South Island the South Island members will get up and say, " We will construct 542 miles of railway in the North Island, and make the North Island fairly balance," restoring the equilibrium of railway- construction and expenditure. There are three or four million acres of land to be sold there, and the money would go into the consolidated revenue; we should not then require to go on borrowing, and the population would double or treble. When it was seen that a grand pro- gramme of railway construction and land-settle- ment was being carried on in the North Island people would come here from all parts of the world. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty). - The honourable member who has just sat down has taken one of my arguments out of my mouth, and has put it in such a statesmanlike way that I can hardly allude to it again. It is only necessary to look at the estimates in order to agree with what the honourable gentleman has pointed out-namely, the way the South Island has been treated as against the North. What I do not understand is why the honour- able gentleman continues to support a Govern- ment that has so grossly treated the town and province he represents. He congratulates the Minister for Public Works in starting; but, like Balaam, he blesses him on the one hand and curses him on the other. It always seems to me that his curses are worse than his blessings, and that, while he begins with a sort of con- gratulation, he always ends by condemning the Government, root and branch, as they should be condemned. Now, it is difficult to discuss this question without the quarterly accounts being before us, and it seems to me that the quarterly accounts to the end of September should have been brought down and gazetted before we discussed this question, because the financial question looms large in the discussion on the Public Works Statement. The Govern- ment have evidently got frightened. They have confessed their weakness by bringing down this additional quarter of a million. It seems to me a pitiable spectacle for the Government to have to confess its financial weakness, and to say to us that they have so miscalculated the amount required that they have to increase 