on the table of the House of Representatives, showing the export of rabbits and rabbitskins from the year 1894 up till last year. It showed that the rabbits in the colony had not been very much reduced during that time. In 1894, 14,000,000 and odd rabbitskins were sent away, and 25,000 frozen rabbits. In 1895, 15,000,000 and odd rabbitskins, and 53,600 frozen rabbits. In 1896, 10,000,000 rabbitskins, and 350,000 frozen rabbits. In 1897, 8,000,000 rabbitskins, and frozen rabbits leaping up to 2,222,000. In 1898, 6,600,000 rabbitskins, and 4,251,000 In 1899, 7,891,000 rabbit- frozen rabbits. skins, and 4,880,000 frozen rabbits. In 1900, 5,690,000 rabbitskins, and 6,500,000 frozen rabbits. So it would be seen from the figures themselves this was a very serious subject indeed. Of course, some honourable gentlemen might think it was just as well to breed rabbits as to breed anything else, but he did not think so. He thought that sheep and cattle and stock were the best things we could breed in this country ; but we could not breed lamb and rabbits at the same time, and as long as we went in for exporting frozen rabbits and rabbit. skins we were fighting against the staple in- dustry of the colony, and therefore he was very sorry he must vote against the honourable gentleman's Bill, and he was sorry the Stock Committee did not report against it. When he asked the Council to send it there he hoped they would have got words of wisdom from the Committee, and that they would have said that they did not recommend that the Bill be pro- ceeded with. It was his duty, therefore, to ask the Council to pause, and to hesitate before passing this Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN agreed with a great deal of what his honourable friend had said about the evil of permitting a larger growth of rabbits in the country, but he differed from him as to the manner of checking the evil. It was all very well to say that it was a cruel kindness not to be severe in matters of this kind, but that was no justification for being unjust in their methods. He thought it was an outrage on English justice that a man might be con- vieted, apart from all other evidence, on the evidence alone of a Government officer. He knew something about the evils of this rabbit business, and he knew what had been done ; and, active as many Inspectors had been, he held there had not been sufficient watchfulness and vigour everywhere in keeping down in a legitimate way the rabbit nuisance. An Hon. MEMBER .- Favouritism. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN said the Act had not been administered successfully in many cases. He did not want to mention particular cases, but he thought honourable gentlemen knew that in some places the Act had not been adminis- tered with sufficient severity, whereas in others there was too much contempt for the principles on which the administration of justice should be based. It was a monstrous thing that an Inspector should not be obliged to bring evi- dence to support his case. If there was a case in which the Inspector knew that his statements to bring other Inspectors or competent witnesses to see the ground and to give evidence ; and it should be his business to bring a weight of evi- dence that would convince the Bench. Because they wanted to exterminate rabbits, were they to allow the principles of British justice to be trampled under foot in order to secure convic- tions ? They might just as well say that be- cause there were anarchists and murderers at large they should consent to the suspension of habeas corpus and trial by jury. He thought the Bill before the Council was right in prin- ciple, although he himself would be the very first to advocate any strict system that would oblige a man to keep his property free from the rabbit plague. A great many people who were doing their best had been ruined by their neighbours, who were not compelled to keep their country clean. To do the work efficiently, and to do justice to all, in some places more Inspectors might be necessary. But the ques- tion before them was not that of strictness, or even of severity, in keeping down the rabbits ; it was not a question of whether they should choose between rabbits and sheep : but it was a question whether they should allow the possibility of men being haled before a Court of justice and convicted on the evidence of one Government servant, against the weight of evi- dence on the other side. That was the point, and a point which was not merely connected with this Act, but which affected our whole system of law-making and law-administration. He would certainly vote for the second reading of the Bill for this reason alone : that it pro- posed to put an end to what he considered to be a most dangerous and mischievous provision in the present Act-a provision which aroused a strong sense of injustice in the breasts of many people, and which militated against the proper administration of a law which was necessary for the suppression of a terrible plague. The Hon. Mr. JONES said the honourable gentleman's arguments, he would admit, were seductive ; but it was a very strange thing that before the Act which was said to be too drastic was brought into operation rabbits overran the country. They were everywhere. The honour- able gentleman said it was un-English and un- just that such things should be done as that, on the word of an Inspector, the owner of a piece of country should be convicted and fined. But what other means could be adopted for attaining the object which they had in view ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Let him bring evidence. The Hon. Mr. JONES asked, How could any evidence be got if they would not take the evi- dence of the Inspector? Had it not been for some experience he had had in this matter he dared say he would have thought this Bill was a reasonable one ; but he knew too much to think so. He knew what had taken place in some parts of North Canterbury. Although at first the pastoralists opposed the legislation brought in by the late Sir John Mckenzie, yet that gentleman lived to be thanked by the very men who opposed that legislation. Sir John Mc- Kenzie had told him that when he went up from 