which would be invaluable to a foreign foe. He considered it dangerous that this information should be given broadcast to the world, and thought these plans should be under the control of the Defence Department, and not sold, as they were at present, to anybody who chose to apply for them. It seemed to him that the War Office of a foreign nation, armed with sea- charts of our coasts and the survey plans referred to, might easily plan a scheme of inva- sion of the colony, and might thus obtain a hold from which it might be extremely difficult to dis- lodge them. In regard to the second part of the question, so far as he knew we had at present nothing at all in the nature of a corps of engi- neers, which he thought would be of great bene- fit to the colony not only for defence, but for the assistance of the Survey Department. Of all the valuable soldiers we had furnished for ser- vice in South Africa, none were more valuable than those who had a knowledge of surveying, and that alone should be sufficient testimony in favour of the formation of efficient engineering corps in the colony. Mr. SEDDON (Defence Minister) said the honourable gentleman's question raised a very important question, and he would make in- quiries into the matter. In regard to the engineer corps, that also was important; he did not know that any corps had taken up that class of work, and he would be very happy to accept the services of any corps formed for that purpose. # CARRIAGE OF BUTTER. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will, as soon as http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero possible, arrange for a sufficient supply of suit- able trucks for the carriage of butter on the Auckland railways, so that the butter industry in the Auckland Provincial District may not be seriously injured during the approaching summer ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways), said the matter had been brought under his notice, and he had sent a reply to the effect that ar- rangements had been made to fit up a number of the trucks now on Auckland Section with re- ceptacles for ice. Trucks so fitted would be used for the butter traffic. Instructions had also been given to build an additional number of insulated trucks, and he confidently anticipated that this would provide ample facilities for the butter traffic. POST-OFFICE FOR ST. LEONARD'S. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Postmaster-General, If he will cause a post- office to be erected between Burke's and St. Leonard's ? The Minister would recollect that a petition had been forwarded at the beginning of the session in connection with this matter. The post-office at present was at Burke's Rail- way-station, which had to supply the require- ments of three small townships - namely, Burke's, St. Leonard's, and Hastings. It would be of great advantage to these rising provide the accommodation asked for. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said he regretted he could not give a favourable reply at present, as there was now a post-office within 65 chains of the one applied for. Later on, if the circumstances warranted, he would be prepared to reconsider the request. Mr. E. G. ALLEN said, if the Minister would put on a letter-carrier it would answer the pur- pose. Sir J. G. WARD said he would look into that aspect of the matter. It would, as in all such cases, depend upon whether the business would justify it. # TOTALISATOR BETTING BY TELE- GRAPH. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Post- master-General, If it is true, as reported in the New Zealand Times of the 25th instant, that special facilities are to be granted enabling people to gamble by telegram through the medium of the totalisator? Accord- 5.0. ing to the information furnished to the public Press, it seemed that there was a block of telegrams on certain race-days. In regard to these special telegrams conveying bets on certain horses, the Government, it seemed, according to the statement, were granting special facilities whereby the racing officials should receive the telegrams in Wellington. The telegrams conveying bets were to be inter- cepted at the Wellington office and handed over to local racing-club officials, who would tabulate them, and send out the number of bets put on certain horses to the course. And special pro- vision was made that any one wishing to bet in Wellington should hand the telegram in here, and the telegram was handed over to the racing officials. That had been done at the request of the racing officials, and after conference with the secretaries of the racing-clubs here and at Christchurch. He thought it just as well to remind the House of the very weighty words of the Premier in regard to this question. In Hansard, Volume 114, page 196, the Premier stated, in answer to Mr. Flatman, the mem- ber for Geraldine,- "His own opinion was that there was more danger to the social and moral well-being of the country from gambling than there was from drink itself. This was one of the weaknesses of our young men. How far the State had pro- moted it by the totalisator and other means it was hard to say. He supposed it would be said that human nature was bound to gamble ; but it was our duty, so far as lay in our power, to deal with this evil. That gambling was on the increase in this colony all must admit, and everything the State or the party could do ought to be done." The importance of the question the Premier emphasized by the statement that probably they should set up a Royal Commission to deal. with it. He simply mentioned this to show the terrible dimensions which gambling had attained. It had taken a firm hold on the young people. He might say that he was not 