their employ, which they were compelled to sign, renouncing their connection with the sea- men's or any other union. After this document was signed it was returned to the office of the company and placed on record. Any man fail- ing or refusing to sign to renounce his connec- tion with the union was instantly dismissed." Now, that spirit which was then initiated will, I think, be seen to exist at the present time, for my informant continues :- "Mr. Paul Hare, who was engaged at the Ngahauranga Fellmongery - works, was dis- charged from his employment for the part he took in connection with the curriers' dispute in Christchurch." Of course, that is a very serious statement for any one to make, and it might be one that would be difficult to prove ; but I go back to the point which I stated a little time ago-that an opportunity should be given to investigate these charges-because I am sure that my in- formant is fully convinced that he is stating the truth when he gave me the information. Further,- "A Mr. Smythe, who was president of the local union, and had been thirty years in the one employment at Kaiwarra, was dismissed for the stated reason that trade was depressed ; but he recognised the true position, and he re- signed his office in the union, and, strange to say, a small matter like that had the effect of restoring the prosperity of the trade, and he was again employed." But, be it noted, he was employed at 10s. a week less than he received previously. The depression which had affected Mr. Smythe also extended to the other employés of the union, and in order to restore the prosperity of this trade they called a special meeting of their union, and cancelled its registration, and then everything was all right, for prosperity was re- stored. Well, I say that such conduct as that on the part of an employer is beneath contempt, and it shows that something is wrong in our social system and in our industrial system when it is in the power of one single man to deprive another of the opportunity to obtain what ho requires for his sustenance for the simple reason that he contends for what he con- siders are his rights. The Hon. Mr. Lee Smith dealt with this phase of the question in a very able way, and I do not intend to enlarge on it; but still the fact remains that the workers hold that, in the first place, they have a right to live; and, in the second place, that they have a right to some share of the advantages which arise from the employ- ment of machinery, and which, if they could obtain, would enable them to make some pro- vision for the latter part of their life. When you consider that the most perfect machinery cannot be worked without the assistance of labour, surely it is reasonable that these workers who make the machinery productive should have some small share of the profit that arises from its use. Now, the attack made upon the law at the present time is made in an indirect manner. The proposal to abolish the Hon. Mr. Rigg straightforward one, but an attempt is being made to set them aside, and by that means to throw extra work upon the Court of Arbitration, with a view to breaking down the Act. That is an assertion, but it is one which I believe I can support by facts and by arguments. The debate which we have had in regard to this Bill has turned principally upon the conduct of Conciliation Boards, and the Wellington Con- ciliation Board has been held up as a dreadful example of the failure of conciliation. I will endeavour to show later on how that impres- sion has been brought about ; but before I do that I want to point to the evidence which has been taken before the Labour Bills Committee by this Council, when the Chairman of the Wellington Conciliation Board had his first opportunity of saying a single word of defence of that Board. I am not going to read con- tinuously from this evidence and comment upon it, because the reply to one question which I put myself will, I think, cover suffi- cient ground to substantiate the statement I have made in a previous debate that the Con- ciliation Boards do a certain amount of good. I asked Mr. Crewes,- " Can you give us any idea as to the number of disputes that have come before you during that time ?- I do not know exactly ; I should say, perhaps not quite thirty. Some of them come before us, and we easily settle most of the points with all the parties; or in other cases we settle all the points with most of the parties, and then have to pass the disputes on as un- settled. And that is where misrepresentations are made. Perhaps we bring the parties to- gether on twenty or thirty points in a dispute, but on one or two we cannot bring them to- gether ; or we get nearly all the parties to agree on all the points in dispute, but one or two persons will not agree. Then no credit is given to the Board ; the case is said to be referred to the Court. The dispute is sent to the Court, settled in a few minutes, and then we are asked how it was we took so long to hear that case before the Board, whereas the Court simply settled it in a few minutes. I will give you an illustration. The bakers came before us. They told us that they had for a year or two been working under an award, and they wanted a new recommendation or award, and for this to be different from the first in some points. The employers agreed with their men, and every- thing seemed satisfactory until they came to us and said there were two or three points on which they could not agree. However, we settled these; but when we had brought the Bakers' Association and the Workers' Union together there was this difficulty : About two or three bakers in the city will never consent to anything. It it very well known that they will never consent to any agreement, and they must be brought up to the Arbitration Court to be compelled. Now, the president of the Master Bakers' Association asked me, in report- ing, to write that they were pleased with the manner in which the award had worked, and of the manner in which they had been met by 