the difficulty connected with that question. I would suggest to the Native Minister that he should see if he could not find another South Island member who, as Chairman of another Committee, could settle the whole Native land -question. The question I refer to was a com- plicated one, and it was settled mainly through the instrumentality of the Chairman of the Committee. I would suggest the honourable gentleman should see whether he could not get another South Islander to come to the assistance of the Government, and settle the whole of this question. It is about time that it was done. Under the conditions that have been ruling we have seen that the Natives have not been dealt fairly with in respect to their land. An amendment was made last year, and .a different method was proposed of dealing with Native lands. Then, we find those well ac- quainted with the Natives and with the ques- tion, like the member for Napier, coming down and telling us it is an utter and complete failure. So far as one can judge from the opinions of those best able to form an opinion on the matter, this method is as big a failure as the pre-emptive right. What are we to do under these circumstances ? It seems to me we cannot go on any longer allowing the Natives to get into a state of poverty ; nor can we allow them to so dis- pose of their lands that they have no means of living, and are thrown on the State for an old- age pension. This is the condition of things the policy of Parliament has brought us to, and it needs reversing at the earliest possible mo- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ment. I recollect an instance in which a Native had been offered for his land #30 an acre by .a private buyer, upon which land there were restrictions. When he applied to have them removed the Government refused to remove them ; and a little later on the Crown, having a restriction on the land, bought it at $7 or £9 .an acre. The Native therefore lost £21 per acre on his land. Is this the way the Government deals with the Natives fairly? Does the mem- ber for Auckland City mean to say this is fair dealing ? Mr. CARROLL. - Can you mention the name ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I cannot; I was not given the name, but I feel certain what I say is cor- rect. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - I will give the honourable gentleman some equally bad cases, with the name. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I have no doubt the honour- able member for Napier and the honourable inember for Hawke's Bay could give case after case in which a Native would have realised, if allowed to do so, from a private buyer a con- siderable price for his land, but owing to re- strictions he could not sell, and the Government has come in and bought at half or a quarter the price. And this, says the member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford), is fairly dealing with the Natives ! I regret to say we are not taking sufficient interest in this matter; it is time we .did. It is time we aroused ourselves to see that the Natives are fairly dealt with ; it is time we friends, and see if we cannot put them on & better footing, and provide that they shall not have to come upon the State for old-age pen- sions. It is a shame that such a state of things should exist as that the Natives should have to come and plead in forma pauperis for an old- age pension. The time has about come when this state of things should end. The Native Minister will have to admit that he cannot settle the question ; and, if he cannot do that, he should let some one else come in and attempt to do so. The time has come when he must admit he has failed, and let him make room for somebody else to come in and find a solution for the question. It is difficult for us who do not understand all the intricacies of Native land dealings and individualising titles to be able to suggest any plan for more satisfactory dealing with these lands. But I cannot understand why it is not pos- 4.30. sible, even in cases where the land has not been individualised, for the Crown to come in and treat the lands as Crown lands, and lease them under the conditions of the Land Act in force in the colony, keeping the revenue derived from the land for the Native owners and dividing it as fixed by the Native Land Court, or by whatever Court has to deal with this question, so as to provide a revenue for those who are entitled. Some suggestion must be made to deal with this land question, so as to put it on a better footing than it has been on for years past. I am afraid this Bill is only perpetuating the evils that already exist. This Bill is admittedly a Bill that will be of no ser- vice to the Natives. The member for the Bay of Plenty has said he would help as far as he could in the administration of the Act, and to attempt to find out the best way to carry out its provisions. But, on the other hand, the honourable gentleman said the Bill is useless. What good, then, for him to try to find a way of administering an Act which is admittedly useless. Far better to remove it from the statute-book and find something in its place which would enable the Natives to dispose of their lands under the very best conditions, and not under the very worst, as they have been doing during a number of years past. I have been looking over this return here, and cannot understand why this state of things should have continued so long. What would a European have said if he had been placed under con- ditions similar to those we have imposed on the Natives with respect to his land? Ad- mittedly this Native land has been purchased by the Crown in nearly every instance at one- half or one-quarter of its real value. And then we are told by the honourable member for Auckland City that the Natives were being dealt with fairly. Well, Sir, I have the greatest sympathy for these Natives, who have been carrying on under a condition of things that has prevailed, at all events, for the last ten years, or perhaps longer, and I wish they were I more alive to their interests themselves. wish that some member knowing the condi- tion of the Native race, and all the troubles in 