with you and ask them to help you in the in- terests of their people. That is my experience. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Will the honourable gentleman explain clause 6, please? Mr. SEDDON .- Clause 6 says,- "The Governor, by Order in Council, may from time to time establish a tribunal or ap- point an officer or officers, with such powers and functions as he thinks fit, in order to ascertain and determine the title to land within the said Islands, distinguishing titles acquired by native customs and usage from titles other- wise lawfully acquired ; and may provide for the issue of instruments of title, and generally make such provision in the premises as he thinks fit." In other words, we promised this before we took over the Islands-that we would establish a Native Land Court for determining who were the owners of the land of the various tribes. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will it be open for sale to Europeans ? Mr. SEDDON .- There will be no sale at all- only leasing. Certain portions, after provision is made for the tribes, will be open for leasing to Europeans under provisions which will be fair to both natives and Europeans. At the present time, as I have told you, there is no title, practically, except the title of the Ariki, who claims everything by birth ; everything the others have is through the Ariki. In the Cook Islands the Arikis worked very heartily with us, and were open to be guided by the King's representative. I will conclude by say- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ing that I advise the House, notwithstanding the powers given in the Bill, to pass it into law. The fullest information will be given of our laws we may advise shall be made applicable to the Islands, and also the laws that are passed by the local Council. The House will also have the annual report of the revenue and expenditure. The fullest information shall be given to the House. I only ask honour- able members, after thinking the matter out carefully, and with the best advice, to pass the Bill. And I hope members will not think, in asking these larger powers, they are asked for them unduly, but only because of the extra- ordinary circumstances under which we are placed. Next session I hope to be able to re- port that things have been brought into form, and that there is generally an improvement all round. I am sure these Islands are capable of great development. I feel it will be an advantage to our colony to have the control, and that we shall have a direct benefit. They can supply us with what we need in tropical fruits, and we can supply what is required by them. Taking a large view of the question, I hope we shall re- tain the confidence of the islanders, and prove to them that it is to their interest and good that the change has been made. I move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty). - The Premier, in a speech of an hour has not given us a great deal of the information which he should have supplied. This is a complaint I have been voicing all the session in regard to | Federal Parliament we are going to give powers us the information we are entitled to. Mr. SEDDON .- Do you never see the papers on the table ? Mr. HERRIES .- I have seen them all, and I think there is only one connected with the matter, A .- 3. I moved for a return, which was promised by the Premier, of all the laws in force in these islands ; they should have been laid on the table before we proceeded with this Bill. The return could have been made in a very short time. It would be very easy to have the various laws copied-they are scattered over various Appendices to the Journals of the House ; but it would take honourable members some time to hunt them all up. Then, we ought to be furnished with the instructions sent to Colonel Gudgeon ; and we have not yet had laid before us the revenue and expenditure for the year. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. HERRIES .- Only the estimated ; we have had no information with regard to the defalcations that have taken place, and this should have been supplied to us ; we ought also- to have had the instructions supplied to Mr. Percy Smith in regard to the Island of Niue ; nor did the Premier tell us anything about the Island of Niue, although he dealt with all the other islands. Mr. Percy Smith was sent on a special mission to that island, about which members know nothing. All this information should have been supplied to us before we were asked to consider this Bill. It gives larger powers than any other Bill we have ever had before us. It is the outcome, of course, of the annexation policy we rushed into last session. We are now beginning to find out what it is to take up the white man's burden. We are asked to "go blind" on a thing we know nothing about. I cannot see how we can, under the Constitution of this colony, do- the things set out in this Bill. The Con- stitution of the colony provides for the esta- blishment of a General Assembly or Parlia- ment. "There shall be within the Colony of New Zealand a General Assembly, to consist of the Governor, a Legislative Council, and House of Representatives." By this Bill we are setting up in a portion of the colony a separate Parliament altogether, which is in- dependent altogether of this Parliament. The Federal Parliament, to be called now "the Federal Council," is a separate body to this Parliament. True, no law can come into force,. according to the Bill, except with the consent of the Resident Commissioner in the name of and on behalf of His Majesty. But this puts him in exactly the same position as the Go- vernor of the colony is with regard to this Par- liament. Therefore, I say the analogy that the Premier sought to draw by innuendo between the provinces as they formerly existed in this colony and the Federal Council is quite in- sufficient -the Provincial Councils were not independent, but were under the control of the General Assembly, and the General Assembly enacted laws for the whole colony. This 