4,500, and the number now employed is 7,793. I think it is only right to say to honourable members that the railway revenue this year, up to the last period for which we have the returns, is still increasing at a phenomenal rate, and it is for a period in which there has been nothing whatever to cause any extraordinary increase of traffic of any kind, and;it should be, therefore, all the more satisfactory to the people of the colony. Now, the increase in our revenue up to date for this year as against last year is £87,352, as compared with £73,488 for the same period of last year. I may say that the last four-weekly period is also £13,863 better than last year, and the last month, to which I have just referred, is about the worst railway month in our experience of the colony ; and I think, under the circum- stances, honourable members will agree that we are justified in making some increase in the ex- penditure of the railways by treating its em- ployes fairly as proposed in this Bill. It is a good guide, when during the month there have been no extraordinary causes or unusual ex- traneous circumstances, such as the Imperial visitors, which would swell the railway revenue in any way, and thus prevent us from seeing the railway revenue of the country in its normal condition ; and it therefore enables us to realise also that it is increasing monthly. I have pointed this out in order to indicate to honourable members what the financial position is, and they can therefore with some degree of safety agree to the increases contained under this Bill. And I ask honourable members, in considering this Bill as a whole, and the pro- posals contained in it, to remember that very important fact in its relation to the increase of £30,000 a year we are proposing to make in the pay of the railway employés. I may inform the House that the Government have on more than one occasion increased the wages of the em- ployés of the various departments, and that the proposals we are now making are not intended to affect the present staff only, but will form the basis of the railway structure of the future in its application to these railway employés. Some honourable members may, in their anxious desire to do more than I now propose, wish to go further than we have gone in this Bill. They must remember that we are making provision for future employés, and that we are laying the basis of the future working of our railways. We shall have to take care that under the railways classification scheme we have a superstructure which in the future will bring about the most beneficial results, and be the means of doing away with many anomalies which might lead to grave injustice being done to the railway employés themselves. As I have stated to the House earlier in the session, this Bill has been before the two important divisions of the Railway service, who have had an opportunity of considering its application and bearing upon themselves; and I might say that in conference with me both divisions have agreed to the proposals contained in this Bill as being, on the whole, acceptable to them. I have had the assurance of these two divisions proposals. In regard to the second division of the service, after going into the various details at considerable length they have cordially and frankly stated they are prepared to accept the proposals contained in this Bill as being satis- factory to them. One of the matters brought before me was this: Honourable members know that in connection with the Railway service we have an Appeal Board, and the proposal was made that the power and authority of the Appeal Board should super- sede the responsible Minister of the day -that is, that the decision of the Appeal Board should be final. Well, that was a matter I could not agree to, and I explained why, as I shall explain to honourable members. There must be a responsible head, and there must be some one responsible to the people of the country; and if the responsibility in con- ducting the Railway service was taken away from those who control the affairs of the colony and handed over to any one who was not respon- sible to the colony you would require to super- sede the Minister himself. That will show how impossible it would be to give effect to such a proposal. It has been my experience that, in connection with the running of the trains in some portions of the colony, accidents have hap- pened in which drivers, firemen, and others have been involved, and, as the result of appeals to the Appeal Board, the recommendation in one instance, at any rate, came before me that the engine-driver should be reinstated in his former position. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Was that Hughes ? Sir J. G. WARD .- No; I do not want to mention names, because I do not want to in- jure any man either in the service or who has left it if I can avoid it. The responsi- 4.0. bility in that case, as in all cases of the lives of the people who travel, and who form a very large section of the community and con- tribute a very large amount of revenue to the railways of the colony, is not upon the mem- bers of the Appeal Board ; it is upon the responsible head of the department. In the first place, the responsibility of the proper arrangements for their safety is on the head of the executive officers. There are also grave responsibilities upon the head of the men them- selves, who might, in the event of an accident happening where death resulted, be charged with manslaughter ; but the final responsibility is on the Ministerial head of the department, and therefore it is impossible, no matter what pressure is brought to bear upon the Minister who is carrying on the railways of the country, to hand over such a responsibility to any Board. When I placed these views before those making the request they readily agreed that there was reason on the side of the Government for the position they took up. Then, again, the ques- tion has arisen as to what rights those who are termed casual hands should have with regard to the Appeal Board. There have been in the employment of every department of the colony a large number of casual hands, and it is only right, when we are dealing with the permanent 