down to the Council-as has been the case to. night-actually unreadable. They are amended here, but often I do not suppose the Bills are much better than when they came to the Coun- cil. This very often necessitates an amending Bill in the next session, and we have had two Bills to-night to amend local Bills of last session. I hope before many years are passed we shall have such a draftsman, or a Revision Com- mittee, as I have suggested. It was utter non- sense to say the Local Bills Committee could see that a local Bill was properly drafted. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I quite agree with the remarks of the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson and the Hon. Mr. Kelly. No doubt members will see that the membership of Committees is alto- gether too large. Sometimes there are eight, nine, ten, or eleven members, which, of course, means one-third of the members of the Council present. How often have we seen on various occasions three or four Committees called for the same hour, which is simply absurd, because it is impossible for members to go from one Committee to the other and give proper attention to the work. I think the suggestion of the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson would result in a saving of time, labour, and money to the Government. I think a man well posted in law should be appointed, and let him be at every meeting of the Committee to point out the clauses which require amending or improving. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I cannot see that the suggestion of the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson is practicable. I do not think that there are a sufficient number of local Bills to justify the appointment of a special draftsman. Last year a large number of local Bills came down after a number of members of the Local Bills Commit- tee had gone home, and at the last moment additions had to be made to the Local Bills Committees, and the Council had to place on those Committees members who had done heavy work on other Committees for many weeks previously. That was most unfair on the part of those members who absented them- selves. As regards the local Bills that are now before us the position is different. These Bills have come down at a time that gives ample time for their consideration ; but the Commit- tees have contented themselves with saying that the Standing Orders have been complied with. I do not see an amendment proposed by a Committee in any local Bill. Most of these Bills are drafted by solicitors who have no ex- perience-or, at any rate, no extended experi- ence-in drafting measures for the considera- tion of Parliament. What happens with regard to Government measures? We have in the Law Draftsman one of the most expert drafts- men we have had in the service of the colony yet. His work is carefully scrutinised by the Select Committee, and alterations are made to remedy any small errors that may exist, and also in some cases to make more clear the meaning of a section. If that is necessary in the case of an expert draftsman, how much more necessary is it in the case of the work of the draftsmen of these local Bills; and yet trouble to scrutinise the drafting of certain Bills, and the Hon. Mr. Ormond takes his share of the responsibility. Well, in that re- spect the Committee of which he is a member has not, I think, recognised the full extent of its duties. As regards the Bills that have come before us to-night, I am prepared to say that, notwithstanding the hasty consideration they have received, there is nothing seriously to object to in any one of them. I am always prepared to assent to the broad principle that we should give the greatest possible power to local bodies. The only safeguard I would ask is that the ratepayers in the district should have a proper opportunity of considering the proposals and of recording their votes upon them. I think if that is done Parliament cannot err very much in extending the powers of local bodies as widely as possible. It may be that where finance comes in the question arises whether a check should not be put upon local bodies, which may become extravagant; but I only mention that as an exception to the rule. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- I understand that there is no objection to the Bill before us, but that advantage has been taken of the present opportunity to speak upon general principles. I should like to say a word or two regarding the methods that we have adopted. I think it well that it should not go to the country that our Committees rush these things through. It ought to be generally known that, while the other House has only one Local Bills Committee, we at the outset of the session set up a Committee of twenty-one members, and then divide it into three Committees, "A' "B, " and "C," so that we can easily take a large contract of Bills and deal with them quickly and effectively. As regards Committee A, I may say that I have sat on that Com- mittee. Last Monday, at ten o'clock in the morning, we went through five or six Bills, and they were all gone into methodically and conscientiously. The Bills could not have been gone through any better, or more care- fully, if they had been taken in hand three months ago. There was, in fact, a doubt re- garding one or two Bills-whether the sche- dules had been certified to by the local Chief Surveyor or the Surveyor-General-and the honourable gentleman who was Chairman of the Committee undertook to ascertain from the Survey Department that the schedules had been verified before allowing the Bills to pro- ceed. I had occasion to go from that Com- mittee with a Bill to Committee C, of which the Hon. Mr. L. Walker is Chairman, and I saw there the same careful work done by the Committee. Last year twenty-seven Bills were brought down, and were thoroughly well gone into in a single day; there was no slipshod work about them at all. As regards this year, the work has been thoroughly well and conscientiously done, and I should like to have the statement in Hansard that that is a fact. Motion agreed to. 