into the Consolidated Fund. At present they were paid to the local bodies. Now, as the department had to pay the salaries of Inspectors and the cost of administration generally, these fees would to some extent meet the cost of administration. Mr. Ayson then suggested that if the oyster-pickers caused waste by not picking properly they should be liable to have their licenses cancelled. He con- sidered that a very proper recommendation. The report also referred to the taking of oysters from the rocks in Wellington, and further re- commended that an experimental oyster farm should be established. It might require legisla- tion to give effect to some of the suggestions. He had not this year had an opportunity so far of bringing down legislation on the subject, and he questioned whether it was not now too late for this year. He proposed, however, to work on the lines that he had now indicated-that was, the further subdivision of the existing dis- tricts so that better control could be obtained. As for the question of fees, it would have to be dealt with by legislation, and the question where those fees would go to he was sure would cause some controversy in the House. As far as he could do it by the present law he intended to protect these oyster-beds, leaving over until next session what legislation might be re- quired. The report referred to was a depart- mental report, and there was not much in it beyond the summary he had given. ## FREE RAILWAY-PASSES FOR SCHOOL- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 CHILDREN. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Govern- ment, Whether they will make provision during the present session of Parliament to enable scholars who have passed the Fifth or Sixth Standards in our primary schools to have free railway-passes to attend the nearest high school, and thereby make a reasonable concession to country boys and girls in the prosecution of higher education ? When the Education esti- mates were in Committee of the House on last Tuesday night he had an assurance from the Minister in charge of the estimates that Cabinet had acceded to his (Mr. Meredith's) request embodied in this question, and the Minister of Education stated he would have regulations framed with a view of giving effect to it. He was satisfied with that reply, and he therefore did not think it necessary for him vo go into the question any further. If the honourable gentleman would give him the assurance that he had understood him cor- rectly on the occasion to which he referred he would be perfectly content. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, what he had stated upon this matter was that, in regard to district high schools and scholarship holders, provision would be made for the issue of free railway passes, and he had expressed the opinion that the distinction between a district high school and an ordinary high school was so little that he thought both should go together. Provision was to be made to extend the privilege to children attending district high schools even if over fifteen years Mr. Hall-Jones of age, and to grant the same privilege to holders of scholarships attending high schools proper. Regulations were now being framed by the Railway and Education Departments deal- ing with this matter. The question of still further extending the concession brought in another matter :. that was, the children had to pay fees in going to the high school, and if they still retained the fees, but gave them free passes, this did not amount to free education at the high schools. He wanted, and he hoped to see the day when they would have, the secondary schools as free as the public schools, and this question of extending the privilege which he had mentioned to the ordinary scholars of ordinary high schools was mixed up with the question of the reductions or the remission of the school-fees. So far as the dis- trict high schools and the holders of scholar- ships at ordinary high schools was concerned provision would be made. Mr. BUDDO. - That is, the nearest high school. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Yes. Mr. MEREDITH asked, Would the honour- able gentleman indicate the date when this would come into effect. Mr. HALL-JONES said he would request his colleague to have the matter put through as quickly as possible. GRADUATED RECEIPT- STAMP AND CHEQUE DUTY. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) asked the Commis- sioner of Stamps, If he will this session or early next session introduce a Bill providing for & graduated receipt-stamp and cheque duty ? He thought the Colonial Treasurer would realise he was making a very valuable suggestion to him in asking this question. They had the prin- ciple of the graduated stamp duty established already in this colony in the matter of promis- sory notes ; also on the graduated stamp duty on mortgage-deeds, and on the duty on the sale of shares and mining transfers. It seemed to him a monstrous thing that a tradesman who was sending out shop bills at the end of the month, amounting in the aggregate to £10, should have to pay 5d. when these bills were receipted, while the man who would give a cheque for $5,000 should only be called upon to pay 1d. He could claim the support of his honourable friend the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) in respect to the principle he was laying down, and he could also claim the influence of the member for Ashley. He had himself very frequently given a cheque in Auck- land for $500 for cattle he had bought, and the man who had taken this cheque had said, "I can afford to give you a drink" ; but if he had had to pay 1s. 6d. or 2s. by way of stamp duty he would say, " I cannot afford to give you a drink because of this increased stamp duty." The whole thing was based on the truest prin- ciples of political economy-upon justice, and equity, and truth, and he hoped the Commis- sioner of Stamps would see that when a man had to pay ld. when he gave a receipt for £2, 