an upright or perpendicular bluff-so that the Board would lose nothing. The Nelson Har- bour Board had eighty or ninety miles of foreshore, and several thousands of acres of an endowment ; and yet the honourable member wanted what justly and naturally should be an endowment for the Motueka Wharf, and his avaricious demands would simply be an injustice to the Motueka people. Any one had only to look at the rate- payers' petition, or at the map of the locality, to see what was the proper position of affairs, and that petition the honourable gentleman had not referred to in his remarks. The Go- vernment, he repeated, would not be looking after the interests of the public if they did not keep a hand on the expenditure on these works -works for which they would have to find large sums of money during the next thirty years. The honourable member had said the work would cost $65,000 : but, as a matter of fact, if he persisted in carrying out the present proposals the amount would be nearer £165,000. and even when the work was finished it would most probably prove useless. A gentleman who was consulting marine engineer to nearly all the Harbour Boards and to every Government in Australasia had reported on the proposed work ; but the Harbour Board had ignored his adverse report, and, acting mostly on their own amateur conclusions, they decided to proceed with the work which this eminent authority had reported against, the result of which must inevitably be that in years to come the Harbour https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Board would have to come on the colony for assistance. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the difference between the parties could be easily adjusted. The Government were desirous of getting some- thing done to separate the two parties. It was, as it were, a divorce case-Nelson against Mo- tueka-on the ground of incompatibility of temper. Mr. GRAHAM .- Of interest, not of temper. Mr. SEDDON said it seemed to him a pity the delay had taken place. At any rate, the member for Nelson City was one who was always convinced by precedent, and if the honourable member would refer to Hansard, July to August, 1888, page 118, he would find that a question was there raised as to whether a Bill affected a certain locality, and as to whether it should not be made a local Bill. Mr. Speaker, in deciding on the point, said,- " The honourable member for Christchurch South should move his amendment when the motion for committal had been made. With regard to the point of order raised by the honourable member for Gladstone, he had always-and he thought his predecessors had done so too-in interpreting these rules regard- ing local Bills given them a liberal interpreta- tion : that was to say, where a Bill referred to more than one locality, as this Bill did, it should not be regarded as a Bill affecting a particular locality, but one of a wider nature ; and the Bill was one that, in his (Mr. I Mr. R. Mckenzie public measure. This Bill referred to the Manawatu, Waimate, and Ashburton districts. This point had been often raised. For instance, the Bill relating to the Education Boards of Greymouth and Hokitika had always been held to be a public Bill. He proposed, therefore, to deal with the Bill before the House as a public Bill." That would show that he (Mr. Seddon) had good ground for the action he had taken, aud that precedent was against the honouraole member for Nelson City. As to the Bill, be wished to say that the question of Nelson against Motucka, and the reserve at Motueks, was a local matter which had been brought in, because when the Government brought in the Bill they knew nothing of the trouble between the parties. With the Government it was a question of conserving the interests of the colony : that was all it was desired to effect. Ob jections were taken, and the request for the alteration and separation came from the Nel Do Harbour Board itself. With respect to tenders being submitted to the Government, he Leid that the Act did not go the length of giving the Government power to see the tenders. They had to approve of the plans, but not the specifications. The object in inserting the provision he had referred to was simply in order to safeguard the Nelson Harbour and al- the colony. The honourable member ask. d him whether the Government distrusted the Nelson Harbour Board. His answer was, No. The next question was as to stopping the works. He did not know that that power was absolutely necessary. At the same time con- tingencies might arise, and the Government would have to watch carefully what happened. He had great anxiety respecting the work ; be trusted the work would be a success. The latest advice was that the water was shoalny on the bar, and that vessels had a difficulty in getting in and out. He trusted the member for Nelson City and the member for Motuess would come to a settlement respecting this matter. Unless some adjustment was come to the Government might not be able to agree to plans or anything else. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said this Bill was certainly the most remarks. it Bill he had ever seen. There were two pro- posals in the Bill which were studied insults, not only to the local governing body, but to every citizen in Nelson. This Bill contained every characteristic of a local Bill, although. by & process which did not inspire every honomr. able member of the House with confidence. it had been declared a public Bill. The Schedule of the Bill alone was such as to warrant the most searching investigation by a Select Com. mittee, such as the Local Bills Committee. To ask the House to discuss such a Schedule as was contained in the Bill was simply preps terous, and the Premier had placed a studied insult on the Nelson Harbour Board in bring- ing the Bill down in this secret and surrep- titious manner without consulting them. The ought to be entitled " An Act to repeal the Neisco 