of the Bill, which I believe is in the right direc- tion, as tending to lower the price of coal and to do away with monopolies such as exist in connection with the West Coast coal-mines in this colony, from which our most valuable sup- plies are produced. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- In the first place, I should like to say that I strongly sup- port the principles of the Bill, but there are one or two matters over which I am exercised. In the first place, before we are committed to this, I should like to have had the report of the Commission set up to inquire into the acquisi- tion of properties; then we should have had something to go upon. In the second place, I should like the assurance of the Premier that no arrangement has been made for the acquisi- tion of any property. These are two important points, because if any such thing is being done it is unfair to the House and to the people to ask us to go into a coal-mine before we know the particulars and details. The whole suc- cess of the scheme depends upon the property taken up. For instance, it is admitted that the Cardiff Mine is crushed and soft. The Premier knows, and no man knows better than Mr. Gordon, the late Chief Inspector, that there is a vast area of coal - bearing land at the back of the Westport Com- pany's mine; and the honourable gentleman knows where there is a mine at the back of Ngakawau. An English company had it, but they had not sufficient capital. It is better to go into a known part than to experiment in the Cardiff Mine, where it is known to be broken and crushed. I quite agree that, taking the coal-mines of the colony as a whole, they have not paid. But what has been the fault ? There is only one district practically where coal- mining is carried on to any great extent, and that is the West Coast. What has been the cause of the failure of those mines but want of capital. The only company which has had sufficient capital to develop the mine has paid handsomely-that is the Westport Coal Com- pany. An Hon. MEMBER .- What do you call paying handsomely ? Mr. MILLAR .- The Westport Coal Company since 1882 up to the present time has paid 42 per cent. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do you call that paying handsomely ? Mr. MILLAR .- No; but perhaps the honour- able member does not know that, in addition to the 4} per cent. from 1882, that company has, out of profits made from the Coalbrookdale Mine, opened up the mine at Granity Creek. If that had been added to the dividends, what dividends would that company have paid ? They have paid dividends at the rate of 4} per cent., plus opening and developing the best coal- mine of the colony at the present time. If the honourable gentleman takes the balance-sheets of the Westport Coal Company he will find that from £3,000 to $4,000 has been expended in the development of the coal-mine at Granity Creek, and that was paid out of working-expenses. Westport Coal Company : 1887, 2} per cent. ; 1888, 5 per cent. ; 1889, 6 per cent .; 1890, nil ; 1891, 72 per cent. ; 1892, 7} per cent .; 1893, 7 per cent. ; 1894, 6 per cent. ; 1895, 6 per cent .; 1896, 6 per cent .; 1897, 6} per cent. ; 1898, 7 per cent .; 1899, 72 per cent .; 1900, 8 per cent. So that the honourable gentleman sees that the 44 per cent. comes from 1882, and not of late years at all. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I did not say of late years. Mr. MILLAR .- I do not think that there very great danger in connection with is coal-mine, provided sufficient capital is a forthcoming, and provided that it is really a good property ; but, unless those two con- ditions are fulfilled, then I certainly think it is a dangerous undertaking to go into. The stumbling-block, to my mind, is where the money is to come from to open our coal-mines. With all the expenditure which is going on, I think it is very doubtful if we shall be able to afford the money this year. Whilst I am as anxious as any man in this country to see a State coal-mine opened, I would certainly like to see clearly what we are going into, in order that there may be very little chance of any loss to the colony. The Premier said that a large amount of the cost of coal was due to the steamers, and he said that the boats were unsuitable. The honour- able gentleman knows that when some of these boats were built for the coal trade they were quite as large as could get over the bars, and he must likewise know that they were as large as were then required by the local market, but to-day there are boats running equal to any colliers in any part of the world -- boats carry- ing 2,000 tons-but those boats could never have crossed the bars if the bars had not been deepened, so it is no use the Premier saying I will tell that the steamers are to blame. honourable members where there is an expense which, I think, ought not to exist. I refer to the charge of 2s. 6d. for railway haulage to Westport, a distance of twelve miles. The cost price of coal delivered at the staiths at Westport is 10s. 10d., including the haulage and all working expenses, and, of course, that includes the profits on the sale of the coal. That is what they can land it at. I would not say that that is so large a profit. I think at present the price f.o.b. in Westport is 12s., so that it is not the coal companies who are making exorbitant profits. They are not, when one considers the risk, and that the property is being depleted all the time. And, looking at this from the State's point of view, 1 do not think the State is going to save such a very great deal, because when you look at the con- tract prices you will find that they get their coal at 18s. a ton delivered all over the colony, and when they are working their own mine I do not think it will be much cheaper. They may save 1s. a ton. I do not think the State can save anything, seeing that the Westport Coal Company, under its contract with the Government, is selling at that small profit, and therefore the only profit the Government can 