referred to the Government by the Railways Committee on the understanding that during the recess the General Manager of Railways and the Chief Engineer of Railways should visit the district, and, together with the mem- ber for the district and the local bodies con- cerned, endeavour to arrive at some amicable arrangement with regard to the matter in dis- pute. Motion agreed to. # HERBERT E. EASTON. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) brought up the report of the Joint Goldfields and Mines Com- mittee on the petition of Herbert E. Easton and others. The report was read by the CLERK. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Deputy-Speaker's ruling as to whether the re- port which had just been read would appear in Hansard, as it appeared to him that the practice was that these reports of Committees did not so appear. A ruling bearing on the subject was to be found on page 121 of the " Rulings of the Speakers " : " Nothing can go into Hansard except what is uttered by mem- bers in the course of their speeches." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the House had ordered the report to be read, and it appeared to him that any matter read in the House should appear in Hansard. It had been ruled that nothing should go into Hansard unless it was read. He thought the more widely the finding of this Committee on the petition was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 circulated through the country the better. Mr. FISHER .- That is not the point. Mr. SEDDON said the point was, Who was to suppress it going into Hansard. This was a different thing from a petition. There might be matters in a petition that had never been inquired into-it was an ex parte statement ; but he did not know where there was a pre- cedent for the report of a Committee which had been read not appearing in Hansard. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the rule, if there was one at all, was that a report of a Committee, although read by the Clerk, should not appear in Hansard. It was always open to the House to say, however, whether it should appear or not. The Speaker bad always ruled that it should not so appear; but in special cases the Speaker gave special directions. The matter of this being an important question was not the question the House had to consider. Major STEWARD wished to explain that he was not objecting to the report appearing in Hansard, but he contended that it should not go in without the special instruction of the House. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) thought the position was exactly the other way. Hansard being a record of anything uttered in the House, any report read should appear. He doubted if the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) could point out a rule that it should not appear unless ordered by the Speaker. Mr. Massey man had any doubt on the point, he need only consult the Chief Hansard Reporter to find out he was wrong. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) thought the ruling on page 121 of the "Rulings of the Speakers" was conclusive, that nothing was to go in Han- sard except what was spoken by a member. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER said, Speaking generally on the point, the ruling was that nothing should go into Hansard except what was uttered in the course of debate. That was laid down by the Speaker in Hansard of 1894, on pages 1043 and 1050. Hansard was a record of the debates in the House only. There did not appear to be any direct ruling on the question whether reports of Committees stood in a different position to the reading of petitions. Before he gave a final ruling on the subject, the matter being one of some import- ance, he would like to see whether any of these reports of Committees, which had been very numerous, had appeared in Hansard. If he did not find them in Hansard, he would take it to be the universal practice that these reports were not inserted in Hansard. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, To obviate that difficulty he would move, That this report ap- pear in Hansard. If that were not done, then all that was required would be for some member to read this report, and it would go in Hansard in his speech, and to avoid that trouble and save time he would move his motion. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) only wished to say that, if Mr. Speaker would allow him, he would aid him in his research by referring to many cases where a report such as the one that had been read to-day had appeared in Hansard in full. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) agreed with the motion moved by the Premier, as the easiest way to get this report into Hansard. He con- sidered it very important in the interest of the mining industries of the colony that the report should be circulated as widely as possible, so that mining investors should be made aware of these foul practices. He had made up his mind that this report should go into Hansard, and if it was not put in by means of this motion, then he intended, although sorry to take up so much time, to read the report over again, so that it might appear in his speech in Hansard. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked Mr. Speaker to permit him to direct his attention to Hansard No. 32, page 586, of this session. He would find that the report he (Mr. Meredith) brought up as the Chairman of the M to Z Public Petitions Committee on the question of exces- sive drinking by Maoris appeared in Hansard exactly as he had reported it to the House. Mr. SEDDON .- Who read it ? Mr. MEREDITH said it was read by the Clerk of the House. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the Clerk in- formed him that the general practice was that the reports ordered to be read did not appear in Hansard unless Mr. Speaker gave special in- structions for them to be reported. 