of Auckland contributed the whole of the ex- pense of the visit to Auckland of the Imperial troops, with the exception of the beer ordered by the Premier, which was said to be an extra donation from the brewers. Mr. SEDDON said that the principal amounts in the vote of £5,000 were made up of the pay of the men, the steamer-fares, and the cost of the equipment of the men. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) wished to ask a question about the estates of deceased members of contingents. He received a letter the other day from the parent of a young fellow who had died in South Africa, and in that letter it was stated that the Trust Office had deducted a comparatively large sum for commission and other charges from the insurance-money paid on the life of the trooper. He understood that, in regard to all these estates, no charge was to be made for administration. Mr. SEDDON said that was the understand- ing, but the Public Trustee must do his duty. In any case in which a charge was made by the Public Trust Office, it would be well, he thought, for the House to pass a vote for the amount ; and in that way, while the Public Trustee was allowed to carry out his duty, the amount could be made good. It was simply a case of taking it out of one pocket and putting it into the other. In answer to the honour- able member for Masterton, he wished to say that for some years the annual rifle gathering had been under private supervision, and it was the intention of the Government that in the future the gathering should be under the direct https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 supervision of the Defence Department. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked for some information about the item, " Volunteer camps of instruction, £8,000." Were these / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero camps distinct from the camps for which £6,000 had already been voted ? Mr. SEDDON said the £6,000 was voted for the camps of instruction under the Com- mandant, and the other payment was for the ordinary camps of instruction under which each corps went into the field. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Minister of Defence if it was true that, as Colonial Treasurer, he was helping the mounted Volunteers of the colony by imposing a duty on imported saddlery. Many of the saddlery equipments now used in the service had to be imported from Home, and, if a duty were to be imposed on imported saddlery, it was, to his mind, a very good way of bursting up the Volunteer system. It would mean that the Volunteers would be compelled to take an inferior article, such as that manu- factured in the colony, at a very much higher price. Mr. SEDDON said it was intended to im- pose the duty after all present orders for saddlery had been completed. At the same time he admitted that there were certain parts of Volunteers' equipment that could not be made in the colony. However, on the other hand he could say that, although some wretched material had been received from one part of the colony, other saddlery had been obtained in Africa. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) 3.0. asked if the Minister would take steps to alter the regulations for rifle clubs, so as to do away with the necessity of persons serving three years in Volunteer corps before becoming a member of a rifle club. Mr. SEDDON said he would not do that, for to do so would mean that they would get people joining the rifle clubs and so evading all the drilling, whilst getting all the advantages of the Volunteer service. It would break down the Volunteer movement. That, of course, re- ferred to towns and suburban boroughs. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked if the Minister would take steps to have the duty on articles used in connection with the gold- lace factory at Palmerston North removed. At the present time that manufacturer, although turning out an article superior to the imported, could not compete against the imported article, because it came to the Government duty-free. Mr. MASSEY asked for information regarding the item, " Allowances for extra services con- nected with the despatching of the contingents to South Africa, £800." Mr. SEDDON said he had given the par- ticulars at an earlier hour. Mr. PIRANI said that the Minister had only given one or two items, and he thought full particulars should be given to the House, for it was wrong that the Government should be given the charge of that amount of money to dis- tribute as they chose in the way of bonuses to various officers without letting the House know how the money was spent. Mr. SEDDON said that if he gave a return to the House it would place the officers to whom bonuses were given in an invidious posi- tion, and he did not think the House and the country wanted it. The highest amounts given were $50 to the Commandant and £50 to the Under-Secretary. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved, That the item, " Allowances for extra services connected with the despatching of the con- tingents to South Africa, £800," be reduced by the sum of £5. He moved that as an in- dication that the Committee required more information from the Minister upon this item. The right honourable gentleman had refused to give the names of some of those officers who had received bonuses, just as though there was a certain amount of shame attached to the receipt of such moneys. He did not see why officers should be ashamed of having received moneys for services rendered. The name of one - Lieut .- Colonel Collins - had been men- tioned by the Premier as receiving £30. He was sure that $300 would not nearly cover the value of that gentleman's services, and no discredit could possibly attach to him by the mention of his name. Yet the Premier had given this name by way of illustrating the un- fairness of giving names at all. The fact that other names were suppressed was a sufficient proof that there was something to be ashamed of. The Premier had said, by way of interjec- 