Mr. ELL .- Well, I intend to peg away at this question until more attention is paid to it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I am delighted, Sir, to have an opportunity to reply. The debate upon the second reading of the Bill has been interesting. We have had only one speech against the Bill, and that was somewhat half- hearted, and it was more in the way of a warn- ing than a statement that the principle was bad. I cannot believe, myself, that there is any member in the House who really believes that there is any danger whatever in Parliament agreeing to what is proposed in this Bill. Mr. MASSEY .- A good many of them. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I want to show that it is no new thing at all. I am going to demon- strate unmistakably to the House that we have gone back instead of going ahead in respect to this question. Members are evidently not aware of the existing law; they are evidently not aware of what has taken place in this House in the past. If they were we should not have had what has been stated in the debate this evening. I must, in justice to those who took part in the past, expose the attempt of the honourable member for Riccarton to claim the patent rights over a State Coal-mines Bill. He has said this on more than one occasion, and, I believe, has written it. He referred to his having brought the matter before the House in 1894. I ask the honourable gentleman to turn to Hansard for July, 1891, and he will find that the member for Westland (Mr. Seddon), speaking on the Coal-mines Bill, used these words : - " As to the principle laid down that coal-mine owners should supply our railways when coal is the motive-power of the colony, and refusal to supply coal might be the means of stopping the traffic and of throwing hundreds out of employment, and where the coal-mines are really State property and simply under lease, we are not going beyond our right in section 17, with the safeguards therein noted. I may say, further, as regards the regulations, they are made in accordance with what has been sub- mitted to the conference of mining experts which has been held. The amendments neces- sary are therein included. I may say, so far as we are concerned, these amendments were submitted to the Committee last year and carefully gone through, and were passed with the approval of my honourable friend and pre- decessor, and are simply included in this amend- ing Bill. I hope, under these circumstances, and seeing that the Bill is to go before the Committee of which my predecessor is a mem- ber, with a view of facilitating the business, and of gettingl the Bill into practical hands to deal with, the second reading will now be agreed to." Section 60 of the Act of 1891 is as follows : - "The Governor, in the name and on behalf of Her Majesty,- " (1.) May contract with the owner or lessee of any coal-mine situate on private or Native lands for the acquisition of such lands and mine on such terms able ; or "(2.) May contract with the lessee or lessees of any coal-mine situate on Crown lands for the purchase of their respec- tive interests therein, and the cancel- lation of the lease, on paying such compensation for the same, includ- ing value of goodwill, if any, as may be determined under 'The Public Works Act, 1882 :' "Provided that resumption and acquisition under this and the preceding section shall not be complete nor take effect until a resolution of the Legislative Council and the House of Representatives shall have been passed sanc- tioning the same. " Any land so resumed or acquired may be worked by the Minister on behalf of Her Majesty unless the Legislative Council and the House of Representatives shall by resolu- tion otherwise determine." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Did you pass that clause ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, and I will tell you more presently. I ask the honourable member to listen to these remarks from Hansard of the 25th August to the 22nd September, 1891 :- "It is a fact well known to me-and I can place proof of it upon that table-that one-half of the shareholders in our coal-mines are not New-Zealanders at all. They have large in- terests in mines in other countries, and that means that the interests of those mines are diametrically opposed to the interests of New Zealand mines. If the shareholders in New Zealand mines also held interests in Newcastle mines, it can be easily understood how they would send Newcastle coal over here to the detriment of the working of our mines. Then, again, if we take into consideration the fact that no country is safe where the motive-power of the country is held by a foreign Power, we must feel the necessity for such powers as we take in this Bill. In this case, with this Bill in force, if these foreign owners should block up our motive-power, the State will have power to resume the mines, giving the owners fair compensation for it, and giving the people of the colony their just right to the motive- power." But, Sir, let the honourable member take the law of New Zealand, and I tell the House now that I can to-morrow purchase and work a coal-mine-I can to-morrow work & coal-mine. If members will look at section 60 they will find this :- "May contract with the lessee or lessees of any coal-mine situate on Crown lands for the purchase of their respective interests therein, and the cancellation of the lease, on paying such compensation for the same, including value of goodwill, if any, as may be determined under ' The Public Works Act, 1882 ' : "Provided that resumption and acquisition under this and the preceding section shall not be complete or take effect until a resolution of the Legislative Council and the House of Repre- 