them to the Committee of the Stock Exchange in London has cost this colony no less a sum than £400,000. By their default they have delayed the completion of the line. The colony will suffer for many years to come through having thrown on its hands a non-paying line. In every way and in every sense the interests of the people of this country have been injured very seriously. There is no shadow of rightful claim on which to base such petitions as these. Many of the original shareholders have dis- appeared altogether ; many of the original de- benture-holders have also disappeared ; and if this money is paid we shall be paying not to the original shareholders or the original de- bonture - holders, but to persons who have entered into both schemes for speculative pur- poses. I say that, rather than pay this money to these blackmailers-for this is blackmail on a large scale-I would set them at utter de- fiance. No doubt if this House refuses to pay this money now they will pester this Parlia- ment year after year with petitions until they get a weaker and more pliant Parliament. But I hope that, so far as this Parliament is con- cerned, their petitions will not succeed, and that the £130,000 now recommended will. not be paid to them. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- The speech which the honourable gentleman has delivered is somewhat extraordinary in that, while acting as executive head of the Com- mittee, he himself has made a somewhat violent speech in opposition to the proposal of the Com- mittee for the settlement of this unfortunate difficulty, because it must be regarded as such. I have on previous occasions expressed the opinion that the honour of this colony requires http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero that there should be some settlement of this matter, and that the settlement should be based upon equitable lines. It is quite true, as the honourable gentleman has stated, that in their appeals to the Courts of the colony and to the Privy Council the company have been declared to have been on the wrong side. That, of course, we are all acquainted with. But it was only after the question of the rights of the company had been pursued step by step to every tribunal to which it was possible to appeal that the final decision was actually given. I think that no one could place himself back to the position the debenture-holders especially were in with- out realising that there is justice upon the side of those who ask now that some payment shall be made, and thus wind up the connection of the company and debenture-holders with the work. It is all very well for the honourable gentleman, now that the Midland Railway is discredited-when the company has failed, partly through misfortune and partly through mismanagement-to make the violent speech he has made, but he himself gave away that position when he said that in 1884 a united Canterbury party was returned to this House for the purpose of seeing that this railway was made. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not at all. into this House with a mandate to see that the railway was made, and we have to put our- selves into the position in which the debenture- holders were when they were treating, as they believed, with a country where public opinion was as strong on this matter as it had shown itself to be at the time the Stout-Vogel Go- vernment was formed in 1884. I say, there- fore, to take up the position, now that this concern has been discredited by mismanage- ment and failure, that there are no equities in connection with the debenture-holders or the shareholders is neither fair nor honourable. Now, what is the actual position of the line at the present time? We have had a very able Commission-I admit that at once-we have had a Commission which, by the terms of its commission, was ordered to report-I will not say as unfavourably as was pos- sible-but it was limited so far as its order of reference within lines by which they were bound to give a report that was by no means, nor intended to be, favourable to the company or to the debenture-holders. Yet the Commis- sion find that the actual cost of the work done upon the railways in existence at the present time is as follows : Stillwater to Reefton and Brunnerton to Jackson's, £550,020 ; Belgrove to Norris's Gully, £61,585 ; Springfield to Patterson's Creek, £63,178: total, £674,784. Written down to the lowest possible basis, so far as managerial expenses, commissions, and other charges, and dealing exactly with the rolling-stock and the lines that have been con- structed, the Commission has reported that the actual cost of the lines taken over is £674,784. What is the position of the con- cern now? The company has lost its capital, and the debenture-holders their money. And, leaving out the extravagant management, the whole of this has gone in railway-construction, which has been seized by the colony, and is now absorbed in the colonial railway system. The honourable gentleman, in his impassioned address in regard to the company, was unable to say it had divided any money among the shareholders. No dividends had been declared ; all that can be charged to them is that the officers of the company mismanaged and were extravagant. Here is the fact: that a large length of railway is in the hands of the colony and has been absorbed by the Government lines. And now what is proposed by the honourable gentleman is that the colony should retain the lines without compensation. If the honourable gentleman could have shown that the company, having sold the State lands, had divided the money, and thus made a distribu- tion of the funds, I could understand his atti- tude, and would have been with him. But no allegation has been made to that effect. What is the fact? That the company has sold the lands and spent the money in constructing the works. What is the position of the colony now in regard to the line ? I have the report of Sir Joseph Ward in connection with the railways ; it deals with the absorption of the Midland line 