want to deal with America or Germany, or any other foreign country ; but there is no use deal- ing with the English manufacturers unless they do two things-supply the thing you want, and at the time you want. Our shops are working full time and overtime; we have not got the machinery to turn out more stuff than we do now. We are getting machinery, but you can- not do that all of a sudden in order to cope with a certain demand. I trust the Coun- cil will divest themselves of any idea that the Government have done anything but the right thing in trying to cope with this-I will not say abnormal, but natural, increase of the production of the country, which grows upon us to such an extent that it has to be dealt with in a prompt way. At the same time I admit our workshops ought to be always growing; but new machinery takes time to get, and it takes time to get special machinery so as to take on special work. I admit what has been said about the exemptions in this Bill. It is a difficult question. If a Bill has too many exemptions it might as well not be passed at all. I am afraid the Bill now is somewhat in this direction. I do not see why woollen-mills should require special exemptions, because, after all, it is purely a matter of arrangement. Men work in a mill and young women work in a mill. If they have to pay weekly wages for forty-five hours to a woman or young person, it only means employ- ing so many more of them to keep the men going forty-eight hours, and no harm is done. But I am told some woollen-mills in the colony https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 work their men overtime, and do not bring their women or young people back; the men are employed, and the factories get the benefit of their work. Of course, the question of perish- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero able goods is a matter for consideration, but that can be dealt with in Committee. Motion agreed to. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 19 .- Rules as to hours of work in factories. The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved to strike out "young person " and insert " boy." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be struck out stand part of the clause." AYES, 8. Harris Barnicoat Swanson Walker, W. C. Kenny Feldwick Reeves Gourley NOES, 14. Johnston Arkwright Rigg Smith, A. L. Jones Bolt Kelly, T. Bonar Twomey Williams. Peacock Bowen Jenkinson Pitt PAIR. For. Against. Shrimski. Jennings. Majority against, 6. Words struck out, and " boy" inserted. Clause 20 .- Conditions under which limit of working-hours may be exceeded. Subsection (6) .- " The Inspector may at any time require the occupier to verify the entries in the overtime-book by statutory declaration, in such form as may be prescribed by regula- tions." The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved, That the words "by statutory declaration " be struck out. The Committee divided on the question,. "That the words be retained." AYES, 9. Harris Arkwright Smith, A. L. Barnicoat Kelly, W. Twomey Bolt Rigg Walker, W. C .. NOES, 13. Bonar Kenny Jennings Bowen Johnston Reeves Feldwick Jones Swanson Gourley Kelly, T. Williams. Jenkinson Majority against, 4. Words struck out. Clause 29 .- Provisions to secure reasonable. remuneration to persons employed in factories. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved, That progress be reported. Subsequently, The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH moved, That the Council do at once divide on the question in. debate. The Committee divided. AYES, 14. Jones Smith, A. L. Arkwright Kelly, T. Swanson Bolt Bonar Walker, W. C. Kelly, W. Bowen Peacock Williams. Feldwick Rigg NOES, 8. Jennings Gourley Reeves Harris Kenny Twomey. Jenkinson Pitt Majority for, 6. Motion agreed to, and progress reported. DEATH OF THE DOWAGER EMPRESS. OF GERMANY. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor forwarding the following let- ters :- ## " RANFURLY, Governor. "The Governor transmits to the Legislative Council copy of a despatch he has received from His Imperial Majesty's Consul-General at Sydney, conveying His Majesty's heartfelt thanks to the honourable members of the legislative bodies of New Zealand for the kind sympathy shown on the occasion of the death of the late Empress Frederick. "Government House, Wellington, 1st November, 1901." 