he would point out this argument : that this House had always on previous occasions paid great attention to the representations of the Wellington City Corporation, and, having pointed that out, he was done with the Bill. He did not care which way it went. But he wished particularly to call attention to this : that the persons who drafted the petition had, without sufficient knowledge and without suffi- cient astuteness, as a matter of tactics, brought into the petition the question of the Wainui- o-mata watershed, and had offered to take the fee-simple of the watershed as an ex- change for the Salamanca Road Reserve. Was there ever a greater piece of stupidity? Per- haps some day members of the Wellington City Council would get older and would acquire some knowledge of men and of the world. The forest reserve at the Wainui-o-mata watershed was an inalienable forest reserve, and no Go- vernment was at all likely at any time to touch it. Knowing the right honourable gentleman so well, he knew that the petitioners, having mentioned to him that the preservation of this watershed was their heart's desire, he would say to them, whenever they came to him with a request of any description whatever, "You had better be careful ; I will take your Wainui- o-mata watershed." Thus they fell in. The members of the Wellington City Council, per- haps, would some day get older, and become possessed of a greater knowledge of men. Then, possibly, they would understand the Premier. So far as he was concerned, the House could deal with the Bill as it pleased. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) did not know what arrangement the city fathers and the members of the Victoria College Council had decided upon in regard to the site. He was unable to follow the description of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) as to where the land to be exchanged for the site was, but he understood it was somewhere between the top of Mount Victoria and Kilbirnie. But, be that as it may, he did not think the question of whether the site should be in the centre of the town or in some easily accessible position was of vital con- sequence. Wellington was a city which would contain some two or three hundred thousand inhabitants before very many years were over, and whether they selected one site or another at the present moment seemed to him to be of no great vital importance ; but it was im- portant that they should select a site which would fulfil hereafter the requirements of the University, which no small site would be likely to do. He understood they were training more students at the Victoria College than at any other University College in the colony of New Zealand. The University area comprised, he believed, the Provincial Districts of Tara- naki, Hawke's Bay, Wellington, Marlborough, and Nelson, and the students attending the University College would be largely increased in number in the course of the next ten or twelve years. But there was no provision for funds, and until provision for funds was made Mr. Fisher There ought to be now, while there was still time, a large endowment of land set aside for the maintenance of the Middle District Uni- versity, if the University itself was ever to be a pronounced success. They could not expect, merely as a labour of love, to get professors. They must have the funds to meet the ex- pense incidental to carrying on a large Uni- versity, and without loss of time a con- siderable area of Crown land in the hands of the Government should be set aside as an endowment. This would be no waste of Govern- ment money, because the Governors of the Uni- versity would in all probability take greater care of the interests which might be consigned to their care than any Government department would be likely to take, and the land would go on increasing in value, so that in twenty or thirty years, instead of the Governors of the University pleading to Parliament in forma pauperis for assistance, they would have an ever-increasing valuable reserve, which would be sufficient for all its purposes. It did not appear to him that this Bill met what he believed to be the essential requirements of the University. He would have to be guided by the Wellington members as to how he should vote, as presumably they had instructions from those they represented as to what was best in the interests of the University; but he thought that the essential question, which was not met in this Bill, was the question of pro- viding a suitable endowment. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City), in reply to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. might say that the members for the City bad had no instructions or communications what- ever from the Victoria College Council uron this subject, and the Premier had had instruc- tions and communications from no one else. On the other hand, the City members had had instructions from the City Council ; but the Premier apparently had received no communica- tion from them, except for the informal depu- tation a few days ago, which dealt with a point not raised at all by this Bill-the Wainui-o-mata Reserve. If the Premier had been made ac- quainted with the arrangement made between the two Councils he would never have intro- duced such a Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- Do you want the Bill with- drawn ? Mr. ATKINSON said he would certainly pre- fer the Bill withdrawn altogether, unless an alteration he was about to suggest could be incorporated in it. The Right Hon. the Pre- mier, in all good faith, had been misled as to the understanding between the two bodies. Mr. SEDDON said the Bill was permissive. Mr. ATKINSON .- That was so ; but it per- mitted the Wellington City Council to do some- thing which it had no intention of doing, and would not do if the Bill was passed ; and the falsity of the position in which the Council would be placed was well put by his colleague. in that it would throw the onus of rejecting this arrangement on the City Council. Now. it was very undesirable it should be put in tha: 