would entail upon this colony, and what the moral mischief would be to the Natives. If there are fortifications constructed on those islands there must be men to man them. What a ridiculous idea. We do not know, in fact, when we once begin playing at soldiers and playing at fortifications, with the idea of posing as a great military power, what ex- penses we are running into, or where the thing will end. We see already how our expenditure for so - called defence purposes is mounting up in this colony. What will it be in the future when we keep garrisons on small tropical islands? The idea is ridiculous altogether. I repeat, if those Islands had been worth defending, as strategical positions, the Mother-country would never have handed them over to New Zealand. I consider the Bill an absurdity, and quite uncalled for. I have no- thing to say about the other parts of the Bill. I do not see what good these Islands will ever be to New Zealand. As far as trade is con- cerned there is an intimate connection between the Islands and New Zealand, but I am quite certain that the natives will reap no benefit from the annexation with New Zealand, and that the only result that is likely to accrue to New Zealand is an increase in our annual ex- penditure. I think the Bill is quite unneces- sary. I do not believe the opinion of the natives of Rarotonga has ever been asked about being put under the New Zealand Government, and, after having made inquiries, I think the natives have not derived any advantage at all from the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 connection. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, the honourable gentleman, in opening his remarks, said we were trying to fit the coat of a grown-up man http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero on a small boy. Well, there is nothing dif- ficult in that. It may not fit very well, but it could be adapted. If the honourable gentle- man had said we were trying to put the coat of a small boy on a grown-up man, I should have better appreciated the illustration, because it would have appeared we were trying to do something which was impossible. I regard the measure as one of the very greatest importance. There are many measures that come before us that are perhaps as important and as far-reach- ing in their effects, but they deal with matters with which we have some intimate knowledge. But now we are taking a new step altogether, in endeavouring to provide a constitution for a number of islands - twelve or thirteen I be- lieve - a thousand miles distant, having a Federal Parliament and local Councils, with peculiar native customs and usages, differing in many respects from those that obtain in our own islands, and with a feudal system to this extent: that the natives are under the authority of their chiefs or Arikis, as they are called, and have to render them certain personal service by way of supplying them with portion of the produce of their labour. That is what we are dealing with, and therefore we have the introduction of this measure. At first sight I was inclined to con- demn the measure altogether and to say it Hon. Mr. Scotland feature of it is that everything that is to be done of any importance is to be done by the Governor in Council, or by the Governor, which means the same thing. But when I took the trouble to ascertain what guidance we could get from the history of native peoples which would en- able us to deal with this matter in an intelligent manner, I was surprised to find that except in one country there is no model upon which you could base such a work as we are now attempt- ing. What country that is I will say directly. But, before I do that, I wish to call attention to what we learn by reading history. We read of the colonisation system that has been adopted by the Spaniards, the Dutch, the French, the Ger- mans, and the British, and in every instance we find a conquering people taking possession of the lands of the natives, and treating them in some cases with abominable harshness. There is a difference in this respect as regards one part of the British Dominions-namely, New Zealand-in that here you find a beautiful relief to the dark cloud in the considerate treat- ment meted out by the people in this land to the Maori race. Honourable members may think I go too far in saying that the British have in some cases treated natives abominably, but a reference to history will show that the practices of the Portuguese and the Spaniards in South America and Central America have been adopted in recent years by the South African Chartered Company in its raid on the Matabele. There is no instance in history tha: brings greater discredit on our race than the fact that a native people who trusted in our late Queen, and therefore gave concessions to Britishers to develop the mineral resources of their country, should have had those conces- sions sold to the Chartered Company, and that ultimately it should have led to the massacre of their race and the confiscation of all their property ; and, further, to a form of slavery under the name of the indenture system. Si., the question we have to consider in dealing with this matter is how far a native people-I am speaking of the black and the brown races -are capable of self-government, and how far we should trust them with that power. If we take the Natives of New Zealand, who are amongst the most intelligent in the world, w. may ask ourselves the question, with all our knowledge of them, Are they fit to govern them- selves? I think the answer must be in the negative. An attempt is now being made by means of our Maori Councils Act and our Man Lands Administration Act, to give them a mea. sure of local government they have never baj before ; but it is still in the experimental stage. and we cannot answer the question in the affirmative until we have had some experience of the working of those Acts. And yet we are dealing with a number of islands containing different communities, and so we are taking upon ourselves a more difficult task than merely dealing with the Maoris of New Zealand. The only instance of successful self-government - and that successful self-government is only com- parative-is to be found in the case of the African 