the people at the general election, with a behest to their representatives as to whether they should support an increased honorarium or not ; but it is an improper thing for the colony at present to be launched into this expenditure almost within twelve months before the termi- nation of the term of the present Parliament. I trust, notwithstanding the reflections the Premier has made on those members who oppose this Bill, they will not be influenced by this, but, if they think it right the measure should not apply to the present Parliament, they will give their votes in that direction. It is, of course, rather invidious for a member to vote in such a way as may injure or affect some of his fellow-members. I cast no re- flections on the supporters of the measure at all. I think that every member who votes for this Bill or who votes against it believes that he is doing the right thing, and that he is doing what the electors who sent him to Parliament think he ought to do, and I claim the same liberty for myself. At the same time I hold that it is much better, as has been suggested by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) to embody a proposal like this in an Act, than, as was done last year, to put the amount on the supplementary estimates, and that the vote should be passed in the small hours of the morning on the last day of the session. I think that by doing it in this way you have a full expression of opinion, and you give every member an opportunity of either speaking or voting upon it, and it is not con- fused with other issues as was the proposal last year. I oppose this Bill because I do not think it is a right thing to do at the present time, and I trust that the majority of the members of this House will think the same way as I do. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- Before I pro- ceed to refer to some of the points under dis- cussion in connection with this Bill, I should like once more, from my place in this House, to deny most emphatically-as emphatically as I am able-the statement which has gone forth again and again, both from the lips of members on the other side of the House and from the Conservative Press, that the price paid for the passage of the Public Revenues Bill of last year was the £40 paid to members on the Govern- ment side of the House. I give that an un- qualified denial. Parliamentary procedure and the rules that guide us do not permit me to characterize it in any stronger language than that; but there is a short, sharp word in the English language which does charac- terize the statement-that members on this side of the House sold themselves for $40 to pass an Act. I say that there is a short, sharp word in the English language which fully, fitly, and properly characterizes that statement. The honourable gentleman who has just sat down is opposed to an increase of honorarium, but is quite willing to spend $130,000 of the people's money to recoup a company in London. Honourable members on the other side of the House - the whole of them -are quite willing to vote for every possible in- Mr. Pirani this country ; and yet when it comes to the point of paying members of this House an increased honorarium and full value for their services, what do we find? We find them working against it, and why? They are simply acting up to the traditions of their party. Con- servatives do not want-they never wanted- payment of members. They have always been opposed to it. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not all. Mr. HORNSBY .- Almost all, and in some cases the exception proves the rule where you find some of them voting in favour of it. Take, for example, the Old Country. We know per- \- fectly well that the last thing that will ever be done by the privileged class of that country will be the payment of members of the House of Commons. But what is the history of the payment of members in that country ? - for there are members in the House of Commons, and a goodly number of them, who are paid by their constituents. Let us take the Irish mem- bers, for example. Nearly all of them are paid as members of the House of Commons. Was it not the pence of the agricultural labourers in England that paid the salary of Joseph Arch ? Was it not the subscription of the miners of Great Britain that gave $500 a year to Burt in the House of Commons ? There are others I could mention-John Burns, for ex- ample -- who could not possibly represent the people in the House of Commons unless they were paid for their services. The same thing applies in this country. I venture to say, and I defy any member to contradict me, that there are numbers of men, especially on this side of the House, who could not possibly be here if it were not for the honorarium. They are not well enough off to spend four months of the year in Wellington without being adequately paid, and I say they are not adequately paid at the pre- sent moment. It may be said I have taken up a most peculiar attitude in this matter : that 1 have voted against all the increases in salary, and that I have done all I could to cut down the expenditure while the estimates were pare ing through the House ; and that now I am advocating an increase in the payment of mem- bers. Sir, I justify that in this way : I say the present payment of members is not adequate. In addressing my constituents during the election campaign in 1899 I said upon every platform that the amount was not sufficient -that was before I got into the House: and I added that if I was returned I should be one of the first to advocate the proper payment of members. I said the same thing last recess, and I challenged a vote at every meeting I addressed. I said, " I am in favour of giving to the members of the House E300. and it is more than likely a Bill will be brought down next session giving members of the House £300, and I intend to vote for that measure. If you are not satisfied with my declaration, I leave it to you now to propose an adverse motion." At every one of the places where I addressed the people I received a vote of confidence, showing | conclusively that my people, at any rate, were 