after I have done so, the honourable gentleman tells me that I have had to accept the amend- ments, that I have had to swallow bitter pills, and that the Bill itself has been so mangled by the acceptance of these amendments that practically it is unworkable. I say I do not think that should come from the honourable member. It does not encourage one to accept amendments, and I have accepted them because I believe they will improve the working of the law, and that they will remove some existing difficulties. When one accepts amendments in a proper spirit, and with a desire to perfect our legislation, it is too bad for the honourable member to use the terms and language com- plained of." Clearly he had accepted the amendments willingly-" I have accepted them .because I believe they will improve the working of the law." And yet he has the temerity to-night to denounce my honourable friend the mem- ber for Wanganui for having proposed that clause. An Hon. MEMBER .- He never supported that clause. Mr. FISHER .- What is it to me whether he supported it or not ? He says, "I have ac- cepted them (the amendments) because I be- lieve they will improve the working of the law." Having accepted them, why does he denounce them ? Will any one explain ? Going on in his speech to another point, he says,- "It is with regret I notice that a num- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ber of people in the colony, the moment when one has the courage to point out a defect "- [He is referring here to his having said that "the labour unions were riding the labour laws to death "]-"or call attention to a con- dition of things which is unsatisfactory-Parlia- ment having done its work well, and the law working well with the exception of one or two cases, where there was a necessity for plain speaking-such people spread misleading state- ments. I repeat, I have never stated the labour laws passed were injurious. I have never seen the Act used against the employers for the benefit of the employés; nor have I seen it used to the detriment of the workers." There is still no denunciation of the honour- able member for Wanganui, for the honourable gentleman goes on to say,- "I believe at the present moment, notwith- standing the great activity with respect to adjustments of the last few months, that the feeling between employer and employé through- out the colony is better than in any other part of the world.' And now I must ask honourable members to listen to this marvellous and astounding con- clusion-marvellous and astounding, viewed in the light of his rampings and his ragings of to-night :- "I am very pleased with our night's work, and if all our Bills and legislation were dealt with as we have dealt with the conciliation and arbitration question to-night it would be to the credit of the House, the representatives of the Mr. Fisher the great majority of the people of the colony." Do we dream ? Have we eyes? Have we ears ? And then, after the Bill was read a third time, in moving the adjournment of the House, the Premier said, -- "I move, That the House do now adjourn. I regret having detained members so long to- night, but we have been engaged upon very good work, and, I think, with a satisfactory re- sult. The fact of passing the Bill unanimously is proof positive that we are all satisfied with the labour laws of the colony and our own labours to-night." Now, having listened to the honouralle gentleman's ravings to-night, will any one please tell me plainly what they think? He says the House " has been engaged in very good work," and that " we are all satisfied with the labour laws of the colony and our own labours to-night." With that I take my leave of the honourable gentleman. My object in 10.30. putting together these speeches of the honourable gentleman is this : If it is profitable or advantageous to him to pursue this course in dealing with the labour laws of this country, let him do so, but I will not follow in his train. I wish to keep my position with the labour people of this colony, and with the work- ing-classes of this city clear and well de. fined. I say plainly-and it is a matter of extreme regret to me that the Premier is not present to hear what I am saying. because I prefer to say anything I have to say to a man's face, and not behind his back. The honourable gentleman ought to be here to listen to this debate right through. I have said that the Premier, in moving that the amendments made by the Legislative Council be agreed to, lashed himself into a state of fury. It was quite unnecessary, but it must be remembered that the honourable gentleman finds himself in a position of great difficulty- a difficulty entirely of his own creation, arising out of the contrariety of his statements-state- ments of an emphatic kind made one day to one class of persons, and statements of an equally emphatic kind made another day to another class of persons. The difficulty, as I have previously explained, which we labour under is this: that while we are willing to follow the Government of which we are the recognised supporters, we find it difficult w> follow the honourable gentleman in what I have previously termed his serpentine course. It may be easy for him to explain one view of a particular question to one set of persons on one day, and a totally opposite view of the same question to another set of persons on another day, but it is not easy for us, the supporters of the Government, to do that. We are faced with this question : " Are you a legitimate supporter of labour legislation and a supporter of the Go- vernment, or are you not?" To that question I answer for myself distinctly, Yes, I am a supporter of labour legislation and a supporter of the Government. But I also say that it is necessary for me to lay down my position clearly in this House, for I cannot give, as the honour- 