bers, trust we may see you back in good health, and that during the recess you may enjoy every blessing that is given to man. Of our worthy Acting Chairman of Committees, he has had a most difficult time during these long hours, and sometimes members-of course, I never sin myself in that direction-but some members have thought that in some of his rulings he was too severe. At all events, Sir, I may say this: that the session has been tedious. At one time I thought the record would not be a satisfactory one ; but on going through the Bills passed and the business that has been performed, I say that the session of 1901 has been one of the most profitable sessions of the Parliament of New Zealand. To members I say, speaking for the Government, we have had our trials, and I wish members clearly to under- stand this: although there has been a differ- ence of opinion, our earnest desire has been to promote the wellbeing of the country, and give hope and expectation to its people. To one and all in the House I say I hope they will return to their homes, take their constituents into their confidence, and fairly and imparti- ally lay the work of the session before them, and I am sure that nothing will be found fault with. Bill read a third time. PARLIAMENTARY SESSION, 1902. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) wished to ask the Premier a question without notice. There was a vote on the estimates to enable the Premier to proceed to the Coronation in June next. He would like to know what arrangements had been made about the meeting of Parliament next year. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that, as far as the Government saw, there would be no neces- sity for any alteration next year. It had been suggested that an early session should be held, but members did not seem to fall in with the view ; and he was satisfied that if he did go Home on that auspicious occasion his colleagues would be well able to satisfactorily carry on the business of the country. When he returned he trusted that his services would tend to the ad- vancement of the country and the good of all. ## BUSINESS OF THE SESSION. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER laid on the table the following schedule of the business trans- acted during the session :- 1\. SELECT COMMITTEES- On public matters On Private Bills ... 2\. PUBLIC BILLS- Received the Royal assent Reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure Dropped, or otherwise disposed of 3\. PRIVATE BILLS- Received the Royal assent Dropped ... .. 4\. PETITIONS PRESENTED- From Europeaus 1,222 .. From Maoris ... ... ... Mr. Seddon 5. Divisions- In the whole House 71 In Committee 144 .. 215 - 6. SITTINGS- Days of meeting 77 ... Hours of sitting- Before midnight 518 h. 23 m. ... After midnight 116 h. 1 m. ... 631 h. 24 m :. Daily average 8 h. 14 m. ... 7\. VOTES AND PROCEEDINGS- Questions asked of Ministers Entries in Journals ... 1,150 --- 1.95 Daily average ... 8\. ORDERS FOR PAPERS 00 ... ... ... 9. PAPERS LAID UPON THE TABLE- By command 86 .. In return to Orders 62 In return to Addresses 0 By Message 0 ... ... By Act 110 .. ... ... ... By leave ... ... ... .. ... By Mr. Speaker 2 ... .. 301 - Papers ordered to be printed 212 Papers not ordered to be printed ... 99 311 10\. REPORTS FROM SELECT COMMITTEES- From the Public Petitions A to L Committee 73 From the Public Petitions M to Z Committee 66 From the Native Affairs Committee 115 From the Waste Lands Committee 62 From the Goldfields and Mines Committee From the Local Bills Committee ... 41 From the Railways Committee 41 .. From other Committees 'S ... -- ## ADJOURNMENT. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the House do now adjourn. The House divided. AYES, 24. Hall-Jones Allen, E. G. Parata Heke Allen, J. Seddon Hornsby Steward Arnold Tanner Hutcheson Atkinson Laurenson Carroll Ward. McGowan Teliers. Duncan Flatınan Fisher Millar Fraser, W. Mills Palmer. NOES, 14. Buddo Hall Rhodes Thompson. R. Collins Lawry McGuire Tellers. Ell 25 3 Mckenzie, R. Lethbridge Field 28 Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Symes. Majority for, 10. 98 Motion agreed to. 2 Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- Before leaving 91 191 \-- the chair I would ask the indulgence of honor. able members for a moment. I desire to thar.i. 3 the Right Hon. the Premier for the courtesy 0 and the kind remarks which he made courem- 3 ing the manner in which I have fulfilled ch? onerous duties of Deputy-Speaker. I ras, 64 on behalf of honourable members and myef, \-- 1,286 