agreed to. Public schools, £448,850. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) desired to draw attention to the recommendation of the Public Accounts Committee with respect to Miss Annett. He would like the Minister to say whether he would put a sum on the supple- mentary estimates for the purpose. He might add that the Otago Education Board and the Pablic Petitions Committee recommended £70 being paid, and advised authority being given to the Board to pay it ; but he thought it would be better for the Minister to add the amount to the supplementary estimates. Mr. HALL-JONES said, in reply to the member for Waihemo, that the recommenda- tion of the Committee would be considered with other recommendations later on, in the recess. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) drew the Minister's attention to a petition he was going to present from the women teachers of the Wellington District, protesting against that portion of the recommendation of the Commissioners which provided that neither girls' schools nor departments should be re- cognised, and he hoped the Government would take that point into consideration. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) wished to draw atten- tion to the fact that the total sum put down for the training of teachers was £1,000. The cost of this in North Canterbury came to from $1,400 to £1,600, and with a grant of even $500 there would be a considerable shortage. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 He would like to know what the intention of the department was in regard to these train- ing-schools. Then, there was the question of enabling country school - children to obtain Seventh Standard education without extra ex- pense. A suggestion had been made that an extra teacher should be allowed where the num- ber of Seventh Standard children exceeded ten. This would not cost very much, while affording a valuable addition to the education of those children in country districts. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) wanted to ask how it was that the teachers attending training classes at Stratford from the outlying districts were unable to get any satisfactory reply as to rail- way passes from either the Education or Rail- way Departments ? And the same thing applied to children attending the District High School, Stratford. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) wished to bring under the notice of the Minister the question of the issue of free railway passes to Fifth and Sixth Standard children where they desired to attend district high schools. He thought country children should be afforded the same facilities as those in the large centres. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) drew at- tention to the small amount of land set apart as endowments for primary schools. The reve- nue estimated from reserves at present was only $39,000. Referring to 1891, he found the revenue of the reserves was estimated at £33,500, and in 1896-97 at £37,000. The position, there- fore, was that in ten years they only got an reserves. Now, if members remembered the large area of land administered, and the large area sold and finally parted with, it must be admitted that the Government had been ex- ceedingly lax in setting aside endowments for the purpose of primary education. He thought in a country like this the policy should be to ease the burden of taxation by means of these endowments ; and one of the first duties of the Government should be to set aside endowments for primary as well as higher education, par- ticularly in the North Island, where they still held large tracts of land. He hoped there would be an improvement in this direction. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) would like to ask the Minister whether the time had not arrived when something should be done to assist the Education Boards of the colony, who at the present time were absolutely crippled for want of funds. The public school, for instance, at the Lower Hutt was in a disgraceful condi- tion, but the Board could do nothing for want of funds. He hoped the Minister would attend to this matter. Mr. HALL-JONES would point out to the honourable member that this question would be dealt with under the head of the vote for " School Buildings," in Class XIII. He hoped to-night that members would not go into the question of teachers' classification and salaries, which would be much better discussed when dealing with the Bill now before the House. In reply to the member for Egmont, he might say there was no reason for teachers or chil- dren paying their fares, because if proper appli- cation were made the passes would be supplied. With regard to the question of the member for Ashley, he held the same opinion that he did last year: that the children of primary schools who had passed the Sixth Standard, to obtain the advantage of higher education, should be given free passes to the nearest high school. It had been decided to give passes to the holders of scholarships, and to scholars attend- ing the nearest district high school, and regu- lations were now being drafted in that direc- tion. With regard to the question of the member for Riccarton, he was entirely with him in saying there should be numerous re- serves set aside for primary education. And, although they would not actually decrease the cost of education, still they would know there were certain lands which would assist in finding money to carry on the work of education. He would bring the matter under the notice of his colleague. With regard to training-schools, he only knew of one at Christchurch and one at Dunedin, and last year, in accordance with his promise, the vote was increased from £600 to £1,000, which was evenly divided between the two schools. Mr. TANNER (Avon) wished to call the attention of the Committee to the extraordinary item, " Addition to Statutory Capitation : Teachers' salaries only, as directed by Minis- ter of Education, £28,450." The Minister had just told them that they had better not discuss the classification question and public school 