already given you the figures showing the amount of traffic over that line during the last twelve months, and it is quite unnecessary for me to say anything further in its defence. I may confess, however, that, although, of course, I cannot speak as an expert engineer, it does seem to me that if the line had gone through Palmerston and up the Shag Valley round by Dunback it might have been an easier route. However, the engineers, I presume, dis- cussed that matter fully. I must say, Sir, that no two speeches that I have heard in this House have so much astonished me as the speeches delivered by the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier), and the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). When the honourable member, Mr. Napier, rose I was prepared to hear him make one of those brilliant attacks, one of those displays of poli- tical invective for which the Auckland papers occasionally give him credit-to the great amazement of members here, who have been quite unaware of anything of the kind taking place-but, as he went on, my astonishment was unbounded. Like Bottom, the weaver, he "roared as gently as a sucking-dove." Where was the "mailed fist "? Where was the " irre- ducible minimum "? Where was the com- bined voice of Auckland, which was to bring the Ministry to its knees? All gone-all disap- peared - and, instead, there was a feeble and apologetic air about his whole speech. It was a sort of a wail. The utmost he dared was to express in the mildest possible way a hope that by-and-by, perhaps, the Minister would see his way, in the dim and distant future, to put a little more on the estimates for the North / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Island Trunk Railway. That was, alas ! the melancholy end of the "mailed fist " and the " irreducible minimum," and the other warlike threats which have so lately been so loudly uttered. But when we came to Mr. Fowlds, who is generally as meek and mild as a mouse, he seemed to have taken up the role of his brother member, and he did, indeed, indulge in some warm language, and even in some threats. One is almost tempted by the strange phe- nomenon to believe in the doctrine of the transmigration of souls. I may possibly here repeat again, for the purpose of emphasis, that in Auckland last year, for roads and bridges and so on, there was spent-or, rather, there was spent and there were liabilities to the extent of £2,648,471 ; whereas in Otago, for the sake of comparison. there was for a similar purpose only a sum of €288,873, or something like between a fourth and a fifth of the amount spent in Auckland. Now, take the public works esti- mates of this year, and see what we find in the matter of roads and bridges. £92,516 is put down as the estimate for Auckland. We find that last year $36,397 was spent, and there are liabilities to the extent of $58,394 ; whereas, in respect to Otago, there was only expended .€12,789, and there is put down on the esti- mates to be expended next year only some £46,258. Then, coming to the matter of rail- ways, I find this : that £100,000 was put down sum only £61,000 was spent, whilst there were liabilities to the extent of some £36,000; and £100,000 is put down as the estimated expendi- ture for the coming year. But out of that £100,000 will have to come the £36,000 of lia- bilities, and that will reduce the amount to a sum of £63,000 or £64,000 this year, and out of that, again, I understand, will have to come the amounts owing for two months' accounts which were somehow dropped in the Dunedin office, unless they are included in the £36,000. Mr. HALL-JONES .- That is included in the £36,000. Mr. BARCLAY .- Very well ; but something additional ought to be put on to the £100,000, because of the very large amount of £36,000 standing over from last year. Most certainly two months' accounts, which would have been paid out of the £100,000 last year had it not been, as I have said, for some mistake, ought to be added to the amount for the Otago Central put down in this year's estimates. These amounts ought to be put to our credit. These gentlemen from Auckland have little indeed to complain of. They got spent on the Main Trunk £109,000, and this year they get an increase of £30,000 on what they got last year. I dare say that will be sufficient to finish the railway in four years, as contemplated, if the expenditure is continued at that rate; but that, however, is not the question. Unless you are going to get a five-million loan or some- thing of that sort you cannot have all these railways finished in a very short time. Sir, Auckland must and ought to be content to take its share of what is got for the whole of the colony, and assuredly it has got its share, and more. Why, take the figures of the men that are working on the roads and railways : how many of them are working up in Auckland on these co-operative works? Here is the last re- turn taken from the "Journal of the Depart- ment of Labour," and I find 1,838 labourers are working on the different roads in the North Island, and of these there are 674 in Auckland ; whereas in the whole of the South Island there are only 386. In Otago there are only seventy- nine. Then, you take the men working on the railways. On the North Island Main Trunk Railway there are 1,803 men working, and the Otago Central has got only 663. I do not mean to say these figures represent all that are working at one moment ; they are spread over the month. I think if you take the public works estimates for roads the story is much the same. There is an enormous sum put down for Auckland, and a comparatively small sum for the other provinces. The sum of $92,000 is put down for Auckland alone, and only £46,000 for Otago. I think sufficient has been said during the debate to show that, so far as Auckland is concerned, she has been dealt with very fairly, and that the Otago Central has been abused only by those members who are unfortunate enough not to know very much about it. who have not seen the land, and could only pick up their in- formation, as it were, from " the man in the street." Of course, it is easy enough to find 