saying what they have on this subject-of course. it is because of want of intimate know- ledge. Take the honourable member for Hawera, for instance. He thinks because he had some grievance in his district a few years ago, the debenture-holders should be treated in a most unreasonable manner. I think the taxpayers of the colony are ready and even anxious to see the honour and credit of the colony maintained and justice done to the debenture-holders. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). - The honourable gentleman stated that there were no mining reserves within a hundred miles of the railway. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- No; I said some were a hundred miles away. Mr. T MACKENZIE .- My contention was that they were along the line of railway. Here is a map showing for a distance of fifty miles adjacent 'o the line almost every acre is re- served, thus showing that my contention is absolutely correct. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- In reference to what the last speaker said I would point out that nothing was done in respect to the mining area but what was pro- vided for under the law and the contract-not an inch so set aside but was properly set aside by the Government ; and if it had not been done the Government would have been guilty of a dereliction of duty. My object in rising, how- ever, is to say that I shall be prepared to take a division at once, and for the House to decide https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 if the report is to be referred to the Govern- ment for consideration. This report has come down when the large majority of members have not an opportunity of making themselves acquainted with the recommendation and the position. The House has to arrive at a con- clusion with the bare report before them, and with the statement of the member for Welling- ton City, who is the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, that it is unwise and pre- judicial to the best interests of the colony that the report should be accepted. Those who are not acquainted with the facts of the case may take a course which will lead to further delay. We are approaching the end of the session, and if the report is referred back to the Committee there is some probability of it not coming forward again this session. Since the report has come down, we should defer dealing with it until we come to deal with the Bill, when members will have had the op- portunity of studying the position and ascer- taining the facts, and on that Bill let the House say whether or not they will agree to the report of the Committee. What I want to point out is this : Some honourable members appear to think that the colony will get nothing if the report is given effect to. For this £130,000 recommended what are we getting? We shall have over seventy miles of railway completed and in working-order. That is what we are getting- An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that all it cost ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- No; it cost a great cost much more than half that sum. It is true the colony has contributed by way of land- grants over $300,000, the value of which was given in many cases by the construction of the railway. Members want to bear this in mind in coming to a conclusion on this question, and that is why I ask them not to refer this back to the Committee. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I have heard a great many remarks in regard to the history of this railway, and have been astonished to learn from some older members of the House that the people of the colony and the members of this House do not know its history! All I have to say is, if there are any members in the House who do not know the history of the rail- way they ought not to be here in that position. I do not think there is a man in the colony who does not know the complete history of this com- pany. We have been told over and over again that a valuable asset has been provided for the colony by the company, and certain sums have been expended by the company on this railway to make it valuable; but what about the ex- pense the colony has been put to to fight the company ? What about the legal expenses ? Have we had a single word said about them ? Who was the gentleman in this colony, at the beginning of the trouble with the company, who pitted his opinion against that of all the legal luminaries of the time? The Premier, who comes to the House to-day and asks the House -inferentially -to vote this company £130,000 of the people's money. An Hon. MEMBER .- He did worse in 1894. Mr. HORNSBY .- I do not care what was done in 1894. I am speaking of the present moment, and I say the right honourable gentle- man was justified in the attitude he took up at the inception of the case against the company, and he was bombarded and blackguarded from one end of the colony to the other and spoken of in Great Britain as though he were a highway robber. No evil word was bad enough to throw at him at that time, and yet he was justi- fied in what he did and said, and every word he uttered and every statement he put forward was justified by the findings from the Arbitra- tion Court, presided over by the Hon. Mr. Blake, up to the Privy Council in England. I know every step that has been taken in this matter, for I have taken personally a keen in- terest in it: but I am astonished to find out that we are asked, as the people's representatives, not to pay this sum as a right or as what they are actually entitled to, but to pay £130,000 as the result of an ad misericordiam appeal by somebody on their behalf. I want to know how this change has been brought about : who helped to bring about this change? What has been going on behind the scenes to induce this change of front on the part of a number of people in this House ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The Stock Exchange. Mr. HORNSBY. - There must have been something more than the Stock Exchange. I should not like to say what I think has been 