of his deputies. The election could not take place in less than ten days, and the writ had to be back within twenty-one days. With so many outside districts in the electorate, a long distance from the centre, it would practically only give seven days in which to get the returns back to the Returning Officer in order to have the writ down here on the twenty-first day. There was not even much chance for the candidates to address the electors, and, practically, he thought that both men would have to go upon their merits. was an extraordinary situation, and one that could not have been foreseen. There was no foundation whatever for the statement that Cabinet had troubled about upsetting the elec- tion ; but it was well known that, if Mr. Heslop had been declared elected, Mr. Haselden would have tested its validity. He thought it re- dounded to Mr. Heslop's credit that he would have nothing whatever to do with the case. He (Mr. Seddon) thought the election ought to be upset. Mr. Haselden did not obtain a majority ; he was practically defeated by five hundred votes; and if there had been an opportunity of giving evidence, which could not be admitted at the time, there would have been no doubt whatsoever as to the election being invalid. However, they would get the election held as soon as possible. He hoped they would be in a position to pass the resolution on Friday, issue the writ on Saturday, and the election would take place within fourteen days after- wards. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said he desired to make a personal explanation in re- gard to two matters referred to by the Premier. The right honourable gentleman said that he (Captain Russell) was a member of an Adminis- tration which sent down £1,000 to make " Sed- don's Track," in order that it might help a can- didate to win the seat against Mr. Seddon. He begged to give that a most unqualified denial. There was no foundation for it, he believed, oven in the honourable gentleman's own imagination. Where it had come from he could not under- stand. There was not a tittle of truth in it. The other point was that, by implication, the honourable gentleman wished the House to understand that he (Captain Russell) and the leading members of the Opposition knew where the resignation of Mr. George Hutchison, the late member for Patea, was deposited while that gentleman was away from the colony. He (Captain Russell) could say unreservedly for himself that he never had the slightest idea as to where it was-and he did not believe that any member of the Opposition had ; and he might say that up to the very latest he tried to find out where it was, but was unable to do so. Mr. SEDDON said he must accept the state- ment of the honourable gentleman, so far as he was concerned, that what he had said as to the existence of the statement was incorrect. The honourable member was probably not aware of it. The telegram, initialled by Sir Harry Atkinson, was shown to him (Mr. Seddon) by the late Mr. John Ballance. Mr. Seddon ment years ago in the House. It was in the year that Government came into office ; and, what was more, the telegram was flaunted by his opponent at the time. As to the resignation of the late member for Patea, he would accept the honourable member's statement, because the honourable member was not aware of it. As regarded the honourable member knowing of the resignation, or being a party to the resig- nation being kept back, he never said what the honourable member stated. He simply said it It was well known ; because one of the "Whips" of the other side took exception to it-spoke out plainly-and disagreed with it being kept back. An Hon. MEMBER .- We did not know where it was. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said, As far as he was concerned-and he thought he could speak for all the members of the Opposition-not a single member knew where it was. They tried to find out, but could not do so. Motion, that the consideration of the resolu- tion be postponed till Friday, agreed to. # SUPPLY. CLASS IX .- DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR. Department of Labour, £7,790. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he noticed there was quite a number of increases in this department, totalling nearly £160. No doubt the Minister of Labour would be prepared to tell the House the reason for them. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) said the first increase was £15 to the Chief Clerk; the next was an increase of £10 to the Clerk, which was a yearly increase, by arrangement, to bring the salary up to £200. The next was an in- crease of £15 to the Shorthand-writer and Typist, who was one of the best in the service, and who would not remain in the service unless he got this rise. Then, there was provision made for a new Inspector at £165, who was wanted for relieving purposes. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) would like to ask the Minister whether the expense of the Labour Journal appeared in these estimates ? Mr. SEDDON said he thought it would come under the heading of "Expenses of Bureau, £2,700." Mr. HERRIES would then ask the Minister whether he thought the Labour Journal was any use at all. It seemed to him to consist of clippings from reviews published mostly in America, and its information was generally out of date. He would also like to ask what were the "estimated credits" expected from. He saw they received £389 last year. Surely that did not come from the sale of the journal ? Mr. SEDDON said the principal portion of that amount came as a refund from men who had received advances towards railway and steamer fares to go to work. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) hoped the Minister would give some indication as to what the cost of this journal was, because, in addi- tion to the actual cost of printing, there must 