attack. Sir, the more one goes into this ques- tion the more surprised one feels that the Go- vernment could ever entertain for one moment such a proposal. I should have thought that their patriotism would be against it ; but I am one of those men who think that an ounce of practice is worth a ton of precept, and I say the proposal here and the professions of the past do not fit in any shape or form. No, Sir, take the mail-service as it stands from a mail point of view. The honourable gentleman has shown the time in which it is done, and he shows that it takes some five or six days longer by the Federal service. Mr. FOWLDS .- Ten days. Mr. MILLAR. - I will give the honourable gentleman nine days, although the records do not show it The records show it is seven days, and the honourable gentleman knows perfectly well that that time could be reduced by two or three days by meeting the Federal mail-service on the other side. He knows very well that the vessels do not run to time now. Mr. MASSEY .- You forget that the speed of the San Francisco steamers has been in- creased. Mr. MILLAR .- I will deal with that point, now the honourable gentleman has raised it. These resolutions now propose for a seventeen days' service, which is a day longer ; but we must not forget that they make provision for a nineteen days' service, because there is a delay of forty-eight hours, in which there is no penalty imposed, and therefore no man is going https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to drive his boats to pieces when he can run in nineteen days without the imposition of a penalty. Sir J. G. WARD .- With the fast Federal service the difference would be about six days. Mr. MILLAR .- Well, Sir, the question for this House to decide is whether in the interest of the integrity of this Empire, about which we talk so much, a period of six days is suffi- cient for the service. The honourable gentle- man knows very well that if a fast Federal mail-service was established, with a connecting steamer between Melbourne and the Bluff, it is only three and a half days. The honourable gentleman knows now that there are fast boats in the colony running between the Bluff and Melbourne, which could do the trip in three days and twenty hours, and we could save seventeen hours in the carriage between Melbourne and Sydney. I say the honourable gentleman has not given us a true state- ment of what actually can be done in the Federal service. If the honourable gentleman takes the mails at Melbourne, he can save seventeen hours' rail to Sydney. I admit that the Melbourne to Bluff route is very much quicker, but there is the same objection to the Bluff as there is to Auckland, inasmuch as it is a bad distributing.centre. In a purely mail-service we want to take the port that is most central for distributing purposes, so that the mails may be distributed expeditiously all over the colony. Now, the honourable gentle- man said that during the last year the net cost Mr Millar but the honourable gentlem in forgot to tell us that his own department had collected $12,800 from the public of this colony for Mr. Spreckels, because by the sale of stamps for the purpose of postages by this service, the net proceeds of which sales go to Mr. Spreckels, they found this sum for Mr. Spreckels, and it is in addition to the $10,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is exactly the same in any service. Mr. MILLAR .- I admit it is exactly the same in any service; but the honourable gentleman said the service only cost us $10,000. Sir J. G. WARD .- We are crediting postage in each case. Mr. MILLAR. - Well, the actual amount paid to Mr. Spreckels last year was £22,637 in hard cash : is that correct ? Sir J. G. WARD. - No. Mr. MILLAR. - I say, Yes, and it is from the Post Office Report, F .- 1, page xix.,- Payment by weight- £ B. d. On mails from New Zealand .. 12.693 0 6 United Kingdom 4,505 10 2 Australian Colo- nies 5 .. 5,439 0 $22,637 16 7 Sir J. G. WARD -That includes the cost in transit from New York to Liverpool, which we have to pay. #17,000 is the total payment. Mr. MILLAR. - The departmental report says :- The transit charge --- € B. d. 7 5 San Francisco to New York .. 4,300 New York to Queenstown .. 1,831 16 S £6,132 4 1 Then, Sir, Mr. Spreckels received payment on the mails from the Australian Colonies under the San Francisco service. It is not a question of what we pay under the contract, but the amount Mr. Spreckels actually gets. We are asked to continue this payment, with New South Wales as the terminal port and getting the whole of the advantages, and Mr. Spreckels carrying their mails for 2s. per pound. Then, Sir, from a commercial point of view, we are told that this is of an immense advantage to the colony. Why, every Chamber of Commerce almost throughout the colony has passed reso- lutions condemning this service, with the ex- ception of the Auckland Chamber of Commerce, and, surely, those men who are representative, or who are supposed to be representative, of the commerce of this country ought to know what they think best, and without exception almost they favour the Federal service. And to show that it is to our interest that the Federal service should be adopted, let us compare the work done by the Federal service and that done by the Fr'isco service. The departmental report shows that, so far as England is concerned, there are fewer and fewer letters coming by the Fr'isco service, and that there is growing discontent amongst shippers at Home with the Fr'isco service. That is in 