there has never been a man connected with politics in this country who could count noses as well as the Premier. He understands ex- actly the trend of public opinion. He allows other men to raise questions of this kind, and then, when the psychical moment comes, he steps forward and gains the credit. This after- noon-I am not allowed to refer to a pre- vious debate, of course; but, I may say the Premier has stated in the House, or he has sneered, shall I say, at every man who has not been able to accomplish things. But the honourable gentleman has been so long in possession of those benches that other men have not had the chance. I venture to say, if there had been an opportunity, and if what I choose to call the advanced section of the Liberal party had been represented upon those benches, the State coal-mine proposal, instead of being brought down in 1901, would have been brought down five or six years ago. And in exactly the same way the old-age pensions, instead of being introduced in 1898, would have been brought in, at any rate, in 1895, when the. public mind was educated for it. Now, I do not think it is necessary to argue in favour of the principle of the Bill. The prin- ciple is the extension of State functions to coal-mines, in exactly the same way as the State functions have been extended in con- nection with railways, telegraphs, and tele- phones. I listened very carefully to the speech of the honourable member for Bruce, and it appeared to me that he failed to realise the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 connection there is between cheap coal and the prosperity of the industries of the colony. That appeared to me to be where he failed to realise the position. Now, some years ago I had to do with an inquiry that took place in connection with a dispute be- tween the Railway Commissioners and the Westport Cardiff Coal Company, and, if I remember rightly, in the course of that evi- dence it was stated that the price paid to the miners for winning the coal in the mines on the West Coast varied from 2s. 4d. to 2s. 8d. per ton. Those are the figures, so far as my memory goes. Now, at the very time that those men were being paid from 2s. 4d. to 2s. 8d. for winning the coal, the public at Christchurch were paying from £1 15s. to £2 per ton for the same article, and from the same mine. And that is the position to-day. I do not think that the price paid to the miners has materially increased from what it was in 1895 when that inquiry took place ; but, if so, it is only by one or two pence per ton : and every- body knows what the price of coal is in Wel- lington to-day, and we also know it by bitter experience in the South. The honourable member for Bruce questioned whether there was any necessity for the State to open coal-mines in order to supply the public demands. Why, Sir, is it not a fact that within the last eighteen months or two years the mere fact of one or two steamers taking large supplies of Westport coal raised the price of coal throughout New Zealand ? there was a coal famine in Christchurch and Wellington during the winter of 1900, and that that coal famine was due to the fact that there were exports of coal from the colony which had depleted the market? Under these circumstances, can any one say, seeing that private enterprise has not proved sufficient to supply the local market as well as to meet out- side orders-can any one deny that the time has come when the State should step in and increase the supply of coal to the colony? Coal is an article which regulates the amount of comfort which we possess in our homes, and it is the very basis of almost every important industry throughout New Zealand. Unfortu- nately, water-power in this colony has never been developed as it should have been. I be- lieve that has been caused somewhat by the method of our railway charges, and that, in- stead of our railway system being worked in order to distribute population from our centres, the tendency of the railway system of this colony, as of all other countries, has been to force our population round our large centres. But I believe a time will come when, in con- nection with the railway policy, we shall see the importance of spreading our population out from the centres, and congregating them in new centres where water-power is readily available. That, I believe, is one of the things which will follow. But, as I have said, the coal being the basis upon which all our freezing companies, and all the other large industries of the colony, are built up, it is absolutely necessary, if no other means obtains, that the State should step in and endeavour to lower the price of coal by entering into competition. In the first place, it could do that by supplying its own wants. I think I should be correct if I were to say the consumption of coal for State purposes in New Zealand is probably from 100,000 to 120,000 tons per year ; and, as the railway system of the colony extends, so, of course, the consumption for State purposes will also increase. I do not think it would be desirable that the State should in the first place endeavour to enter the open market. I think if it is able to supply its own wants, so as to leave the whole of the coal which is produced in the private coal-mines of the colony for private consumption and the indus- tries of the colony, that will be as much as can be expected. Now, in connection with this Bill, the honourable member for Bruce said that it was proposed to work these mines by borrowed money ; but I would ask him, Can he point to any privately owned mine where the capitalists behind that concern are able to work on as low a basis of profit as the State can borrow money for? The State does not need to look for profit on the capital it employs, so long as the capital is reproductive to the extent that the capital itself costs. An Hon. MEMBER .- No sinking fund ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I shall come to that directly. I quite agree with the honourable member that there should be a sinking fund, and I am going to refer to that in a few moments. Then, the honourable member said 