Russell, G. W. Witheford. Lang Lawry Seddon McGowan Tellers. Stevens Mills Steward Field O'Meara Symes Hall. NOES, 7. Fraser, W. Tellers. Massey Hutcheson Atkinson Pirani. Kaihau Fraser, A. L. D. PAIRS. For. Against. Arnold Tanner Bennet Monk Mackenzie, T. Colvin Duncan Hardy Flatman McNab Houston Russell, W. R. Mckenzie, R. Herries Millar Smith, G. J. Parata. Allen, J. Majority for, 18. Motion agreed to. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3 .- "Nothing in the last-mentioned section shall be deemed to impede or bar, or to have impeded or barred, the operation of the principal Act in any district proclaimed since the passing of that Act, notwithstanding that in the meantime less than six districts may have been so proclaimed." Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to strike out the words "the last-mentioned section," with the view of inserting " section five of the principal Act." Words struck out. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero The Committee divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be inserted be so inserted." AYES, 25. Allen, E. G. Seddon Herries Atkinson Lang Symes Carncross Ward Lawry Carroll McGowan Willis Witheford. Collins Mills O'Meara Ell Hall Palmer Tellers. Hall-Jones Pere Field Russell, G. W. Stevens. Heke NOES, 3. Kaihau. Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Pirani. PAIRS. For. Against. Arnold Tanner Bennet Monk Colvin Mackenzie, T. Duncan Hardy Flatman McNab Houston Russell, W. R. Mckenzie, R. Massey Majority for, 22. Words inserted. Progress reported. COMMITTEES. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That all Committees except the Native Affairs Com- mittee be directed not to sit this day. The House divided. AYES, 22. Allen, E. G. Heke Stevens Atkinson Kaihau Steward Carroll Ward Lang Collins Witheford. McGowan Ell Mills Tellers. Field Parata Fraser, A. L. D. Pere Barclay Hall-Jones Russell, G. W. Seddon NOES, 9. Carncross Palmer Tellers. Pirani Hall O'Meara Herries Willis. Symes. Lawry Majority for, 13. Motion agreed to. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes past four o'clock a.m. (Friday). LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 1st November, 1901. Injured Members of Contingents - Old-age Pen- sions Bill-Factories Bill-Death of the Dowager Empress of Germany-Tour of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. INJURED MEMBERS OF CONTINGENTS. The Hon. Major HARRIS asked the Minister of Education, What provision, by pension or otherwise, have the Government made, or intend making, for members of the New Zea- land contingents wounded or otherwise injured while on service in South Africa ? When in Auckland lately he met a returned trooper named Canovan, of the Fourth Contingent, who had been invalided from South Africa. He had been wounded, a bullet entering his temple and making its exit at the back of his head. Seeing that there might be many more troopers in similar circumstances, and of whom they knew nothing, he thought it as well to bring this matter under the consideration of the Government, if they have not already had it brought under their notice. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the Act that was passed last session-the Military Pen- sions Extension to Contingents Act-was meant to cover cases like this, and under that Act all 