this thing in hand themselves. The owner of the kiln was quite willing to dispose of his pro- perty on reasonable terms, if the Agricultural Department would take it up and work it in the same way as they were doing in the South. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that, as far as the lime-burners in the South Island were concerned, he did not think the Govern- ment had helped them in any way. But it was an important question all the same, and he might state to the honourable gentleman that a petition signed by John McKay and other farmers of the Wairarapa asked the Govern- ment to acquire the works of Mr. Branchley at Mauriceville, and owned by Mr. Branchley, who stated that he was prepared to dispose of his interest on reasonable terms. Mr. Branchley offered in May, 1900, to dispose of the whole of his property, containing eight acres, for £3,500; but this was far above the value, and he could not recommend anything nearly ap- proaching this sum to the colony for the pur- chase of it. The petition was partly considered at the time, and Mr. Branchley wanted £3,500 for eight acres of land. Mr. HOGG said that was for the works and everything, steam machinery, large kilns, and 80 on. Mr. DUNCAN said that the works which Mr. Branchley had on the land were of no use whatever if the Government were to start in the lime business, as there was nothing up to date on Mr. Branchley's property that the Government could use in this industry. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The lime-kiln in the South had only 4.0. been in working-order for about two months, and it could hardly be said that the experiments had had a proper trial. He be- lieved the lime could be placed on the trucks at about 12s. Then, it was carried one hundred miles free on the railways for farmers, so that he thought it ought to be worth going in for by farmers. If it was found to prove beneficial in the South, it would be time enough to see what could be done in regard to the North Island in a year from now. He might say there had been no applications from farmers outside that of Mr. Branchley. Mr. HOGG .- What about the petition ? Mr. DUNCAN said the petition was from a man named Mckay; but Mr. Branchley could get half a dozen Mckay's and any amount of farmers to sign the petition. Mr. HOGG said there were about fifty farmers interested in this. Mr. DUNCAN said, Not one farmer had in- terviewed him on the matter. However, he considered £3,500 was too much to give for eight acres of land in that position, and he believed he could get land with equally good lime for a much less sum of money. TREATMENT OF STOCK DISEASES. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will favourably consider the ques- tion of issuing a small stock-book or pamphlet containing descriptions of stock diseases, giving Mr. Hogg ment for same, suitable to up-country farmers' requirements, especially at the present time, owing to the reported outbreak of a dangerous cattle-disease? He had asked a similar ques- tion last session. He knew the many demands on the Stock Department, but surely they could find time to publish a little pamphlet, which would be of material advantage to the farming community. It might be said that there would be a difficulty in regard to the sub-editing, but he knew there were a number of farmers of ability throughout the country well ac- quainted with the subject who would be very pleased to lend assistance in the matter. The great mortality among the ewe flocks during the month of August caused a very heavy loss to settlers, as the ewes in the South Island were worth about £1 apiece, and nearly as much in the North Island. In many cases the loss amounted to about 10 per cent., and was seldom less than 4 or 5 per cent. Then as to the treatment of dairy cattle, although there was valuable information in the various agri- cultural journals upon this subject, the average farmer could find very little time to pick out these matters for himself, and if a few hard- and-fast rules were laid down for the treatment of ewe flocks and dairy cattle it would be of great service to the colony generally. He did not see why there should be any more diffi- culty about this than there had been in the publication of the various other leaflets by the Agricultural Department. He would not ad- vise the department to issue anything on the treatment of horses, as every farmer had his own opinion on that subject, and stuck to it. He hoped to receive a favourable reply ; but, if he did not, he would bring the matter up again. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) recognised at once the importance of this question, and he believed some little good could be done in this way. At the same time he did not think all the advice in creation on the treatment of ewe flocks would assist the farmer who would not keep his flocks on proper pasture at the lamb- ing time. He did not think there ought to be any more difficulty in regard to the publication of such a pamphlet than there was in publish- ing the leaflets already issued on all other sub- jects, and he would have a trial made to see if it would lead to beneficial results in the near future. ## RESERVES DISPOSAL AND EXCHANGE BILL. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he will reintroduce the Re- serves Disposal and Exchange Bill of last session, and endeavour to pass it into law ? His constituents were interested in two or three clauses of the Bill of last year, and he hoped the Minister would reintroduce it at such a period of the session as would enable it to be placed on the statute-book. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the Bill was in course of preparation. When it was ready it would be introduced. As it was a measure in which several members of the 