propose to amend, only covers wounds received in action, though to a limited extent it covers also the widows of those who have died from illness, which illness was not actually the result of a wound received in the campaign. It also covers widows, children, mothers, and sisters; but I want the Hon. the Premier to understand that the Imperial pensions cover a great deal more than that. They cover disability due to climatic disease, and dis- ability due to exposure. Our Act does not do so ; and, as amended, it will not do so. The Imperial Pensions Act is much wider than ours, and it covers also disabilities and diseases from exposure on the field. I repeat, I think that a man is as much entitled to a pension who is suffering permanently from disease as the result of a campaign as one who has a wound, and I hope the Premier will yet con- sent to bring down a Governor's message ex- tending the operation of the Act to cover all the Imperial Act does, for I do not see why our men, who have served their country and the Empire, should be placed upon a worse footing than those who have served from the Home- country. I ask him to look over the Imperial pensions, and so to amend the Bill as to cover all the Imperial pensions cover. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) .- Sir, there is a great deal in what the honour- able gentleman has contended, but we must not forget this : that there is a great diffi- culty in proving the claims, and that it opens a very wide door when you say, that climatic influences during the stay in South Africa may https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have laid the seeds of disease, and that ulti- mately the health has been impaired. If you do that you will never know where it is going to stop nor when it is going to commence. I want to be free from any matter of that kind. I do not see how it could be sufficiently safe- guarded. Years after, numbers of men might come up and claim upon the funds of the colony for a pension. I took it for granted my- self that, under the Act of 1866, the provisions made there would meet all that was necessary under the circumstances ; and I may say that it was not pointed out to me then, nor was it urged, that we should go beyond the Act of 1866. We have gone, even in our present law, farther than what has been mentioned, and I think, myself, that under these general terms it covers nearly everything the honourable mem- ber has referred to: "Men rendered incapable by "; "men able to contribute to," and so on. That is the First Schedule. Mr. PIRANI .- What about being disabled by illness ? Mr. SEDDON .- As I have said, it is not pro- vided for in the original Act, and it was not provided for in the Bill of last session ; but there may be cases where such disability is apparent now, and where, immediately after coming from duty that is observed, the circum- stances would warrant something being done ; but to put it so that, as the honourable member says, years afterwards they can claim a pension because the seeds of trouble were laid in South Mr. J. Allen our pension-list clear at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- Regulations should pro- vide for that. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I would nct endeavour hastily to pass a Bill through with such a con- dition. I should say that it ought to be that after arrival from the war, and on examination by a properly constituted Medical Board, if the Medical Board then and there say that the soldier, trooper, or officer has had his health permanently impaired, he should be placed upon the list. I say there is something in that; but if we leave it open so that at any time men can come in and say that their health has been impaired in consequence of what took place in South Africa you will have a very big pension-list. It will grow probably as the pension-list has grown in America. The Bill before us cures some existing defects of legisla- tion. The point raised by the honourable gentleman is a very reasonable one. I will look into it carefully, and also into the Imperial Act, and will see how far we can go. At the same time I do not want my name associated with any measure which in years to come is going to place a heavy burden upon the people of the colony; but I want to do justice to those who fought our battles in South Africa. I admit, myself, if a man's health has been impaired to such an extent as to render him incapable of earning his livelihood, and the ill- ness arises when in the service, and the claim is made at the time, that is a fitting case for Parliament to provide for, and I will look into the matter. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I think the principle we ought to follow, and the prin- ciple we ought to have adopted when the First Contingent left for South Africa, is that when our men return from South Africa in an injured condition their welfare should be well looked after by the colony. That is the principle we ought to go upon. I admit that what the Pre- mier says is right : that we must be particularly careful that we do not create an abnormal pen- sion-list in years to come, such as has been created in the States of America of sufferers, direct and indirect, by the war of secession. It is quite possible, I think, to do all that is neces- sary without involving ourselves in an abnormal pension-list. As has been pointed out by the honourable member for Bruce, incapacity from illness is much more frequent than incapacity from wounds. Any one who may remember the lists of officers and men killed, wounded, and invalided in the South African campaign will know quite well that for every man who was killed there were four or five wounded, and for every man wounded there were five or six who were invalided home. In South Africa, unfortunately, there have been great numbers of men who have suffered from pneumonia and malarial fever, diseases which are very liable indeed to recur, as, indeed, is rheumatism, from which we know so many men have suffered in South Africa. The Premier is quite right when he says we must be careful how we allow persons at some remote 