newspapers that require protection against the blackmailer; there is no such thing as the blackmailer in this country. It is the news- paper which constantly ridicules and maligns private persons and misrepresents public men. It is from sources such as these that the people of the country require protection. For years past attempts have been made by the owners and representatives of newspapers of this colony to induce Parliament to pass what they call a Libel Bill. They already have a Libel Act which is quite sufficient to protect all reputable and respectable persons. The Act at present on the statute-book provides ample protection to every individual. What more is wanted I cannot tell. This Bill sup- plies an omission that was called attention to by the Judges of the Supreme Court sitting as a Court of Appeal. As to its being barbarous and savage, it is barbarous only in the sense of being a terror to evil-doers. Persons who understand the ordinary canons of decency will never be subject to the operation of the Act. The Act is there as a dormant power to prevent an abuse of the latitude allowed to newspapers. It will be a useful deterrent. To show the effect of newspaper misrepresenta- tion, I may call attention to a case that was called " The Great Queensland Libel Case," in which Lieut .- Colonel P. R. Ricardo, C.B., who commanded the First Queensland Con- tingent in South Africa, sued the Brisbane Observer, one of the leading newspapers of the Queensland capital, for $5,000 damages for reflection on his conduct as a soldier. The extracts from the evidence that were cabled in the course of the trial appeared to show that the weight of evidence tended against the plaintiff ; and yet at the end the jury awarded him $500 damages. According to the cabled reports of the case published throughout this colony by the newspapers every one was led to believe that Lieut .- Colonel Ricardo had proved himself a coward and a cur in the field in South Africa, but the jury, who heard all the evidence, awarded him $500 damages, and rehabilitated the character of a man who previously had been known as a brave and an honourable man. People in this country wondered at the verdict. Why? Because of the version of the case communicated to New Zealand by the newspapers. The ways of the newspaper man are various and mysterious. In order to convince the public of the necessity of passing an amended libel law we constantly read in the newspapers, "Notices to Corre- spondents," to this effect :- "R.S.'-The beginning of the seasons, like that of the days, differs according as the reckon- ing is popular or astronomical ; but, having regard to the present state of the libel law and the fate of Galileo, we are precluded from ex- pressing any opinion upon the matter." ". Resident.'-Your letter was inadmissible while the sale was pending. It would be better that you should address yourself to the local authority ; or, if writing to the Press, confine yourself to the general principle, and do not present state of the libel law prevents us dealing trenchantly with the subject, which is of ab- sorbing interest to the public." "'A Churchman.'-Your letter is now in type, and will appear on the first favourable opportunity. Notwithstanding the present state of the libel law, we are prepared, in the public interest, to accept every risk." "'Sanitas.'-Your statements reflect on a public servant, and therefore your accusation should be made in the form of a privileged communication to his employers. The absurd law of libel does not permit newspapers to ven- tilate such matters, no matter how well founded the statements may be." " Good Order.' -Your letter ought to be published, but in the present state of the libel law we must decline to take the risk. How- ever, we will try to bring out the facts." "(F.R.K.'-Ambergris is a substance of the consistence of wax, and is believed to originate as a morbid secretion in the intestines of the sperm whale. We have a lurking suspicion in regard to the morbid secretion in your own intestines, but in the present state of the libel law we forbear to give expression to our views." An Hon. MEMBER .- What papers are those from ? Mr. FISHER .- The Wellington Times and Post. That is the way in which pressure is attempted to be brought on Parliament to amend the libel law. I have shown for many years past in this House that there is no ne- cessity for passing an amending libel law. The strongest argument of the newspapers in New Zealand in asking for the passing of a libel law is that they are anxious to bring the libel law of New Zealand in line with the libel law of England. The fact is that the present libel law of England, which was passed in 1889, has been petitioned against year after year in the British House of Commons. Bills to repeal that libel law are introduced into the House of Commons every year. They all meet with the same fate. They are all rejected in con- sequence of the great power, the great influence, of the newspaper proprietors and newspaper companies in England. I have shown on former occasions that it is not possible to repeal that English Act, because of the great pressure that is brought to bear in influential circles in every direction upon members of the House of Commons; and I say there is no necessity whatever to alter the libel law of this colony, except in so far as to pass the very neces- sary Bill which the honourable gentleman this night asks the House to pass. This Bill is necessary to prevent the newspaper libeller from injuring the characters of public men and causing pain and misery to private families. It is a mistake to suppose that it is public men only who suffer from the misrepresentation- the wilful misrepresentation -of the newspaper. It is not the public man who suffers. They only advertise the public men into prominence, and he can answer for himself on the platform or at any public meeting. But, in the case of 