way to give a favourable answer to this ques- tion, and, if he did so, it would save these people working on the back roads of the colony a great amount of trouble, and money also. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the question was an important one, and, personally, he thought there could be something done to lessen the difficulties. The departmental answer was this :- " Owing to the difficulty and risk of carrying large sums of money in bush and unoccupied districts, and owing to the fact that Govern- ment money so carried has been lost, it has been found necessary in many cases to pay the men by cheque. The exchange on the cheque is paid by Government, and the men can always have their pay in two or three cheques if there is likely to be any difficulty in cashing a large cheque. Payment by cheque is also desirable, as it tends to prevent peculation in the case of a dishonest officer, as there is docu- mentary evidence of the amount actually re- ceived by the men." Personally, he thought, in cases where it could be done, a portion of the payment should be in cash, and he would give instructions to see if this could be done. TAIERI MAORI VILLAGE. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he will recommend and take the necessary steps to have the Pro- clamation given under the hand of His Excel- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 lency the Governor on the 23rd day of March, 1901, and published in New Zealand Gazette No. 31, of the 28th day of March, 1901, page 779, amended in respect of two of the pieces of http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero land mentioned in the schedule to the said Pro- clamation- namely, (1) in respect to Section 84, Block VI., Maungatua Survey District, Otago, containing 4 acres and 2 perches ; and (2) in respect to Tatawai Lake, Otago, containing 121 acres-so as to absolutely hand over and vest the said two pieces of land in the aboriginal natives residing at the Taieri Maori Village ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the four acres mentioned by the honourable gentle- man were set apart for the use of aboriginal na- tives. The lake was set apart for fishing, without specifying that it was to be confined to aboriginal natives. The definition of the reserve could be made specific by stating, in another Proclama- tion, that it was reserved for the use of the Natives residing at the Taieri Maori Village. This could be done under "The Public Reserves Act, 1681." He would like to know from the honourable member whether it was absolutely necessary that this should be confined to the Maoris. Mr. PARATA said he did not think there was any objection to other people going there, but some complaint had been made to the Natives about going to this place. Mr. DUNCAN said he would see that no complaint was made, and that the Natives could go fishing if they liked, and when they liked. Mr. O'Meara AGRICULTURE. Mr. STEVENS ( Manawatu ) asked the Minister for Agriculture, If he will favour- ably consider the advisability of having the report of the Department of Agriculture printed and bound up in the Appendices of the Journals of the House, in the same way in which the report of the Department of Lands and Survey is, and thus make this important publication a parliamentary record ? He would draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that it was very important that the transactions of all procedure relating to the Agricultural Department of this colony should become a public and colonial record. There was no more important department in the public service than that of Agriculture, and he hoped the Minister would see his way to give favourable consideration to his suggestion. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said there was some difficulty about this. He had made inquiries, and found that the ordinary size was totally unsuitable for distribution to settlers. That being so, if the request were com- plied with it would be necessary to have two forms printed, one for insertion in the Appen- dices and a smaller size for distribution. He would make inquiries as to the cost, and, if reasonable, he thought, himself, it was quite of as much importance as many others included in the Appendices. If the cost would not be too high he would have the two sizes printed. DUTIES IN COOK ISLANDS. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Commissioner of Trade and Customs, - (1) Whether it is a fact that Customs duties are being charged in the Cook Islands on goods imported from New Zealand ; (2) whether, in view of the Cook Islands being part of the Colony of New Zealand, he will issue orders that the Customs laws of the colony are to be adhered to ; and (3) whether he will refund the duties that have been collected on New Zea- land goods since the annexation? It was stated in the papers that duties were being charged on goods that came from New Zealand to the Cook Islands. It would seem that directly the Cook Islands were annexed to the colony they became a part of it, and the duties should be similar to those in New Zealand, and no duty should be levied on goods im- ported from New Zealand. But here was a report in a paper from the Auckland Star's reporter, dated the 23rd August :- "The question of import duties is greatly agitating the minds of the traders in Raro- tonga. Previous to the 11th June a uniform duty of 10 per cent. ad valorem had been im- posed on all imports. It was then gazetted that all imports were to pay the same rates as were levied in New Zealand, except goods im- ported from that colony, which would pay only 10 per cent." It would thus be seen that 10 per cent. duty was levied on New Zealand goods after the Cook Islands became a portion of the colony. 