the very lowest he could not win it under £100. I know when I canvassed that splendid consti- tuency of Waihemo it was necessary for me, in order to meet the wiles of the Premier and the Government, to spend £70 a week in order to make a success of that election. No man, un- less he goes through a constituency and does what is reasonably required of him-unless he pays out of pocket the expenses that are neces- sary-can be an independent member, as is required in this Parliament. I do not believe in members accepting assistance from political organizations. No sooner does he do that than he becomes the slave of that organization. Therefore I think it is a reasonable proposal to make, that allowance of certain necessary expenses should be entertained. I do not sup- port the Bill, for this reason : Although the honourable member for Dunedin City is an authority on constitutional history, he lacks that knowledge of finance that is essential to a successful Minister, and, as he aspires to the Attorney-Generalship, and not the Treasury, it may not be necessary. But the difference is this : I urge the allowance of certain necessary expenses which are bigger in some constitu- encies than others; whereas this additional £60 the honourable gentleman is going to sup- port is going into the pocket of every member indiscriminately, irrespective of the difference of the work in the different constituencies, and that is a very important consideration ; and, as I have explained this to the honourable member, I think he will appreciate it. I think the Bill requires an amendment as to subsec- tion (1) of clause 5 of the Act of 1892 regarding leave of absence. The Premier alluded to it, and he said in that famous speech delivered in 1880 or 1881 that not only was the time greater in reaching his home, but that it cost him £20 to get there. I think that the allowance amounts should be graduated. Members in the Provincial District of Wellington, who usually take such a prominent part in the discussions in this House, do not require the five days' leave of absence ; but we might leave that, so far as they are concerned, in that position. I think that in the subsection re- ferred to we might strike out the five days and insert ten days for electoral districts outside the District of Wellington, and then members might have an opportunity of visiting their families once or twice during the session. I consider that is very important. There are members who cannot visit their families more than once during the session, and there are some mem- bers who cannot even do that. It is a singular thing that whilst a deduction of £2 is made for every day a man is away, if a member of the House of Representatives, there is only a deduc- tion of 25s. a day made in the case of a mem- ber of the Legislative Council who is absent for a day. As to the statement that members who are opposed to this Bill need not take the money, and that that is a thing which might be largely availed of by the wealthier mem- bers of this House : as I understand it, it has been said that there are only three really wealthy Mr. T. Mackenzie side of the House and the Premier, and, as the Premier is a Minister and does not at the pre- sent time draw anything beyond his own meagre salary, it is not likely that he would take this amount even it were passed. These are my views in connection with this measure. I do not think the country has as yet declared that members should be paid this sum, and, until they so declare, I consider that the amount now paid is sufficient. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I did not in- tend to address the House on this measure, but I feel tempted to make a few remarks in conse- quence of certain observations which have fallen from the Bombastes Furioso of the House, the member for Waihemo. Mr. TANNER .- I rise to a point of order. It is eight years ago since I heard that expression ruled out of order, when applied by one member to another in the course of debate. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not see any. thing very objectionable in the expression. Mr. NAPIER .- The honourable member for Waihemo said that it cost him $70 a week during the election in his district, and he questioned the accuracy of my interjection that the election expenses and the annual disburse- ments of a city member are equal to, if not greater than, those of a country member. Sir, I believe that the experience of every city mem- ber is similar to my own-namely, that it is more expensive to contest a city constitu- ency than to contest a country constitu- ency, and that the perennial calls on one's purse are more burdensome in the cities. In the legal and legitimate expenditure of a city candidate, in advertising, printing, rent of halls, and in other ways, a very large sum is disbursed. Then, again, the city members, except those of Wellington, have to live far from their homes, and that, of necessity, adds considerably to their expenditure. But how are some country constituencies won-say, for instance, the constituency of Waihemo? A short time ago I happened to be in a small- potato village in the South Island called Palmerston South, and, while waiting for the train in the evening, darkness came on, and I heard the voice of what I thought was a village orator. I asked one of the bystanders who it was. I said, " Have you a ' Cheap Jack ' in this district ? " He said, " No; that is Tom Mac- kenzie and his cockatoos." I was not perfectly clear as to what the bystander meant. I thought, perhaps, he was referring to a bird- fancier. So I proceeded over to the assemblage, and there I saw the honourable member for Wai- hemo vigorously expatiating to those assembled. He was speaking to a number of farmers, and some of his remarks contained the same fulsome self-adulation of which we often get a surfeit from him in this House-how he outwitted the nefarious designs of the London middlemen, plotters against the unfortunate farmers in New Zealand : how he was able during his resi- dence in London to detect one imposition after another; how he found that Argentine or other inferior mutton was being sold for New Zea- 