receipt of that report. PERMANENT MILITIA UNIFORMS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) 4.30. asked the Government, Whether they will favourably consider the question of supply- ing the men of the Permanent Militia with uniforms free of cost, as is done in the case of the police ? He merely wished to say that he was a plain, blunt man much given to speaking the truth, and he hoped he was not going too far in saying that what was sauce for the goose ought to be sauce for the gander. If the honourable gentleman could see his way to supply the police, who were a much more numerous body, with uniforms free of cost, he ought to be able to see his way to do so for the men of the Permanent Militia. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the Police Department only supplied the following made-up clothing: One waterproof coat and one greatcoat every two years. They also sup- plied a shako, and materials for making a jumper and a pair of trousers every year. The cost of making up was defrayed by the men themselves. The cost per man in the Per- manent Militia of uniform made up, including boots, for a complete issue was £11 17s. An annual issue of frock, trousers, boots, work- ing-suit, field-service cap, and forage-cap cost about £4 3s. per annum made up. The annual cost of above, supplying materials for frock and trousers, and supplying other stores as above made up would be about #2 per annum per man. A greatcoat and full-dress tunic would cost about $5 4s. every three years-say, annual cost, $500; triennial, £1,240. After the attack made on the defence expenditure in Committee on the estimates the other day he did not feel inclined to further increase the defence expen- diture at present. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL APPOINT- MENTS. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Premier, If in recommending future appointments to the Legislative Council he will give effect to the demand made some time ago by the Welling- ton Trades and Labour Council: that "the Trades and Labour Councils claim the right to be consulted in regard to the appointment of members to the Legislative Council "; and whether he is not now of opinion, con- sidering its numbers and importance, that the Farmers' Union is equally entitled to be considered ? He thought this question did seem necessary, as other interests and industries had representatives in the Upper Chamber, and he did not think the agricul- tural interests of the country had been pro- vided with any representation in the Council. He would also like to remind the Premier of a very attractive expression he made use of the other day, which was that small farmers should have representation in the Council. It was not that he desired that the farmers should assume any inequitable power in the Council, tural representatives appointed to the Council, who would be capable men, to afford informa- tion on matters relating to land and produce, they having been suggested for appointment by a large interest, such as the agricultural community. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) knew the honourable gentleman would do him the justice to admit that, so far as the farmers were concerned, he was the best Premier this colony had ever had. Mr. HERRIES .- That is very debatable. Mr. SEDDON said it was not at all debat- able ; it was a fact, and the farmers knew it too. What was more than that, they were on most friendly terms, and it would not be his fault if they did not continue. He considered that those who were the friends of the farmers were the friends of the colony, because every- thing came from the soil, and if the farmers were prosperous, then the whole country pro- spered. He might say, however, that the Go- vernment did not recognise that any organized body or bodies should be consulted in respect to appointments to the Council. An Hon. MEMBER .- It has been done. Mr. SEDDON said, At all events, the Govern- ment had never consulted the Trades and Labour Council as to who should be called to the Legislative Council. Whether that body had laid claim to this course having been followed was their business, and not his. They might have made recommendations, but he could not say that they had. With respect to the Farmers' Union, he would ask the honourable gentleman, if here, to renew the question after the next election. # ORDER OF BUSINESS. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, Whether he will clear the Order Paper of all Bills not intended to be dealt with this session ? He would simply point out that a number of Bills had already been cleared off the Order Paper since he had given notice of this question. His chief reason for asking the question was that, as so many Bills remained on the Order Paper, members were put to the trouble of looking up numbers of Bills, some of which might not be dealt with during the ses- sion, and their attention to that extent was di- verted from matters that they would have to deal with. Further than that, one was frequently receiving communications from constituents asking whether certain Bills were to be dealt with this session or not, and he had had a num- ber of communications in reference to such Bills as the Teachers' Salaries Bill, the Railway Ser- vants Classification Bill, and the Licensing Bill ; and one naturally would like to know, as the session was drawing to a close, what Bills the Government would endeavour to pass before the close of the session. It was not with the idea of getting the Order Paper cleared, or of shortening the session, that he asked this question, but for the reasons he had given. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he thought the Bills now on the Order Paper were Bills which 