commencement of this Act, provision is made limiting or extending the working-hours of miners working underground in any mine, or providing for the payment of overtime, this section shall, in respect to such mine, and so long as such award continues in force, be read and construed subject to such award." The Committee divided on the question, " That the new clause be added to the Bill." AYES, 16. Smith, W. C. Kelly, T. Bolt Feldwick Swanson Kelly, W. Pinkerton Tomoana Gourley Reeves Jenkinson Twomey Walker, W. C. Smith, A. L. Johnston Jones NOES, 8. Pitt Jennings .Bonar Williams. Louisson Bowen Peacock Harris Majority for, 8. Clause added to the Bill. Bill reported and read the third time. MAORI LANDS ADMINISTRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This Bill, I hope, will be passed by the Council. It is purely a Bill to amend an Act which was passed last year with the knowledge of every one concerned that it was of an experimental nature; but, inasmuch as for the first time in the history of the colony we had a Native Minister of the Native race, whose soul was filled with the amelioration of his own people, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Parliament had the greater pleasure in passing the Act last year, because it trusted he knew what he was doing; it hoped his work would prosper, because he had behind him his know- ledge of the hopes and aspirations of his own people. He is, if in describing him I may use an old academic description, " Doctor utriusque juris." He knows all about his own people, and their laws and their customs, and, at the same time, he has graduated in the pakeha law, and he knows all about that. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Who is that ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am talk- ing of a doctor-not a Maori doctor-but a doctor both of Maori and of pakeha lore. I say, that was the pleasure which the Coun- cil had last year in passing the Bill which gave this Native Minister the opportunity of doing what he could for his own people, considering that he was helping them with his own know- I dge of their wants, and what he had learnt by being a pakeha politician. And this Bill simply asks Parliament to make certain amend- ments of a very small and a very trifling nature to help his machinery to work. It was a very large departure last year, and therefore I am not astonished that there is opposition to it in certain directions. We all know that in a certain city called Ephesus, when the Temple of the goddess Diana was threatened, there was a great disturbance amongst the silversmiths ; so we find there is when any attempt is made to touch any sacred cult in this country. Hon. Mr. Reeves Native interpreter or the Native agent, or of the persons engaged in dealing with Native land, we generally get a hornet's nest about our ears. That is what the Native Minister has got in this case. They are all at him. But the Council should see fair-play, and if his Bills are fair and honest it should put them through. There is nothing in this Bill I can remark upon more than this: that the measure we passed last year should be given time, and should have the advantage of this altered machinery. It may be asked, Why is this necessary? Well, no honourable gentleman has ever known a Bill passed of a large scope and large operation but that in twelve months' time the machinery. perhaps, has got to be altered, because ex- perience shows that what has been expected twelve months' before has not come off ; and I do not think any one can conceive that any- thing has eventuated which was anticipated from the proposals of last year embodied in the Act. It was that the Maoris should take their own destinies into their own hands with respect to their lands. The whole thing has to be worked up from the beginning, and the Native Minister found in certain particulars that certain alterations had got to be made. and he brought down this Bill to Parliament. and I have the greatest possible pleasure in moving, That you do leave the Chair on tias Bill in order that the Council may go into Committee. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY .- It appears to me that the Native land legislation of this country has got into a most complicated state. There are no less than twenty-seven Native-land laxs in existence at present, all passed since 1811, and we are annually passing more Native Bins. and we are getting our Native-land laws more and more complicated every year. Now, most of the Natives of the district I come from-th.e Bay of Plenty-are anxious that this Bill should not pass ; but I have no doubt, as it has passed in the other Chamber, it will be very likely to pass here also. However, I shall endeavour to put the matter before honourable members in the best way I possibly can, and show how this Bill will affect the position of the Native race at the present time. These Maori Councils that were established by last year's legislation a great majority of the Natives themselves are dissatisfied with, and the more enlightened of the Natives contend that the Act will never work. Some twenty years ago there was Native Committee established by the Araus Tribe. This Native Committee was set up to put their land through, and then to put it through the Native Land Court. Sir Douaid McLean, the Native Minister, gave them every assistance he possibly could, and Proclama- tions were issued by the Governor in Council to give that Committee certain powers. The different hapus elected the members of the Committee similarly to what is done under this Bill. They met for years, and at the end of the time all they had done was to eat ard drink and spend what little money they could collect, while they were sitting endeavouring 