Agriculture, Whether, before approving of the plan of any abattoir intended for the purposes of any large centre of population, he will insist on the addition of chilling-rooms, so as to enable butchers to kill their stock in moderately large quantities as soon as conveniently after they reach the abattoir, and leave the same in such chilling-rooms until required for shop purposes, and thus prevent the deterioration of the meat in quality by keeping the animals alive for lengthened periods upon the abattoir premises ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the first part of the question was rather a large order. He did not think the department could insist on anything in this way, although he might say at once it was a matter for serious consideration by those who erected abattoirs, and in his opinion it would be much better if it were done, because the meat would then keep for several days in good condition. It would also avoid cattle being kept in the yard without anything to eat, and sometimes without any water. Such stock could not be in the best con- dition for killing. If the cattle were killed soon after being removed from their pastures before they began to fall off in condition it would be a great advantage to the butchers and to the public. He had, however, no power to insist on the erection of these chilling-rooms. # BOILERMAKERS AT ADDINGTON WORKSHOPS. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he is pre- pared to carry out the promise made to the boilermakers at the Addington Workshops about twelve months ago-namely, that, as they were offered 12s. to 13s. per day by private firms, the Government would give them an advance of 6d. per day, and a further 6d. per day in twelve months from that date ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, From very careful inquiries and comparisons made as to rates of wages current in outside employ, it was considered that the Government railway workshops employés were now being paid at a rate which compared very favourably and equitably with similar workers outside. He might say that the Government were looking into this matter, because they realised that a great responsibility rested with the Govern- ment in respect to this question-namely, that they should see that a fair wage was paid to Government employés, and that, at all events, the Government should not be behind, but, if anything. they should be a little ahead of, private employers. ## MRS. L. J. NUTT. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) asked the Post- master-General, If he will direct that the sum of $70 be paid to Mrs. L. J. Nutt, of Marton, that being the balance of £140 which the Pub- lic Petitions M to Z Committee recommended should be paid to her as compassionate allow- ance in consequence of the death of her late husband, who had for many years been em- tions Committee made a very strong recom- mendation in regard to this case. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was a standing rule with Ministers that it was only in extreme cases that they granted an amount equal to a year and a half's salary as com- passionate allowance. They originally granted to Mrs. Nutt an amount equal to a year's pay, £140. She then petitioned the House, and the Committee recommended the grant of an ad- ditional year's pay, for the following reasons :- "This Committee is strongly of opinion that the death of the petitioner's husband was accelerated if not entirely caused by over zeal on behalf of the department he was serving, and that, under these circumstances, the peti- tioner is entitled to a further compassionate allowance of $140." The matter was reconsidered by the Govern- ment, and it was directed that a further sum of $70 should be granted, which was equal to another half-year's salary. That amount was placed on the supplementary estimates last year, and the amount was paid to Mrs. Nutt. The Government had a large number of such cases, and if they broke through the rule in one case they would have to break it in every case. He did not think, on what had been brought before the Government, it would warrant them going any further than they had gone. RAILWAY RATES FOR TIMBER. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether, when adjusting railway rates for the haulage of timber, he will make a reduction in the present charges for the car- riage of hardwood imported from Australia re- quired for making gates and hurdles for farm use, as the present charges for small lots of hardwood are excessive? He might mention that a farmer in his electorate gave an order for 345 ft. of hardwood imported from Australia. It was delivered at Waipara, forty-one miles from Christchurch, at a cost of 19s. 8d., or at the rate of 5s. 8d. per hundred feet for haulage of a hundred miles-25 per cent. of the retail value of the timber. This class of timber was not obtainable here in New Zealand, and it was absolutely necessary for making gates and hurdles on farms. Surely under these circum- stances it was not unreasonable to complain of the prohibitive railway tariff on this wood. He hoped the matter would be carefully looked into by the Government, and that the grievance would be removed. It was absurd to tax this class of timber, which had to be imported. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Govern- ment must consider every circumstance in deciding or fixing the rate at which goods or timber were to be carried on the railways ; and the amount which had been fixed-and which was not fixed recently-was simply one-half more than was charged for the railage of New Zealand timber. He entirely disagreed with the honourable member in respect to the timber re- quired for gates. In New Zealand we had got 