Those subsections are struck out, with the ex- ception of part of subsection (4), which now reads : " After the decision on such appeal to the District Health Officer has been given the Inspector shall," et cetera ; so that the proper person to decide as to the sanitary condition is the Health Officer, and not the Inspector. Members will find a new clause in clause 17A. It carries out the existing law, and is preferable to the law as it stood. It says,- " Subject to the provisions of this Act, a week's labour for every male worker shall not exceed forty-eight hours, and no male worker shall be employed in or about any factory for any longer time than eight hours and three- quarters in any one day. Every male worker employed over and above the before-mentioned hours shall be paid therefor at not less than one- fourth as much again as the ordinary rate of wage paid to such male worker: Provided that the foregoing limit of hours shall not be deemed to apply to any male worker employed in getting up steam for the machinery or the making of preparations for the work of the factory, nor to the trades exempted in the Schedule to this Act, nor to such other trades as may from time to time be added thereto by the Arbitration Court. No male worker shall be employed for a longer time than four hours and a half without an interval of at least three- quarters of an hour for dinner." In the schedule it will be found that the works and factories exempted under sec- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tion 17A are freezing-works, dairy factories, fellmongeries, fish curing or preserving esta- blishments, jam - factories (during the small- fruit season), and bacon factories. We found / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero it was impossible to propose anything else ; it was best to put the schedule in. In Commit- tee it may be thought that additions should be made to the schedule ; but, at any rate, we have met the cases we thought were necessary. In the meat-freezing works, as was shown incontest- ably by the evidence, the men in the busy sea- son are practically working during the whole of the time the works are going, and they are not working anywhere else in the interval. It is necessary that the whole time should be worked, otherwise they could not cope with the work that has to be done, and the equipment of the works would not allow more men to be em- ployed ; nor could men be taken on to work overtime, as there would not be sufficient work for them. Under the circumstances, then, the Committee have come to the conclusion that the proposal of clause 17A is the proper way to deal with the difficulty, and I think it will meet it in a way satisfactory to all concerned. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do you accept the whole of clause 17A ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, the whole of it. Then, clause 19 deals with restrictions as to deduc- tions from wages, et cetera. There is no new principle in the clause. I agree to the amend- ment which substitutes "woman " and " young person " for the word " person." Sections 25 and 26 are the existing law. Under section 28 members will note that we have done two Mr. Seddon which is the existing law ; and we have said that there shall be an increase annually of 2s. per week. It is a strange commentary upon our law, when by statute we say that there should be a minimum wage, that the employers have not thought fit in the great majority of cases to increase that ; and it seems to me that it <!-- PageHeader="1" --> is no use leaving it to their generosity, for we find the same thing occurring as if there were no minimum wage at all, and, instead of giving the increased wage that might natu- rally have been expected to be given after the youth has become perfected in the trade, they were told to go on at the minimum wage or take the street for it. An Hon. MEMBER .- That was only in some cases. Mr. SEDDON .- Quite so; but the Com- mittee, at all events, thought the best thing to do was to make this proposal. Take a youth getting 5s. a week at sixteen years of age, with five increments of 2s. per week, when that boy gets to the age of twenty-one years he is only receiving 15s. per week, and I do not think there can be any complaint about that. There will still be a danger of some not being kept on; but that is a matter more for the Committee to deal with. I think the general principle will be admitted, and which seems sound, that, while providing for a minimum wage, we should also provide for the annual increase. Under section 30 members will see that we have struck out paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of subsection (2). In respect to the holidays, I may say that the evidence given to the Com- mittee was overwhelming as against paying the men for a large number of holidays given to men engaged in factories. It was proved by some of the employers that most of their present profits, and in some cases more, would be eaten up in payment for these holidays, and they would have nothing for themselves. Under such circumstances as that the Committee-very properly I think- have come to the conclusion that payment for the ordinary holidays was as much as could be asked for; and not only that. but I am pleased to say that a number of the workers themselves, who tendered evidence, said that they preferred not to be under the obligation of taking money from their employers that they had not earned. Subsection (4) of sec- tion 46 contains an important departure which experience has rendered necessary. It is this : While the premises of the factory itself are bound to be maintained in a sanitary condition, sometimes there are places adjoining the factories which have been found to be in a most insanitary condition, to the great injury of the people working in the factories. Cases have been brought under my notice where the smell arising from some premises has been such that the employés of the factory, instead of breathing fresh and unsullied air, have to breathe a vitiated atmosphere. We therefore thought it right to give power to the Factory Inspector and the Health Officer to insist on the premises adjoining the factory being kept 