Tamaki Block -Maori Census-Otaki Native School Reserve - District Court, Dannevirke - Returns of Drunkenness-Execution of Cruni- nais: Press Representatives - Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act - Rabbit-poisoning - Elective Laud Boards-Auckland Crown Lands-Road to Petone Property-Customs Department Super- annuation - Trade with South Africa - Steam Service between New Zealand and South Africa -Otago Central Railway Rates - Orari-Timaru Railway - Mortgages of Land Bill - Factories Bill-Patea Election Petition. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Fisheries Encouragement Bill. SECOND READING. Cornwall Park Duties Exemption Bill. # CENTRAL OTAGO RAILWAYS. On the motion of Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the tonnage of all goods carried during the last financial year on, -(1) The Otago Central Railway, for Central Otago ; (2) the Lawrence Railway, for Central Otago ; and (3) the Lawrence Railway, to Law- rence. # GOVERNMENT LIME-KILNS AT MAHENO. On the motion of Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The total cost of production of lime at the Government lime-kilns at Maheno; and (2) the selling-price per ton of such lime. # ACCOMMODATION FOR SELECT COMMITTEES, ETC. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) brought up the following report from the Public Accounts Committee :- "The Public Accounts Committee have the honour to report that, at a meeting of the Com- mittee held this day, the following resolution was carried : ' The Committee complains of the inconvenience to which it is subjected through the constant change of rooms in which its meetings are held ; and that better arrange- ments should be made. That this matter be reported to the House." " All the Committees, he understood, were being buffeted about in the same way. Com- plaints had reached him from other Com- mittees of the same inconvenience. He moved, That the report lie on the table, and be re- ferred to Mr. Speaker for his consideration. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said the Goldfields Committee also had a complaint -namely, as to the constant change of clerks. The same difficulty, he understood, had been found by other Committees. The fact that the clerks were being changed so constantly mili- tated against the proper arrangement of the work, and the clerk who attended one meeting did not know what had transpired at the pre- vious meeting. He trusted that Mr. Speaker would also take that question into consideration. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) said that since they had the inconvenience that morning ho had, as instructed by the Committee, seen the officers of the House, and the matter had been arranged satisfactorily. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, In reference to this matter, honourable members were aware that he was only acting as Deputy-Speaker, and, as it was probable that Mr. Speaker would be able to resume his duties in a few days, he did not think it was his province to inter- fere and make permanent arrangements that might not be approved of by Mr. Speaker. For the information of honourable members, he might state that there were eighteen Com- mittees sitting, and there were only eight Com- mittee-rooms, and consequently it was only by the exercise of great ingenuity that the officers of the House were able to provide rooms for these Committees. However, a resolution had been proposed, and, if adopted, would be attended to by him. Motion agreed to. # MIDLAND RAILWAY. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the Public Accounts Committee be directed to report on the petitions of the debenture-holders and shareholders of the Midland Railway, and that the report of the Royal Commission on the Midland Railway be referred to the said Com- mittee for the purpose of enabling the Com- mittee to decide in respect to the said petitions. Honourable members would recollect that a petition came to the House from the debenture- holders of the Midland Railway, and another petition also came from the shareholders of the Midland Railway Company, and these two petitions were referred to the Public Accounts Committee. The Public Accounts Committee, after taking considerable evidence, and hearing counsel upon the matters contained in the peti- tions, made an interim recommendation, and the result was that a Royal Commission was set up. The report and evidence of that Commission had been laid on the table of the House, and was now in the possession of honourable members, and it was only courteous on the part of the House that there should be a definite reply sent in respect to the petitions that had been presented. Practically, the petitions had never been reported on by the House, and, of course, the wider questions involved outside the Commission's report and findings might be deemed necessary for the Committee to report upon, and he had taken this course-in fact, he might say it had been the course that he had marked out from the commencement. Without going into the merits of the matter now-he thought it would be out of place to do so-he would formally move that these petitions should be dealt with now by the Committee. He only regretted that the time of the Committee was taken up with regard to other matters that were not very important, but which they were bound to deal with. Motion agreed to. 