trade is a good thing generally, but what is the position here ? The Premier admitted in his introductory speech that the effect of free-trade between New Zealand and the Islands will be that two-thirds of the Customs revenue of the Islands will disappear, and that the cost of government will be greater than ever it was before. But the worst of it is that the defici- ency and the cost of government will have to be made good by the people of this colony. In connection with the land tenure the Premier last year said to the House :- "That the ownership of the lands in the Cook Group be admitted ; that a Court, on the same lines as the Native Land Court esta- blished in New Zealand, or a Commission, should define the ownership of the particular areas, and decide as to its subdivision and partition ; that, upon this being ascertained, the lands should be Crown-granted and alienated through the Crown, as agreed upon by the chiefs under the Treaty of Waitangi, and thus safeguard the interests of the Natives and prevent them from becoming landless or being taken advantage of. As regards the ownership of the lands : they are agreeable to annexation, and we do not want to disturb their ownership. All that we wish is that, in dealing with the lands hereafter, when this ownership has been defined, under changed conditions, it may be found that perhaps half- a-dozen people hold the whole island. That can be safeguarded and a Court could be con- stituted. They have recommended that. But https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that is only a matter of detail. As regards the disposal of the land, I think we must have the disposal of the land through the Crown alone ; otherwise you will have, under the altered con- ditions and developments, these lands taken from them by others. I think they must be safeguarded in that respect." That is to say, that it was intended to deal with the lands belonging to the natives of the Cook Islands in exactly the same way as the lands belonging to the Natives of this colony were dealt with. What is the position now ? The position has been abandoned by the Pre- mier. Mr. SEDDON .- No; certainly not. Mr. MASSEY .- Well, what does the Bill say ? The Bill goes back to the communal system of allowing natives to hold the land as they have held it for hundreds of years. I say the Bill is not satisfactory, but I do not see any other course to pursue, and I am sorry for it. As far as we are concerned, it is a case of " marry in haste and repent at leisure." We cannot go back on what has been done. All we can do is to make the best or the most of the position. Let us make no mistake about this: so soon as the natives of the Islands understand the position they will expect us to educate them in the same way that we edu- cate the aboriginal natives of this country. We shall also be expected to keep the peace, and to administer the law generally. Further, when they understand the true position- that they are to all intents and purposes citizens of this country-they will claim the it, because they are citizens just in the same way as our own Maoris are. The Premier said that in a short time these islands will be self- supporting. Well, I am afraid there is no member of this Parliament who will live to see these islands self-supporting. They will never be self-supporting until the present generation in the Islands is replaced by a more industrious and energetic race of people than the present inhabitants. So far as annexation of the Islands is concerned, it may have brought a certain amount of honour and glory to the Premier, and to one other individual ; but I am certain it will cost many thousands of pounds annually to the people of this country. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- Sir, it is too late now to discuss the wisdom or other- wise of having taken over these islands. Last year the House decided to take them over, and I do not think it will be wise for us to hurriedly introduce our laws into those islands : I think it would be a foolish thing to attempt to do. So far as I can see, the only thing we can endeavour to do is, as far as we can, to try to develop the resources of the Islands, and at the same time to leave the people as free as possible to work out their own destiny under the control of our Resident. I think a great mistake will be made if we attempt to esta- blish a number of officers in the various islands, or if we attempt to establish any expensive system of government. I think we should leave the people, as far as it is possible, to themselves, until we see how the annexation of the Islands works out. I understand these islands are suitable for the cultivation of coffee, cocoa, fruit, and sugar. If that is so, so far as I can see, the best course for the Government to adopt is to try and encourage Europeans with capital to go down there and start those industries-from what we know of the natives they will never do it- and this will raise the whole question of land tenure. I do not think it would be a wise thing to allow the natives to alienate their lands ; but unless the lands are secured on long lease no person is likely to invest his money and run the risk of losing it on a short lease. Seeing how the sugar industry is developed in Fiji, if the soil is suitable there is no reason why we should not have sugar- and coffee- plantations, et cetera. But so far as fruit- growing is concerned, I do not see how that could lead to anything more than at present. Fruit-growing, gathering copra, et cetera, and catching fish would enable the people to live in an ordinary way, but beyond that it would never produce anything. If we could induce planters to go there, by encouraging the Arikis to offer suitable lands at long lease, and so start coffee- and sugar-planting, we might pro- vide employment for the young men, and in- stead of going away they would be able to stay at home and work. We should, so far as pos- sible, try and make the Islands self-supporting, because I feel satisfied that if after a few years the people of the colony find there is a con- stant drain to maintain any system of govern- 