House and solve this problem for us. There is one gentleman outside the House who I know is taking a great interest in his own race. refer to Mr. Ngata. I do not know whether he can come into this House and solve the problem for us, whether a European member could do it better, or whether Mr. Ngata could assist the European member to do it. But the time has come for something to be done, and I feel that the Southern members, during the next recess, should look up this Native land question, and let us see whether we cannot help to put the matter on a better footing than it is on now. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I just wish, out of respect to the Native race, to say that my honourable friend the member for Bruce has misrepresented me. I did not call the Native race "bloated aristocrats." I merely said that, when we had fine, portly men of our Native race in Sydney at the time of the Com- monwealth celebrations, they were referred to by the Australians as big, plump, wealthy Na- tives, and as " bloated aristocrats." The Aus- tralian aboriginals whom we saw were very thin men-tall, but lean bodies. The Maoris were of high rank and distinguished appearance, and the Australians regarded their well-filled frames, and, as they stroked down their stomachs said : " Plenty stomach ; too much eat, not enough work." With regard to the statement that the Natives had not been fairly treated in this colony, I said there was no other nation which had treated their aboriginal tribes so well as we had treated the Maoris. But we should not treat them as children. They are a fine, manly, independent race, and quite able to take care of themselves; they hold their ground well either in fighting, in football, or in politics. I complimented the member for the Bay of Plenty on having made some excellent suggestions in the course of his speech. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- Sir, the conditions surrounding the debate this after- noon are very significant indeed. More than once the bell has been rung to bring a quorum of members into the House, and at no time have more than six of the South Island mem- bers been present during the debate. Now I want to say this: The honourable member for Bruce, who has just spoken, blames the North Island members for the failure in solving the Native land question, and suggests that the southern members should begin to take an interest in it. I say the whole of the blame for the non-solution of the Native land question in this country, apart from the Government-who are the only people that can originate any pro- posals in this House-the whole of the blame rests with the South Island members. Who is it that enables the Government to carry their Native land measures-the measures which are admittedly failures from top to bottom ? It is the South Island members of the House. Is that not so ? An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. FOWLDS .- The South Island mem- bers know very well that last year, when the Native Lands Administration Bill was Mr. J. Allen in spite of the protest made by Mr. Napier and myself, and carried by members from the South Island-members who had not heard I the discussion-coming into the House and voting against us. I say that the Native-land legislation for the last ten years has been car- ried by the Government only with the support of the South Island members, and, as far as I am concerned, I shall welcome the advent of the South Island members into this question to give it consideration, because they have, per- haps naturally, looked upon every proposal made by a North Island member with suspicion. In fact, I think that every member of this House representing any portion of New Zealand should take an interest in this question, and en- deavour to get it placed on a satisfactory footing. If I know anything of the case, nothing would be more satisfactory to the people of the North Island and to the people of the Auckland Pro- vincial District, where the bulk of the Natives live, than that a Commission should be set up consisting of South Island members to consider this Native land question during the recess. and bring down proposals to the House next session. I think this would be the means of doing justice to the proposals previously made by North Island members, and there would then be some chance of carrying rational legis- lation on the question. Mr. TANNER .- They would be disinterested, at any rate. Mr. FOWLDS. - They would be in exactly the same position as are many of the North Island members, who are entirely disinterested. I will undertake to say that my honourable friend the member for Waitemata (Mr. Monk) knows probably as much about the Native land question as any member of the House, and he has the interests of the Natives of this country as much at heart as any member of the House. But no matter what is proposed by the honourable member for Waitemata, or by the members for the Northern districts (Mr. Houston or Mr. R. Thompson) it is sure to meet with opposition, simply because it is proposed by some one living among the Maoris and having knowledge of the subject. The South Island members would say he is an in- terested person. I hail with delight the pro- posal that the South Island members should begin to take an interest in this question, because the present state of affairs in regard to the Native question is retarding the whole of the North Island. I admit that the honour- able member for Bruce is quite correct in his statement that the Natives have not received fair treatment in the land purchases that have been made ; but many of those who have not sold their lands, who have had no opportunity of selling, are in a worse position than those who have sold, even at the low prices mentioned, because the land has been of no use to them ; they cannot get any good from it while it is lying locked up and useless. This matter is standing in the way of the progress and prosperity of the colony in a manner that is a perfect disgrace to the legislators of 