reward unless there was a conviction. Mr. McGOWAN said, if the police obtained the services of a man, that man would be paid ordinary wages for the time he gave. A person who gave information might be paid whether a conviction was obtained or not. Vote, £695, agreed to. CLASS XVI .- DEPARTMENT OF LANDS AND SURVEY. Department of Lands and Survey, £118,570. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister of Lands when he proposed to fill up the position of Surveyor-General of the colony. It was absolutely necessary that this office should be filled up. That gentleman was one of those who had to constitute the Boundaries Commission for the purpose of adjusting the boundaries of the constituencies consequent upon the census results. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the matter would receive attention shortly, and in due time the position would be filled. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) wished to know when the vacancy in the Wellington Land Board would be filled. It had been vacant now for two years. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said that this was a question requiring the serious at- tention and consideration of the Minister. He was glad the matter had been brought up. The Minister was a fair-minded man, and he was sure the circumstances only required to be clearly laid before him in order that the gross https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 injustice should be removed under which Chief Draughtsmen were placed. In many instances District Surveyors of high standing were selected on account of their recognised abilities for the post, and they accepted these positions because they regarded the appointment as a promotion. Correspondence could be produced to show that this was the case. In many instances the men would much rather have remained in the field than go into the office. Men in the full vigour of youth, twenty-six and twenty-eight years of age, had been brought in to suit the con- venience of Government. And what was the position now occupied by these men? They were barred from all promotion by some internal official decree -- there was no regula- tion to that effect - and now men well qualified, some the very ablest in the service, were receiving less pay than they had five-and-twenty years ago. Men who had done some of the hardest and roughest pioneer- ing work possible were being superseded by officers who were boys at school when they were qualified surveyors. They saw men promoted to the position of Chief Surveyors who were not in the Government service at all when the Chief Draughtsmen were District Surveyors, and some of the Chief Draughtsmen now required to play second fiddle to men who were formerly their subordinates. This was an injustice which must be rectified, and if he judged the feeling of the House aright the Parliament would not be content to see this gross injustice continued much longer. Surely the combined experience office work were the real qualifications for pro- motion, and not the partial one of only one department. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said there was no question whatever that those members of the Survey Department who did field-work in the seventies were persuaded by the promises of the head of the department to go into the office as Chief Draughtsmen, and when they took that position they were then told that they had forfeited all right to promotion. He asked the Minister to give a decided and un- qualified promise that these men would receive favourable consideration and promotion. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) hoped that the Minister would deal with the appoint- ment of a Surveyor-General. It was a most important position ; and he would point out that without a Surveyor-General no readjust- ment of the electoral boundaries could take place, and this was work which would have to be done shortly. He hoped the Minister would immediately set to work to appoint an officer as Surveyor-General. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said he wished to indorse the statements in regard to the unfortunate position in which Chief Draughtsmen were now placed. He had been given to understand that there had never been any such regulation in the Survey Department as the Minister had stated. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) said he simply wished to confirm what had previously been said about the injustice under which these Chief Draughts- men suffered. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) said he saw under the Canterbury division that the vote for the eight draughtsmen was $75 less this year than last year, and he would like to know if this was because the amount of work had fallen off. He hoped it did not mean that the salaries had been reduced. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said, in regard to the readjustment of boundaries, that the people of the colony had a right to know at the earliest possible date the boundaries of the new electorates, and also to give time for the rolls to be prepared, and yet here they were without an important officer who was the key to the whole position, and the Government still refused to appoint him. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said it ap- peared to him that the Government had some particular object in not appointing a Surveyor- General. Apparently they did not wish this Representation Commission to be set up. He thought members were entitled to know what the boundaries of their electorates were to be as soon as possible. It was impossible for the present Under-Secretary to carry out his own duties satisfactorily when he was also called upon to fill the office of Surveyor-General. Many of the Acts of Parliament in connection with which the Surveyor. General had special duties to perform were now practically held in abevance. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) agreed that it was necessary that the Surveyor-General 