not be Boards in the sense in which they are mentioned in the Bill now before us, but rather they should be voluntary conferences. Such conferences have already taken place in this colony, and have been productive of great and good results. I can mention the Bootmakers' Union, which had a conference with employers on certain disputed points, and came to an agree- ment on them. I forget whether these points of agreement were brought forward to the Board of Conciliation or not ; but, at any rate, whether they were or not, I do not think they went to the Court. They were either settled by a volun- tary conference or by a Board. Well, it was the same, again, in regard to the Tailoresses' Union. The tailoresses had a conference with the employers, and came to a certain agreement in regard to disputed points. And what was the result of both these voluntary conferences ? The result was that both parties separated with an exceedingly friendly feeling towards one an- other, and, at the termination, they expressed the wish that, if there were any other points of disagreement between them in the future, they should settle them in the same friendly spirit. Now, it appears to me that is the principle we should work on at the present time. Instead of establishing special Boards outside the ordinary Conciliation Boards as already established, we should endeavour to encourage these voluntary conferences, which have been productive of so much good in the cases I have mentioned, and which might be productive of incalculably more if further en- couraged. But to duplicate the Boards under the Act is to me to destroy the effectiveness of both of them. Then, with regard to my attitude https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 on the question as to whether trade-unions should be introduced into the Bill, I believe they should, and I voted that they should be in- troduced into the Bill. I do not think we should have a large body of workers standing outside the provisions of the Act, and being at liberty to take any action which possibly might be destruc- tive of the peace and order of our industrial sys- tem. I therefore think it is a proper thing that trade-unions, the same as other bodies of men who choose to register under the Act, should be brought under the Act. If I believe in anything I believe in uniformity, and I think that the trade-unions should occupy exactly the same position as other trade-unionists. But, while I hold to that principle, I also hold that it would be unfair to put these trade-unions into a position in which they would be made amenable to agreements when they had no say in the dispute. Now, it is quite true that they could be made parties to the dispute by being registered, and, in order to defend themselves as against the terms of an agreement which might be inimical to their interests, they would have to be registered. Now, I hold that the great principle which underlies the whole of our labour legislation in this regard is that it should be voluntary-that there should be no such thing as compulsion ; but if we put trade- unions into a position that they will, in order to defend their position in the question of an agreement, be compelled to register, it would Hon. Mr. Bolt indirectly introduce the principle of compul. sion. I did not think, and I do not think now. that that is a proper thing, and for that reason I voted that they should have a say in an industrial dispute-that is, that they should be made parties to an industrial dispute. In other words, my position was, in regard to trade-unions, to put them on exactly the same basis as they were under the Act of 1894. Looking now at the question of con- ciliation in relation to its defenders and its opponents, as brought out in the discussion on this Bill, it is rather amusing and very in- teresting. I remember very distinctly when the Act was introduced in 1894 that the very gentlemen who then said that any question of compulsion would destroy the whole principle of conciliation are now the parties who are anxious to do away with that principle and go direct to the Court with every dispute. I remember when the Act was first introduced these very gentlemen pointed to the conciliation which was then in vogue in Massachusetts, and had been carried on with some degree of success by some ironworking companies in England. It was then said that it would be a wrong thing to establish a Court of Arbitra- tion at all-that we should have nothing but conciliation, and that if we went beyond con- ciliation we should arouse a spirit which would be anything but friendly or con- ducive to the best interests of our indus- tries. Again, it was pointed out that it would be a ridiculous thing, and a wrong thing, to create a Court of Arbitration presided over by a Judge of the Supreme Court. They held that the work which would be introduced into the Court would be to a certain extent degrading to its dignity, and would ultimately reflect on the Supreme Court of the colony. and would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute. I can particularly re- member that all that was argued out as against this principle of arbitration. Now we find that the very honourable members who took up this strong position in favour of concilia- tion are the very gentlemen, along with some more recent appointments to the Coun- cil, who are declaiming against this principle of conciliation, and declaring that we should have nothing but arbitration, and that Con- ciliation Boards are of no account. Well, as I said, that appears to be very remarkable. Now, coming to the question of the effective- ness of the Conciliation Boards, I was ex- ceedingly sorry to hear my honourable friend Mr. Twomey endeavouring to put a monetary value on the work of our Conciliation Boards. I do not think that a large question like this should be looked at from the question of £ s. d. Sir, if we have institutions for the conservation of industrial peace, and if these Boards do anything towards that, we can hardly estimate the value of that work in current coin. I say, if the Board can bring about an amicable arrangement in the case of one dispute-arrange it on a basis of conciliation and send back the parties in a friendly spirit-it is better than that the Arbitration Court should send away 