LEGISLATURE OF NEW ZEALAND.
=== ## GOVERNOR. His Excellency the Right Honourable UCHTER JOHN MARK, Earl of RANFURLY, Knight Com. mander of the Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George. ## THE MINISTRY. Premier, Colonial Treasurer, Minister of Labour, The Right Hon. RICHARD JOHN SEDDON, P.O. and Minister of Defence Colonial Secretary, Postmaster-General, Com- The Hon. Sir JOSEPH GEORGE WARD missioner of Electric Telegraphs, Minister for Railways, Minister of Industries and Com- merce, and Minister of Public Health Native Minister and Commissioner of Stamp The Hon. JAMES CARROLL. Duties Minister of Education and Minister of Immi- The Hon. WILLIAM CAMPBELL WALKER, gration Minister for Public Works and Minister of Marine Minister of Justice and Minister of Mines Minister of Lands, Minister for Agriculture, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Commissioner of State Forests Commissioner of Trade and Customs .. .. ## ROLL OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCILLORS. Arkwright, Hon. Francis, Wellington. Baillie, Hon. William Douglas Hall, Marl- borough (Chairman of Commitees). Barnicoat, Hon. John Wallis, Nelson. Bolt, Hon. William Mouat, Otago. Bonar, Hon. James Alexander, Westland .\* Bowen, Hon. Charles Christopher, Canterbury. Cadman, Hon. Alfred Jerome, C.M.G., Auck- land. Feldwick, Hon. Henry, Otago. Fraser, Hon. Francis Humphris, Wellington. Gourley, Hon. Hugh, Otago. Grace, Hon. Morgan Stanislaus, C.M.G., Wel- lington. Harris, Hon. Benjamin, Auckland. Holmes, Hon. Mathew, Otago.t Jenkinson, Hon. John Edward, Canterbury. Jennings, Hon. William Thomas, Auckland. Johnston, Hon. Charles John, Wellington. Jones, Hon. George, Otago. Kelly, Hon. Thomas, Taranaki. Kelly, Hon. William, Auckland. Kenny, Hon. Courtney William Aylmer Thomas, Marlborough. Kerr, Hon. James, Westland.] Louisson, Hon. Charles, Canterbury. \* Died 7th November, 1901. + Died 27th September, 1901. 1 Died 25th August, 1901. ยง Died 6th August, 1901. K.C.M.G. C.M.G. The Hon. WILLIAM HALL-JONES. The Hon. JAMES MCGOWAN. The Hon. THOMAS YOUNG DUNCAN. The Hon. CHARLES HOUGHTON MILLS. Mckenzie, Hon. Sir John, K.C.M.G., Otago.ยง MoLean, Hon. George, Otago. Miller, Hon. Henry John, Otago (Speaker). Montgomery, Hon. William, Canterbury. Morris, Hon. George Bentham, Auckland. Ormond, Hon. John Davies, Hawke's Bay. Peacock, Hon. John Thomas, Canterbury. Pinkerton, Hon. David, Otago. Pitt, Hon. Albert, Nelson. Reeves, Hon. Richard Harman Jeffares, Nelson, Rigg, Hon. John, Wellington. Scotland, Hon. Henry, Taranaki. Shrimski, Hon. Samuel Edward, Otago. Smith, Hon. Alfred Lee, Otago. Smith, Hon. William Cowper, Hawke's Bay. Stevens, Hon. Edward Cephas John, Canter- bury. Swanson, Hon. William, Auckland. Taiaroa, Hon. Hori Kerei, Otago. Tomoana, Hon. Henare, Hawke's Bay. Twomey, Hon. Jeremiah Matthew, Canterbury. Walker, Hon. Lancelot, Canterbury. Walker, Hon. William Campbell, Canterbury. Whitmore, Hon. Sir George Stoddart, K.C.M.G., Hawke's Bay. Williams, Hon. Henry, Auckland. 