the Premier could not have invited them to his house. He has not the accommodation nor the conveniences, and the Governor's residence is the proper and official and only suitable place where the Duke and Duchess could have been lodged and entertained. Now, the Duke came here with a large suite, and I think the sum of money asked for is extremely moderate, considering the extra- ordinary expenditure that had to be incurred and the abnormal circumstances. Such being the case, I trust the House will pass this vote, and I regret that there should have been any criticism whatever upon it. As far as the King's representative in this colony is con- cerned, in my judgment he acted with great discretion and great ability in supervising the general arrangements made throughout the colony for the safety of the visitors and the good order and proper carrying-out of the various functions and ceremonies. I may say that in Auckland we were deeply indebted to His Excellency the Governor for his suggestions and for information which he gave to the com- mittee and to the Harbour Board with regard to the proper manner of carrying out all the various details of those functions, and I believe that the same thing might be said as to the reception committees in the other centres. At any rate, I am sure that the people of Auck- land are indebted to His Excellency for the manner in which he did participate in the reception. There was friction, I believe, in Wellington, but I do not believe that the cause https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 of that friction rested upon the shoulders of His Excellency the Governor. I believe it arose from a misunderstanding, and from the too keen anxiety of certain tradesmen in this city to de- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero rive certain benefits which might be obtained from the spectacular procession passing through their particular streets; but, as far as the Governor was concerned, he had special instruc- tions from the Imperial Government we know, and those who have followed the details of the tour of their Royal Highnesses will have observed that in every instance their Royal Highnesses were accompanied by the Governors of the various States and colonies throughout the whole of their tour, and whilst they were within the territorial jurisdiction of each particular colony. I hope the motion will be carried, and I think the second reading of the Bill ought to be passed without any debate. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier). - There are only two points upon which I wish to speak, but I will preface my remarks by saying that I do not think it is very creditable to this House that this discussion should have taken place on this item in the estimates. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why? Mr. A. L. D. F . ASER. -- That is my opinion. If the member for Wairarapa does not look at the matter through the same glasses as I do, that is either his or my misfortune ; but I say that it is not to the credit of this House that this discussion should have taken place this afternoon. The member for Palmerston claims credit for the member for Wellington City Mr. Napier point that I suggest does not exist. I quite believe that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), with his keen legal training, located a point which he thought was disas- trous to the estimates as presented to Parlia- ment ; but I may tell honourable members that days before that point was discussed by myself and other honourable members, and I have that very point marked as a marginal note to be referred to. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why did not the Pre- mier give you credit for it ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I did not mention it to the Premier, but I and several other mem- bers have discussed it for some days, and the conclusion I came to was that a Bill was un- necessary. If honourable members will refer to the estimates they will find that the vote is to "reimburse." That word wants to be care- fully kept in mind. In the Instructions from Her Majesty the words used are " dona- \--- - tion or gratuity." So that I may not make any mistake in respect to the interpretation of these \------- words, [ will give the meaning as set forth in a leading dictionary. "Reimburse" is to re- fund. That is the word used in the estimates : we are asked to refund to His Excellency ex- penses he has incurred on behalf of the colony. A "donation " is something given, and a " gra- tuity " is something given without an equiva- lent. I simply dispose of that point by say- ing that the matter has been under discussion by honourable members for some time, and my own opinion is that the Premier would have done better, perhaps, if he had not introduced this Bill, for it is superfluous. But he has done so with a good object, and that was in order that there should be no lengthy discus- sion of the matter on the estimates, and in order to remove any doubt that might exist. Personally, I consider there is no doubt. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- That is my opinion. I say that the £2,250 to provide for reimbursing His Excellency does not affect one jot or tittle the Constitution of this colony. Now, I have only a few words to say with reference to what was stated by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). In ninety-nine cases out of a hun- dred I listen with pleasure to that honourable member, and to his deductions on questions which come before this House, but to-day his speech was transparently a gallery speech. Just imagine that honourable gentleman, with all his ability, experience, and education, say- ing that we were duplicating by reimbursement what we passed by statute last session. We passed by statute last session an increase of $1,500 to the Governor's salary, and $500 for expenses. Was that for His present Excel- lency ? No: it was for all Governors. It did not anticipate any visit of their Royal High- İ nesses to New Zealand; in fact, it was not 1 : known at the time that they were actually : coming here. The increase was one for all time. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was one of the argu- ments in favour of the Bill. 