enough for them. At the same time they have brought operative cases before the Magistrate's Court, and carried them further even, to the Court of Appeal, and they have found they were powerless in the face of direct and de- liberate breaches of the law-breaches of the most contemptible character. For want of proper machinery and power to enforce the penalties they found themselves impotent in the matter ; and such offences as the evasion of payment for overtime for poorly paid girls has gone on, owing to this want of power to enforce the penalty. That, I believe, is re- medied and dealt with in this Bill. There was an important case here in Wellington City that involved the Government in very considerable expense, and, aided by the ablest legal advice, to prosecute the case even to the Court of Appeal, in order to prove that the machinery of the Act was abortive, in that it did not give the power to enforce penalties for the infringement of the law. Now, there is only one provision I have some little doubt about, and that is the annual rate of increase in the minimum wage of women and young persons. The minimum wage has been equalised for both sexes, and that is what was advocated by myself and others in the House when the Employment of Boys or Girls without Payment Prevention Bili was before the House ; but. recognising the peril to the Bill, we consented to a compro- mise. What I have now some doubt about is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 whether the minimum yearly increase of 2s. will not have the effect of setting a standard lower than that which is now paid in numerous cases. Here, again, we have the f .ir-minded generous employer pitted against the miserable curmudgeon, who will pay nothing more than the law compels. I know there are many places where considerably larger increases are given than 2s. a year; and the question is whether it will not weigh with some in setting a standard for the annual increases. I know it will not in the case of fair-minded employers. But a minimum increase is obviously necessary, and, as the defects the Premier has pointed out are in vogue, I believe it is necessary that some minimum annual increase should be provided. Now. there is one matter that the whole of the Labour Bills Committee, without regard to political views, were agreed upon, and that was the absolute necessity to retain-to decrease if possible, but at least to retain -- the amount of overtime that could be worked by women and youngsters. It is within the knowledge of the local Inspector, and of many others interested, that a great number of the young girls who are employed in factories live in the distant suburbs. Most of the overtime is during the winter months, and members will see how undesirable a thing it is that these young women should be emptied out of the factories on to the dark streets of Wellington after nine o'clock at night to find their way to the summits of the hills in the suburbs of Brooklyn and Vogeltown, to say nothing of those at the Newtown end of the district, where in many cases they are without male escorts to see them home. For by women and young persons under the age of eighteen years, the better it will be for future generations. I am sorry to say that I feel physically very untit to deal adequately with the question ; but, however badly 1 may feel, I think it my duty to point out that the Committee had a very difficult task to undo the spoiling of last year's work, because they practically had the Bill last year in the terms in which it is now submitted to the House. The work of the whole ten weeks in which they have been closely and earnestly engaged upon it, has been largely devoted to the taking of evidence and restoring the Bill to the condition in which it was left at the rising of this House last year. I feel sure that the Bill now sub- mitted to the House is such a compromise between the extreme opinions and theories of members of the House that it will recom- mend itself to the great majority, if not to the whole, of the members of the House. Barring some minor details that I am aware are neces- sary to make the Bill what it purports to be, and to give effect to the desire of the Select Committee on the Bill, I think the Bill an im- provement on existing legislation, and with these exceptions the Bill generally will commend itself to the good-sense of the House, and will, I trust, have an even passage through Committee. Just before sitting down I would invite the attention of the Premier to a very material amendment that is necessary in section 21. He will there find it necessary to restore the title of that subsection to the condition in which it left the Committee-namely, to strike out "Overtime for women or young persons," and substitute "Overtime" only, and exempt others than women or young persons from the restrictions provided in the overtime clause, leaving any extension to the custom of the trade, mutual agreement between employer and employed, or award of the Court. That I think the Premier will see is necessary. For the rest, I feel sure this will be a real consoli- dating measure, and that it will give in its operation industrial order and peace, and satis- faction to all parties concerned. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) .- Sir, I do not wish to say very much, but simply to give my reasons for voting against the Bill. When the original Factories Bill was before the House in 1894 there were clauses in that Bill which are re-enacted in this Bill, and it is because of that that I shall record my vote against this Bill. These are clauses 25 and 26. Clause 25 is applicable to "sweating " in factories, and clause 26 says,- " For all the purposes of the last preceding section every merchant, wholesale dealer, shop- keeper, agent, or distributor who lets or gives out textile or shoddy material to be made up into garments or other articles for sale, shall be deemed to do so as the occupier of a factory, and the provisions, obligations, and penalties of that section shall extend and apply accord- ingly." Now, Sir, the effect of this in country dis- tricts has been that private enterprise has been 