pension ; and they now live with the daughter on the land that was their own, and they drive in in a pony-chaise once a month to draw the money. Well, of course, that is an isolated case ; but when you have cases of that kind the sooner we lock the door and prevent that occurring in other cases the better for all con- cerned. Other places are copying our legisla- tion, and I see in their proposals they are doing what we are proposing to do now-namely, taking steps to prevent abuses that exist. I move, Sir, the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) .- I simply de- sire to ask the Premier whether he will make the list of names which he has already referred to a parliamentary paper. It will be very inter- esting, I think. Mr. SEDDON. - In the interests of those old Natives, who have, I think, been more sinned against than sinning -they have not wished to wrong the State-I do not think it would be fair. Mr. HEKE .- Some of the names are of Europeans. Mr. SEDDON .- Some of them. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- I do not rise to discuss the provisions of the Bill, which I think is a very good one, but simply to point out that it is desirable, when the Bill is in Committee, that opportunity should be taken to provide for the case of those persons who are entitled to pensions under the Act, but who are also at present in receipt, for military services https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 rendered to the Empire or colony, of a few pence a day. Those persons who have served their country are certainly entitled to more consideration than other colonists who have not risked their lives either for the Empire or the colony ; and, Sir, I have placed on the Order Paper a clause-which I shall not have the op- portunity of moving in Committee, because I shall probably be in the chair, but I will get some friend to move it-which will provide for these cases. I think it should receive the sup- port of honourable members generally, and I hope the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill will accept it. The terms of the clause which I would propose myself if not in the chair are as follows :- " If any claimant for an old-age pension is already in receipt of an Imperial or colonial pension for or in respect of military service not .exceeding two shillings per diem, such military pension shall not be calculated as part of his income when his claim for an old-age pension is under examination." I think that is a clause which might very fairly be passed, and I simply rose on this oc- casion for the purpose of drawing the attention of honourable members generally and of the Minister in charge of the Bill to it, so that when the Bill is in Committee they will not be :taken by surprise, on its being moved. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I have only just two or three words to say. The main amendments in this Bill I cordially agree with, but I would point out to the Premier that the provision in clause 4, "that the Magistrato shall daughters of the applicant, and if in his opinion these circumstances are such as not to warrant the granting of a pension," is at variance with the principle laid down by the Premier so fre- quently. Undoubtedly it is a clause making the old age pensions scheme one only for des- titute persons, and at once it ceases to be a national pensions scheme. Mr. SEDDON .- It is more to make them realise what is their filial duty. Captain RUSSELL .- Quite so ; but the Pre- mier will remember that we who approved the principles of a pensions scheme also struggled against making it one for charitable aid, which we feared it would become. Then, Sir, I would like to draw the attention of the House to another provision which seems to me strange, and one which I think there would be very great difficulty in giving effect to. That is the 3rd subsection of clause 3, which provides that- "This section shall apply to any officer of any bank carrying on business in New Zealand, and to any officer of the Post-Office Savings-Bank, and of any other Government department which receives investments of money from the public." Mr. SEDDON .- That is the case now in the case of fraud. Captain RUSSELL .- Quite so; but this clause deals with cases where fraud is not set up, and compels the officers of banks to disclose secrets of their customers, which is at variance with their orders, and possibly an infringement of declarations made before admission to the bank. Now, I desire to suggest, as I have sug- gested on previous occasions, that there is a small amendment that might be made in the Act, without doing any harm to the finances of the colony, and that would alleviate one or two cases of hardship that have come within my own knowledge. In the amending Act of last year we altered the term during which a person might be absent from the colony in the twenty- five years to a period of four years ; but we ham- pered that provision with a subsection to the effect that such person would not be entitled to the benefit of the amendment if he had been absent from the colony during any part of the year immediately preceding the date when the principal Act was passed. Now, two cases have come under my own observation of persons who have lived practically the whole of their lives in New Zealand, but who were temporarily absent from the colony for a period not anything like four years, but in the year immediately preceding the date when the principal Act was passed. Those parties, who have appealed to me for help, have been able to show they have complied with every one of the provisions of the Act in all other respects - their conduct has been good, they have lived here for more than twenty-five years, and they have not been absent for more than four years; but, having been absent from the colony for a short time in the year immediately preceding the passing of the principal Act in 1898, they have been barred from receiving pensions. 