singular, it might have been possible that the Government had just discovered the point, but to his knowledge the Government had not introduced and passed " Washing up " Bills dealing with Native disabilities for five years. If those interested had to wait for twenty-eight years before such legislation was dealt with- and he regretted very much that the Natives should not have been obtaining benefit from their land-possibly they might die in poverty, as many of them were now doing, owing to the neglect of the Government in not bringing down workable legislation to meet such cases. It was not enough for the Native Minister to say that they had done their best with respect to this matter, because the Govern- ment had not given those interested the consideration they were entitled to. Two months ago he pointed out in the House to the Premier and the Native Minister that, although he had urged that these matters should be dealt with session after session, yet nothing had been done. They were now within a fortnight of the end of the session, and he thought the Native Minister should give the House an as- surance that to-morrow at the very latest they would have a "Washing-up " Bill introduced by Governor's message. Leaving that part of the subject, he might mention that there was one provision to which he would like to draw the attention of the Native Minis er, so that the honourable gentleman might deal with it when the Bill went into Committee. Subsec- tion (2) of section 2 said, " The said lands shall https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 be held in trust by the Public Trustee for the exclusive use and occupation of the members of the Ngatitupito and Ngatiringi Tribes." It should be provided in the Bill that the suc- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero cessors according to Maori custom or usage should succeed to the deceased owners of the block, because it was only a matter of time when there would be none of the members of these tribes in existence. That was not provided for in subsection (4) of section 2. The same difficulty had arisen in the Karamu Reserve, in Hawke's Bay, in respect to which litigation had been going on for years, owing to a diffi- culty in the interpretation of that Act. It stated practically that the land was to be held for the benefit of the Ngatibori Tribe, as stated in this Bill, and the result had been continuous litigation and great expense. He would throw out the suggestion to the Native Minister to amend the clause, so that the wording of sub- section (2) might be altered from "for the ex- clusive use and occupation of the members of the Ngatitupito and Ngatiringi Tribes " to "for the exclusive use of members of those tribes and their successors according to Maori custom and usage." Finally, he would remind the Native Minister of what he had already stated with respect to introducing and passing a "Washing-up " Bill, and he would be obliged if the Native Minister would give an assurance that it would be brought down to-morrow. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) hoped 8.0. the Minister, in his reply, would give the House a little more information in regard to clause 3 than he had done so far. He failed to see why this £600 of accumulations of twenty-eight years should be handed over as a gift to the Natives who were now living for them to spend as they liked. He held that this $600 should be added to the trust, and in- vested by the Public Trustee, instead of hand- ing it over to the Natives. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are entitled to it. Mr. R. THOMPSON said, At any rate, before this money was handed over, the House should have the fullest information as to what claim the Natives who were living now had, because he thought they should, as far as possible, pro- tect the interests of those who were to come after. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) wished to know who had been leasing the land in this Bill, and he would also like to know the whereabouts of the $600 that was to be handed over to the Natives. Was it in the hands of the Public Trustee or had it been paid into the consoli- dated revenue? As to the promise made by Sir Donald McLean, was it a written promise or oral? When and where was the promise made ? If any evidence of the promise could be pro- duced, time should be no bar. He would be glad to have information on the several points. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said it was very gratifying indeed to hear honourable mem- bers commenting on this Bill, and to hear them expressing their anxiety that everything indicated in this measure respecting the lands and the rights of the Natives should be carried out in a straightforward and careful manner. The anxiety displayed in that direction did honourable members credit. He was inclined to think, however, from one or two expres- sions that had fallen from some honourable members, that their object was not so much the settlement of the equities as the im- mediate question of raising impedimenta to the Bill. But the matter was plain enough. The departments of the Government were perfectly satisfied, after all the investigations that had taken place, that this was land that should properly and genuinely go to the Na- tives, and in that view the Natives have been allowed to remain in occupation of the greater part of it all these years without the Government ever thinking of disturbing their possession. The honourable member for Hawera would bear him out when he said that the Natives had been residential there for years. Beyond the promise made, and the assurance and guarantee given by the late Sir Donald McLean that the land would be secured to them, there had never been any legislative effort in the direction of securing the land to them. In the course of many years portions of this land had been made use of under the general adminis- tration of the West Coast Reserves Act, and the department, knowing the strength of the claim on the part of the Natives which entitled them to this land, reserved the revenues which had accrued, so that some day it could be handed over to the proper Native owners. It could not be handed over heretofore because the individual owners of the land had not been ascertained. 