interests, but I want to know whether they are able to take their own part with the more astute and more highly educated Europeans. We know what has happened in the past. We have not to look back over many years. We know what has taken place within the last ten or twelve years. Can it be denied that within recent years, even here in the Wellington Dis- drict, a few Europeans have obtained for a mere trifle from the Native owners very con- siderable tracts of valuable land ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The same thing would occur to-morrow if you gave them the chance. Mr. HOGG .- There is not the slightest doubt . that, if we gave the Natives the opportunity of dealing in the same way as Europeans with their own land, nearly the whole of that land would quickly disappear. Possibly each Native owner might be left with thirty or forty acres on which to starve if he liked, unless he was pre- pared to work very hard. They would be left in the possession of small fragments of land, and all the rest would pass chiefly into the hands of those who have already acquired more than their share of the public estate. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Read the law. Mr. HOGG .- I do not want to read the law. The honourable member has made a study of the law, and he has the advantage over me with regard to that, just in the same way as he would probably have the advantage of the great majority of the Natives for whom he occasion- ally acts. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- In the same way as you do on the Land Board. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. HOGG .- I do what I can to protect the Europeans on the Land Board, and I would like to see the Natives protected in the same way. Sir, it is all very well to speak of any / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero reference to land-sharks as " mere balderdash." The honourable member for Hawke's Bay says it is pure balderdash. Will any one acquainted with the splendid areas of land held in huge estates in the Hawke's Bay District, which the honourable member represents, deny the exist- ence of the land-shark ? Can it be denied that some of the finest land held there and in the Forty-mile Bush is owned by men who have already a great deal more than they ought to possess ? That is anything but balderdash ; it is quite the contrary. Now, Sir, there are other interests besides those of the Natives to be protected. There are the interests of the landiess Europeans. If we allow such a thing as free-trade in Native land-because that is really what the honourable gentleman is advo- cating-I am satisfied that the little that re- mains would soon pass into the hands of the large landowners. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay advocated that in dealing with the land not required for their maintenance there should be no interference with the Na- tives. Under the pretence of dealing generously with the Natives he would reserve for them a few small plots to live upon. Then, with high- sounding phrases about their splendid traits and manly qualities, he would give them un- Mr Hogg way they think proper of the balance of the five million acres that still remain to them. He claims for the Natives the right to get rid of their land, not through the medium of the Government, or of the Native Land Board, or of the ordinary Land Board, but to dispose of it outright through the medium of agents and interpreters and men that would facilitate again, and have facilitated in the past, the operations of the land-sharking gentry. Mem- bers of Land Boards have always, I believe, kept their hands fairly clean. I can speak, at all events, for myself. Such a thing as inter- fering with the land of Europeans is a thing I have carefully abstained from. But, Sir, there are other interests at stake besides the interests of the Natives. I refer to the interests of the Europeans. If the lands of the Natives are to be either sold or leased, we must see that they are so administered that our European fellow men and women who are prepared to improve them with their labour are neither blocked nor victimised by the monopolist or the specula- tor. We must take care that we do not hand over what should be the property of the many to the custody of a few. Speaking for my own dis . trict, I say it is absolutely necessary that we should consider the interests of both Natives and Europeans. We should not regard the interests of the Natives alone or of the Euro- peans alone, but we should consider the interests of the whole body, because that is what is at stake. There are many blocks of Native land ready to be taken up and utilised, and it is in the interests of the whole colony that this land should be made reproductive. There are people in the Wairarapa anxious to settle on these blocks and turn them to productive uses, and I say, if this Bill will enable them to achieve that object, it will confer not only a benefit on the Natives, but a great benefit on the Europeans as well. Well, Sir, for the very simple reason that I believe this Bill will be the means of placing valuable areas of land in the hands of people who will be able to use it to the best advantage, and for the reason that I believe it will widen the field of labour and increase the general prosperity of opening up blocks that are now closed against settlement, I intend to vote for it, and I trust the great majority of this House will accompany me into the lobby in support of this measure. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori District) .- Sir, I consider it my right to say a few words with regard to this Bill. It is a measure that aims at amending the Maori Lands Administra- tion Act of last year - an Act that cannot be brought into operation successfully unless it is altered in the direction in which it is proposed to amend it in the measure now before the House. The Maori people desire to have that measure so amended. My opinion on the ques- tion differs somewhat from that of other mem- bers of the House. The honourable member for the Western Maori District, in his speech to-night, said the Bill would not affect South Island Maori lands, because I last year obtained 