Act, was no longer an offence in New Zealand, and that was not by virtue of Lord Campbell's Act being repealed, but by virtue of the very fact that the offence was an offence at common law irrespective of Lord Campbell's Act. So the fact was exactly opposite to what the honourable gentleman supposes. and to what was obviously supposed by the draftsman of the Bill. This is the first part. the head-note, of that case: " A defamatory libel is, since the coming into operation of 'The Criminal Code Act, 1893,' no longer indictable in New Zea- land unless it is alleged and proved that the publisher of the libel published it knowing it to be false "-that is, unless he is charged under section 4 of Lord Campbell's Act. The offence with which Mabin was charged - ordi- nary criminal libel-was held to be no longer an offence, because, though mentioned in sec- tion 5 of Lord Campbell's Act, it was not the creation of that Act, but of common law, and section 6 expressly repeais common - law in- dictments, while saving such as are statutory. Hence section 5 of Lord Campbell's Act ceases to operate, but sections 3 and 4 still remain good. Section 3 of Lord Campbell's Act is the section that forms the part of clause 4 of the Bill to which the honourable member for Wairarapa paid most attention. Subclause (1) of clause 4 of our Bill is, with some alteration- the substitution of "defamatory libel" for "any matter "-the same as section 3 of Lord Campbell's Act. That is to say, the blackmail- ing section of Lord Campbell's Act has been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 re-enacted with a slight modification in sub clause (1) of clause 4 of this Bill, though, accord- ing to the decision of the Court of Appeal, that section of Lord Campbell's Act is in force in New Zealand at the present time, notwithstand- ing the Criminal Code Act. It is really a monstrous thing that the responsible Law Officer of the Government should propose to deal with such an important branch of the law as the law dealing with criminal libel in entire ignorance of a most essen- tial part of the law as existing at present. Now, section 4 of Lord Campbell's Act imposes imprisonment for any term not exceeding two . years on any person who "shall maliciously publish any defamatory libel knowing the same to be false." That, again, is identical with the second part of subclause (2) of clause 4, only two provisions are there telescoped together, the draftsman's constant aim being to make things as short as possible at the expense of clearness, and even grammar. Subclause (2) reads, " To one year's imprisonment who pub- lishes any defamatory libel, or, if knowing the same to be false, to two years' imprisonment." At any rate, it will be seen that the latter part of it is simply a repetition of the substance of section 4 of Lord Campbell's Act, that being a section which the Court of Appeal has stated is in force in New Zealand at the present moment. The one part of the law which had been quite accidentally and in- cidentally repealed by the Criminal Code Act, the offence mentioned in section 5 of Lord Mr. Atkinson mentioned in the first part of subclause (2) of clause 4, which applies to every person who publishes any defamatory libel. There are alternatives of fines in each case in Lord Campbell's Act which are not provided in this Bill. I have, however, some vague recollec- tion that there is a general provision of the kind. This point should be made perfectly clear before this Bill is passed. Nine times out of ten the offence of criminal libel is more properly met by fine than by imprisonment. An Hon. MEMBER. - Is clause 6 of Lord Campbell's Act still in force ? Mr. ATKINSON .-- The point that was decided by the Court of Appeal was, I think-although I I am not absolutely certain about it-that the plea under Lord Campbell's Act could not ap- ply under section 4, because the plea admitted under section 6 is proof that the charge is true, and truth could obviously be pleaded without such express provision to a charge under section 4. which must allege falsehood and knowledge of it. But I think the Court of Appeal did not hold that the section was repealed. The dilemma in which we are with respect to the Bill is the point raised by the question asked by the honourable member for Mataura. If Lord Campbell's Act is in force, what is the need for re-enacting sections 3 and 4 of the Act ? And, if Lord Campbell's Act is not in force at all, why should section 6, the most vital part of it, not be re-enacted ? And, in any case, seeing that this is to be part of the Criminal Code, why does it not adopt all we want of Lord Campbell's Act and expressly repeal the rest of it ? I maintain that the course I have sug- gested would have been the proper one to pursue. But to go back to the interpretation clause : As I say, in a code there should be a full defi- nition of the offence, and when you say to 3 layman that a defamatory libel shall not be pub- lished "without legal justification or excuse " those words should be defined. A very simple amendment should be inserted to define what are legal justifications and excuses which can be pleaded to an indictment for libel. Sir James Fitzjames Stephen's " Digest of Criminal Law." from which, I suppose, 90 per cent. at least of our Criminal Code has been taken, might have been referred to by the draftsman, and the draftsman had simply to copy out the sections, and then we should have had complete pro- visions with respect to this matter, and we should have had within a small compass the whole of the criminal law of libel. The matters of justification or excuse that may be pleaded to an indictment for libel are set out by Mr. Justice Stephen in his Digest. I will merely read the headings, and if honourable members will listen to those headings they will see the vast importance for the layman, and also for the lawyer, of having the law codified on this head, and therefore having these matters brought into view on the face of the statute. The six grounds of justification or ex- 11.0. cuse as given by Mr. Justice Stephen are these : First of all, that the publication is true and for the public benefit ; second, privi- 