generally, and he thought the producers of the colony deserved some consideration. The Go- vernment, without an urgent mandate from the farmer, should make arrangements to subsidise a line of steamers via the Cape. If we were to increase the volume of our produce new mar- kets would have to be exploited. The prosperity of this country did not depend on the merchant, on business people, but on the producers. If the Government and honourable members had the welfare of the colony at heart, the interest of the producers would claim their first atten- tion. If members of the House were desirous of coming to a division he would conclude his remarks. Hon. MEMBERS .- Divide, divide ! The Committee divided on the question, "That the following words be retained : 'This House authorises the Government to enter into a contract with the said company for a renewal of the present San Francisco mail-service for a term of.' " AYES, 35. Allen, J. Hogg Palmer Bennet Houston Pere Bollard Pirani Kaihau Carncross Lang Russell, W. R. Carroll Seddon Lawry Thompson, R. Lethbridge Duncan Field Thomson, J. W. Massey McGowan Hall Ward Witheford. Hall-Jones McGuire Tellers. Hardy Mills Heke Monk Fowlds https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Herries Napier Fraser, W. NOES, 28. Allen, E. G. Gilfedder Millar Arnold Graham Parata Barclay Hornsby Rhodes Buddo Russell, G. W. Hutcheson Laurenson Collins Tanner Colvin Mackenzie, T. Wilford. Ell McKenzie, R. Fisher Tellers. McLachlan Flatman McNab Atkinson Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Smith, G. J. PAIRS. For. Against. O'Meara Symes O'Rorke Guinness Willis. Hanan. Majority for, 7. Amendment negatived, and words retained. Mr. MILLAR moved, That the word " three " be struck out, and "one " inserted. The Committee divided on the question, "That the word 'three ' be retained." AYES, 28. Bennet Hall-Jones Lawry Bollard Heke Lethbridge Herries Carncross McGowan Carroll Hogg Mills Duncan Houston Monk Fowlds Kaihau Napier Hall Lang Palmer Mr. McGuire Russell, W. R. Massey Ward. Seddon Witheford. NOES, 36 .- Fraser, W. Parata Allen, E. G. Pirani Allen, J. Gilfedder Rhodes Arnold Graham Russell, G. W. Hardy Atkinson Hornsby Smith, G. J. Barclay Hutcheson Buddo Symes Collins Laurenson Tanner Colvin Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. McLachlan Ell Wilford. Field McNab Tellers. Fisher Mckenzie, R. Meredith Flatman O'Meara Millar. Fraser, A. L. D. PAIRS. For. Against. O'Rorke Guinness McGuire Smith, E. M. Willis. Hanan. Majority against, 8. Word struck out. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved, That " one " be inserted. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) hoped that the House, having decided by a majority to delete "three," would not make the service an impossible or next to useless one by inserting "one." He would now suggest that the term should be made two years, and he would tell honourable members why. They had already said it was desirable to continue the service, and if they were going to ask any responsible company to make an agreement for one year there were difficulties in the way, on account of the term being too short. If, on the other hand, the term was longer it would be possible to impose a penalty for non-regularity of service, and if such a penalty was not fixed there was the liability that the service would be irregular. The mails would not come in up to time, and the Government would be powerless to impose any penalty for unpunctuality. Those members who had voted to reduce the term would do a great injustice to the country if they supported the proposal to insert "one." With a knowledge of the difficulties in the way of being able to bring about and so arrange mat- ters in the best interests of the country, it was his duty to point out to members that it was undesirable to carry "one" in place of " three." If members wanted to negative the usefulness of the San Francisco service, they would go in that direction by making it an almost impos- sible service if they fixed the term at one year. It would be unreasonable to ask the company to accept it for less than two years. He would ap- peal to honourable members to look upon the matter with the calm consideration that was necessary after the little excitement through which they had just passed, and to do what was reasonable and fair. Mr. FISHER .- Sir, Hon. MEMBERS .- Vote, vote, vote ! Mr. FISHER .- Will you vote, vote, vote, if I sit down ? 