Reserves and other Lands Sale, Disposal, and Enabling and Public Bodies Empowering Bill-Dunedin City and Suburban Tramways Bill-Public Works Bill-Appropriation Bill- Adjournment. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at eleven o'clock. PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Chatham Islands County Bill, Flax Grading and Export Bill, Mining Bill, Manawatu Rail- way Sale and Purchase Empowering Bill, Nelson Harbour Board Bill, Public Works Bill, Public Health Bill (No. 2), Reserves and other Lands Sale, Disposal, and Enabling and Public Bodies Empowering Bill, Registration of Births Extension Bill, Remuera Waterworks Em- powering Bill, Timber Export Bill, Victoria College Site Bill, Westland and Nelson Coal- fields Administration Bill, Native Land Claims Adjustment and Laws Amendment Bill, Dune- din City and Suburban Tramways Bill. # SECOND READINGS. Chatham Islands County Bill, Flax Grading and Export Bill, Mining Bill, Public Works Bill, Public Health Bill (No. 2), Registration of Births Extension Bill, Remuera Waterworks Empowering Bill, Westland and Nelson Coal- fields Administration Bill. # THIRD READINGS. Chatham Islands County Bill, Flax Grading and Export Bill, Mining Bill, Public Health https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Bill (No. 2), Registration of Births Extension Bill, Remuera Waterworks Empowering Bill, Westland and Nelson Coalfields Administration Bill. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero # VICTORIA COLLEGE. The Hon. Mr. REEVES said it was not his intention to take up the time of the Council in moving the resolution standing in his name. There seemed to be very great difficulty in locating the site for this particular institution. The people of Wellington were fighting like Kilkenny cats over it, until at last it came to this : that some steps must be taken in order to locate this very valuable institution in some part of the Cook Strait settlement. It would be within the recollection of honourable mem- bers of the Council that last year he moved a similar resolution, which was carried ; and he thought the good sense and judgment of the Council on this occasion would also support this motion. He, therefore, begged to move the following resolution : That, seeing the Victoria College Board of Governors is unable to obtain a suitable site for the College buildings in or near the City of Wellington, and that the same is apparentiy unobtainable, it is desirable that the Government assume full control of the matter, and take the necessary steps to enable them to fix a site for the institution in or near the City of Nelson, which, in the opinion of this Council, is the most central so far as the various provincial districts affected are concerned, and in all other respects the most suitable position for its location. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, Con- sidering there was now a Bill in process of passing through Parliament dealing with this subject, which, if passed, would certainly de- stroy the preamble of the honourable gentle- man's motion, it would, perhaps, be well to adjourn this matter till to-morrow. He begged to move, That the motion be adjourned till to- morrow. The Hon. Mr. REEVES said he wished to point out to the Hon. the Minister that the Bill of which he spoke had not got the remotest chance of passing through the other House. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I cannot say that. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I can. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said he thought that was rather a rash statement to make. He understood that a Conference had been held, as a result of which the Bill referred to would pass in a very short time. He did not wish to take up the time of the Council, but would point out that the statement that the College Board of Governors was unable to obtain a suitable site for the College was not correct. They were quite able to obtain a suitable site, but what they wanted to do was to obtain the most suit- able site. This was only one of the honourable gentleman's annual attempts to advertise a little place that was never heard of. It would be quite absurd to locate a university such as the Victoria College University at a place like Nelson, for the expenses incurred by students coming from other parts would be considerable ; and, he understood, it was only possible to get to it in some weather, the bar and the harbour of Nelson being in a very dangerous state. Ho did not think the honourable gentleman was in earnest in putting such a motion as this on the Order Paper at this stage of the session. He (Mr. Jenkinson) thought it was quite absurd. The Hon. Mr. JONES said he would not object to Nelson having the Victoria College if it were possible to come to some agreement or other ; but, great as was the difficulty of coming to some agreement now as regarded the location of the building in Wellington, the difficulty would be still greater if the question of placing the College at Nelson were raised and debated in Parliament. For instance, some thought that it would be better to have the College at Taranaki, others thought it would be better to have it in Marlborough, and others at Wanganui. All these conflicting interests would be aroused, and the result would be that the matter would never be settled. He believed that, although this struggle had been going on for three or four years now, they were on the eve of having it settled for good and all. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY did not intend to express any opinion on the resolution at pre- sent, but he thought the Minister's request, that the debate be adjourned, was reasonable, and would postpone his remarks to a future occasion. He would vote fo the adjournment of the debate. 