men's illness. The foundation of most of the sickness was laid in Worcester, where we, par- ticularly the 5th, suffered greatly from exposure to bad weather during our seventeen days there, and on board the 'Tagus ' between Capetown and Albany. The weather between Capetown and Albany was very cold and stormy ; but after leaving Albany the weather was fine, and we know of no case of sickness originating between Albany and New Zealand. After arriving in the colony we had every care and comfort, and no man who visited Invercargill suffered in any way for having done so. "H. W. Blake, Corporal, 5th N.Z.R. ; G. Fer- nandos, Saddler, 5th N.Z.R .; J. Coffey, 5th N.Z.R .: D. McGill, Corporal, 5th N.Z.R. ; C. Isherwood, 4th N.Z.R. : M. J Collins, Bombar. dier, 5th N.Z.R.R. ; Thos. Lucas, 5th N.Z.R. ; A. S. Weir, Sergeant, 5th N.Z.R. : W. Cator, 5th N.Z.R. : J. Warren, 5th N.Z.R. ; W. J. Hardham, Farrier-Major, 4th N.Z.R.R. ; R. N. Harding, 5th N.Z.R .; J. Wilson, N.Z.R. ; F. Brace, 5th N Z.R. ; W. J. Mackay, 5th N.Z.R." Those men were mostly from the Wellington District. He had also received the following letter : - "DEAR SIR,-We, the undersigned members of the Fourth and Fifth New Zealand Con- tingents, have read with astonishment the charge made against yourself by Mr. James Allen, M.H.R. for Bruce. We consider it quite unjustifiable and wholly uncalled for. Most of our constitutions had run down after being so long in the field, and the severe https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 weather experienced during our stay in Wor- cester caused sickness to break out in the camp. The passage between Capetown and Albany was a very stormy one, and between those two ports most of the sickness occurred. The weather was very cold all over New Zea- land when we landed, and we knew of no cases of illness originating through the men being sent to the Bluff, where every arrangement was made for our comfort. " James Millar Nicolson, Captain, 4th N.Z.K. ; John De P. Manson, Lieutenant and Adjutant, 5th N.Z.R. ; Thomas J. Gardiner, Lieutenant, 4th N.Z.R .; Henry H. Smith, 5th N.Z.R. ; A. C. Johnstone, 5th N.Z.R. ; O. G. Johnston, 4th N.Z.R.R. ; E. Bone, 4th N.Z.R. ; J. Price, 5th N.Z.R .; J. L. Haselden, Lieuten- ant, 5th N.Z.R .; E. N. Osborne, Private, 4th N.Z.R. ; J. C. Maclean, Corporal, 4th N.Z.R.R. ; H. J. McDonald, 4th N.Z.R; L. J. Murphy, Sergeant-Major, 4th N.Z.R. ; M. J. Luke, 5th N.Z.R. ; H. J. Simpson, 5th N.Z.R ; E. J. Saun- ders, 4th N.Z.R. ; J. Wilson, 5th N.Z.R. ; F. Brace, R.Q.M.S., 5th N.Z.R. ; G. W. Ferguson, Lieutenant, 5th N.Z.R. ; A. M. Roberts, Act. Regt. S.M., 4th N.Z.R. ; James Walsh, 5th N.Z.R. ; Reginald Neill Harding; James Coffey, 5th N.Z. R. ; Joan Davidson, 5th N.Z.R. ; M. J. Collins, 5th N.Z.R; W. J. Hardham, Farrier - Major 4th N.Z.R. ; R. Wylie, 4th N.Z.R. : C. F. Jackson, 4th N.Z.R. ; R. Campbell, 5th N.Z.R. ; Corporal. A. Read, 4th N.Z. R.R. ; G. Fuszard, 4th N.Z.R. ; H. J. Hawkins; E. S. Pettit, 4th N.Z.R. ; No. vate A. McKeller ; No. 1660, Corporal F. Mason ; No. 1106, Private J. Logan ; No. 1102, Private A. Morrison ; No. 1103, Private P. Dawson; No. 1109, Private R. J. McAuley ; No. 1121, Private H. Campbell ; No. 1149, Private J. Gouk; 1657, Bugler McDonald ; J. S. Wilson, 5th N.Z.R. ; W. H. Fletcher, Sergeant-major, 5th N.Z.R .; George Lawson, 4th N.Z.R. "The Right Hon. the Premier, Wellington." That letter came to him as a welcome sur- prise after all that had been said in respect to the matter. Naturally he felt very much hurt at what had been said ; and when these men came forward in fairness to him, and he re- ceived the let'ers read, it was very welcome indeed. He had another communication :- "My name is Henry Walter Blake ; I am, or was, a corporal in the Fifth New Zealand Con- tingent, and returned to this colony by the s.s. 'Tagus,' from the Cape to Albany, and from Albany to Port Chalmers. " We arrived at Worcester (South Africa) about the 25th or 26th of May-I would not be certain which dav -- but we arrived about dusk. Of course, we had no tents pitched, and it was arranged by the officers in charge that we should join in with the Fourth Contingent, who were under canvas, but, not liking to dis- turb them, we slept out that night. It blew the same night a living gale, and by the next morning a good proportion of the tents of the Fourth Contingent were blown down. The rain slackened off again during the day, and we managed to pitch the tents. The next night it blew again, and half the tents were blown down a second time. The water ran down off the hill through the tents, which were on a slope, and the weather was quite as cold as we found it at Invercargill or Port Chalmers-in fact, we felt the cold more at Worcester than at either of the places mentioned, Invercargill or Port Chalmers. The tents were blown down, except a number which we lowered, and we were simply wet through the whole of that day ; our blankets and everything we had were wet. We had no chance or means of making fires, as we had little or no wood, and we could not get any- thing warm to drink during that day, and we had to be content with water, bread, and meat. Of course, there was a canteen, but you could buy only beer, and when one is wet through one does not care for cold beer. Once again during our stay at Worcester it blew just the same as before, and the tents were again blown down. The wind blew heavily for twenty-four hours, and during most of the time we were wet through. Orders were given that the men were not to go down the town, but a good many of them broke orders and went there ; but even there you could get nothing hot, nor whiskey or anything of the kind, and we had a great job to get a meal at all. The men slept in the wet. They simply had to do it. A majority of the men of the Fifth slept on the ground, and if they did not actually sleep in the water it was running through the tents, which were so many pools of water, as they were, as before 