Hon. Mr. Feldwick's resolution should not devolve on some other body than the Pharmacy Board. The Council divided. AYES, 7. Smith, A. L. Bolt Kelly, T. Smith, W. C. Kelly, W. Gourley Jenkinson NOES, 19. Scotland Jones Arkwright Shrimski Louisson Baillie Barnicoat Swanson McLean Pinkerton Twomey Bonar Reeves Walker, W. C. Bowen Williams. Feldwick Rigg Harris Majority against, 12. Amendment agreed to, and Bill recommitted. IN COMMITTEE. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved, That the following new clause be added : - "The Pharmacy Board of New Zealand, con- stituted under ' The Pharmacy Act, 1898,' may make and prescribe regulations providing a ' rota of attendance' for chemists carrying on business in the cities or boroughs of New Zea- land, in which, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act contained, it shall be lawful for those chemists whose names have been placed on the rota to keep their shops open at all hours of the day and night for the days specified in the notices published in the Gazette, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and advertised from time to time in a news- paper circulating in the district: Provided that any such notice shall previously have been approved of by the Governor in Council." The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY moved as an amend- ment, That " the Pharmacy Board of New Zea- land, constituted under ' The Pharmacy Act, 1898,' may " be struck out, with a view of in- serting the following : "Clause nine of the prin- cipal Act is hereby amended by the addition of the following words, that is to say : 'It shall also be the duty of the conference to."" The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved, That pro- gress be reported. Progress reported. RABBIT NUISANCE BILL. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved, That this Bill be recommitted. He said he had much pleasure in taking charge of the measure, be- cause farmers in the rabbit infested districts of New Zealand had for a long time suffered under a cruel grievance. The law laid down the proposition that when a farmer might be brought before a Court, on the bare statement of the Inspector he was bound to be fined. The Inspector was Crown Prosecutor, Judge, jury, and everything combined in himself. The monstrosities in respect to equitable treatment under this Act had been something terrible. What was sought to be done by this Bill was to remove from the Inspector, or officer prosecut- ing, the power he now possessed of convicting and fining a settler against whom he might Hon. Mr. Twomey The Bill, as honourable members would see, was a very short one, but it was to the point. He moved the second reading the other day, and the Leader of the Council moved that it should be referred to the Joint Stock Com- mittee. The Bill had been considered by that Committee, and sent back to the Council with nothing more than a verbal amendment. He had much pleasure in recommending the Bill to the Council as one that should receive its approval and be passed into law. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he was sorry he could not allow this Bill to go into Committee without saying a word or two, be- cause it was a very serious subject. It was a matter they had dealt with in times past. They had spent thousands of pounds and they had done their best by legislation to put this pest down ; and that this Bill should be fathered on this occasion by an honourable gentleman who came from Invercargill would be a matter of astonishment to him were it not that South- land was the home of the rabbit, where it was nursed by legislation, fostered by Provincial Government banquets, and supported by pro- Therefore it was quite tection for years. natural, perhaps, that the honourable gentle- man, as a good Southlander, wished to preserve the rabbits. Well, now, the rest of the colony did not. They had paid dear enough for the rabbit up till now, and it was no laughing matter. He could assure honourable gentle- men that to be cruel was kind in certain They had spared certain districts in cases. the colony before now in matters of scab. He asked his honourable friend opposite, Cap- tain Baillie, to say whether it was not the cruellest thing that was ever done to the Pro- vince of Marlborough to allow them to nurse the scab there as they had done, not only at their own expense, but at the expense of the colony. And so it was in relation to the rabbit pest : they must be cruel to be kind ; and so he said the greatest kindness they could show to the settlers was to insist that they should kill their rabbits and make an end of them. They might speak of that as an apparent hardship, they might growl, they might grizzle ; but still the Council would have done its duty, and they would be better in the long-run. The scab was nursed exactly on the same principle in the old days, not only in the Province of Marlborough, but in the Province of Canterbury, where there was a certain gentleman named George Henry Moore, of Glenmark, and it was not until they put the fear of Heaven into him by special legislation that they got his country clear. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- It has occurred all over the colony. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, Yes, it had been the same thing all over the country. It was no use saving the rabbits were being got rid of ; they were not being got rid of. On the other hand, they were being farmed, and while they were being farmed there was a certain amount of profit in them. Still, at the same time, they were not getting rid of the rabbit, and helping those who were engaged in pro- 