great deal of superstition respecting him, and hesitated even to approach the place in which he dwelt. They looked upon it as a sort of holy ground; but, with the rise of intelligence and the spread of education among those people, they have got away from that old idea, and to-day they look upon the Mikado of that country as one of themselves. Now, I do not know why we should be called upon to regard His Excellency the Governor with a feeling of superstition. I look upon him as a friend, a gentleman, and a citizen of the colony, who in the position of Governor carries out his duties constitutionally and to the best of his ability. But, to call a spade a spade, we know that his position is to a large extent a sinecure, and that was the opinion of Sir George Grey when he introduced his Elective Governors Bill some years ago, when he spoke so eloquently on the floor of this House, and when he was listened to with so much attention and interest by those members who had the privilege of hearing him. On that occasion there was no disposition on the part of the Premier to recommend that members should approach the question of elective Governor with bated breath. Now, as to the vote the Premier asks this House to consent to in the Bill before the House for second reading, the honourable gentleman must know that the authority for the expendi- ture of money rests entirely with this House. We, the representatives of the people, have control of the public purse, and it rests with us either to tighten or relax the strings of that purse as we think proper, and if the Govern- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ment commit this colony to an expenditure which we do not approve of, we have a duty to discharge, and say distinctly we shall not vote for such expenditure. I have no doubt the Premier will see the force of these remarks, and will not dispute for a moment the right of members to discuss such questions. So far as the people of New Zealand are concerned, they gave the Duke and Duchess a right Royal wel- come; and if it had been left to the people there would have been perhaps less osten- tation connected with the reception, but there would have been as great if not even a greater degree of enthusiasm connected with the reception. And now the Duke and Duchess have left our shores, and I have no doubt that the people of the colony from the North to the South have made a splendid impression on them. They carried away the impression which we desired them to carry away as loyal subjects to the King. Sir, we have treated the Governor since he came amongst us by no means niggardly ; indeed, we have treated him handsomely. His salary is at present £7,000. The expenses of both Government Houses at Auckland and Welling- ton for fittings, repairs, and so on, cost the colony about $1.500 a year. This brings the expenses to £8,500. Add to this the £2,250, that brings the amount up to £10,750, to which has to be added refund of Customs duties, and many other little items that we know nothing about. steamers. Mr. MEREDITH .- Yes. So I do not think the member for Wairarapa is far astray in saying that this year the Governor will cost the colony £11,900. The President of the Swiss Re- public, who controls a population of 3,312,531, receives the magnificent sum of £540 a year, and does his work very much to the satisfac- tion of the people. The President of the United States of America -- and I must com- pliment the United States on producing the finest class of men in the world-serves his country efficiently and well for #10,000 a year, the Vice-President receiving £1,500. The po- pulation of the great republic is over 76,000,000. The Chief Justice of our own colony, who must be a man possessed of rare capabilities, gets the magnificent sum of £1,700; the Premier of the colony receives £1,600; and when we contem- plate these figures we are forced to arrive at the conclusion that we deal very handsomely indced with the Governor. If the question of this additional sum had been before the House last session I am quite sure that members would have had more to say than they did on the occasion of the increase in the Governor's salary. The House voted last year the £2,000 increase with the distinct understanding that it was to defray the expenses of coming events. I cannot see for the life of me why this account for entertaining the Duke and Duchess should be sent in by the Governor. It would be just as reasonable for the Mayors of Auckland and Christchurch to send in their accounts for enter. taining the Royal visitors, or for the citizens who spent from £1 to £20 in bringing their families to our cities to do honour to the son and daughter of our King. If the Government had been so foolish as to promise the Governor this sum, the blame rests with the Government. I, as a representative of the people, am not pre- pared to support such a vote, and shall there- fore vote against the second reading of the Bill. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- I did not intend to speak on this unpleasant debate, but, after hearing the speech delivered by the honourable member for Ashley, who has just sat down, I think it is my duty to explain what are the real facts. This is not a party ques- tion, and I am glad to see that it is not one, for there are members on the other side of the House who are voting for the Bill, and some who are opposing it. This sum is not a sum to be given to the Governor in addition to the annual amount voted to him. It is something which he tells the Government "I have ex- pended on behalf of the colony." Now, the moment we veto that we say he has not done so; and I suggest that no member of this House will go so far as to say, when His Excel- lency says " I have spent this money on behalf of the colony," that he did not spend the money, but is attempting to make something out of the colony. Mr. PIRANI .- He has not said so. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I can adduce no other deduction from the estimates and the Bill now before us. There may be some in- 