public opinion, because you could always get a public-spirited Borough Council or County Council to come to the rescue of the domain when money was wanted. The old idea of a Board of Commissioners for domains worked very well when there was plenty of money in their hands, but if there was no money they were at the end of their resources ; but if do- mains were a matter of concern to the locali- ties, which he could safely say they were, it was very much better for those localities that the officials or the controlling body should be a body who would, if necessary, supply the requisite funds to carry on the work. He could only give his experience. He had had a good deal to do for many years with Ashburton, and there was a Domain Board there. It was fairly constituted, and the County Council and the Borough Council were represented, and they got on very well, as far as that went ; but there was the ultimate responsibility of finding extra funds, and they agreed that the Borough Coun- cil was the proper authority to be charged with the amount. The County Council, it must be said, were very generous; they had given money time after time to make and im- prove their domain ; but, as to maintenance, the County Council agreed that it was very much better to hand the matter over to the Borough Council, as they were on the spot, and they were willing to take the responsibility. And he could only say this : that, having taken the responsibility over, they had done every- thing that any one could wish in the way of maintenance ; and he certainly agreed that it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was always as well in these cases, especially in small towns, to put the government of domains in the hands of Borough Councils ; and, more- over, it minimised the number of public bodies they had to deal with. He had long felt that the number of public bodies appointed or elected was a great detriment to the wheels- should he say-of progress ; at all events, they had reduced the number in Ashburton, and it was very much better, he thought, that the Borough Council, when it was sitting, should go through the business attaching to the Domain Board than that the Domain Board should be called to meet, say, the next day, when pro- bably a quorum had got to be whipped up. He had every sympathy with the combination of interests, and he thought Borough Councils and County Councils were the best bodies to deal with the administration of domains. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN would like to say this regarding the transfer of the domains to Borough Councils : that he would give another view of the matter than that placed before the Council by the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker, although he quite agreed that, as a rule, these domains should be in the hands of the Council. But he did not like that part of this clause which said the trustees should be abolished. He did not like the wording of that with re- gard to a public body. If his honourable friend would strike those words out of the clause, and would say it was agreed between the trustees, and the Municipal Council to hand Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker be an improvement. He would also like his honourable friend to say whether these trustees had been wiped out with their own consent or not. If they were not giving their consent he did not think Parliament should compel them. There was a Domain Board in a district which was not a hundred miles away from where he lived which had got a certain amount of funds, and the Corporation there had always been trying to get hold of these funds in order to save their rates. Now, that was another side of the picture to the one presented by his honour- able friend, and this endeavour on the part of the Corporation had been resisted so far, and very successfully too. He would like his honourable friend to redraft his clause, if he had got the sanction of these people to the change proposed. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- Will you move an amendment ? The Hon. Mr. McLEAN did not want to take his honourable friend by surprise, and would rather not take the matter out of his hands. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said that, not- withstanding the very long explanation which the Minister had given about this Bill, he had not thrown much light on the question. The point was this : The Board of Trustees had been in existence for twenty-six years, and honourable members had never heard that during all that time they had been in the posi- tion the honourable gentleman stated, and nothing had been said by the mover of the Bill to explain why they were in a worse position now as regards finance than they were twenty- five or twenty-six years ago. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said they had done nothing yet. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said, Very well, the honourable gentleman should give the Coun- cil an explanation of the position. Honourable gentlemen did not know anything about the circumstances. They were going on blindly without any information whatever. That was the point. The honourable member had not offered a single remark as to the position of the Masterton Borough Council. It was quite pos- sible it might be in a very impecunious position, and that under the Bill they would be handing over this reserve from one body to another with regard to whose position or ability to carry out the duties which were necessary for the improve- ment of this park they were completely in the dark. There was not even a word said about. their willingness to do so. He thought the honourable gentleman who moved the second reading should seek for such information as would satisfy the Council it was a proper thing to pass this Bill. The Hon. Mr. GOURLEY called the Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith's attention to the state of the public gardens in Dunedin to-day as compared with their condition when the Corporation took If he understood the Act aright, them over. these Domain Board trustees had no power to rate. Now, he thought his honourable friend would admit that the public gardens in Dunedin, before they were taken over by the Corporation, 