In this case the Governor appears to have acted outside the amount named on the estimates, a very large personal expenditure has been made throughout on his own initiative as the host of by His Excellency, and for which no con- the colony- if you choose to put it that way- tribution is asked or will be given. If the and has incurred liabilities that he was autho- honourable member had to go through the rised to incur by the Ministry of the day. The experience as we had to do he would have found Ministry now ask that he should be refunded the state of affairs was altogether abnormal, the amount of money he has spent. The Co- and that during the time of the visit it was lonial Secretary, in speaking, emphasized the fact that the Governor was authorised to take impossible to get even the most ordinary at- all steps necessary to protect His Royal tendance at the usual prices. Mr. ATKINSON .- Why have the Govern- Highness the Duke of Cornwall and York. ment not included everything ? The Colonial Secretary emphasized particu- Sir J. G. WARD .- Everything, as soon as larly the matter of safety. Well, my im we know what it is, will be included. All the pres ion is that the question of the safety Government requires to do now, as far as ex- of His Royal Highness and of the Royal penditure made directly by His Excellency the party generally fell on the New Zealand police, Governor on behalf of the colony is concerned, assisted by those who came from another colony, is to provide for that payment to go through him, and therefore the question of pay would not as it could not be made in any other way. The necessarily enter into this matter, so far as the expenditure made direct by the Government will safety of His Royal Highness was concerned. be dealt with in the usual way ; but, where we Now, I want to say that I think there may be had to throw responsibility on His Excellency, an explanation of this item, and I will ask the and where he was bound to fulfil the duty as Government if what I suggest is the correct host on behalf of the colony, the only way to explanation, because, if so, it will alter the incur the expense and to carry out the functions position I take up in the matter. I do not was to authorise the money and to get the think His Excellency the Governor, as the House to ratify it later on. That is what the highest personage in New Zealand, should be House is now being asked to do. I hope that expected to pay out of his own pocket the whole on the second reading of the Bill, when honour- cost of the maintenance and entertainment of able members have been posted up on the whole the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York position, there will be no attempt made to stop and party I am speaking now of the food, and payments to His Excellency that, under the so on - during the time they were in New Zea- circumstances, are being made to him only land. I understand this $2,250 represents the because of his position. He was the only cost that His Excellency was put to throughout person who could act as host on behalf of the the whole of the colony. Now, if the (iovern- colony. All we ask is that the colony ment say that this #2,250 represents the cost, should reimburse His Excellency for necessary not of furnishing, which is apparently provided expenses incurred by him in that capacity on for separately, but the cost of the entertainment, t half of the colony. from a food point of view, and so on, of the Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- Sir, I am very Royal party at the different centres throughout sorry to hear the Premier and the Colonial New Zealand, I have not another word to say in Secretary say that the Governor was respon- connection with the whole matter. sible for the entertainment of the Royal Mr. SEDDON. - That is just what it is. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Then, that is just visitors. Sir J. G. WARD .- I never said that. the point I wish to bring out ; and I do not Mr. BOLLARD .- I was under the im- think there is a man in the House who would say that the responsibility of entertaining in pre-sion that all the arrangements were made by the Government, because whoever was re- that way the whole of the Royal party during the time they were in New Zealand should be sponsible for them I must say that, as far as Auckland was concerned, they were done for cast on His Excellency the Governor, and taken out of his private pocket. I feel that myself ; party purposes. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is absurd. and, however desirous I may be of seeing an Mr. BOLLARD .- I say it is a fact. How- economical policy carried out, I would not say ever. I will not discuss the question now, but I that the whole cost of providing for the enter- will have something to say on it on the second tainment of the Royal party should be thrown reading of the Bill. on Lord Ranfurly because he happened at the Mr G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, I do time to be Governor of New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER .- Nobody meant that. not wish to approach this subject with any heat, because I think it is one that, above all others, should be calmly and dispassionately discussed ; others meant. I have listened carefully to the toit there in an important principle underlying speeches and, if that is the explanation of the the matter, and that is the feeling that is Bill, I shall support it. urgermost in the minds of the House -- namely, that a gentleman occupying a very high but scarcely understand the attitude now assumed by the Government. First there was submitted irresponsible position has been permitted to to us in the estimates a grant of $2,250 to His itour habilities, which apparently were un. limited, to the extent of $2,250. The idea we Excellency the Governor to reimburse expenses have in this colony is that the Governor acts incurred by him in connection with the visit of Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I do not know what Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). -- Sir, 1 