the committal of this Bill. Motion agreed to, and Bill committed. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- " In this Act and in the principal Act, if not inconsistent with the context, ' trade-union ' means any trade-union registered under ' The Trade Union Act, 1878,' whether registered under that Act before the passing of the principal Act or not." The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved, That the clause be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be retained." AYES, 25. Scotland Kenny Barnicoat Shrimski Louisson Bolt Swanson McLean Bonar Tomoana Ormond Feldwick Peacock Twomey Gourley Walker, L. Pinkerton Jennings Walker, W. C. Pitt Jones Kelly, T. Reeves Williams. Kelly, W. # NOES, 2. Rigg. Jenkinson Majority for, 23. Clause retained. Clause 6 .- " Section fifty of the principal Act is hereby amended by striking out all the words after the word 'Conciliators,' in the fourth line, and substituting the words ' shall, on the application of either party to the dispute, and in the prescribed manner, be constituted from time to time to meet any case of industrial dispute."" The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved, That the clause be struck out. Progress reported. The Council adjourned at ten o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 25th October, 1901. First Reading-Second Readings-Third Readings- Teachers' and Civil Service Examinations-Re- view of Reviews-Government Railways Depart- ment Classification Bill-Maori Lands Adminis- tration Bill-Dunedin Water-works Extension Bill-Hokitika Harbour Board Endowment Bill -City of Christchurch Electric Power and Loan Empowering Bill-Levels and Waimate Counties Boundaries Alteration Bill-Wellington City Re- creation Ground Bill-Land-Tax and Income-Tax Bill-Local Bodies' Loans Bill-Criminal Code Bill-Public.school Teachers' Salaries Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Native Land Claims Adjustment and Laws Amendment Bill. Borough of Mornington Tramways Bill, Lyt- telton Borough Council Empowering Bill, City of Auckland Loans Consolidation and Auckland City Borrowing Bill, Kairanga County Bill, Featherston County Bill, Wesleyan Church Re- serve Vesting Bill (No. 2), Ocean Beach Public Domain Bill, Borough of Mataura Loan Valida- tion Bill, Greytown Reserves Vesting and Dis- posal Enabling Bill, Canterbury College Em- powering Bill, Palmerston North Reserves Bill, Kiwitea County Council Offices Bill, Egmont County Bill (No. 2), Gore Cemetery Reserve Vesting and Enabling Bill, Masterton Public Park Management Bill, Inch-Clutha Road, River, and Drainage Bill. # THIRD READINGS. Borough of Mornington Tramways Bill, Lyt- telton Borough Council Empowering Bill, City of Auckland Loans Consolidation and Auckland City Borrowing Bill, Kairanga County Bill, Featherston County Bill, Wesleyan Church Re- serve Vesting Bill (No. 2), Ocean Beach Publio Domain Bill, Borough of Mataura Loan Valida- tion Bill, Greytown Reserves Vesting and Dis- posal Enabling Bill, Canterbury College Em- powering Bill, Palmerston North Reserves Bill, Kiwitea County Council Offices Bill, Egmont County Bill (No. 2), Gore Cemetery Reserve Vesting and Enabling Bill, Masterton Public Park Management Bill, Inch-Clutha Road, River, and Drainage Bill, Templeton Domain Board Empowering Bill. TEACHERS' AND CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATIONS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) laid on the table the teachers' and Civil Service examination-papers, and moved, That they be printed. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he knew of a grievance in connection with the Civil Service examinations, to which he would like to draw the attention of the Premier. He understood that under the law, or the regulations at present existing, a person who had passed the Senior Civil Service Examination and the Junior Uni- versity Scholarship Examination with honours could not be appointed to a position in the Civil Service, because he had not passed the Junior Civil Service Examination. Mr. SEDDON .- That is so-that is the law. Mr. PIRANI thought there ought to be a discretionary power possessed by the Govern- ment to appoint any person who has passed such an examination to the Civil Service with- out having to learn typewriting-because if a person learned typewriting he might be ap- pointed as an expert without examination- but it seemed to him most extraordinary that a person who had passed the Senior Civil Ser- vice Examination with credit, and obtained a Junior University Scholarship with honours, and-in the case he had referred to-had matriculated, yet that person could not be appointed to a permanent position in the Civil Service. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) considered that the present law in respect to admission to the Civil 