ion, and more particularly on this question, as regard to the reply which had been sent to the it affected the producers of the colony very materially ; so he would be most happy to have any information that the farmers liked to place before him. He could only assure the House and the country that he would give the fullest consideration to any communications that were sent to him. PUBLIC-SCHOOL TEACHERS' SALARIES BILL. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Govern- ment, Whether it is their intention to place the Public-school Teachers' Salaries Bill on the statute-book during the present session ? He noticed on the corrected Order Paper for to-day that the Public-school Teachers' Salaries Bill was second on the list. On the proof Order gentleman was rather peculiar in his expres- Paper, however, it was No. 21 on the list. He was satisfied now the Government intended day he was the " Bull of Bashan," and now he to go on with this measure, and he hoped the was to be a fish; not, however, a jellyfish, or Premier would give him the assurance that he meant to place it on the statute-book this session. It was only dealing out justice to a very deserving section of public servants. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) hoped they would have the second reading of the Bill carried to- night, and he was quite prepared to take it into Committee and get it through. He thought to the Secretary of the Cabinet, and they were that period of the session had now arrived when sent on to the printer. So far as he knew, they might go into Committee immediately after reading a Bill a second time. He re- gretted that the Press representatives in the that the despatches were with the Government gallery had given it out that he had said he only intended to take the second reading of the Bill. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 He never said anything of the sort. He said honourable gentleman would say whether it that he was going to proceed with the Bill. He office as Governor was to be extended. regretted the error, because it had cost the teachers throughout the colony a large sum of was well within his rights in asking that ques- money in telegrams. tion. He could not say whether the term was DESPATCHES BETWEEN GOVERNOR to be extended or not, but he hoped it would. AND HOME AUTHORITIES. The Government had made representations to Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the the Colonial Office, and stated that, in their Premier, Why no despatches between His opinion, it would be pleasing to the people of Excellency the Governor and the Home autho- this colony that His Excellency should be re- rities later than the 9th November and the tained for another term. 22nd December, 1900, respectively, have been laid before Parliament? So far as he was consulted ? aware, the only papers relating to despatches between this colony and the Home Government be very unusual. were A .- 1 and A .- 2. A .- 1 consisted of des- patches down to only the 22nd December of last year, while A .- 2 consisted of despatches coming down only to the 9th November of last Government, Whether they will place on the supplementary estimates a compassionate al- year. In other words, they were nearly twelve months behind with the information which lowance for Mrs. Charity W. Gauntlett, wife honourable members were entitled to with regard of Torpedoman Gauntlett, who died as the re- sult of an accident while in the service of the to communications which had passed between the Government and the Home authorities. On corps? He had presented a petition to the two or three occasions matters of importance House this session on behalf of Mrs. Gauntlett, comprised in these communications had been in which the petitioner prayed for compensation referred to in the House. The other day the for loss of her husband ; and the Committee member for Ashley put a question, which the had reported that the petition be referred to Premier thought was a fishing expedition, in the Government for favourable consideration. regard to the correspondence that had taken place on the question of precedence ; and last Gauntlett was paid £137 17s. 6d., being a sum equal to one year's salary of her late husband. night the member for the Bay of Plenty in- effectually endeavoured to fish the Premier in The late corporal died on the 1st March, 1899. Government on the subject of the New Zealand ensign, and apparently the member for 3.30. the Bay of Plenty assumed that the reasons that were given in the published cor- respondence between the Deputy Governor and the Premier were those that had led the Home authorities to veto the New Zealand Ensign Bill. The Premier, who had later information, had assured the House that that was not the reason. He had put this question with the object of eliciting some information as to why these despatches were withheld from the House. They ought to have the despatches for at least six months later than those that were on the table. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable sions in regard to himself (Mr. Seddon). One one to be caught by every bait. He thought it would take very strong lines and very tempting bait to draw him if he was to be placed in that category. The position, as far as he knew, was that all the despatches were sorted out, and, in fact, he was not consulted about them at all. They came down from His Excellency there was nothing to keep them back, and he would make inquiries. It was just possible Printer. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked if the was true or not that Lord Ranfurly's term of Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member Mr. J. ALLEN .- Why was not the House Mr. SEDDON said that such a course would MRS. CHARITY W. GAUNTLETT. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said Mrs. Charity 