five months of the year, and the low country was required for depasturing the stock in win- ter time. The department, at one time, did take a portion of this land and cut it up for small grazing-runs as a trial, but it had not proved a success, as it had to be abandoned by several of the people who took it up, and it fell back to the man who originally held the whole area. Under the circumstances, he thought it better to wait until these leases fell in, and cut up the land into blocks with frontages which would give the holders a small farm at the lower end, and back-country on the high ground to work his sheep. MOKAU RIVER SCENERY. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton), for Mr. Ell (Christchurch City), asked the Minister of Lands, What steps he has taken, if any, to preserve the beautiful scenery on the Mokau River ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he had had the pleasure of a trip up this river as far as the coalfield, and it was one of the most beautiful spots one could imagine. He intended to make inquiries to see if some arrangement could not be come to, to reserve, say, half a mile on each side of the river, for the preserva- tion of the scenery, as the land was of very little value for cultivation. They might have to purchase the land adjacent to the Crown lands. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is it Native land ? Mr. DUNCAN believed Mr. Joshua Jones had https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 some kind of claim upon it, but he would see if some satisfactory arrangement could not be arrived at. MONEY-LENDERS BILL. On the question, That the amendments made in Committee in this Bill be agreed to, Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said, I protest against this Bill passing in its present form. It was a harmless Bill as originally in- troduced-it would not have done very much good in this colony, but, at any rate, it could not possibly have done any harm ; but in endeavouring to enlarge its utility I am very much afraid that, with the best intentions in the world, we have made it positively a mis- chievous measure. The measure as originally submitted to us was merely a transcript of the Imperial Act of last session, to meet the pro- fessional money-lender pure and simple. unfortunately pointed out in Committee that it seemed hard on the borrower that the fact of his getting relief from an unconscionable bargain should be dependent solely on whether or not it was the practice of the man lending the money to drive unconscionable bargains. If it were the habit of the lender to lend money on oppressive terms-if he were a pro- fessional usurer-in that case the borrower would have a remedy under the Bill as sub- mitted to us. I pointed out, and the Committee seemed to think it reasonable, that if possible we should authorise the Court to inquire into any usurious transaction, irrespective of the Mr. Duncan We therefore set to work, with the approval of the Minister in charge, to give the Bill a wider scope. But the Bill has now such a very wide scope that I fear it will do positive harm. It is certainly a curiosity in draftsmanship. If members will look at the Bill as reported from Committee they will see that it is indeed a curiosity in draftsmanship. The intrepretation clause, clause 2, which occupies about half a page, defines what " money-lender" under the Bill means. Clause 3, which occupies a whole page, proceeds then to deal with the money- lender. "Money-lender " is mentioned there in the first line of the 3rd clause, but not till we come to the 50th line-the last subclause of clause 3, do we find the money-lender who has been spoken about. The one mentioned in clause 3 is an entirely different person from the gentleman whom we have taken the trouble to define in clause 2. It is a most in- artistic piece of work, and positively misleading if allowed to stand. It was absolutely un- necessary to have put it in this form. All that was needed to give effect to the intention of the Minister, and the majority of the Com- mittee, was to strike out "money-lender" in the 3rd clause and substitute for it the word "person," because the 3rd clause is made universal in its application-it applies to any person who lends money. Honourable mem- bers will see that that is the sole effect of the last subclause of clause 3 :- "For the purposes of this section (but for no other purpose) the expression ' money-lender ' includes any person who lends money for in- terest." So that, as I have said, if the word " person " had been substituted for "money - lender " throughout the clause-the clause sufficiently shows that it deals solely with persons who lend -then without any definition in clause 3, and without anything misleading, we should have attained the same object that we propose to attain by the present clause. But when we go on to clause 4 we seem to have realised that the Bill was something of a muddle, and instead of allowing " money lender " to rest upon the in- terpretation clause, we make assurance doubly sure by beginning clause 4 as follows : " A money-lender as defined by section 2 of this Act," et cetera. Then we pass on to clause 5 and speak of money-lenders again, without qualification. Of course "money-lender," ex- cept in clause 3, must be taken to be money- I lender as defined in the interpretation clause ; but the different definitions in clauses 2 and 3, and the special reference in clause 4-and clause 4 only-to one of the definitions, will be very farcical to the lay mind, and must be a source of confusion. I also wish to point out to the House that the substitution of the word "or " for "and " in the eighth line on the second page has effected a complete revolu- tion in the scope of the Bill, and has entirely falsified the preamble. The 3rd clauce, as originally drawn, applies to cases where the interest charged is excessive, and the Court is satisfied that the transaction was harsh and 