poverty, and he could not return to his work." Mr. SEDDON .- I was speaking of the recess. He could not return to work when the session was over. Captain RUSSELL .- That really means that he could not return to his work for seven years. Then, at the end of that seven years, and per- haps after reappointment for a further seven years, the rush of trade competition might be such that he would be shut out from his em- ployment and would not be competent to earn what I may call an honest livelihood. That would appear to me to be a dangerous position to advocate. Then, I think we should place the members of the Council on the same terms as ourselves as regards remuneration; the mem- bers of the Council have to make an equal sacrifice of their time, although they may not be employed for such long hours. An Hon. MEMBER .- They have no election expenses. Captain RUSSELL .- The honourable mem- ber was not here when I argued that we have no right to put forward the cost of elections as part of expenses, otherwise the sitting members would be paid to fight the rest of the world. I think the Council would do well to set this Bill on one side, unless they are placed in the same position as ourselves. Just a word about leave of absence. I agree that those members who represent remote constituencies ought to be allowed a longer term of leave of absence than is provided in the Act of 1892. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why should they be https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 fined at all ? Captain RUSSELL .- I was coming to that. I think we should repeal altogether clause 5 of " The Payment of Members Act, 1892," and leave it to the honour of members to attend regularly to their duties. I think we should allow a member to settle such points with his constituents. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is the way it is in Australia. Captain RUSSELL .- Quite so; and I think this section 5 of the Act is a reflection upon ourselves, and therefore I should like to see clause 5 of "The Payment of Members Act, 1892," repealed, and I should like to see the Council placed on the same footing with our- selves with regard to remuneration, inasmuch as they have to make the same sacrifice of time as we have. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- I think, Sir, the last speaker has placed his views before the House very fairly and without heat, which all the more adds to the weight of his argu- ments. In that respect-if I may say so with- out egotism-he has taken a lesson from myself in being cool and collected, and therefore able to put on record his views without any display of heat. But what troubled me in connection with his speech was the view he expressed that £200 was a sufficient honorarium for mem- bers of Parliament to properly represent their constituencies upon. Now, Sir, I venture to say, if such an amount as that were fixed in this country, it would be simply opening the doors those who have an income considerably beyond £200 in private life. That is my belief, and I will endeavour to explain why I entertain that opinion. In the first place, it is all very well to talk about election expenses of members of the Lower House; but I say a member of the Lower House not only has to fight very hard to get in, but to fight very hard to keep in while here, because it is well known that you have the watchful political dogs outside the House ever ready to pick the bones in your absence, and, if they get the chance, to " shake " the bone alto- gether, and so shake you out of Parliament if they get the ghost of a show. Now, what is the experience of every man who has come to Parliament, either to the Legislative Council or House of Representatives, since payment of members has been in operation in New Zea- land ? I say nine men out of ten have had to establish two homes ; and I have no hesita- tion whatever in saying that, if a man will openly and freely state what his experience has been at the end of a session of Parliament, he will be bound to state he found himself on the wrong side, so far as his expenses both of his own home and those incurred at the seat of Government were concerned. That being so, when the honourable member advocates a re- muneration of only £200 per annum the only conclusion one can come to is that he wants & select class only to come to Parliament, as so low a paid man who desired to serve his country would have no opportunity, unless he courted personal ruin, of coming here at all. After all is said and done, in a young coun- try such as New Zealand is, if you want the requirements of the people attended to, you must draw upon a class of comparatively poor men, among whom it is almost impossible to find those whose resources are sufficient to enable them to get here, and to put up with the average expenses of members while carrying on their duties. While the honourable member may deprecate the practice and suggest that it was a want of courage on the part of members not to withstand this continual pestering for contributions in their electorates, I am sure if he told us his own experience we would find he has paid many hundreds of pounds since he has been a member of this House in this man- ner ; and in a degree, more or less, that is the experience of us all. We find, and it is one of the penalties of greatness, that as soon as a member of Parliament enters the portals of this House he becomes, in the eyes of some of those who sent him here, an object for earnest solicitude, and he is expected to contribute to many things in his constituency, to say nothing of contributing to private subscrip- tions, of which we all get our share. And I think if such a retrograde step as has been sug- gested by the honourable gentleman wero taken, of reducing the pay of honourable mem- bers, it would be a bad thing for the colony as a whole. You would have people here in all probability making a great deal more for them- selves and their friends by going for class legis- lation, instead of that for the use and benefit of . - 