knows that it is one of the cardinal features of its Constitution that trade from port to port should be carried in American bottoms ; but there was never any intention originally that the Constitution should apply in the way it is interpreted at the present time, because under a proper observance of the Monroe doc- trine it would have been an impossibility. Of late the United States has changed its foreign policy-like New Zealand-and seems to be seeking to acquire new territories beyond the seas. I have no doubt that if, by a proper method, we attempt to get the concession in this matter the laws of the United States would be altered, except so far as the continent itself is concerned. And I to a very great extent blame the present Government for allowing the position to have attained the proportions it occupies at the present time. I feel sure that if continued representations had been made to get some abrogation of the maritime laws- so far, at any rate, as the South Sea Islands are concerned-it would have met with success. Mr. SEDDON .- No; we have tried it. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes; I know-the Premier made one trial. Mr. SEDDON .- Two trials. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, two trials-in, I think, four years. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, it is nearly four years ago since I drew the attention of the Govern- ment to the position that we would be in if https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Hawaii were annexed to the United States, and if the Premier has only made representations twice in four years he has not performed the duty he owed to this colony. I am certain that if he had taken as much trouble in regard to this matter as he has taken in connection with other representations made to the Old Country . on paltry questions he would have been able to accomplish something for the benefit of the colony, and would have got rid of the cry that has been made against this service that our own vessels are not able to take part in it. But I do not look at that as in any way an insuperable objection to the service. It is an objection that we must regret exists ; but, so far as New Zealand is concerned, I do not think it is a very great matter. For the connection between Fr'isco and New Zealand American vessels are employed, and it amuses me to hear honourable members pointing out the very great danger New Zealand is in be- cause those vessels are liable to be used as cruisers, and at the same time condemning the quality of the vessels that are used and their uselessness for a fast service. If cruisers are to be of use, and if what is said against these vessels is true, then you can get nothing more unfit for the purpose of vessels of war than the vessels described in such unmeasured terms. Personally, I think it is the duty of the Go- vernment, even if these proposals are carried, to seek for some other connection with the Old Country in addition to the San Francisco mail- service. I have no doubt before many years altogether will have to be revised, not only so far as New Zealand is concerned, but so far as the Australian Colonies are concerned ; because there can be no question about it that in the near future the Panama or the Nicaragua Canal will be open. Vessels going either way must call at New Zealand on their way to the Australian Colonies ; and if that route is adopted -and I see by recent American papers that negotiations are going on actively for the com- pletion of that canal or the Panama Canal- Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- It will be through in five years. Mr. PIRANI .- The honourable member says it will be through in five years. So that it will be seen that it is only a question of time when the whole matter of mail-routes will have to be revised, and put on a different basis to what they are on at the present time. But at pre- sent I can see nothing better for us than the San Francisco route; and I think it will be only a fair thing to the Government-and I always like to support them when they are right, and I think they are right this time-it is only right that the Government should get the op- portunity of carrying out the proposals now before the House. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) .- This question is a very important one to the colony, and it is one that has been exhaustively dis- cussed every time it has been brought before the House. I think it is a question that should be dealt with dispassionately, and looked upon in a broad and national spirit, and not at all in a party spirit, or with regard to local interest. I believe the Auckland people are perfectly jus- tified in advocating the San Francisco service, and I do not think that any one objects to the Auckland members doing so. At the same time they should not take exception to the views of those who do not see eye to eye with them. I think, Sir, it is a great mistake to suppose that, in the event of the House with- drawing the subsidy from the San Francisco service, the Oceanic steamers would cease calling at Auckland. What does the American Government give the Messrs. Spreckels Bro- thers Company £50,000 a year subsidy for, if it is not for the purpose of fostering the com- merce of the United States with New Zealand and the Australian Colonies? There is not a bit of danger of the Auckland people losing these vessels even if the subsidy from this colony is withdrawn, because the contract be- tween the Oceanic Company and the United States Government will not expire for some years, therefore the vessels will continue to run, and the passenger and cargo trade will not diminish by the fact of our withdrawing the subsidy. There has been a good deal said about the tourist traffic, but I think that honourable members must be convinced from the returns laid on the table of the House that there is not a great tourist traffic. The return shows that the total number of passengers brought from San Francisco to Auckland in ten years only amounted to 3,081, and that the cargo totalled 31,783 tons; while the outward 