private gain, makes proposals, and then these proposals do not come off, and, when afterwards the Islands are annexed, he comes before us and tries to make out his proposals were made from purely patriotic motives, I do not believe that on each and every occasion we must have his name paraded before us-that the man who has done that should be extolled. I think we have had quite enough of this ; and as to what Mr. Coleman Phillips has done, it was not true patriotism, his actions were selfish from beginning to end. Sir, the honourable member will admit this: that nothing at all came from what was proposed by Mr. Coleman Phillips. There has been nothing done : it has been talked of, and the honourable member himself has stated that for years he has studied this matter. He has been going into it, and it has always had his support, but up to this time has any- thing come out of it? He is like many other gentlemen in the world, and like many other members of Parliament : they have a great deal to do in the way of pulling down and uprooting, and taking up a negative position ; but I ask the honourable member, Can he point out with re- spect to this Islands question a single thing he has done? Nothing, that is real and tangible ; there is an advocacy of nothing. Can he point out to me anything whatever except that he has objected, as he is objecting now, to the third reading of this Bill ? I can if I wished - but I do not want to enter into extraneous matter- point out one thing that has been characteristic https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 right through the honourable member's career. He has the power to destroy, the power to adversely criticize ; but, when it comes to con- struction - well, the honourable member may some day probably tell the colony what he has to his credit. I know of very little, but I do know a good deal that the honourable member has done by his uprooting proclivities. I have reason to recollect that myself. However, Sir, the question now is the Cook Islands ; and I must speak to the arguments adduced. We are told that New Zealand does not get the trade of Niue. I say New Zealand does get a portion of the trade of Niue : but by our arrangement now, and by making Niue a port of the colony, we have the advantage that all our products will go there duty free. All our manufactured articles will be admitted there duty free. Mr. HERRIES .- Do they levy duty on foreign trade ? Mr. SEDDON .- They have got their own Government, and must have some means of raising revenue. I wish at once to emphati- cally deny the aspersion cast upon the Imperial Government, which was to this effect, as stated by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) : he said the Imperial Government had wanted to get rid of the Islands. I say that is not the case. I say we have asked the Imperial Government, and I may say for some time the Imperial Government refrained from granting the request of this colony. Mr. FISHER .- You are a little wrong. Mr. Herries said that. But it does not matter. Mr. SEDDON .- I will not do the honourable for the Bay of Plenty used these words, then I correct my mistake, and say it was he who did it. Then, an honourable member-I think the member for the Bay of Plenty; I am not making any mistake this time-said there was no sea Power that would take possession of any of the islands. Why, Great Britain herself is an island country purely ; and what does our history, and what does the history of the world, teach us? Why, in the history of the world, it has been shown that her great power lies in her island possessions, and were it not for the assistance given by her island possessions Great Britain would not be the nation she is to-day. And we find that America is waking up, and following in the footsteps of Great Britain, and I say it is purely nonsensical for the member for the Bay of Plenty now to be laying down this dictum : that Great Britain, being an Island nation, had refrained from annexing islands and extending her sway over territories far away from the Mother-country. Amongst some of the objections taken by the 7.30. honourable gentleman was that the Federal Court, by this Bill, would have juris- diction over the other Islands. I say that neither the Federal Council nor the Federal Court will have jurisdiction over the other Islands. Mr. HERRIES .- Why do you say so in the Bill, then ? Mr. SEDDON .- I do not say so. If the honourable member cannot understand what he reads I cannot help it ; that is the honour- able member's misfortune. I say that the British Resident of the Islands is Assistant Commissioner, and consequently he has juris- diction from that authority and no other. Mr. HERRIES .- The Commissioner of what ? Mr. SEDDON. - Of the Western Pacific. The honourable member knows that the Islands are placed under that control, and the Court is not abrogated simply because the Islands are placed under New Zealand's jurisdiction. The honourable member, in objecting to the Bill for about a quarter of an hour, then asked this question-a "pertinent question," he called it : "I desire to have a lead from the Premier." I give the honourable member the lead : Vote for the third reading of the Bill. It is in the best interests of the colony, and time will prove it is in the best interests of the Islands as well. No possible good can arise at this juncture in obstructing or preventing the passing of this Bill. It is too late for that now ; we are committed to it. It does no harm, and the honourable member had better accept it with good grace. I know that he was one of the four who objected, but that is no reason for ob- structing the passage of a measure which the House wants to proceed. Before passing on to the remarks made by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, I desire to say that every member of the House and myself listened with great pleasure to what was stated by the honourable member for Avon, and the informa- tion which he gave and the details connected 