to the existing state of the law. It was not, however, thought desirable that this Bill should be retrospective, and it is proposed to deal with Dr. Campbell's case by a vote on the estimates. Such a course, while recognising Dr. Campbell's munificence, will show good reason for an altera. tion in the law in this respect. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- I shall be very happy to support this Bill, but I think it hardly goes quite far enough. It simply deals, as I understand it, with property-which, I presume, means landed property-which is left by deed for charitable purposes. Well, Sir, I should like to see the Bill made very much fuller and to go further, because I think that the pre- sent state of the law prevents charitably dis- posed people from bequeathing money grants for charitable purposes. The duty on these bequests is very high. A case in point I have, Sir, in my mind. I happen to be a trustee where a very large sum of money was left for general charity - for charitable purposes in every direction-and we had to pay a very large amount for legacy duty-somewhere be- tween $2,000 and $3,000. We had to pay that sum as duty to the Government upon this charitable bequest. That, I think, ought not to be. I think the law ought to be altered in the direction of encouraging charitably disposed people to make bequests to charitable institu- tions, and it should not be tied up and hedged around by technical conditions of all sorts. I believe the present law is to the effect that, under certain circumstances, these bequests are free of legacy duty ; but the remission is so hedged round by technicalities of one sort or another that it is very seldom that any charitable bequest comes within the four corners of the present Act. and I should like if the Minister in charge of the Bill could see his way to enlarge the purposes of the Bill in that direction, so as to embrace all chari- table bequests of every description. I believe now that, if money is left for charitable pur- poses, if there is the slightest description of particulars as to the direction of the charities, then immediately you get outside the Act and you have to pay very heavy duties. It seems to me that if a charitably disposed person leaves money or property of any sort to chari- table purposes of any description we should not inquire too curiously as to in what particular direction the charity is to go : so long as it is to charities pure and simple, the gift should be encouraged by being free from legacy duty, which is not the case at present. The greater portion of charitable bequests at the present time have to pay very heavy legacy duties! something like 10 per cent .- which, I think, is wrong in principle; and I think the present law very frequently is the cause of very large charitable bequests not being made to the public. I should be glad if my honourable friend the Minister could see his way to some- what enlarge the scope of the present Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- It is quite evident | again, by the munificence of an old man who Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker poses. Clearly the domain that Dr. Campbell has given to the Auckland people cannot be said to be a charity. I have not any objection to every such bequest being exempt from taxa- tion. I may say, further, that the Auckland people are exceedingly fortunate in getting gifts of this sort. They have had given to them & large addition to their public library ; they have also received the Costley Home ; and now they are getting a park. I am sorry to say that, though we have a considerable number of wealthy men in the South, they do not seem to be imbued with the same patriotic feeling with regard to their public duties as are the wealthy people of Auckland. I think this is to be regretted, and I think this is a proper oppor- tunity for drawing attention to it. In Dunedin we have been in want of a public library for There have been many many many years. efforts made to establish a public library, but. so far I am not aware of one single wealthy man in the South who has ever offered to con- tribute the necessary funds. There are some wealthy men in the South who could put their \---- hands in their pockets and give $10,000 towards a public library in Dunedin without injuring \- -- themselves in the slightest ; but they do not seem to have any inclination that way, and that is surely a thing to be regretted. I should not like to say that this is a result of their Scotch extraction, and that nationality will account for their undue cautiousness in money matters ; but, whatever may be the cause, it is a melancholy fact that we have not amongst the wealthy people of the South a single man who is public spirited enough to put his hand in his pocket for the establishment of an insti- tution such as I have referred to. So far as this Bill is concerned, it will be of no earthly effect in the South. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. -- Sir, I only wish briefly to refer to what has given occasion to this Bill being placed before us. I may say it has been already referred to by the Minister -it is the princely gift, by Dr. J. Logan Campbell, of Cornwall Park to the City of Auckland, and therefore to the citizens of New Zealand. Sir, when I remember that Dr. Campbell arrived in Auckland in the very early ... days-in 1840-I feel that in those pioneer 1 days, when he viewed the ground he has now i so handsomely presented to the people, he never could have realised that in his lifetime i so beautiful, populous, and flourishing a city would have arisen there. It is given to some to be accumulators of wealth, of property, works of art, literary curiosities, and various things that tend to make life worth living for when rightly used. I think no brighter in- stances of the right use of wealth can be found than what has been done in the Province of Auckland by some of the men who have been accumulators of wealth. There was Sir George Grey's magnificent gift of art and literature and other collections, a gift, I believe, that is almost unexampled in any part of the world. Then, 