by one Court. I have no doubt we shall re- quire to have two Courts, and perhaps more, and then probably we will have different awards made in different districts by different Courts, and coming into conflict with each other. What is the position at the present time with regard to the Court of Arbitration? It has never been able to do the work that has come before it. A good deal of the delay which occurred in the hearing of disputes by the Court has been due to the fact that, owing to the changes in the appointment of President, unnecessary delay has occurred. That has largely been responsible for the delay, but as it is provided in the law that the President of the Court of Arbitration shall be a Supreme Court Judge, he has also to take his seat in the Court of Appeal, and do a certain amount of judicial work there which takes him away from the Arbitration Court. What is the result ? The wharf - labourers' dispute, which was heard by the Court the other day in Wellington, was initiated in the Conciliation Board here over two years ago; and over a year ago a dispute between the Tailoresses' Union and the employers was heard and decided by the Board of Conciliation, and it has not yet reached the Arbitration Court. Now, since it is proposed to abolish the Boards of Concilia- tion in an indirect manner, I would ask, why not let us deal with the proposal on the broad principle, and say whether it shall or shall not be done ? I have no hesitation in saying that the Boards of Conciliation have done https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 excellent work. Reference has been made to the Wellington Conciliation Board. I know of one dispute they would have settled but for one employer, because the workers and http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the employers' union were in accord ; but one employer would not agree, and the case had therefore to go to the Arbitration Court. The same thing has happened in other disputes, and in the majority of cases the Conciliation Board has done much to bring the parties together, promote a better feeling, reduce the points in dispute, and so lighten the work of the Court of Arbitration. Again, the detail work that has been done by the Board of Conciliation in Wellington - in framing the tailoresses' log and other schedules of prices of picce-workers in the different industries- would entitle them to our respect if they had not settled one dispute. The Hon. Mr. Ormond has called attention to the number of sitting-days of the Wellington Concilia- tion Board and to the expense in connec- tion with it. Who is responsible for the excessive number of days that the Board has sat in connection with the various disputes ? I say the employers, and I will give an instance. The wharf-labourers' dispute came before the Board of Conciliation, and it included the ship- ping companies. The representatives of the employers allowed that case to be considered for three weeks by the Board of Conciliation, and then raised a technical point, and the dis- pute was thrown up and the proceedings had to be commenced afresh. Now, who is to Hon. Mr. Rigg of the Board, or is it the representatives of the employers, who all that time these proceedings were going on probably knew of the informality, and did not bring it forward until it suited themselves. And that is not the only case where the employers' representatives have done their best to prolong the proceedings, with a view, as I suggest, of bringing the Board into con- tempt and disrepute. The question of expense follows on the length of the sitting, and if, as I hold, the employers are responsible for the length of the sitting, they are also responsible for the expenses in connection with the sittings ; and here I would say this : that if the employers had not been spurred on in their opposition in the way they have been by the Erening L'ost newspaper there would have been more conciliation displayed in Wellington than there has been. That paper has never lost au opportunity of holding the Board up to con- tempt, and of raising an antagonistic feeling as between the employers and workers. I say that with a full sense of responsibility. Every little exhibition of heat that occurs is put in a prominent part of the newspaper, and every frivolous remark which falls from a witness or a member of the Board is published if it is calculated to bring ridicule upon the Board ; and that can be shown by reference to the files of that newspaper. Therefore, when you come to consider the question of the Concilia- tion Boards, you have also to consider the influences that are at work to prevent them being successful. Then, are honourable gentle- men aware that most of the principal dis- putes of the colony are brought before this Board which everybody condemns ? If there is a dispute affecting, say, the whole of the printers throughout New Zealand, such as the linotype dispute, it is heard here. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- No. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- It is heard here in the first instance, and so are others. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- No. The Hon. Mr. RIGG. --- I say, Yes; and that the decision made here is copied in other places. I am speaking of a dispute which affects the different parts of the colony, and, in the case I cite, representatives were here from the principal parts of the colony, and that necessarily makes work for the Board, and, of course, extends the duration of its proceedings. But why pass a clause which may have the effect of setting aside the Boards of Conciliation, when only last session we introduced legislation which was cal- culated to make their proceedings very much more effective ? By sections 55 and 56, subsec- tion (3), of the Act of 1900 all or any of the par- ties may accept the Board's recommendations with or without modifications, and then these recommendations may be enforced in the same way as an industrial agreement. Then, under section 58, subsection (2), there is the further provision that if the recommendation of the Board is not accepted, and an application not made to the Court within a month, then the recommendation of the Board becomes an award, and is to be enforced in a similar 