position before the Commission and the Com- mittee. Motion agreed to. On the question, That the words proposed to be struck out stand part of the question, Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked, By the passing of the motion do we commit the House to the report ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- When the honourable member for Wairarapa is a few years older he will know not to put such an innocent question to the Premier. Mr. Coates and Mr. Dalston, as representing the debenture- holders, have represented their principals before the Public Accounts Committee in a most able manner. The persons they have represented will not have the least possible complaint in re gard to them and their action in this colony. The only complaint that can be urged in the interests of the debenture-holders and share- holders of the company, if any complaint is urged at all, will be that the investigations of the Committee and the report of the Com- mittee were not followed up, as every one who took part in the investigations thought would be the case, by the introduction of a Bill to give effect to the report of the Committee. Although I spoke against the report 12.0. as presented to the House, I was in a minority of one. Every member of the Committee present was against me, and, as the report was carried by that large majority in the Committee, so I believe the report would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have been adopted by an equally large majority in the House. I believe the feeling of Parlia- ment was in favour of the introduction and the passing of a Bill to give effect to the recom- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero mendations of the Committee. It is not, therefore, the fault of the Committee that a Bill to give effect to that report has not been introduced. All the members of the Com- mittee -I speak subject to correction - be- lieved that the report of the Committee would have been followed by the introduction of a Bill. The Government appears to have taken no step whatever in the matter. We, the members of the Committee, and we, the mem- bers of the House, are not in a position to say what the intentions of the Government may be in the matter. The honourable gentleman ap- pears to have reserved to himself the right to say that no Bill shall be introduced, and I think, in taking that course, he is not giving effect to the wishes of Parliament. There may be in certain directions, in the minds of some members of the House, a feeling that the com- pany was entitled to no consideration what- ever. I am of that opinion, but I am not in a majority. I am not answerable for the delay in the introduction of the Bill, nor are the members of the Committee. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- Sir, I have no desire to make any speech. I simply asked a question through you as to whether, by the adoption of this resolution, the House would in any way be committed to the payment to the Midland Railway shareholders and debenture- VOL. CXIX .- 79. commended by the Public Accounts Com- mittee ? That is all I want to know. I want to have a distinct reply to that if I can get it. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Sir, when the report of the Public Accounts Com- mittee was brought down the other day I gathered from the tone of the Premier's remarks that the Government were going to bring in a Bill for the settlement of this problem on the lines of the report of the Committee. The right honourable gentleman proposed to pay the amount of $130,000 in three-per-cent. deben- tures, and I certainly thought, before the House rose, that this business would be done with and settled once and for all on the lines of the Premier's statement-namely, that the persons interested, whether debenture-holders or share- holders, should be asked to sign a document accepting the amount given by Parliament as a final, absolute, and irrevocable settlement of the whole thing. I am disappointed, after the sug- gested statement of the Right Hon. the Pre- mier, that no settlement is to be come to, and that next session we shall have to face the whole situation over again. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I do not wish to prolong debate or provoke it, but I must in defence state that, so far as the Govern- ment are concerned, the fact of the resolution on the report of the Committee being talked out, the Government never had an opportunity to get the report at all. It was not the fault of the Government that the other day the matter was talked out till half-past five. It was only after the report was laid on the table that the Government could deal with it. Speaking to the amendment to refer the report back to the Public Accounts Committee, I say that would be of no service, because, with the threatened opposition and stonewall, and with the time at our disposal, it will be too late to do any- thing this session. This I regret, for the Com- mittee was almost unanimous in making the re- commendation, Only one member of the Com- mittee, the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), was opposed to the report, and vet to- night, strange to say, he appears to find fault with the Government because they had not brought down a Bill, although it is a Bill to which the honourable gentleman is opposed. There is an inconsistency there that I really cannot understand or appreciate. I may say there is a majority of members, I believe, in favour of an offer being made as recom- mended by the Committee. Although there is no liability whatever on the part of the colony, yet, considering all the circumstances, I think we ought to be generous, and do something in the way of softening the blow to those who have lost their money. Mr. HORNSBY .- There is a large number of members opposed to that. Mr. SEDDON. - Yes; and, considering the report of the Committee came down two days before the session expired, even supposing it had not been talked out until half past five, and that the Government could have acted upon it, I say the period of the session is too late to 