different islands of this group. I hold that you cannot get away from that position, and I say by this Bill we are proposing to set up almost an independent Parliament, in renewing, in a modified degree, the present Parliament of the Cook Islands under the name of "Federal Council." We are perpetuating a High Court of justice which we ought not to perpetuate ; we are perpetuating this burlesque Parliament which does not allow foreigners to become mem- bers of it, and for which no foreigner can vote ; and there is this objectionable feature intro- duced in the Bill which was not in it before it was amended : Before it was amended some- thing definite was laid down, in that the old laws, bad as they were, were declared to be in force until superseded, but now the Bill says the Governor in Council is to have power to modify all these laws which are at present in force in the Islands, and which have been passed by the so-called Parliament of these Islands. Therefore we are putting the Group more in the position of a Crown colony than it was before. Now, I say the proper statesmanlike way of dealing with this subject, having ex- tended our boundaries and taken possession of the Islands-which I think was a mistake in the first instance-is that we should have taken the constitutional view of considering that all our laws were in force there. An Act should have been passed, if it could be passed-which I am not sure about constitutionally: I am sure that this one we are now passing is not constitutional - specifying the Acts of this Legislature which would not be in force there, such as the electoral laws, the Native land-laws, and other laws. That would have been the proper course to take. Now, the Pre- mier, when speaking on the second reading -I had not time then to deal with all the matters he spoke of - talked a great deal about the advantages of joining these islands to this colony, and he went into the volume of trade, and referred to the great amount we were going to get from the vanilla industry and pearl-fisheries and other matters, showing, so far as I could find out, that he was presum- ing on the ignorance of his hearers with regard to the state of these islands. Now, if you look up the trade of the Cook Islands, dealing with them first, it will be found that trade has been steadily decreasing during the last few years. Members will find the exports in 1892 were £15,394; in 1893, £18,703; in 1894, £18,937; in 1895, £19,084 ; in 1896, £15,486; in 1897, £21,751 ; in 1898, £11,209; and in 1899, £11,199. We have not been furnished this year with the state of trade last year in these islands, and I think we should have been. Mr. SEDDON .- It is about $50,000. Mr. HERRIES. - Well, the Premier may know it ; but he has not deigned to give it to the House, and I think it ought to have been put in possession of the House. Mr. SEDDON .- I read it the other night. Mr. HERRIES. - I like to see anything the Premier reads laid on the table of the House, so that I can read it for myself. I say he ought table. It was done last year and the previous year-every year as far as 1892-but this year it has been omitted. The Premier may say it is £20,000, but that sum may include some other things which I know nothing about. At all events, so far as the returns that are actu- ally on the table of the House are concerned, they show the trade has been decreasing. Now, the Premier spoke about the growing of vanilla. So far as I know, vanilla has been tried, and has been shown to be inferior to the vanilla grown in Fiji; and, so far as I can hear, what is produced in the Cook Group is not a market- able product. The Premier talked about sugar, but, Sir, I am credibly informed, by those who have been there, that there will not be sufficient arable land in the whole of the islands of the Cook Group to maintain a sugar-mill. Of course, a mill costs a considerable amount of money, and you must have a considerable area of land to grow the cane to recoup the expenses. I am assured, and I believe it is true, that there is not enough arable land in the Cook Islands to grow sufficient sugar to keep a mill going. Mr. FISHER. - How can there be, after Mr. Seed's description of the islands ? Mr. HERRIES .- The honourable gentleman quoted Mr. Seed's description, and I am quite certain the Premier is going to jeer at him because he quoted from a report of such an ancient date as 1873. But I want to point out that, when the Premier wanted to deal with the annexation of these islands last session, he produced this very report of Mr. Seed's, and members will see it bound up in the Appendices of last year. When he wanted it, the Premier produced it to induce us to agree to his scheme ; but, I suppose, now he will say that it is not worth the paper it is written on. I am only pointing this out before the Premier says so himself. Now, I will come again to these islands of the Cook Group. The Premier also mentioned, as an advantage in joining them with us, that we would get all the trade that at present goes to Tahiti. Well, Sir, according to the last trade report-that is, of 1899-im- ports worth about £2,329 came from Tahiti to Cook Group. The Premier says these imports will now come from New Zealand, or he wishes us to believe that ; but I am informed, and I believe credibly, that these imports, or at least the great bulk of them, are sent to Tahiti from Manchester, so are not French but English goods. All the dress - goods and cotton goods come from Manchester to Tahiti, because the French merchants give their orders in such a way, or require such material, that the Manchester people can execute in large bulk at a cheap rate, and they are sent from England to Tahiti, and then from Tahiti to the Cook and other islands. Therefore we will not get that trade any more than we did before. I say that what trade we got with the Cook Islands we shall get the same as we did before, and I do not think any more, unless the Federal tariff makes a difference, which I do not think it will, because there is not a large export to Sydney, and it is only sent to Sydney to be transhipped into 