order that he may see' if something cannot be | done to secure such a specimen of Maori art. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- It is indeed rather late in the day to bring forward a Bill of this kind. I could only have wished that it had been brought before Parliament years ago. It is almost like shutting the stable-door after the horse has been stolen. Still, I hope, if this Bill becomes law, it will be the means of keep- ing some fine specimens of Maori art within the colony. In Egypt, the Government, years ago, found it necessary to enact a similar law, forbidding the exportation from Egypt of ancient relics. Whether that law has been as operative as it was hoped it would be I cannot say, but there is no doubt that had it not been enacted that wonderful collection of the relics of ancient Egyptian art in the Boulak Museum would have been taken out of the country and dispersed, the various articles composing it finding a resting-place in England, France, Germany, and in other countries. There are carvers even now amongst the Maoris; and it may be asked, Why cannot they reproduce specimens of art equal to those which were turned out by the cutters of ancient times ? Well, the simple reason is this : The Maori carver of ancient days took no account of time. To carve a box or anything else with him was a labour of love. It might take him half his lifetime to fashion a mere, or to turn out a beautiful box to hold feathers. Only compare the Maori work of the present day with that of a hundred years ago ! I remem- ber, when I was at Rotorua, that I was very much struck with the inferiority of the cutters' art of the present day. I saw cutters at work at Rotorua, and I examined their work, but there was a coarseness about it, and it was in every way inferior to the work of the olden times. I have seen Maori boxes almost as fine in their work as the finest lace; and even with the superior tools which they have now they cannot or will not do the work of the olden times. It cannot but be expected that there should be great temptation, when a man has got fine steel implements in his hand, to get over the work as soon as possible. It was not so with the Maoris in former days. I heartily support this Bill, and I hope that even yet it may be the means of keeping many fine old Maori relics in the colony. And I fully agree with what has been said by the Hon. Captain Baillie-that there should be a museum or museums in which these relics should be de- posited. I think a central museum would be best, in which might be deposited the finest relics procurable in the colony, either by pur- chase or otherwise. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- It is almost too late in the day to secure the best specimens of Maori art, and I need hardly remind my honour- able friend the Minister of Education that the best specimens of this art are now to be found in London, but even in this colony at the present time it will probably be found diffi- cult to procure the best of these relics. I know that in many instances Maori curi- osities and antiquities have been destroyed VOL. CXIX .-. 24 know that the Maoris very often refuse to sell works of Maori art because of the historic associations connected with them, or because they were tapu. That being the case, I con- sider that the neglect of preserving Maori anti- quities in the past lies largely on the Maoris themselves, or, rather, to their religious cere- monies, their tribal wars, and migratory charac- ter. In the early days in Taranaki we often tried to get relics, but the Maoris would not part with them for any consideration. On one occasion efforts were made to secure the carved adorn- ments of an old canoe and other historic speci- mens of art, but the Maoris insisted on re- taining them ; they would not part with them for money. It was right in accordance with their customs that they might perish by decay or by time, but that they should be transferred to the pakeha for money was not considered to be good form. I think the Bill will do good, because if the relic is a valuable one the Go- vernment will, at any rate, have a chance of purchasing it. It cannot be taken away from the colony without the consent of the Customs authorities; and, that being the position, it will be brought under the notice of the Go- vernment, to whom is given the opportunity of saying whether they wish to secure it or not. Then, the question comes, Will the Go- vernment pay the price the European col- lectors would pay? If not, it would be an injustice to the owner of the relic to confiscate his property in it; and I am afraid we cannot compete with the collectors of London and of Paris and other places. There are people now- adays who sweep the world for antiquities. The Hon. Mr. Walker told us about the Em- peror Napoleon ravaging the cities of Europe for works of art and other treasures. Well, what have the British people themselves done ? Did they not take away priceless specimens of statuary from Greece, and from Assyria, and India, and from Egypt. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .-- They were paid for. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- Oh, very cheaply ; and Greece is now endeavouring to get their art treasures back again. I fear we cannot afford to cast stones even at Napoleon. What has later civilised Governments done in China ? Rus- sia, Germany, and France have simply glutted themselves with the specimens of arts and treasures of China. I am glad to say that Eng- land to some extent has refrained. However, I am glad to see that something is now being done in the way of getting some Maori antiqui- ties collected and stored in a central building in Wellington or some other place ; and I believe that if Maori chiefs were appealed to much could be done,-not by way of purchase, but by way of appeal to their patriotic feelings,-to deposit their art treasures there. With re- gard to the relic at Taranaki, I may say I have heard of it. I am doubtful, however, of its his- tory, because, to begin with, I do not think it is likely that a greenstone relic could have originated in Egypt. I may say I have been struck with some carving I saw-it was repro- 