Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- With regard to is satisfactorily solved, something of the kind I the proposition in this Bill to abolish the small have suggested will have to take place. local bodies, such as the Town and Road Boards, mitted to the Committee was a different Bill I may say I have from my own electorate been to the Bill laid on the table. The trouble is asked to put forth strenuous opposition to the abolition of any one of them. The residents of that the country was not ripe for the proposed such seem to have been become used to the measure. Every member on the Committee, form of local government they have adopted, and and, I believe, every member of the House, must have received petition after petition and tele- they do not desire to experiment, as suggested by the Bill, in any other form of local .govern- gram after telegram against this Bill in some ment. But what they did desire was a form of of its many aspects; and witnesses brought government and a Bill which would take up before the Committee gave evidence, and clearly the care of their main roads, and also give to demonstrated to their own satisfaction and to them automatic finance. They object to the the satisfaction of the Committee, it was not in principle of having to go to the Government the best interest of local government to inter- and solicit financial assistance. They feel that fere with existing Road Boards and town dis- as taxpayers they have contributed to the tricts. So strong was the feeling of a number of consolidated revenue large sums of money, and members of the Committee on the latter sub- they would like to have the amount which is to ject that they went so far as to have the Town be returned to them to operate automatically, District Act re-enacted, so that town districts and not at the instance of the Ministry of the may become local centres in the future as in day. I am quite sure honourable members the past. Members were almost unanimously realise that there is something debasing in the against the merging of town districts as in the position of a member of this House having Counties Bill. I did hope that the Govern- to solicit from the Ministry of the day that ment would have brought down a comprehen- which they feel they ought to receive as a sive Local Authorities Bill, with a provision that those local bodies would be provided with an right, and they should not be under any ob- ligation in receiving it. But here, again, the assured finance. That would have enabled them Government are confronted with a great diffi- to have gone in for a comprehensive scheme for culty, because so many of the local bodies in roads and bridges, opening up the country, and the colony are in an independent position. developing its resources, without having to come, hat in hand, to the Government for the For instance, the honourable member for Avon said he does not require any contribution from necessary funds ; and I am perfectly certain, from what I know of the local bodies, had the Government. They have beautiful roads in his district, and any one passing over the the means been placed at their disposal the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Canterbury Plains will see that the roads work would be done with greater efficiency and there are in a magnicfient condition. But if more economy than it is now done by the the honourable member only travelled in some Minister of Lands or the Minister for Public Works. But there was an entire absence in the of the northern counties, and in some of the districts lately settled by the Government, he Bill of anything in the shape of financial assist- will find that the formation of roads is their ance. Again, the whole of the Road Boards and very life. It is everything to them ; and it the whole of the town districts obiect to be abolished and merged into the Counties Bill. will be necessary, I think, before an efficient The Road Boards and Town Boards have in Counties Act can be contrived, for a Commis- sion to go through the Island and determine the past done their work in a most satisfactory what roads shall receive special assistance and and economical manner. I am unable to see what districts do not require any contribution any good reason that they should be merged from the consolidated revenue. Honourable and replaced by a very doubtful measure, that might cause no end of friction. I am not in a members can tell us that some of the districts position to say that it might not be prudent to down south have money actually lying out at interest. Well, they are in no need at all of have applied the Bill to new districts where no local bodies exist at the present time. But in assistance. But you will find others, again, order to do that successfully they must have an where the settlers in the winter time are floun- assured finance ; and, when I remember the high dering up to their knees in impassable roads, sums voted by this House when it resolves itself and are not able to get their produce out to into a great Road Board, I cannot help thinking market. No Government will secure an effi- that an efficient system of local government is cient Bill for administration by local bodies without having what I have suggested-a care- absolutely necessary. One of the reasons why I have supported the continuance of town districts ful survey, so to speak, of the needs of each district, and having special legislation to meet is because I think they are very useful bodies. the requirements of each of them. That is And, again, I think road districts have a right to where the difficulty comes in, so I am sure the exist where they have carried on satisfactorily Ministry could not appoint thirty or forty mem- for many years past. On the whole, I am not bers, as they have done, out of this House to sit at all sorry that the Bill has met its fate at the in consideration of the proposed Local Bodies hands of the Committee. Should it come Bill without being confronted by an intermin- before the House again I trust it will be in able variety of interests and conceptions as to the true interest of the country. the nature which a local legislature should as- may be refreshing to honourable members to sume. And I am sure that, before this question Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) .- The Bill sub- Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines). - It 