they are then suffering from has been caused from exposure during the campaign in South Africa ; but I find, on looking through our own Military Pensions Act of 1886, there is provision for a somewhat analogous case. In subsection (g) of clause 6 it is stated,- " If within the period of five years after a wound has been received an officer does not apply for the pension, or, applying for it, the wound shall not have been proved to be fully and permanently equal to the loss of a limb, such officer's claim to a pension shall not at any subsequent period be entertained." I just mention that subsection as embody- ing the kind of principle we should go upon, and I think we should not be right in insisting that a man should prove permanent injury to his health within a month or two of his return to the colony. It might be laid down that, as a principle, if within a year or two years a man has not established before a competent Medical Board that his health is permanently injured, he shall be debarred from making application at a more remote date. I hope there will be few persons who will be compelled to seek & pension on account of permanent injury to health ; but there are, and there will be, such cases, and it must be realised by everybody that ill-health which comes from disease incurred in a campaign is more frequent than injuries received by wounds. There seems to me to be something approaching almost to a hardship which might be dealt with in the 2nd clause of the Bill of this year, which says,- "The annual allowance payable under sec- tion twelve of 'The Military Pensions Act, 1866,' shall be payable to the mother of any officer, non-commissioned officer, or private, as therein mentioned, who is not a widow, in any case where her husband is incapable through infirmity of earning his livelihood and she is otherwise lawfully entitled to such allowance." That is distinctly an improvement on the Act as it stands at the present time. But I find, on again referring to the Act of 1866-the principal Act-that this clause will not deal as generously as I think we might deal in particular cases - that is to say, the husband being incapable and the mother, unfortunately, dependent on receipt of an old-age pension, that pension will be taken from her if she is granted a pension consequent on "The Military Pensions Act, 1866," and the amending Acts of last year and this year. Clause 12 of the principal Act provides : - "If the mother shall be herself in receipt of a pension from the Government, or shall have any other provision of any kind from the public, no allowance under this regulation shall be made to her on account of her son unless she relinquish such pension or provision " Under that clause the Premier will see that some unfortunate old woman, who may be en- titled to receive a pension on account of the incapacity of her son, may, under the pro- visions of clause 12 of the Act of 1866, have the old-age pension taken away from her and nothing substituted in its place. I think we might afford to be generous, and in a case like account of the death or incapacity of her son might be paid to her as well as the old-age pension. I hope the Premier will consider these matters before finally dealing with the Bill. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I am sur- prised the Premier should not have taken the trouble to study the question before bringing in a Bill on the subject. If he had looked up the Royal Warrant of 1900 he would have got all the information he required, instead of having to postpone the measure. Surely we are not all blind on this subject-a subject personally affecting so many people who cannot speak on their own behalf. The Imperial Go- vernment have recognised the position-the honourable member for Bruce has stated it- and in a Royal Warrant they have dealt with these cases ; and if the Premier had merely got a copy of the Royal Warrant of last year he would have had all the details to enable him to come to a fair conclusion in regard to these cases. To my mind, injury sustained by people owing to illness or sickness is very often much graver than injuries sustained in action, and it seems to me that, as the Home Government have recognised their responsibility in regard to cases where the disability is due to climatic disease or exposure in the field, or disability due to other causes, and give a pension propor- tionate to the injury sustained-proportionate to the ability of the person to earn a living after leaving the service of the State-we might very well adopt the same course. We have been told over and over again-in fact, before the First Contingent was sent away-that the Govern- ment would take care that the men-or their relatives if, unfortunately, anything should happen to the men-would be looked after, and that there would be no niggardliness on the part of the colony ; and, having once taken up that position, I say it is the duty of the colony to foot the bill whatever it is. We know it will not be any great amount ; but the House is in the unfortunate position of not being able to touch this Bill without a Governor's message. If the Premier will refer to what was done in a similar measure last year, he will know that he introduced the Bill into this House and actually carried it without a member having the oppor- tunity of studying the question. Surely he cannot say now it is the fault of the House that there has been any omission to draw attention to what are evidently omissions in the Bill. The matter has been apparently hurriedly dealt with by the Government, and I trust the Premier will carefully look into this matter and see if it is not possible to bring his Act into line with the Imperial Act. The Im- perial Government do not suffer from an excess of liberality in connection with their soldiers. 1 do not suppose there is any worse feature in connection with the administration of the Im- perial Government than the niggardly way in which they recognise the services of the men who uphold the honour of the country, and in many cases maintain Great Britain's position as it is at present. Surely it is a reflection on 