under this Bill would vote for the same persons for the Hospital Boards as they would for the local bodies. He did not think that would be the case at all, and he would endeavour to show how, in his opinion, women would have a better chance of being elected to Hospital Boards under this Bill than they had now. The elec- tors under this Bill would be both men and women ; they were both men and women now, but when they elected members of the local bodies, such as County Councils, Borough Councils, and so on, very few women ever sought for or desired a seat. Very few women ever wished or desired to be elected to Borough or Town Councils. There might be an improvement, perhaps, if sometimes they did have women to sit on these bodies, but very little desire seemed to be evinced by women to occupy seats when an election took place to these bodies. Clearly, then, the women naturally enough had voted for the male candidates ; there was little or no competition. There was no desire that any women should sit on them, and conse- quently women as well as men voted for male candidates ; but when it came to Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards -when it came to Trus- tees who had a hospital in charge-then it was & different matter. If women were to vote direct for the members of these Charitable In- stitution Boards, in which they were greatly interested, it was quite probable they might elect some of their own number upon them. He would like to add a word to what had been said by the member for Bruce, Mr. Allen, in respect to the Hospital in Dunedin in connec- tion with the Medical School there. The Medical School in Dunedin had been so far a singularly successful school. It had turned out a number of very excellent medical practi- tioners-medical practitioners who were recog- nised as excellent men by the profession and by the country generally. These men were scattered up and down the colony ; they were doing exceedingly good work, and they were very much appreciated by the people. Now, there was a danger that this school in Dunedin, owing to certain requirements-owing to certain disadvantages under which it laboured-would not be able to complete the course of its students so efficiently as the Home universities could. As a result of these disadvantages the students, after getting part of their course there, were getting into the habit of going Home to finish. The result was that the num- ber of men turned out completely qualified in New Zealand was decreasing, and was likely to decrease, unless further opportunities were given to them for clinical study, and certain other branches of study that were necessary for their diploma. To obtain these things it was advis- able that the University Council should have some intimate connection with the Hospital, and it was suggested that in Dunedin, at all events, the University Council there ought to have the opportunity of nominating or electing some of the Governors or the Trustees of the Dunedin Hospital. He did not think there was any very serious objection to it, so long presentatives on the Board of Trustees. He thought the people of the city would be very well pleased that it should be so, and he thought, on general grounds, for the sake of the benefit to a school which was a credit and honour to the country, and in which a con- siderable amount of public money was sunk, a step of that kind ought to be taken. In order to do that it would, of course, be necessary to introduce some clause to that effect in the Bill now before the House. He did not know that it was necessary at this time of day to argue on the principle of the popular right involved in such a question as this. It had been well said that the people who might at some future time chance to be inmates of a hospital had as much or more interest in the proper control and upkeep than anybody else. He would support the Bill, and did not see any reason why it should stand over until next session. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said he would like to again bring under the notice of the Minister the case of the Waikato Hospital. It was not his intention to go into details, for the Govern- ment had been furnished with all the par- ticulars of the case. He only wished to point out that a large number of patients came from Rotorua and the King-country to the Waikato Hospital, and, as there were no local bodies in those districts, no one contributed to the funds. A large number of co-operative workmen were employed on the North Island Main Trunk Railway, and, when illness or accident occurred, almost without exception they were taken to the Waikato Hospital. In the old days the contractors contributed largely to the funds, but since the co-operative system was intro- duced the Government had failed to contribute anything. He hoped the Government would introduce legislation this session to deal with this matter, or, failing that, that they would place a sum on the supplementary estimates for it. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) indorsed the remarks of those honourable members who asked that some provision should be made regarding the control of the Dunedin Hospital. As one who had had intimate knowledge of the Medical School at Dunedin, he might say he thought they were voicing the opinions of all well- wishers of the Otago University in asking that special provision should be made. It was not the object of the Otago University to get con- trol of the Dunedin Hospital ; but in arranging for lecturers in the various subjects of medical knowledge it was found that, unless they had those who were also appointed lecturers in the Hospital, a great loss of teaching-power would be the result. It would be advisable, in the interests of the Hospital, and also of the Medical School, that those who had control of the Hospital and those who had control of the Medical School should have between them the right to appoint surgeons and physicians and professors in the various departments in the Dunedin Hospital. He hoped that when the Bill got into Committee the Minister would keep an open mind on the matter, and would 