Captain RUSSELL .- Sir,- Hon. MEMBERS .-- Vote, vote, vote Mr. SEDDON .- Chair ! The ACTING - CHAIRMAN. - Honourable members must know that the honourable gentleman now on his feet has the right to speak. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) had not the slightest intention of keeping the Com- mittee for two minutes. The only point he wished to draw attention to was that during the past year, as honourable members must be aware, great strides had taken place in con- nection with marine engineering. What with mineral-oil engines and the turbine system, they could not tell what rate ocean steamers would be going in the course of a short time. He would have liked to see the contract for three years, because he believed at the end of that time would be the period when they should enter into a new contract, with consideration of the Vancouver route and improved marine en- gines. He believed there would be a revolution in ocean-going travel within three years, and that then would be the time for entering into a new contract. If they would not allow a period of three years, they should allow a period of two years. That would allow time for entering into a contract under the suggested altered conditions of fuel and propelling-power. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) would point out that the honourable gentleman who has just spoken was in favour of the longer https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 term being granted. If there was to be this revolution in steam navigation, then that was a reason why Spreckels and Company should not get a long term. He did not believe that Spreckels and Company would have the least objection to retaining the service for one year. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) had only a few words to say, but he hoped honourable gentle- men would not be too impatient or too elated because of their victory a few minutes ago. They should be reasonable. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are not going to alter a single vote. Mr. SEDDON said that probably that was so, if they were not open to reason ; but he wanted to draw attention to one fact, and that was that the Vancouver service existed for two years. An Hon. MEMBER .- Eighteen months. Mr. SEDDON said, What was the use of tying them down to one year, when it would be nearly two years before that contract ex- pired ? What arrangement could the colony make in the interim ? He would ask them to look at it as business men. If they gave but a twelve months' extension of the service, at the expiry of that time they would be pre- paring for a general election, and it would surely be better to have a contract extending over that period, so that with the first session of the new Parliament they would be able to deal with it. Honourable members might laugh ; but these were cogent reasons, in his opinion, why they should accept two years. It was of very little use for honourable mem- service if they would support this amendment. They might as well have voted against it as to vote for a term of one year. The Committee divided on the question, "That ' one' be inserted." AYES, 34. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. Parata Fraser, W. Rhodes Allen, J. Gilfedder Arnold Russell, G. W. Hardy Smith, G. J. Atkinson Hornsby Symes Barclay Buddo Hutcheson Tanner Laurenson Thomson, J. W. Collins Mackenzie, T. Wilford. Colvin Ell Mckenzie, R. McLachlan Field Tellers. Graham McNab Fisher Millar. Flatman Meredith NOES, 30. Bennet Houston Pere Bollard Kaihau Pirani Russell, W. R. Lang Carncross Seddon Carroll Lawry Lethbridge Thompson, R. Duncan Massey Fowlds Ward Witheford. McGowan Hall Mills Hall-Jones Tellers. Monk Napier Heke O'Meara Palmer. Herries Hogg PAIRS. For. Against. Guinness O'Rorke Willis Hanan Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 4. Word inserted. Sir J. G. WARD said he would move now, That the words "and six months " be inserted after " one year." He could only ask members to give the Government authority to do that which was feasible, and if members were not going to do that it would have been better to have indicated so in the first instance. Twelve months were next to useless, and it was no use doing a foolish thing. He therefore asked honourable members to agree to a period of eighteen months. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) could hardly see that it was any use in taking the contract over next session if it did not get you into the one after- wards. The contract was from November to November, and six months more would take it to April, when there would be no Parliament. He said they should make provision next ses- sion. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motucka) agreed with the member for Bruce that if they made the term eighteen months they might as well make it two years. Mr. SEDDON said there were reasons why the term should be for eighteen months. They would be in the middle of the general election when the contract fell out if only a year was granted. He thought the additional time asked for was perfectly reasonable. 