were doing their best under the circumstances. always given to sick prisoners, but, as he said They had made an attempt in one place to do before, were given for different classes of work. tree-planting, and he thought the result would Now, he would take a period of ten years, and be useful hereafter to the country, and it did show the medical comforts that had been pro- vided for Auckland and Wellington, and the not in any way compete with free labour. He honourable member would find that the differ- was exceedingly pleased with what had been done so far. With regard to supplying metal ence was not so great as had been stated :- and dealing with contracts, the fact of this having been brought up in the House would Auckland. Wellington. cause him to inquire into the matter. He did not know any Gaoler who had a higher repu- ! Prisoners. Prisoners. Number Number tation than Mr. Garvey, and he did not think -- of Year. of Year. Cost. Cost. that complaints should have been made against him in the way they had been made that evening. With regard to clothing, very much the same remark applied to that as to medicine and medi- £ £ cal comforts. A great portion of the clothing 1991 100 134 135 124 1891 was made up in the prisons, and they some- 122 1502 124 169 1892 109 times had a considerable stock in hand. It was 1893 108 107 102 1893 113 his duty, if he saw that any particular prison 90 1.94 1894 123 139 120 cost more than other prisons, to inquire into 13! 1995 .. 1895 165 140 75 the matter ; and after the discussion which had 14. 127 101 1896 1506. 143 taken place in the House he intended to make 10€ 143 1-97 .. 1897 174 155 a closer inspection in regard to all these matters. 1838 169 164 1898 164 133 .. With respect to the flags, that could be easily 1599 170 138 153 1899 116 accounted for. They were required at Waio- 1900 1900 166 84 209 138 . . .. tapu for signalling, and at some of the other gaols, and had been sent there. He did not 1,331 €1,293 £1,311 1,393 think when that was inquired into that any great fault would be found. With respect The summary for last ten years was, there- to medical comforts, they were given to those fore : Auckland, 1,393 prisoners, on £1,311, or, to whom the doctor ordered them. He might 1/s. 10d. per head ; Wellington, 1,331 prisoners, state that in some cases road-metal had been cost $1.293, or. 19s. 5d. per head : a difference sold to local bodies in the North, and also to the Railway Department. He did not think in favour of Auckland of 7d. per head. He that in any way interfered with free labour might also point out that there was a very https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 large supply of medicines in hand at the Wel- there. It was the object of the whole of the lington Gaol just now, which had all been officers of the department to carry out their charged for, and which made the return for the duties in as satisfactory and economical a way past year higher than it would otherwise have as possible. been. In regard to the fault that had been found with the management of the prison excuse given by the Hon. the Minister of Jus- tice for the defects which had been pointed under Gaoler Garvey, he thought it was only right that such a complaint should have been out was scarcely a valid one - namely, that made to him (Mr. McGowan), as Minister of legislation was required. If that was so it was Justice. He had always heard Mr. Garvey the Minister's duty to introduce such legisla- spoken of in the very highest manner, and even tion, and the Parliament would willingly pass prisoners on leaving gaol often depended upon it. He had no hesitation in denouncing as a nim very much for advice. In regard to the national crime the continued committal of question of committing children to prison, that little children to prison. He might mention was a matter that required to be dealt with that in the Auckland Prison he some time ago by law. The question of committing persons saw a little boy breaking stones. There was a to prison for drunkenness was also one which warder to look after him, and this boy was in a yard where the ordinary prisoners did not would require fresh legislation if any change work. What he (Mr. Napier) submitted should was to be made. In regard to the difference in the cost of the different prisons, as a general be done was to establish proper reformatories. rule any one knew that the smaller the prison They ought to have reformatories, as distinct the greater the cost per head. With reference from industrial schools. The latter should .be to prison labour, he was not going to be one reserved for children who were neglected, but to introduce prison labour to compete with free from crime. There was no graver error free labour. If the House was prepared to ever committed than the abolition of the train- spend about $200,000-say, £100,000 for each ing-school at Kohimarama. Children rescued Island-to construct properly equipped gaols, from criminal surroundings were committed to and take up a sufficient area of land so that these that school. He believed that the reports went two prisons would have land enough to enable to show that the boys who were committed them to support themselves and the whole of the to the Kohimarama School scarcely ever re- lapsed into crime. The boys were trained in warders, something could be done ; but to do this in a piecemeal way would mean that it maritime pursuits, and in many cases became sailors on coastal vessels, and some of them would not be successful. The Government \---- \--- Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) said the \---- - - 