the way of painting the Customs and Tele graph buildings, and so on ? Sir J. G. WARD .- If it is a new work it would, of course, be charged to capital account ; but such works of repairs and renewals as the honourable member refers to are not charged to capital account at all, they are paid out of consolidated revenue. I cannot allow it to go uncontradicted. as far the Railway Department is concerned-and the honourable member for Hawke's Bay referred particularly to the Rail- way Department-that there is any such course pursued in that department as is suggested by him-namely, that out of loan-moneys the renewal of old buildings or old railway plant is provided. Such is not the case ; in every in- stance such works are charged to revenue only. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- The honourable member for Hawke's Bay was apparently under the impression, not having had sufficient time to read the Bill, that it did not apply to boroughs. But while he was speaking I glanced through the measure, and I found that by clause 80 it does apply to boroughs with a population of less than four thousand. Clause 80 says :- "This Part of this Act shall not apply to boroughs, except for the following purposes :- " (1.) (a.) The construction of a wharf under the control of the Council, or of a bridge on a main road, or of a punt for a ferry where no bridge is provided on such main road ; "(2.) The construction of water - supply https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 works ; "(3.) The constructing of works for sanitary purposes under section sixty-six of ' The Public Health Act, 1900' ; " (4.) The erection of an abattoir," et cetera. Therefore, though it does not apply to boroughs in the same way that it applies to counties or road districts, yet it does apply to boroughs for the purposes I have mentioned. Mr. HORNSBY .- There is a further restric- tion later on, in clause 81. Mr. MASSEY .- Yes, with regard to popula- tion ; but, of course, I cannot read the whole measure-my time is valuable. But, I was going to say, I am strongly of opinion that a consolidating measure is necessary, because we have had so many amending Bills from 1886, when the Government Loans to Local Bodies Act was placed on the statute-book, down to the present time that it is quite impossible for anybody but an expert to know what the posi- tion really is. Then, there is something more wanted. I am quite sure the Colonial Trea- surer will remember that there have been many mistakes made in procedure by local bodies who have found it necessary to borrow under this Act ; and would suggest to the Hon. the Treasurer that he should instruct his depart- ment to draw up a simple set of rules and instructions for the benefit of those local bodies who wish to take advantage of the Act, and so that mistakes may be avoided in the future. I am sorry the Bill was not in- troduced earlier in the session, when it might have amendments placed in it such as were suggested by the honourable member for Waka- tipu. Sir, I believe in the principle of the Government Loans to Local Bodies Act. I be- lieve it is one of the best and most useful mea- sures ever passed by the Parliament of this country, and I would like to see it extended so as to do away with the necessity of voting so- much money in the public works estimates as we are compelled to do at the present time. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I only want to. say a word. I am sorry the Premier has not included in this Bill more liberal proposals in regard to boroughs. I do not see why the country districts of the colony should get such an enormous advantage in the obtaining of money they want for public works, while the boroughs of the colony, except in regard to certain works, are debarred from taking advan- tage of the Government Loans to Local Bodies Act. In many cases it is a very great hardship to boroughs where the population is increasing rapidly. It is impossible for them to float loans on terms anything like as good as the Government can offer under the Government Loans to Local Bodies Act ; and I cannot see the logic of limiting these proposals to. the very small boroughs, and to the country local bodies. I might say, in regard to the- borough in my electorate, that a few years. ago it could borrow under this Act ; but .. because it has had the temerity to increase in size, and because the population has grown, · they cannot borrow for several purposes under this Act. I would like to ask the Premier to consider this matter, and see whether it is not possible to concede to boroughs, at any rate, small borrowing-powers under this Act. The Borough of Palmerston is a very large one, nine square miles in extent, and owing to its size there are streets that are not properly con- structed. Small loans of, say, from £100 to £800 would enable such streets to be formed without the expense being a very great hard- ship on the ratepayers ; but it is almost an im- possibility to raise loans like that except under some such medium as is provided in this Bill. I trust that the Premier, before the Bill is finally dealt with, will consider the advisa- bility of embodying some such principle in this Bill, and so remedy the hardships which so many people are now suffering under. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I suppose all the members of the House are in favour of the Local Bodies' Loans Act, and the Government Loans to Local Bodies Act. I would like to see these matters put on a more satisfactory footing than they have been in the past. We will hear what the new matter is in this amend- ing Bill when the Bill goes into Committee. I hope it will make the Act more easily avail- able to local bodies than it is at present. But I rose to suggest a question which, later on, the Minister for Railways might answer. He stated, in reply to the member for Hawke's Bay, that it was not the practice in New Zealand in any department at all to charge to capital account items that in ordinary business & man would 