unnecessary irritation. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Mr. Speaker, I trust I shall never lose the friendship of the Hon. Mr. Rigg, for I believe that any honour- able gentleman who would undertake the defence of such a body as the Wellington Con- ciliation Board would always stick true to his friends. He challenges us to produce a tittle of evidence in support of the statements made to the detriment of that body. But there is the very fact that, out of £1,800 expended on conciliation, over #1,000 of it has gone to that body. Then, if we look at the number of days -the honourable gentlemen have the paper -we see that Board sat more days than all the others put together. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- That is why they got more pay. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- That is why they got more pay, and that is why they sat only three or four hours a day, because every day they sat they got a pound-note, or something like that. Now, the honourable gentleman says that every case which presents a difficulty comes to this body in Wellington to be adjudi- cated by that august body, and that is how he explains the length of time which this body sits. Now, Sir, I do not suppose there have been three cases of this kind during the whole of the existence of this Board. I think the Hon. Mr. Rigg has made a great mistake in de- fending the Wellington Conciliation Board, for I warn the workers that putting such men in such positions and keeping them there is the best way possible to destroy this Act. They are making a great mistake ; and, instead of the defence made by the Hon. Mr. Rigg, he ought to direct attention to what has been done by http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero other Boards of Conciliation in other parts of the colony and say, "Are you going to destroy the thing because a mistake has been made in the case of Wellington ?" That is the position. Of course, it is not for me to dictate to the honourable gentleman, but it appears to me that that would have been a wiser and a stronger course than to try to defend the indefensible. What astonishes me, however, is that after all his attachment to conciliation he objects to any extension of it, and for that reason will not agree to render section 50 of the principal Act operative. This section of the old Act appoints special Boards of Conciliators under special cir- cumstances, but it says " may," and this is pro- posed to be changed to " shall." The present law is, the Board must be appointed " on the ap- plication of all the parties." Now it is proposed to change it to the application of either party, so as to give one party power to demand a special Board of Conciliators, instead of having to go to the big Board, perhaps hundreds of miles distant. And here I say now that in this respect some means ought to be found so as not to drag people from all parts of the country to the cities, where the Conciliation Boards and Arbitration Court sit, away from their business at tremendous expense. I think that some- thing ought to be put here to enable local dis- putes to be settled locally. I think that ought of putting it in, and in a manner that will satisfy the Hon. Mr. Rigg. What he objects to is that these shall be experts, who would bo employés in the trade, and would be placed in a position in . hich they might, be subjected to persecution. Well, I am entirely with him there. I think that the workers ought not to be asked to run any such risks, and that persons who are not experts, or who have no connection with the trade, should be appointed instead. I think if the honourable gentleman will knock out these words in subsec- tion (2) of the principal Act, "who shall be experts in the particular trade under dispute," and place the Resident Magistrate as Chairman of the special Board of Conciliators, he ould make, I think, a very good and very useful tri- bunal to settle local disputes. The honourable gentleman may possibly say that the whole of a trade in which there is an industrial dispute must be brought to a centre in the first place. But supposing there is a breach of the award, I think that might be settled locally by such a Board as this, and many things of that kind might be settled locally by this Board. That is the reason why I wish to retain that section, with the hope that it may relieve people from having to go from great distances to the prin- cipal centres. I happened to be in the South lately when all these bootmakers from Auck- land to the Bluff had to assemble together in Christchurch. And it is so in other trades too, for we passed a law that where the product of any industry is likely to compete throughout the colony the same award shall apply to the whole colony. I think that is so. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- That is the posi- tion so far as I understand it. It happened that all the bootmakers were cited to Christ- church, from Auckland to the Bluff, and kept there for weeks at the Arbitration Court. Now, that is an awful and extraordinary power to be in the possession of any seven members of any trade. Under this Act seven men can form an association and register, and as soon as regis- tered they can summon all the employers in that particular trade, from Auckland to the Bluff, to any centre they wish, and bring them before the Court and have an award given to them. I think when the workers possess such an extraordinary power as this they ought to use it very sparingly and not be too aggressive. No doubt that was in the mind of the Premier when he said the Act was being ridden to death. I think the honourable gentleman, too, might have omitted to mention that. But what do I see ? After all that has been done for labour, what did the Government get ? A slap in the face, and a very severe one, inasmuch as he says nothing has been done since the Hon. Mr. Reeves left the colony. I think this is a severe blow which ought not to have been struck. Let us remember that drawing employers from all parts of the colony to central cities must in- crease the cost of production, and consequently the imported articles which come into compe- tition will undersell the locally produced articles 