knew such things were possible, and yet that man could not raise that defence, and could not bring witnesses to prove such was the case. Was that fair? He did not see that such extra- ordinary changes had been made in this Bill. He had looked up the clauses to which this re- ferred, and he did not see that there was any such great change made; and he thought that, if this was attended to, the rabbits would be put down just as well as they were under the present Bill. " If within a reasonable time after the service of such notice any occupier or owner on whom the same is served has, in the opinion of the Magistrate adjudicating, failed or neglected to take reasonable or diligent steps to promote the destruction of rabbits on the land mentioned in such notice, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds if the area of the land is less than five hundred acres, ten pounds if such area exceeds five hundred acres but is less than two thousand acres, and twenty pounds if the area exceeds two thousand acres." Now, the principal Act says, on the work being done at once. An Hon. MEMBER .- What are you quoting from ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said, From the Rabbit Nuisance Act of 1882. He did not generally go wrongly when he quoted. An Hon. MEMBER said there were three Acts. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY knew that, but he had not time to go through the three of them. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Now, there would be a fine of £5 inflicted if the area of the land was less than 500 acres ; €10 if such area exceeded 500 acres and was less than 2,000 acres ; and £20 if the area exceeded 2,000 acres. He was quoting the section of the Act. Now, was that enough to compel any- body to do that which was required of him under this Act ? But, if he neglected to do so after the expiration of one month from the date of a conviction, a fine of £100 was pro- vided for. Surely that was enough, and surely they would give any British subject the power to defend himself and to show that he had not been guilty of the offence for which he was charged. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- How could he get evidence ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said one of the axioms of British law was that no man was deemed guilty until he was proved guilty ; but this law left it open to the Inspector to say whether a man was guilty or not. They knew human nature very well, and they knew that public officers were not always so pure that they were above favouritism. They had, no doubt, very good men in the public service of the colony, but he thought it would be only just, and fair, and right that their actions should be occasionally reviewed by a Court of justice. That was all that was required ; that was all that was asked for - that no injustice should be done, and that no man should be punished without open and fair inquiry in our Courts of justice; and surely that was not too much to Hon. Mr. Twomey provided for in this Bill were sufficiently heavy to compel any man to clean his land of rabbits. If he could not prove that he had done so, then he would be fined; but surely they did not wish the Inspector to be the sole judge of every- thing. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said that was what was complained of : that the Inspector had the power-that his single word was better than any evidence which the other party could bring to bear upon the case. They did not trust a policeman in this way, and he had yet to learn that the policeman was not as respectable a man as the Rabbit Inspector, and he did not see why his word should not be accepted just as much as the word of the other official ; and yet if a policeman could not bring forward evidence to prove his case it was thrown out of Court, even although life might depend upon it. An Hon. MEMBER said there were special circumstances in this case. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said the circum- stances they had to consider were these : fair- play and justice to every one ; and they could not depend on any one man's word to treat other people properly. Now, the tendency of any public officer was - be he policeman, Inspector, or whatever he might be-to prove his case. Whenever he put his hand to the plough he must prove his case, and it was quite possible that he was not above exaggerating occasionally. Under these circumstances it would be only fair, and right, and proper that the Court should review his actions, and that other evidence, which might be as reliable as, and which might be more reliable than, his own, in which there would be self-interest mixed up, should be brought before the Court to prove that he was not altogether right. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON thought the Rabbit Inspectors simply did their best to keep the rabbits down. He did not think there was a single member of the Council who could point to one instance where a Rabbit Inspector had acted unjustly in reference to any person who had rabbits on his land. The Inspector went round, and if he found there were rabbits on a man's land he gave ample notice to the owner to take steps to clear his land ; and it was only after this notice was ignored that he took him before the Magistrate. There was another point : the Act was not so very drastic as had been made out, because the Inspector did not fix the amount of the fine. It was true all he had got to do was to say that there were rabbits on a man's land, but it was for the Magistrate to impose the fine, and that fine was large or small according to the severity of the offence. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said there was no actual fine defined. It ranged from 20s. to £20. An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON asked, Where ? There could not be, because in some cases a small fine was imposed in the first instance, 