the phosphorus with the water which had found its way into a stream. Mr. FIELD said the oats were found inside the fowls. Mr. DUNCAN said, Well, there were many ways in which they might have got the oats ; they might have been carried a distance. At any rate, the department said that they had found on inquiry that the oats were put down carefully, and that, in their opinion, the fowls had been poisoned in some other way than by means of the oats on that land. # LIME FOR FARMERS. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If he will cause an officer to be sent to prospect the country between the Gorge. Woodville, and Pahiatua for the purpose of opening up a lime-kiln to supply lime to farmers? A similar question was asked by the member for Rangitikei some time ago, but the answer the honourable gentleman received was not altogether satisfac- tory. In addition to what the member for Rangitikei said on that occasion, he (Mr. O'Meara) wished to say this : There was a lime- stone hill running from Woodville to the south of Pahiatua. It was in a good farming district, and there was a demand for lime by farmers all through the Wairarapa. Some twelve months ago an expert from Taranaki visited the district and inspected the limestone deposit at the mouth of the Manawatu Gorge, but it was said he was not satisfied with it. Would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Minister at once send an expert to explore from the Gorge to the south of Pahiatua ; and, if his report was favourable, would the honour- able gentleman at once establish a lime-kiln for the purpose of supplying lime to the farmers at Pahiatua and in other districts. He under- stord that if this supply was available the lime would be carried as far as New Plymouth. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said a much easier way to get lime was already avail- able, within 3 chains of the railway-line-he . referred to Mr. Branchley's property. Mr. O'MEARA said that was a long way down. Mr. DUNCAN did not think it mattered if it was a distance down, because the Government carried lime free for a distance of a hundred miles. He did not think the locality referred to by the honourable member was so convenient as Mr. Branchley's property. Mr. O'MEARA said it was quite convenient. Mr. DUNCAN said, The honourable gentle- man having said so, he would look into the matter, and if it was nearer the line than Mr. Branchley's property something might be done in the matter. Mr. O'MEARA .- At once ? Mr. DUNCAN said, As soon as a man was available he would be sent to undertake the work of reporting on this lime question. MANGAWEKA BRIDGE. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Minister of Lands, If tenders are to be called I tion to the local bodies ? He believed it was for the erection of Mangaweka Bridge at an early date? The bridge was started in 1896. Two abutments were built on either side of the river, but -- he thought it was in 1897 -- a flood came down the Rangitikei River, washed away a temporary structure, and apparently paralysed all further effort on the part of the department. He believed the Minister was doing his best to get the bridge built, and he hoped the honour- able gentleman would say, in reply to the ques- tion, that tenders would at once be called for pushing on the work. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state that this bridge had been a very unfortu- nate undertaking. There was what was called a low-level bridge there, so that only at flood- time was there any great difficulty. Still, a bridge was wanted there, and they had made several efforts to have a bridge. But when they put the abutments up, that seemed high towering abutments, it was found when the next flood came down that the water went 10 ft. higher than what was supposed to be the proper height of the bridge. Then they thought to put up a suspension bridge, and plans were prepared and tenders were called for. The department sent Home twice to the Old Country to see what a suspension bridge could be got for, but the price seemed so very high that it was held over. However, he hoped to be in a position in a very short time to call for tenders again and go on with the bridge as soon as possible. KIRK'S " FOREST FLORA." Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei asked the Minister of Lands, If he will supply honour- able members with a copy of Professor Kirk's "Forest Flora "? It seemed to be the prac- tice now for the Government to supply mem- bers with books, and he was sure this book would be very much more useful to members than many that had been supplied. He thought if members got this book and studied it a little they would know more about the forest timbers and their uses than they did at present. It was only a beginning. certainly, and he would like to see a book published con- taining the whole of the forest flora of New Zealand. He hoped the Government would persuade some competent man to write a book and present it to members. Mr. DUNCAN ( Minister of Lands) said there was a number of these books, he understood, in the Printing Office, and he thought that any- body who applied would be supplied with a copy. His information did not mention the cost, but said it would be a very small cost. There had been no applications for the books, and they had been there for ten or twelve years. Mr. LETHBRIDGE said he bought one the other day, and the cost for cash was 9s. 4d. NOXIOUS WEEDS ACT. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will introduce an amendment to the Noxious Weeds Act, in the direction of handing over the administra- 