always in the humour. He (Mr. Carroll) would, however, prefer to trust to members of his own party rather than the honourable gentlemen opposite. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) wished to make a personal explanation. The Minister had spoken about stonewalling, and alluded to a certain few members who took part in the debate on the previous night. He (Mr. Herries) was one of the members who took part in the debate in Committee, but he could assure the House that there was no stonewalling as far as he was concerned. Mr. CARROLL .- I was not referring to the honourable member. Mr. HERRIE'S said he wished to put that on record, because he would not like his consti- tuents to think that he was stonewalling on Probably there were more this occasion. Maoris in his electoral district than there were in the district of any other member, and therefore it was naturally his desire that good legislation should be passed. That involved on his part, of course, closely watching the passage of these measures, and he wished more members in the House took a keener interest in Native- land legislation. He might say that he and others had simply endeavoured to put this Bill into as workable a shape as possible. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) always liked to ac- knowledge a compliment. At the same time he liked it all the better if it were sincere. The Native Minister named four members from the Opposition side of the House whom he said he would like to choose to advise him in regard to Native affairs. But would the House believe that the honourable gentleman had not put one of those members on the Native Affairs Committee, the composition of which he was responsible for ? That being the case, the House would agree that the compliment was an empty one. Notwithstanding that, the Minister was, no doubt, speaking the truth. What he said was what he ought to do, and if the next Native Bill he brought up was scanned by an advisory committee of the four members named, together with the Minister himself, it would be sure to be a good measure. So far as he was con- cerned, he was always in a good humour when the business under consideration was in the public interest as well as in the interests of those it was desirable to benefit. Amendment negatived, and Bill read a third time. # GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS DEPART- MENT CLASSIFICATION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 19 .- Procedure as to appeals. The Committee divided on Mr. Guinness's new subsection. AYES, 13. Tanner. Fowlds Atkinson Herries Barclay Tellers. Lang Collins Guinness Ell Massey Pirani. Field Symes Mr. Carroll O'Meara Allen, E. G. Hogg Palmer Hornsby Carroll Pere Colvin Kaihau Seddon McGowan Duncan Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. Ward. Tellers. McNab Hall Arnold Millar Hall-Jones Smith, G. J. Heke Mills Majority against, 10. New subsection negatived. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved the fol- lowing new subsection :- " At the hearing of appeals the evidence shall be confined to the charge brought against the appellant." The Committee divided. AYES, 13. Tanner. Herries Atkinson Collins Lang Tellers. Ell Lawry Field Barclay Massey Pirani. Guinness Symes NOES, 20. · Pere Allen, E. G. Kaihau Seddon McGowan Carroll Smith, G. J. Millar Colvin Ward. Duncan Mills Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Arnold Palmer Hall Mckenzie, R. Hall-Jones Parata Majority against, 7. Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 13 .- " For the purpose of the depart- ment an Appeal Board is hereby constituted for the North Island and the Middle Island respec- tively, each of which Boards (hereinafter called ' the Board ') shall consist of the following persons, that is to say,- "(1.) A Judge of the District Court, or & Stipendiary Magistrate, to be ap- pointed from time to time by the Governor, and to be the Chairman of the Board ; "(2.) One person to be elected by the mem- bers of the First Division in the North Island and Middle Island re- spectively from among their num- ber ; and "(3.) One person to be elected by the mem- bers of the Second Division in the aforesaid Islands respectively from among their number." Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) moved that subsection (3) be struck out, and the following inserted :- " (3.) One person to be elected from among their number by members of each of the following departments in each of the aforesaid Islands-that is to say, the Workshop Depart- ment, the Locomotive Running Department, the Traffic Department, and the Maintenance Department ; but only the person elected by the department in which the appellant is em- ployed shall act on the Board." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. 