that the same House of Representatives which has put upon the statute-book a Bill of this character will be quite prepared, should the necessity arise, to amend the measure. Im- provements can be made and anomalies removed as time goes on. I cordially congratulate the House upon having put through this most im- portant, useful, and just measure. Bill read a third time. The House adjourned at a quarter to four o'clock a.m. (Saturday). LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Monday, 26th October, 1901. First Readings-Railway Dining-cars-Land-tax and Income - tax Bill - Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Local Bodies' Loans Bill, Public - school Teachers' Salaries Bill, Maori Councils Act Amendment Bill. RAILWAY DINING-CARS. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY asked the Minister of Education, Whether the Government will https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 take into consideration the desirability of the Railway Department trying the experiment of conducting by its own officers the supplying of food to passengers in the new dining-car from Palmerston North to New Plymouth before submitting the catering to public tender ? A great many complaints had been made from time to time as to the catering for passengers on the Government railways, not only in the North Island, but also in the South. The system upon which this catering was done-by public tender-was not calculated to provide the passengers with good food or with well- cooked food. The highest tender was, as a rule, accepted, and the consequence was the caterer was almost compelled, in order to make a profit, to provide very indifferent and badly cooked food. He thought the Railway De- partment should take the matter into its own hands, not as a matter of revenue-though, of course, some revenue could be made out of it -but the main idea should be to take care that the public were supplied with good food at a reasonable rate on the railways. Now, that a new dining-car was being put on the line between Palmerston North and New Plymouth, he thought this opportunity ought to be taken by the department to try the experiment of supplying food to passengers through its own officers, as he felt certain the result would justify the experiment. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said there . was room for much difference of opinion on this matter. It was a very important matter, be- cause the comfort of railway travelling on long distances largely hung upon a proper commis- sariat. He believed the department had called for tenders for catering on the new cars. But he thought the mistake-if he might use the word -in the past had been that the department had not made up its mind to wholly adopt one system or the other. In the South there were two cars, and there were two refreshment-rooms, with all the disagreeableness of a long stop at certain stations, instead of a good meal with proper accommodation on the train. These scattered anomalies ought not to exist. Then, if we were not going to see that our cars were the real backbone of our catering, we ought to see that the refreshment - rooms were properly supplied and equipped. In Australia he was struck with the manner.in which the catering was conducted, and the moderate charges that were made. There they were exceedingly good, and much better than what we had here. We had made a mistake in endeavouring to have the two systems, and in trying to combine the cars and refreshment- rooms. They should have either one or the other. Then the question arose as to whether the matter could be better carried out by contrac- tors or by Government servants. That was a moot point. In the present instance tenders had been called for, and he ventured to agree with the honourable gentleman that the ser- vice should not be granted to a man simply because he paid the most for it. It should go to the most competent. LAND-TAX AND INCOME-TAX BILL. This Bill was read the first time. On the motion, That the Bill be read the second time, The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said, 1 do not rise to oppose the Bill, because it is a very necessary one, but I just rise for the purpose of pointing out the extraordinary difference that this Bill shows on a man lending money on mortgage and a man paying on any other security. On £100 invested at 5 per cent. on Government deben- tures or any other form of Government security he would pay 2s. 6d. ; whereas by having it invested on mortgage he has to pay 8s. 4d. It is simply ridiculous. It was not so marked when money was at a high rate, but now it has come to a point that it is simply ridicu- lous. It was pointed out by the Colonial Treasurer that it would be reduced this year, but he had seen fit to break away from that promise and postpone the time for the reduc- tion. A large number of poor people were interested in this, as they lend their money in the hope of making a little addition to their income. That class of people are getting poorer and poorer, while other people are getting better and better off. I think it is a pity that this Bill should go through without some notice being taken of this, and I recommend it to the earnest consideration of the Treasurer when he makes up bis Financial Statement. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- There is a little to be added to what the honourable gentleman has said, and that little is that the landowners get £500 exemption, while those who lend money on 