convinced them, from the table I have here, that it is so. Now, if the standard wages are the same in these particular classes of the department, why should we tend to lower the status of one class? Is it a fair or reasonable thing? Should we here, in this country, at- tempt to lower the status of one particular class of servants ? I say, No; and consequently I hope, in the very near future, that the Hon. the Minister will take steps to place machinists in the same position as sailmakers or riveters. Now, let me pass on to a document which has gone forth in this country in reference to black- smiths. It was issued on the 16th July, 1900, and bears the signature of T. Ronayne, General Manager, and reads as follows :- "New Zealand Government Railways. " Head Office, Wellington, 16th July, 1900. "SIR,-With reference to petition signed by yourself and other blacksmiths employed in the railway workshops at Hillside for an increase of pay, I have the honour to inform you that it has been decided to grant an increase of 6d. per day to all competent blacksmiths. "A further increase of 6d. per day will be granted twelve months hence to those who can be recommended by their foreman, provided that the outside rates are maintained. "These increments will bring the rate for blacksmiths up to 11s. per day ; and will, with few exceptions, mean an increase of 6d. per day for the current period .- I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant, "T. RONAYNE, General Manager." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 That is addressed to the Secretary of the railway workshops in the different towns. That advance has not been given, and I feel quite sure that the Minister only wants his attention drawn to it, and to be reminded that the General Manager sent that circular out, to have the omission rectified. Now, the Minister has saved a lot of discussion by putting up sub- class 2 of class 2 in the Schedule-that is, in regard to painters and plumbers. The painting trade was badly paid. It was paid at a rate altogether incommensurate with the rate of wages fixed outside by the Arbitration Court, and the Minister has seen that and put it right, and consequently there was no need to say any- thing more in regard to the matter. Now, let me say a word or two with regard to the strikers and the age-limit. The age-limit in regard to the strikers is absolutely prejudicial to a man getting a proper return for the work he is doing. I have at the present time in my mind's eye a young fellow employed in the Petone Workshops, and a constituent of mine. He stands 6 ft. 2 in., is a champion athlete, and as strong as a horse ; but on account of this age-limit he is not able to get anything more than the minimum wage, and although he is not married -being a young fellow-he helps to support his mother and his two sisters. I brought his case before the Minister, and I thought something would have been done in the direction of doing away with the age-limit alto- gether. This young fellow is carrying-on the Mr. Wilford work-and he has done it for many years-he is entitled to rank as a striker, where the circum- stances are ordinary, as they are here, even in the bottom grade. May I ask the Minister how does a man in the ordinary classes of these workshops get from the third to the first grade ? It is by the recommendation of the foreman, is it not ? It is a slow process, and a man may stay in these workshops fifteen years in grade three. He may stay any length of time as a permanent casual and get a low rate of wages ; and he will get under the Classification Act here the lowest grade, and may never get out of it. Now, what is the ordinary policy ? The foreman, who is over a certain number of men, does not feel disposed to recommend every man in the particular branch, and to take them out of that grade we should do away with the third grade. The wages of 7s. 6d. per day for some trades are altogether too low compared with the rate of wages fixed by the Arbitration Court outside the work- shops; and surely the Government is not going to set a status of low wages, but, rather, a status of high wages. I ask the Minister not to go in for any squandering, but simply to bring this Schedule of the Bill into line with the same classes of trade outside the shops. We know that the Minister of Railways is a bold man. He is not afraid to tackle a big thing, as we have seen ; and that is why his success is so assured, and why he is considered such a generous Minister by the employés of the colony. He has been prepared to grapple with this question, and I congratulate him most heartily in regard to what he has done in the Bill. I hope he will not take these sugges- tions from me in any hostile spirit, but as & desire on my part to help him to perfect this classification scheme. I thank the Minister for having increased the pay of Stationmasters. It was becoming a public scandal in the colony that these Stationmasters had no increase of wages, and no chance of rising in their posi- tion from a monetary point of view, and to my idea the reason that the rise has not been given before is that the request had not the weight of combined action. Combined action is the only thing the Government of the country recognises. The action of one in- dividual is taken notice of only to a certain extent, but "Unity is Strength " all the world over. I congratulate the Minister for having introduced that amendment. I have nothing more to say in regard to the Bill now. I thank honourable members for having been so patient with me. I wish to put these suggestions before them on behalf of the workers, and, even if the Minister cannot see his way to carry them out this session, I trust he will extend to me and the men in my district the same courtesy that he has in the past. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I do not desire to prolong discussion on this measure, because I have an earnest wish it should become law this session. At the same time I congratulate the Minister on the improvement on the classification scheme in force, and I hope that at no distant date he will be able to see his 