introduced before in this colony, and rarely in any other British dominion, and I look upon it with suspicion. I think it is unwise, more especially as it would be a strong reason for an effort by those interested to put an export duty on produce the value of which is not governed by any market price in the colony. This is not the way to provide for the cohesion of the Empire, and I am afraid that our tradi- tions with regard to the solidarity of the race will have a poor effect upon those who come after us, if we are to begin by a discriminating and retaliatory tariff. Good trade relations and reciprocal tariffs must bind the colonies closer together. An Hon. MEMBER .- What are they doing with us? Mr. BUDDO. - They have not so far done it, and it is not our duty to anticipate what they may do. I consider the bonds that will bind the Empire in future will be largely those of trade and its advantages ; and the taking up of this retaliatory attitude is not, I think, in the interests of this colony. I do not think it is in the interests of the federation of the whole British Empire, nor in the direction of having an Imperial zollverein. I will vote against this Bill if a division is called for, and I say that whatever is done ought to be reserved until next session. In the meanwhile we are losing nothing, and yet we are anticipating what may take place, and are giving the Governor in Council power to put on an export duty ; and it seems to me to be but the first part of a policy https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 of retaliation, in which the Commonwealth will have the sympathy of the Imperial authori- ties, and must win in a tariff war. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - Sir, like other http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero speakers, I am sorry that we have not been able to deal with this Bill earlier in the session. A difficulty undoubtedly exists, on account of the provisional tariff which has lately been in- troduced by the Federal Government, which provides that, so far as sawn and dressed tim- ber is concerned, there will be certain duties imposed upon it, while it is proposed to admit duty free anything in the way of balk timber. Now, everybody knows that we have a large and valuable trade with Australia in timber, and the effect of what is proposed will un- doubtedly be to discourage the trade between this colony and Australia in sawn and dressed timber and to encourage the trade in balk timber. By this means a large amount of labour will be lost to the colony ; and it is to meet that difficulty that I understand the present Bill has been introduced. I do not believe in retaliation, and I must say I do not altogether like the principle of the Bill. I do not at all like the idea of this Parliament handing over its functions to the Governor in Council in the way proposed. But at the same time I want to admit that the amendment the Minister has promised will make the Bill much less objectionable than it is in its present form : and I would suggest that the Minister would go a little further, and that he should make this a temporary measure- l opening the door by which persons connected session of Parliament-that no duty should be collected under this Act after the last day of next session. That would leave the matter to be dealt with next session, and we could then fix the tarift when we know exactly what we are doing with regard to the Federal tariff, which at the present time we do not. I cannot, however, see my way at present to oppose the Bill, seeing that it is recommended by the Con- ference of sawmillers ; but I hope the Minister will adopt the suggestion I have made, and will introduce a clause in that direction. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - The most admirable feature in this brief discussion is the delicately expressed apprehension that the passing of this Bill may take the people of Australia by surprise. That is very amusing. It was cabled to Australia from New Zealand a month ago that Mr. Seddon -- not the Parlia- ment of New Zealand-that Mr. Seddon in- tended to put on a duty of 3s. per 100 ft. Mr. SEDDON. - It was said that he had done SO. Mr. FISHER .-- The idea of reprisals being effected by New Zealand is a matter of laughter and mirth in Australia. But the honourable gentleman wants this Bill passed so that he may be able to shake it in the face of the people of Australia, and make them laugh a little more. Mr. John Norton, of Sydney, in Truth, speaks of the comedy of little New Zealand, who is in the van in progressive legislation, indulging in reprisals to be effected by this colony, and he asks the people of Australia what does it matter to them "what may be done by the people living in that little mud- patch down in the South Pacific?" Now, the very fact of the passing of this Bill is an impotent threat to the people of Australia. The idea that the eyes of all the people of Australia are directed toward what we may do in this matter is absurd. The fact is, the people of Australia are not thinking of New Zealand at all in the matter, and the state- ment as to there being reprisals on the part of New Zealand is, as I have said, a matter of If it will laughter throughout Australia. please the honourable gentleman to have this new toy, by all means let him have it. As far as the people of Australia are concerned, they do not care a snap of the finger what we do. We are to Australia what the Cook Islands are to New Zealand. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Honour- able members, of course, recognise that this is a very important departure from what has hitherto been the policy in New Zealand in connection with exports. For the first time we are asked to affirm the principle of an ex- port duty. Now, in the case of these exports, it appears that it is not from Australia but from the New Zealand sawmillers that pressure comes. We must recognise that, if persons connected with a particular industry are going to be in a position to bring pressure to bear upon the Government to alter the fiscal policy of the colony in a matter like this, you are 