were chosen on the distinct understanding that | pened in the district he represented, namely : their horses belonged to the Crown. There was no such question as handing the horses back, even if the horses lived out the term of the service. It might be that the instance men- tioned by the member for Franklin was per- fectly correct and true, but there was no such understanding in regard to the Wellington sec- tion of this contingent. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) just wished to say a word or two in connection with these horses. The Premier's explanation seemed to him to be hardly a satisfactory one, because he knew at least three or four cases in the Nelson district in which troopers supplied their own horses, or bought them with their own money where they had not horses before. In fact, he knew one or two instances in which the men could not fairly well afford it, and in those instances he thought the colony should make the money good to them. An Hon. MEMBER .- They signed an agree- ment to hand their horses over to the Crown. Mr. R. MCKENZIE said that might be so ; but at that time these young men were so anxious to get away that had their death war- rant been put before them they would have signed it to get away. He thought it was no reason that, because of their eagerness to serve the Empire, these young fellows should be asked to contribute towards the cost of the South African war in this way. On the con- trary, he thought it should be a recommenda- tion why these men should now be paid. He thought in cases where the horse was their https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 personal property, or had been bought with their own money, in justice, in fair play, the colony ought to return that money. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he had to thank the Premier for the promise he had given to refund the passage-money of those troopers who came from South Africa in the " Harlech Castle " and then came over to this colony by other vessels. He hoped provision to that effect would be made on the supplementary estimates. He was quite sure the Premier would not regret the promise he had made, and he was sure, also, the country as a whole would approve of it. He was sorry that, in regard to the matter of troopers' horses, the answer was not so satisfactory. An attempt had been made to take advantage of the fact that the troopers formally handed over their horses to the Sovereign. He did not think any such attempt should be made. He was quite sure, as he said before, that, though the troopers nominally signed the agreement, they believed that if the horses lived through the cam- paign they would belong to the troopers who supplied them. There was no doubt about that. The Premier had admitted that some troopers were allowed to sell their horses ; and surely the right honourable gentleman would agree with him that the whole of the troopers should be placed in the same position. That was all he asked. So far as the com- mittees were concerned, he might be wrong in regard to the committees in the larger centres, but what he had in his mind was what hap- That a number of young fellows who were anxious to go away with the Fourth Con- tingent were not possessed of suitable horses, and not financially able to purchase them, but were supplied with horses by small committees who were set up and found the money for the purpose. In these cases the horses became the property of the troopers as much as if they purchased them with their own money ; and he said, in justice to these men, who had done the colony good service, some arrangement ought to be made by which they should be paid for the horses they supplied. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) thought he ought to say a word, because he was closely connected with the movement for sending away the contingent referred to by the member for Franklin. The position in Auckland was very much the same as sketched by the member for Wellington Suburbs. They had hundreds of applications beyond the number they could possibly send, and they had a large number of men who were not only anxious to give their horses, but to contribute towards the cost of equipment if only they could get included. In one case, he believed, $75 was paid on behalf of a trooper so as to secure his inclusion in the contingent. He believed that if the members of that committee had been anxious to make money they could have made large sums of money from the donations these men would have given, in addition to giving their horses, so as to be included in the list. Now, these men had got an advantage; they had got something they specially wanted to get before other men, who were equally suited to be sent with the contingent, and therefore he did not think it was fair for them now to ask to be refunded the value of their horses. With reference to the statement made that some of the men had been allowed to sell their horses, he understood that was only in cases where the troopers had bought horses in South Africa, which was an entirely different matter. If there were any cases where men who had given their horses to the committee had been allowed to sell them, then a mistake had been made, and he thought such a mistake should not be continued and extended by allowing the same privilege to others. These men had been willing to give the horses, and more than the horses. An Hon. MEMBER. - You should not take advantage of that. Mr. FOWLDS said, But the men had got what they considered an advantage by going to South Africa in the place of other men who were equally suited, and, having had that ad- vantage, he did not think they had a right to ask for anything more. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden). - The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), who had last spoken, had taken a very straight- laced view of this matter. An Hon. MEMBER .- A proper one. Mr. BOLLARD said it might be the legal view of the matter, but surely some consideration ought to be shown to the men who had risked 