Defence Act, 1865,' that the flag hereinafter described should have the distinctive seal or badge of the Colony of New Zealand for all vessels belonging to, or permanently employed in, the service of the colony: And whereas the said flag has since been in general use for the purpose aforesaid, and also as the recog- nised ensign of the colony : And whereas it is desirable that the same flag should be by law established as the ensign of the colony for the purposes hereinafter mentioned." Motion agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. CRIMINAL CODE BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 7 .- Punishment of defamatory libel. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved to insert the words " or without," so that the clause would read, "To five years' imprisonment with or without hard labour." Motion negatived. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved the follow- ing new clause :- " A plea of parliamentary privilege shall be no defence to an indictment for libel under this Act." The Committee divided. AYES, 10. Lang Allen, E. G. Tellers. Fowlds Lawry Massey Guinness Monk Pirani. Herries Rhodes. NOES, 35. Allen, J. Fraser, A. L. D. Russell, G. W. Fraser, W. Russell, W. R. Atkinson Hall Barclay Seddon Smith, G. J. Bennet Hall-Jones Buddo Hogg Symes Carroll Hutcheson Tanner Collins Laurenson Thompson, R. Colvin McGowan Thomson, J. W. Duncan Mackenzie, T. Ward. Tellers. Ell Mills Field Arnold Napier Flatman O'Meara Stevens. Majority against, 25. New clause negatived. Bill reported, and read a third time. RAILWAYS AUTHORISATION BILL. On the question, That this Bill be read a second time, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said he re- gretted to see that no provision was made for the authorisation of the extension of the railway from Waihi to Tauranga, nor from Gisborne to Opotiki. He trusted next year the Government would take into consideration the necessity of arranging for the authorisation of the East Coast line. It would have the effect of opening up an enormous area of land which at present, although possessing no railway facilities, was paying a large proportion of the expense of lines Mr. Hutcheson sula to Napier. He trusted that this neglected portion of the colony would ere long receive the attention of the Government, and that the rail- ways which had been already commenced- namely, the Paeroa to Waihi, and Gisborne to Karaka-would be continued right through the whole of the country he had mentioned. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) had on various occasions drawn attention to the fact that there was a large tract of country on the East Coast which had derived no benefit what- ever from the moneys borrowed for railway con- struction, and also to the injustice of imposing taxation on that large part of the country to make up the deficiencies which were con- sequent upon the railways not paying a surti- cient amount of interest. The land he had in his mind was the whole of the land right from the Bay of Plenty down as far as Napier, all of which was utterly unprovided with roads or railways. It had been impossible to put rail- ways there up to the present time ; but he found that the only extension of the Gisborne-Karaks line that was provided for in this Bill was a length of half a mile to a gravel-pit. He though: complete surveys should be made of the railway- lines that were required to open up the por- tion of the colony to which he had drawn attention, so that, at any rate, there might be some hope given that the large and im- portant district extending, he would say, from Cape Colville down to Castlepoint would in time be furnished with railway facilities. At present it had no railway at all, and yet the whole of this land was subject to taxation. He had spoken several times of the neglect of the East Coast, and it was a matter that the Go- vernment ought to consider. Every other part of the colony was provided with railways, and the neglect of the East Coast made one feel there was, after all, a virtue in log-rolling. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that early this session very complete particulars of à measure dealing with light lines of railway were brought before the attention of the Pre- mier and the Minister for Public Works with the intention of getting such a measure passed into law this year, so as to enable local bodies to construct such lines of the character dealt with in the Bill. A distinct promise was then given by the Premier that consideration would be given to this scheme, and that if possible st endeavour would be made to pass the measure into law. From the day this measure, which was a very full and complete one, which tous considerable time and trouble and cost a con- siderable amount of money to prepare, wis placed in the hands of the Premier until to- day nothing had been heard of it, and it might just as well be buried 6 ft. deep in the earth. He thought it was only due to those who went to that very heavy expense that some little consideration might have been given to it : and, at any rate, that the proposals outlined in it might have been printed and circulated throughout the colony, so that, if nothing was done in the matter this session, at any 