what was the opinion of the Government in regard to this Bill. He did not know what was the fee at the present time. An Hon. MEMBER .- Ten shillings. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said, Of course this would affect the revenue, and the Government ought to give the Council some direction in the matter. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that, as the Government was challenged to say a word or two in this matter, he could only say that miners' rights had been a moot point for many years, and he was not at all certain whether it was to the advantage of the districts in which these miners' rights were collected that the fee should be reduced or not. He was not going to object to this Bill on the present occasion, be- cause he believed his colleagues in the other House had voted for it, and he had not himself sufficient knowledge of the ins and outs of the mining question to say whether the rights should be commuted to 5s. or not. He re- membered very well when the endeavour was made, some years ago, to commute these charges altogether upon mining. It was urged that it was not in the interests of mining, nor in the interests of the districts; that certain works were required to assist miners. All these charges went to the local bodies, who had got to do certain things, and they were only crip- pling the local bodies in the work required to open up the country for the very purpose of mining. He remembered all that. He remem- bered looking at it from the point of view of the ordinary settler, who had either got to pay his freehold price for land that he bought from the Crown, or from the point of view of the lessee of the Crown, who paid so-much a year for the occupation of the land, that he was not able to see very much hardship in the payment of these charges on behalf of men who were not improving the land from a per- manent point of view, but absolutely depleting it of the harvest there was in it. He must say for himself he had never very much sympathy with the view that these miners should not pay all they were asked to pay, because they were really depleting the land of all that could ever be got out of it. But still a policy was adopted in regard to certain charges, which were re- mitted in a certain part of the colony, and not remitted in another. He believed the parts of the colony where these charges were re- mitted had suffered to the extent that they had not now got as much money to spend on local objects, roads, and other matters as they had before, and therefore he was not at all sure whether this amendment was in favour of the mining districts or not. At all events, he was not prepared to stand in the way of the Bill if the Council thought it a right Bill to pass. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said he saw by a return on the table that in 1900 " the revenue derived from these fees was £3,800." As all these fees went to the local bodies, he would like to know what the local bodies themselves thought about it. At present, local bodies re- ceived about £1,900 a year, and he thought that sort. Therefore he hoped some case would be shown why it was justifiable to reduce the revenue as was now proposed. That was the objection to it. He would be sorry to deprive the local bodies of this sum of money, which, as he had said, he thought could be very usefully employed in opening up tracks, et cetera, on the goldfields. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said he would like the honourable gentleman, when he was reply- ing, to give the Council some information about it, in order to justify the passing of the Bill. The fees paid for miners' rights are local re- venue, and when you reduced those fees you considerably reduced the local revenue. He might say that this Bill was passed hurriedly through the other House, and he thought that in the Council they should have a little time in order to see what the people had to say about it. They had hardly had proper notice of the provisions of the Bill. When the last proposal was made to reduce the fee for miners' rights there was a considerable outcry against it. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Where? The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said an outcry was raised by certain local bodies. This Bill not only affected one place, but it affected the whole of the colony. The Hon. Mr. REEVES said, No; it did not affect Auckland. It only affected the South Island. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said he thought the honourable gentleman should agree to allow the measure to remain over a few days, and thus allow the people to say whether they approved of the fee being reduced or not. He did not wish to oppose the Bill if it was the wish of the local bodies that it should be passed, but he must say that he did not think that 10s. a year was a very great sum to ask the miners to pay for the damage which they did to the district in which they conducted their mining operations, more especially when the mining came into conflict with agricul- tural settlement. The Hon. Mr. REEVES said this Bill had been handed to him from the other place, and it had been gone through very carefully by the Goldfields Committee of the other House, and had been approved of and passed by the House of Representatives. In 1895 the miner's right was 5s. A year or two afterwards it was in- creased to 10s. That struck him as being a hardship to the miners. His honourable friend the Minister of Education had mentioned that the miners did a certain amount of damage to the ground. They really did nothing of the kind; because the ground that the miners worked was not fit for anything else, as a rule, except for mining, and he thought the honour- able gentleman ought to know that himself. With respect to the abolition of the gold duty, he thought that was the biggest mistake that the Parliament of New Zealand ever made. The provision with respect to miners' rights at the present time did not include the North Island. He might mention that the North 