$50,000 extra out of that fund besides what was in the original Bill. He ought to go to another market where he could get the money, either in London, or in the colony or else- where. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said the member for the Bay of Plenty was quite right in his contention. Clause 10 provided that the Minis- ter might borrow £100,000 from the Public Works Fund, and now it was proposed to make the sum $150,000. The fact that the Colonial Treasurer required that sum for the purposes of the State coal-mine accounted, it seemed to him, for the increase in the amount proposed to be borrowed by the Loan Bill of a few even- ings ago. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) said the matter presented itself to him in this way : Power was given to the Premier in clause 10 to borrow #150,000 from certain sources ; whereas clause 11 gave those who had the custody of the money which he was going to borrow the power to lend only £100,000. The amendment recti- fied this error. It was not the Premier who was going to lend the money, but the officers who had control of it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was not taking money from the Public Works Fund at all. Under the Public Revenues Act the autho- rities could issue a Treasury bill for $150,000, and, having got the money, they could only lend £100,000 of it, although there might be £150,000 in hand. The remaining £50,000 would be lying dormant. He would repeat that the Public Works Fund was not touched https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 at all. Motion agreed to, and the House went into Committee of the Whole. IN COMMITTEE. On the question, That the Committee recom- mend that provision be made in accordance with His Excellency's message, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Islands) said he held that his contention was right. Clause 10 gave the Premier the power to borrow £150,000 "from any balances in any of the accounts mentioned in Part VIII. of 'The Public Reve- nues Act, 1891,' or from any moneys to the credit of the Public Works Fund, or from any bank, monetary institution, or person "; but clause 11 only gave the Government depart- ments which were mentioned in Part VIII. of the Public Revenues Act and the Treasurer in respect of the Public Works Fund the power to lend £100,000. The other £50,000 must be got from some bank, monetary institution, or person. The Premier now asked for power to borrow £50,000 from the Public Works Fund, or the other balances in Part VIII., and he {Mr. Herries) objected to that course very strongly. Mr. SEDDON said the amendment did not deal with the borrowing at all. Mr. HERRIES said the Bill was a borrowing one, for the purpose of purchasing a State coal- mine, railways, et cetera, and he (Mr. Herries) objected to the money being borrowed from the that fund the money voted for roads and bridges could not be spent. Mr. SEDDON said he previously had full powers, and it was only a question of the application of the money. He could only apply the money to the resumption of the land or the payment of compensation. He now spread over a greater surface the spending of the money. That was under clause 10; and under clause 11 he could only lend £100,000 out of the $150,000. He was surprised the member for the Bay of Plenty did not understand the position. Sec- tion 11 said,- "This Act shall be a sufficient authority to the officers having the custody or control of the aforesaid accounts, and to the Colonial Trea- surer in respect of the Public Works Fund, to lend out of such balances and moneys as afore- said any sums not exceeding in the whole one hundred thousand pounds." Then it was proposed to add " £50,000," which would raise the amount to £150,000. Clause 10 said,- " In order to provide funds for the payment of all compensation or purchase-moneys pay- able in respect of any resumption or contract as aforesaid which has been approved by Parlia- ment, the Colonial Treasurer, upon being autho- rised by the Governor in Council so to do, may from time to time raise any sum or sums not exceeding in the whole the sum of one hundred and fifty thousand pounds from any balances in any of the accounts mentioned in Part VIII. of 'The Public Revenues Act, 1891,' or from any moneys to the credit of the Public Works Fund, or from any bank, monetary institution, or person." There was no discrimination between £100,000 and £150,000. He could borrow it all. It was the usual clause in all these Bills. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said the Premier held so many portfolios that it was difficult to know in what capacity he was speaking. If the honourable gentleman was Colonial Treasurer he lent the money, and if he was Minister in charge of the State coal- mines he would borrow the money. When the honourable gentleman spoke of lending the money he spoke as Colonial Treasurer, and when he spoke of borrowing money he was speaking as the Minister who held the port- folio in charge of the State coal-mines. Mr. SEDDON said the Minister of Mines would have charge of the State coal-mine. Mr. HERRIES said he was glad that the Premier had announced that, because he had much more confidence in the management of the Minister of Mines conducting a State coal- mine than in the management of the Premier. He was quite satisfied that if the Minister of Mines had the management the colony would suffer no loss ; but if the Premier had the management he was very much afraid that we would suffer loss. Resolution agreed to, and reported to the House. On the question, That the resolution be agreed to by the House, 