to be put on the register with the consent of the directors, but with no greater liability than he would have if he were not registered. If the directors consented to that, one would have thought that ought to be enough. The other Chamber suggested that pro- bably if the consent of a Judge of the Su- preme Court were obtained there would be no objection; but he (Colonel Pitt) thought that would be an expensive process which was not necessary. He believed, if a Conference were held with the other Chamber, there would be very little difficulty in coming to a settle- ment of the matter. Motion agreed to. The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved, That the Hon. Colonel Pitt, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, and himself be appointed Managers to draw up reasons for insisting on this clause. Motion agreed to. Subsequently, The Hon. Mr. BOLT brought up the follow- ing reasons for insisting on the retention of the clause :- "1. That, under the law as it now stands, any person becoming entitled to a share in a com- pany in any other way than by transfer may elect to have some person to be named by him registered as a transferee of such share. "2. That the effect of new clause 6A is only to allow a trustee or executor to be placed on the share-register of a company in respect of any share, but with no greater exemption from liability than he has now whilst not registered as owner of any such share. "3. That, inasmuch as the new clause 6A provides for the consent of the directors being necessary to the registration of any such trustee or executor as the proprietor of any share, the expense of an application for an order of a Judge of the Supreme Court or of a District Court Judge should not be re- quired." Reasons agreed to. INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, As he had not yet seen a correct copy of this Bill, he would ask that it be postponed until after the consideration of order of the day No. 12. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said that if the Bill was put down to after No. 12 it would be a ques- tion whether it would ever come up again. Busi- ness was coming in very rapidly from the other branch of the Legislature, and this Bill, which was carried by a large majority, would be sub- merged by other Bills. He would like to know when the Minister proposed to bring the Bill up for third reading. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he would bring it up when he had had an opportunity of seeing it. When he saw the Bill he would know what to do. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY asked if members were to understand that as soon as the corrected copy was received the Minister would inform the House, and the third reading then be taken. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - With every consideration for other business. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY trusted the Minister would not put too great a strain on honourable members, who would regret very much having to go against him. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said, if the Minis- ter did not intend to proceed with the Bill, he would give notice of his intention to take it up and move the third reading. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN thought the honour- able gentleman should not put the Bill so far down on the Order Paper. He had no objec- tions to it going down below No. 5. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he must have it below No. 9-Public-school Teachers' Salaries Bill-as he wished to move that Bill that evening. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said he did not think the third reading would take very long, and he would therefore propose, as an amend- ment, that it be placed down after order of the day No. 5. He did not know why the Bill was not there and distributed before the Coun- cil sat. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that, as a compromise, he would put it after No. 9. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said that that Bill -Public-school Teachers' Salaries Bill-would raise a very large discussion, and there was no saying how long it would take. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY suggested, as a com- promise, the honourable gentleman should alter his amendment to after No. 7. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said he had no objections to that, and he would move his amendment accordingly. The Council divided on the question, "That the word ' twelve' stand part of the question." AYES, 15. Smith, A. L. Arkwright Jones Smith, W. C. Barnicoat Kelly, W. Bolt Reeves Taiaroa Tomoana Harris Rigg Walker, W. C. Scotland Jenkinson NOES, 18. Pitt Feldwick Louisson Shrimski Gourley McLean Swanson Jennings Montgomery Johnston Ormond Twomey Walker, L. Kelly, T. Peacock Williams. Pinkerton Kenny Majority against, 3. Words struck out. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved, That the word "nine " be inserted in lieu of " seven." The Hon. Mr. RIGG thought the request of the Minister very reasonable-namely, that he should have time to consult with his chief to consider the amendments made in the Bill. So far as his experience of the Council went, this was the first time the request of the Minister had been treated in such a discour- teous manner. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he must confess he considered it-he would not say 