read it. We are asked now to authorise the expenditure of, in round numbers, a million of money - ¥951,845 - but honourable members have not been able to devote five minutes' at- tention to decide whether the expenditure is a wise one. Mr. ATKINSON. - There are only about thirteen clauses. Captain RUSSELL. - Yes; fancy, only thirteen clauses! Can anybody say that the rapid introduction of unintelligible clauses in the several Bills we have had submitted to us to night are creditable to us as a Legislative Assembly ? Undoubtedly they are not. Not one member of the House, even the Ministers themselves, have any idea of the effect of the two Bills we passed so rapidly through Com- mittee this evening. It is impossible anybody could know. And does anybody know the ef- fects of this Bill, or understand its provisions ? Have they compared the possibilities of pur- chase under this Bill with the possibilities under " The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881 "? I would ask, Why is the basis of purchase fixed at 30s. per share, when there is in this Chamber at the present moment a quotation of Manawatu Railway Company's shares at 24s .? Is that a right and a proper basis? It may be right ; there may be an explanation, but we know nothing about it. The Premier, in introducing the Bill, gave us no information whatsoever. He said, " Here is the Bill, and I think it will prove satisfactory to the colony and to the share- holders." I have no doubt it will be extremely https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 satisfactory to the shareholders, but whether it should be satisfactory to the colony is quite another matter. Now, I desire again to draw attention to the fact that this Bill has not been http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero in our hands more than one hour, and yet we are asked to pass it through all its stages. Last year when the Bill was introduced it was brought in on the 13th October, and read a first and second time on that day and put into Committee, and read a third time on the 17th October. That is to say, in four days we finished the Bill deal- ing with the question, and then, as now, no member had time to study the subject. I, fortunately, was able to give a short time to the consideration of the Bill, and I prepared a certain number of facts and figures in connec- tion with the railway, and if I had only one hour to spare, to have read through my speech of last year, I should have been able to put the case properly before the House. Under the provisions of " The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881," the colony has a right to take over the Manawatu Railway at the cost of its construction, less depreciation, but plus a percentage of 5 per cent. or 10 per cent. Mr. SEDDON .- Ten per cent. Captain RUSSELL .- Five per cent. if the line was taken within a period of fourteen years after its completion, and 10 per cent. if beyond that time. I presume that the period of four- teen years has passed, and therefore we shall have to pay 10 per cent. ; but the depreciation and the 10 per cent. will about balance each other-that is to say, the depreciation of the rolling-stock and the inevitable wear-and-tear would in all probability amount to about 10 per cent. There is to be no premium paid on taking over the railway, and it is simply taken over as a going concern, but at the cost of its construction at the time of its building. Ac- cording to the figures which I gave last year- and they were fairly accurate, I have very good reason to believe-1 made out the actual cost to the colony to be about $600,000 under the provisions of clause 117 of " The Railways Con- struction and Land Act, 1881." I may have been wrong by 100,000-let us suppose even $200,000; but that would only bring the cost of the railway to the colony, if taken under "The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881," to be $800,000 at the very outside ; but I believe it would not exceed three-quarters of a million, instead of, in round numbers, the million pounds which we are asked to pay for it under the provisions of this Bill. There is another point which should be alluded to, and that is, we have to take over debentures amount- ing in value to $650,000, which have a currency of seven years at 5 per cent. interest. The Pre- mier has told us that in a very short time he hopes to be able to borrow money at 3 per cent. on the London market. Therefore the amount we should have to pay on the debentures as interest in excess of the rate we can borrow at will amount to $100,000 during their currency, which properly will have to be added to the cost of the purchase of the railway. In all proba- bility we should be able to take over the railway under the existing Act at a cheaper rate than under this proposal. I hope the Minister will explain to the House how it is the Government propose a thirty-shillings share basis for pur- chase, when the selling value of the shares is about 24s. These are doubts which occur to my mind to urge why we should pause and consider what we are doing before we pass this Bill. But the principle of saying that a Legis- lative Assembly should debate a question of purchasing a railway at a cost of a million of money without any notice is one we ought not to tolerate. There is no doubt that the negotia- tions have been completed for several days ; the Premier has been too busy for the last few days to enter into negotiations for the purchase of any railway. The whole scheme has been cut and dried for a fortnight or more, and this Bill has been intentionally kept back. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Captain RUSSELL .- I hold to my opinion that it has been intentionally kept back, and it is forced on the House at an hour when Minis- ters know we cannot give proper consideration to the subject. On many occasions I have said it is advisable that we should acquire the line, and I still hold that opinion, but it ought to be done on business lines. Would any private person dream of conducting his own business in such a manner ? Of course not. It is mon- strous that such a proposition should be put before us. I am so convinced of the impropriety of the proposition that I move, That this Bill be read a second time this day six months. 