Majesty the King in the colony at the present time. On the other hand, I am persuaded that this colony does not want the idea cast abroad that we will attempt to do anything that would derogate from the excellent entertainment that has been given to our Royal visitors by the people, through His Excellency the Governor, and with the co-operation and assistance of the Government. We do not want the impres- sion created abroad that, after having given one of the best entertainments to the Royal visi- tors, by comparison with any other country, anything should be done to reflect on the people, through its Parliament, in connection with the visit of their Royal Highnesses. I can only express the hope that the attitude taken up by some honourable members does not reflect the views of their constituents. should be very sorry indeed to think it was so. If they thoroughly understood the position I do not believe those honourable members would urge that the colony should virtually repu- diate the payment of expenses incurred by the Governor, and with the full authority of the Ministry. And the Ministry, in turn, has acted with the authority of Parliament, which in- vited the Duke and Duchess to visit our shores. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- I do not wish to say much on this question, but I must protest against the remark of the last speaker that the members who are opposed to this Bill are trying to cast a reflection on His Excel- lency the Governor. 1 am quite sure that none of the members of the House who oppose this Bill have any intention whatever of casting any reflection upon His Excellency the Governor. But it must be recognised by the whole House, from the speech we have just heard from the Minister for Railways, and also from the Pre- mier's speech on the Bill, and from the special pleadings they have indulged in, that they recognise they have a very bad case. To my mind, honourable members must have noticed the strained and laboured speech we had from the Premier. Then, the last speaker told us eight or nine times that the colony invited the Roval visitors. That is admitted ; and we paid for it. As far as I am concerned, I supported the Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill last year on the distinct understanding that the in- crease then made to him was in anticipation of the increased expenditure the Governor would be put to through the Royal visit, and consequently I cannot see my way to support this measure. Ministers themselves must have had consider- Why do able expenses on account of the visit. not they ask us to pay their expenses? It is quite true also, as has been pointed out, that the Mayors of cities and the heads of the local bodies throughout the colony have been put to a great deal of expense in the same way ; but it certainly would not be right to ask the colony to pay it. Now, I do not for a moment wish to say that the present Governor is not worth his salary. I believe he is as able and as anxious to promote the welfare of the colony as any Governor we have ever had ; but at the same Sir J. G. Ward afford to pay a certain sum, and I think that the salary we are now paying is sufficiently high without this additional vote. In fact, so far as these additional expenses are concerned, I do not think the Ministry are justified in asking the taxpayers of the colony to make up anything the Governor had to incur in entertaining their Royal Highnesses. Mr. SEDDON. - His Ministers requested him to entertain on behalf of the colony, and, in so doing, gave him authority to incur the neces- sary expenditure. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- Not at all. That is one of the fallacies which the Premier tries to impose on the House. The House recognises that it is a fallacy, and, personally, I do not take the slightest notice of it. We did not ask the Governor of this colony to spend a single I shilling ; and, if there was any extra expendi- ture incurred, why did not the Government take these accounts along with other accounts ? I think they are placing the Governor in a false position altogether. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, the honourable gentleman who has just sat down has stated that if this Bill were rejected it would be no reflection on His Excellency the I would remind the honourable Governor. gentleman that this Bill must have received the tacit assent of His Excellency, because it had to be introduced by message from him. When His Excellency, with the advice of his Ministers, has sent down such a Bill as this to the Parliament of the colony, to say that its rejection would be no reflection upon him shows that the honourable gentleman does not see the whole of the issues involved. Then, the honour- able gentleman said that Ministers and mem- bers, like His Excellency, had been put to increased expense. Sir, I do not suppose this sum would cover the whole of the private in- creased expenditure of His Excellency the Governor. But the honourable gentleman and the House and the country must recognise that there is a great deal of distinction to be drawn between expenditure of what I might call a private character and the expenditure which this Bill is meant to meet, which is of an official and public character. It appears to me that that is the position involved in this Bill, and, holding that view, I intend to vote for the second reading of it. The position has, I admit, been somewhat altered by the fact that the Government have brought down a Bill to pay the account. If the Government were now asking the House for a vote, and if we were now asked to take the responsibility of voting money for an expenditure which we could stop by refusing to vote the money, then I would be with those who intend to vote against it. But this money, we are bound to assume, on the statement of the Responsible Advisers of His Excellency, has been expended; and can we therefore, with honour and dignity to ourselves as the Parliament of this colony, turn round and say, after this money has been spent, we refuse to pay the account ? That appears to me the logical position to take up. Now, it is 