upon this item. Mr. FISHER asked when the existing con- tract expired. Sir J. G. WARD said it expired on the 21st November. Mr. G. J. SMITH said that last year £17,579 was spent out of a total vote of £24,000. It was now proposed to vote £17,000, and, of course, the whole of that amount would not be required if the service was terminated in November. So long, however, as it was understood that mem- bers would have an early opportunity of voting on the Government's proposals on the matter, and that the position would not be prejudiced by allo ving the vote to go through, he would say no more at the present time. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) hoped the Minister would not leave the mail-service resolutions over till the last day of the session. They should come down in the course of a few days. Sir J. G. WARD could assure the House the resolutions would not be brought down at the end of the session. He could not fix a day, but he would say that they would, at any rate, come down within the next fortnight. Mr. MILLAR said, if the House agreed to the vote, they were not committing themselves to the San Francisco service. Sir J. G. WARD .- Certainly not. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked for an explanation of the item, "Contingencies (land- ing and shipping mails), £500." Sir J. G. WARD said this was the ordinary cost of paying for boat-hire, or for the services of men between the post-office and the wharf, and emergencies of one kind and another. Vote, $51,732, agreed to. Vote, Conveyance of inland mails, £44,950, agreed to. Vote, Carriage of mails by railway, £15,401, agreed to. Maintenance of telegraph- and telephone- lines, £19,300. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) reminded the Minister of a deputation that waited on him in Auck- land with regard to the Devonport telephone. The honourable gentleman then said that if the Harbour Board would agree to keep the line from Point Resolution to Devonport clear of ships' anchors the Government would lay a cable across the harbour. Telephone communi- cation could be established with Devonport on the usual conditions without a charge per message. Since then he had been informed unofficially by the department that they were quite willing to carry out the arrangement, but that they would have to charge 3d. for each message, an imposition that was resented very much by the residents at Devonport. The Devonport people, he was informed, were willing to pay an extra fee to be placed in communica- tion with the Exchange, but to pay even 3d. a message they considered was too much. If the Minister, when considering any question of reduction of charges, could see his way clear to give the people the telephone in the ordinary way without charging for each message, his Sir J. G. Ward people of Devonport. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) supported the request of the honourable member for Eden, that there should be a reduction of the charges between Auckland and Devonport. The Har- bour Board recently agreed to a cable being laid across the harbour, and the Harbourmaster was instructed to prepare a plan which had the ap- proval of the department showing the location of the cable. The route saved a distance of about eight miles. Instead of going by way of Birkenhead, it went directly across the harbour. It was admitted that there was sufficient cable in stock for the work, and the cost of laying it would be trivial. No special charge beyond the telephone subscription should be demanded. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said the Telephone Department was one of the best paying in the service, and he wanted the Minis- ter to seriously consider whether he could not reduce the subscription to the Telephone Ex- change. Although he admitted the amount was not exorbitant, it was a heavy tax upon a number of the smaller business people and householders. If a reduction were made, many more householders would become members of the Exchange, and so increase the usefulness of the department. Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable mem- ber for Eden and the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) appeared to be under a misapprehension as to what the Government were prepared to do in connection with the telephone to Devonport. He (Sir J. G. Ward) agreed to have a cable laid across to the North Shore provided a suitable bed could be got for it. He also agreed to esta- blish an Exchange at Devonport ; but he did not agree, nor could he agree, to make the through rates different from those in any other part of the colony for the use of the Exchange between Devonport and Auckland. The regulations and scale of rates were gazetted, and they must be adhered to in every part of the colony. Mr. NAPIER asked if the people of Devon- port would be allowed to work direct from the central Exchange. Sir J. G. WARD said they must necessarily pay the connecting-fee between Devonport and Auckland ; but when the Devonport people were working amongst themselves they only paid the annual subscription, and no more. Mr. BOLLARD certainly understood the Minister to promise that when the cable was laid across he would forego the extra charge for connection. Sir J. G. WARD said he had not done so. There could be no differentiation of the rates which were gazetted. The concession that was allowed was that the cable service should be treated as a land service. Mr. BOLLARD asked if the Minister would consider the question of doing away with these extra charges altogether. Sir J. G. WARD said that was impossible, as the cost of maintaining a long line was very heavy. 