the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has the temerity to say that I should not have done so ; and I believe he was one of those who said that it should not be passed on the estimates. The onus of proof rests on the honourable gentleman to show us how otherwise it is to be paid. If it is not to be voted on the estimates, and if it is not to be paid by Bill, the honourable member ought to tell the House how it is possible to pay it. I shall be pleased if the honourable gentleman will do so. Mr. FISHER .-- It is not my blunder. Mr. SEDDON .- There was no blunder in bringing down on the estimates, nor is there a blunder at the present time by my bringing it down by Bill. I say the liability is the liability of the colony, and for the time being nominally it is His Excellency's liability, and we have got to meet it, and that is the answer. Then, Sir, I was told during the course of the debate that I had said that the veterans' luncheons during the Royal visit were paid for by the colony. repeat it. I say the luncheons given to the veterans at the four centres of population dur- ing the Royal visit have to be paid for by the colony, and the House has already voted the money. That is the answer to that. But I do say this, and this is what my colleague desired to make out, and did succeed in making out very clearly : that His Excellency the Go- vernor, as showing the deep interest he took in the colony and its welfare, was the first repre- sentative of the Crown in this colony to initiate the bringing of the old veterans into recognition by entertaining them at luncheon, and thus letting the colony see we respected them and were glad to see them honoured http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero whenever the occasion offered for it. My colleague made that point, I think, very clear. Then, honourable members should not forget this, and here I must take them back to first principles : three years ago this House sent an invitation to the Imperial authorities for their Royal Highnesses to visit New Zealand. We can claim the credit of being the first colony that sent such an invitation, and, although something intervened in the interim that pre- vented it, I say we can claim to have been the first colony to invite their Royal Highnesses ; but, after the debate of to-night, what will be said of our colony now-New Zealand of all others, that has done so much to show its de- votion and loyalty to the Throne, and its desire to help the Empire; and to think that we should now be injured and judged by this debate-I do hope there will be no division on this Bill- in which, having incurred the ex- penses that Ministers asked His Excellency to incur, members were found who declined to pass the comparatively small vote to meet the account that is now before them. Then, ex- ception was taken by one or two members who said I had no right to go into details at all. I neither apologize nor do I withdraw from what I have said. I will repeat it. I have heard outside the House and inside the House that there has been extravagance. I have heard Mr. Seddon voted, and which should have been voted, men- tioned, and I simply gave an illustration when I took some £400 or $500 of this amount we have now here to pay, for which the colony has re- ceived and retains good value. We are only allowed, as regards Government House, to furnish the official quarters, and in order to pro- vide for the Royal guests and those in their party it was necessary to furnish the unofficial rooms and house throughout. Now, the fur- nishing was done, not for the Governor and his good lady, and for His Excellency's staff and for his servants, but that furnishing was done for our distinguished guests and those with them. This extra furnishing of the unofficial quarters was necessary, and the items I mentioned were for the furnishing of the unofficial quarters, for which, nominally, His Excellency has been held responsible. Con- sequently, if I gave these, and even went the length, as I did, of mentioning some of the firms, it was only to show that there has been economy practised. There has been already I £1,100 disbursed, and there have been amounts totalling, I think, considerably over the amount you are asked to provide for in the Bill. I thought for a moment that there was no necessity for debating this question. I had thought that a vote would be taken at once, and that the Bill would be through all its stages and passed, to the credit of the House and to the credit of the colony. I do say that remarks such as have been made by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay), such as " We are pouring money into the lap of His Excellency the Governor," were ill-timed. When we are meeting just claims and de- mands, he calls that pouring money into the lap of the King's representative. Is that the view of the people of Dunedin ? I say it is not. And if the honourable member will make that statement on the public platform in Dun- edin, my opinion is that it would be received by such a chorus of disapprobation that the honourable gentleman would hesitate before repeating it. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Your time is up. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- 1 wish to make a personal explanation. The Premier has mentioned me by name. Mr. SEDDON .- I did not mention your name. Mr. HUTCHESON. - He said "the senior member for Wellington City, Mr. Hutcheson." Mr. SEDDON .- I said " Mr. Fisher." Mr. HUTCHESON .- The Premier said that I gave an indication that if this expenditure was brought down in the shape of a Bill it might save acrimonious debate, and that I would support such & Bill. I say, neither by word, deed, nor act have I given any indication of my intention in this direction ; and if the Premier presumes to read my inner conscious- ness, and makes a statement on that ground, I can only say there is not a single tittle of truth in the statement. Mr. SEDDON .- I may say, Sir, that in regard to a great deal of what the honourable 