himself, he ought to be prepared to give the benefit to his fellow-workers. Mr. ATKINSON. - So long as that is under- stood the point is fairly arguable. I only wanted to set out that it was not fairly put in the con- trast drawn between the widow and the mort- gagee. It is just as improper a distinction as that between manhood and, in various political controversies, property-for, of course, the man of property also represents manhood. It is the same with regard to taxation, when the land-tax is compared with the Customs revenue, to the disparagement of the land-owner, in forgetfulness of the fact that the man who owns land is also paying indirect taxation through the Customs. These general statements that are assumed to be based on principle often prove to rest upon fallacies. I reserve for full discussion these matters for the second reading of the Bill, merely speaking now with a view to encouraging the Premier to give effect to a promise previ- ously given that this section 18 shall be amended. Of course, I appreciate perfectly the motives of the objection of my honourable colleague, and of the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), but I would point out that it is not in the least necessary to repeal the section absolutely in order to give all honest claims validity. For instance, I know the point has been raised as to how far by a bogus mortgage the workman's claim might be ousted. Well, it would not need any great ingenuity of draftsmanship to provide against that. It would be quite easy to set up https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 some test, for instance, as to the proportion of the mortgage-loan to the value of the security. That, of course, is a test that is applied by every prudent mortgagee before he lends, and that might be made a test under the Act. For instance, we might protect the mortgage up to a certain proportion of the value of the security, or the Court might be empowered to exercise a closer scrutiny in any of these cases when the mortgage had been executed within a short while before the contract under which the acci- dent happened had been entered into. There are these considerations, and we might very easily, it appears to me, find a way out of the difficulty without absolutely repealing the whole of section 18. There is another point I would like honourable members to consider, and that is the liability for in- surance, as the Act as it stands presses most heavily upon those least able to bear it, and upon those who are just as much entitled to consideration, and who, indeed, belong to the very same class as those on whose behalf the section is put into the statute. Supposing you are dealing with thousands instead of hundreds. A property is worth $6,000, and has a mortgage of #4,000 on it : there is a margin of $2,000, and the maximum claim under the Act is £400. To the mortgagee this would be a comparatively small matter, and also to the land owner. But if you are dealing with hundreds instead of thousands, you would see at once the £400 would consume the greater part of the security, and involve upon the borrower a liability equal to the value of his property. Taking the figures perty at £600 and the mortgage at £400, there would be a margin of £200 left. In such a case a workman's claim of $400 would take up two- thirds of the security, leave £200 to the mort- gagee, and leave a liability outstanding of the same amount on the part of the mortgagor. The liability is thus a ruinous one for the poor man, though a slight matter for the wealthy. I do suggest that at present we have really passed class legislation of a very unfair character, and that it will have an effect opposite to what was intended, because it will penalise the poor man and it does not hit the rich man at all severely. It really puts the burden on the class from whose shoulders it was proposed to lift it altogether. These observations, I submit, are entitled to consideration. I hope the Premier will see his way, in the Bill, to do something to deal with the evil, and something to remove this very unjust risk on what has hitherto been the best form of security. I do not pro- pose to discuss the matter more fully now, and I hope that even at this stage of the session the Bill will be made a workable measure. I can now speak perfectly freely on the matter with- out fear of monopolising the time of the House to the exclusion of other measures, which I should like to see receive a fair share of atten- tion from the House. Mr. SEDDON. - I little thought this after- noon when I asked leave of the House to introduce the Bill that there was to be this prolonged debate. Sir, debates sometimes do good. The fact of the last honourable member taking up so long a time to deliver his remarks upon the question will be received with great pleasure by his colleague, the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). Four members have signified to me their inten- tion, owing to the honourable member's pro- tracted remarks on this Bill-which looks very much like stonewalling - if the Wellington Bill comes up this session, they will take some time to discuss it. There are four friends more which the honourable member has called to Mr. Fisher's aid. I am sure the honourable mem- ber will be pleased to hear that. I told the House the intention of the Government was to remove misapprehension and difficulty. I told the House that the English legislation had caused a great deal of trouble and friction, be- cause if they got people to thresh their corn or to mow their grain they were liable under the present Act ; and this has been one of the matters that have caused a lot of fric- tion. Now, the new English Act has made the matter very clear-namely, that where the con- tractor provides and uses machinery driven by mechanical power for the purpose of threshing, ploughing, or other agricultural work, he, and he alone, shall be liable to pay compensation. I intend to put that in our law, and to make it clear that where a person brings machinery on to a farm to thresh a stack, the farmer shall not be liable to lose his farm if an accident happened to the men engaged on the machines threshing the grain. That is only right and reasonable. The man who owns a foundry and 