consideration, and it might be advisable to amend the Bill so as to provide that the tariff shall only come into force in the Islands from the passing of this Bill. Then, the Native customs are to remain in force so long as they are not repugnant to the general principles of humanity ; but the New Zealand statutes are to be brought into force by an Order in Council on the part of the Governor, and any existing New Zealand law other than that which deals with alcoholic liquors may be brought in in that manner. Now, I call attention to this fact : that in the United States resolutions in regard to Hawaii there is no power there for any one to bring into force the legislation of the United States-that must be done by Con- gress ; but here we leave it in the hands of the Government to decide which laws are to be brought into force and which are not. I think that this is dangerous, and that no New Zea- land laws should be brought into operation there until the question has been considered and the matter approved by resolution of both Houses of Parliament. Suppose, for instance, the Go- vernor was to bring the electoral laws, which in- clude women's franchise, or the labour laws, into force in the Cook Islands. It is not very likely that would be done ; the circumstances would be so strange that it would be almost impos- sible to carry them out; but the Government might make a mistake by introducing some other law without foreseeing the results, and the effect might be just as disastrous as intro- ducing such laws as I have mentioned. I pass over those clauses dealing with the Supreme https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Court of New Zealand, and providing that a Judge of the Supreme Court may sit at Raro- tonga, and that appeals may be made from them in writing to the Supreme Court, because I think all those are in the right direction. Also the proposal in clause 6 to set up a Court similar to our Native Land Court to deal with the land of the natives there. That, I think, is also a good provision ; but I would like to know, for I am not very intimate with the Islands, why the Federal Council, which is to control & certain number of local Councils, should not control the Council for Niue or Savage Island. That island is excluded from the control of the Federal Council. I dare say that can be explained, but I think that it is information we should have before us before we pass the Bill. The next most important clause, I think, is the 11th, which gives the Governor power, by warrant or order, to do certain things- that is, to appoint ports for the shipping or landing of goods ; and he may also prohibit the importation of arms, munitions of war, in- toxicating liquor, opium, and other injurious Well, that is very proper ; but it will articles. \`be seen that the Governor has power to delegate the powers under this clause to the Resident Commissioner. Then, I come to the section referred to by the Hon. Mr. Scotland - that is, section 13. Listening to the honourable gentle- man, it appeared to me that he had misunder- stood the meaning of the clause, for the lands to be dealt with are Crown lands, in the first Hon. Mr. Rigg naval and military reserve-for the use of whom ? For the use of His Majesty. In fact, if there is a naval station established there it will be an Imperial naval station, and not a colonial one, and so all the talk about enor- mous expense and burden we are throwing on the colony is unnecessary. Well, Sir, I sup. port the measure, because it goes one step fur- ther in forming a proper system of government for these Islands, and I believe, if advantage is taken of the suggestion I have made to set up a Commission, that by the time we meet next session the Government will be able to bring down a much more-shall I say statesmanlike ? I think 80-a much more statesmanlike pr- posal than the present one is. The Bill is to remain in force only until ten days after the next session of Parliament, so that so long as the powers given under the clause referred to. which enable the Governor in Council to in- troduce the statute law of New Zealand into the Islands, are not taken too much advantage of in the meantime, I do not think very much harm will be done. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Sir, I think it & very great pity that a Bill of this importance was not brought before this Council at an earlier period of the session. It will be in the recollection of honourable members that resolu- tions were submitted to both Houses of Parlia- ment in the dying hours of last session, and Parliament was asked to give its assent to these Islands forming part of the Colony of New Zea- land. It was represented to honourable mem- bers that the matter was one of some urgency. and we knew very well that a man-of-war was in the harbour with steam up waiting to convey His Excellency the Governor to these Islands immediately those resolutions were passed ; and now in the preamble of this Bill we are told that His Majesty the King has declared these Islands to be part of the Colony of New Zealand with the assent of the General Assembly of New Zealand, testified by the resolution to which I have referred. Sir, I think a very wise thing was done in extending the boundary of New Zealand so as to include these Islands, and what we are doing now is 3 necessary consequence of the action then taken. These Islands forming part of the Colony of New Zealand, it is certainly necessary that we should, by some Act, say what laws of New Ze- land are or are not to be in force in the Islands. And the measure is necessary to be passed in order to keep in force the local laws, customs. and usages of those islands. I know that in the State of New South Wales, when the Fede- ration Commission was sitting there, one of the strongest reasons given by those who gave evidence before the Commission as to why Now Zealand should join the Commonwealth was that her joining was desirable in order to pre- vent friction in respect to the trade of the Pacific Islands. Therefore those who conterd that a wrong step has been taken in adding these Islands to New Zealand do not, in my opinion, take a very statesmanlike view of the situation, because the people of Australia regard 