vent a ballot being taken by motion. Mr. FISHER .-. It cannot be done. But what is at the bottom of the objection is this: If it were not for the coming election there would be no trouble at all. It is the election ahead that makes members fear the effect of their vote on their constituency. But, really, the con- stituencies think more of a man who boldly faces such a question than one who votes against what he knows to be the proper thing to do. I was sorry the member for Palmerston will continue to harp on what it has become the custom to call "the £40 steal " of last session. He said it was the blackest blot ever placed on the statute-book. Mr. PIRANI. - No; I said "the Public Revenues Act." Mr. FISHER .- Well, the one covers the other. I think it is time this reiteration was put an end to. There is nothing in it to justify such a statement. Then there is another argu- ment. The sessions of this House did not formerly extend beyond three months. Here we are now entering on the fifth month. The late Sir John Mckenzie warned the House that, under the altered circumstances of the colony, members must be prepared to sit for five months in every year. And is it to be said that, with the attention members have to give to public business throughout the year- with a five months' session, and the numerous calls made on him throughout the year for contributions to societies and to charities of all descriptions-is it to be said that $300 is too https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 much ? I hope it will be understood that I am not arguing my own personal case. know my constituents will not object to the £300 ; and in regard to the proposed amendment by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) I would say to him that if he thinks £200 sufficient he can satisfy his con- science by taking the £200 and returning the extra £100 to the Treasury. I do not care what members may think as to the sum which ought to be paid to Wellington members as distin- guished from other members. That, to me, is nothing. So far as I am concerned, my whole time is given to the service of my constituents. Perhaps my case is a little exceptional in that respect, because I give my whole time to the ser- vice of my constituents, but I add to my salary in other ways. I simply mention that, because I do not wish it to be supposed that the amount I receive from this Parliament covers the whole of my expenses during the year. In conclusion, I wish to say that the honour- able gentleman at the head of the Government has fulfilled his undertaking to introduce the Bill. That is all I care for. I care so little for the added money that the House may do whatever it pleases with the Bill so far as I am concerned ; but I give the honourable gentle- man the credit of fulfilling his undertaking to the House. I shall vote for the second reading of the Bill. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City). - The subject under discussion, Sir, is one upon which I think there is every room for difference of present time the debate has taken place with- out any heat or acrimony. Several speakers have affirmed that the amount to which it is pro- posed to raise the honorarium-£300 a year- is a reasonable and fair sum to pay by way of such remuneration. But, Sir, I maintain that is not the question which this House ought to face. It is not a question as to what is a fair remuneration -- at least, that is not the way the question presents itself to me. It appears to me that we practically committed ourselves to the remuneration-and I urge this point-that we practically committed ourselves to what we regarded as a fair remuneration for our services when we undertook to serve the constituencies for three years, knowing what the remunera- tion was. That appears to me to be the only point we have in all fairness to consider: and a great deal of the laboured argument that has been advanced appears to me to be considerably outside the issues which ought to present themselves to honourable members The honouracle in discussing this matter. member who has just sat down has suggested that the vote of certain members will be very considerably influenced by the fact that an election is impending. Well, the election is not near yet. We are only half-way through the life of this Parliament, and I think the honour- able gentleman went beyond his usual line of argument, and his remarks suggested an ur- fairness which is not usually characteristic of his speeches in this House. I do not think that those of us who oppose the second reading of the Bill are doing so because we anticipate what may happen at the coming election as I a result of our vote. I think the honouratie gentlemen who asked us to admit their right and reasonableness in asking for this increase ought, at least, to credit us with exactly the same right, and attribute the same fairness to us in now opposing the increase. So far as I am concerned, my opposition to this Bill :5 solely on the ground that, at the time of my election, knowing what the payment for the services was to be, I undertook to serve my constituency for three years, and to give the ?! the best services I could render. I not only undertook to do so, but members must remez- ber that we wooed the constituents and #.5 the constituents. We were not put bere by force. We asked the constituents to retum us, and they returned us ; and we accepted the responsibility of office, knowing exactly what the remuneration was to be. That is the whole point ; and I cannot during the term of this Parliament vote myself an increase c. pay. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will you return it ? Mr. COLLINS .- What I do with the mone. I receive is a matter for myself. I have ahsc- lutely refused and declined to profit by any increase made yet, and, as a matter of fact. I de not think it is quite fair to raise that issue. Let the matter be fought out on its merits, and do not raise an issue of that kind. It is all very well, as the member for Wairarapa stated. to say that those who oppose the motion and vote 