also contemplates narrowing the areas of the awards, which I believe will multiply the work of the Court to an enormous extent. There- fore you are not only doing away with the Conciliation Boards, but you are otherwise doubling the work of the Arbitration Court. I very much question if that is a proper course to take. I think the Conciliation Boards have done excellent work in the past, and that if we had turned our atten- tion to the better constitution of the Boards, instead of undermining them in this way, we should be doing better work. If we think the Boards are not proper bodies to be in the Act, then we should have the courage to abolish them. There is no doubt that under clause 6, which provides for special Boards-and that either party may have a special Board if so desired-a great change will be made in the existing law. I think it is certain there will hardly be a case but some one or other of the parties connected with it will make a request that the case should be tried by some particular man or body of men, and that, of course, would take the case away from the Conciliation Board. Also, the same would be the case in regard to clause 21. It would have exactly the same effect. Any one might avoid the Board alto- gether, and take the case direct to the Court. If any of these clauses are put in, unquestion- ably the present Conciliation Boards might as well be done away with altogether. It is said that it is not wise to appeal to brute force ; but I would point out that we are going https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 in the direction of appealing to brute force when we go direct to the Arbitration Court. It is well known that there is no law of any effect without there is force behind it, and when you are doing away with the Conciliation Boards you are taking the first step towards the application of force. My honourable friend Mr. Pinkerton points out that there have been various cases in the boot industry in which these unions were successful in getting disputes settled with the employers. I have not doubt there were. Many disputes have been so settled, but I never yet heard of a dispute being settled in that way unless it was a strong union that the employers had to deal with. Now, with regard to trades-unions desiring to contract themselves out of this measure, I am certainly surprised to hear it, and I regret exceedingly that trades-unions have not more faith in the Act which they hailed so enthusiastically some seven years ago. I cannot see that they are under any disad- vantage in being put into the Act. It is stated by them that it is a hardship that they should be made to be parties to agreements when they had no word or say in the matter of the dispute. I would point out to them that if they had no word or say in the matter of the dispute they are really themselves to blame, and no one else. All that is required for them to do to make them parties to a dispute is to register themselves as unions under the Act. I appre- hend, however, that this Act was never intended to be in any way coercive, and if we put trades- Hon. Mr. Bolt parties in a dispute we indirectly compel them to register. Now, I, personally, shall be quite satisfied if they are made parties to the dispute as proposed by the proposal of the Hon. Mr. Rigg ; but I say this : that certainly trades- unions should go into the Act and be made parties to the dispute if it is thought proper. The Bill as it comes down from the Committee, with the exception of clause 21, will, in my view, be a great improvement on the present law ; but clause 21 will, I hope, be struck out. With the other amendments made in the Committee I agree, and I hope they will be carried by the Council. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Sir, when this conciliation and arbitration policy was first adopted it was recognised that the whole ques- tion was a new one, and that the system was on its trial ; nobody expected that the machinery first set up without any experience would ne- cessarily work smoothly. Changes must take place from time to time if matters are to work well. Many of those who opposed the policy at the time it was introduced, because they thought that the machinery was crude and unconcilia- tory, have abstained altogether from opposition to necessary amendments, and have endeavoured to make the system work smoothly; and no doubt improvements have been made. I can see, myself, that all parties are likely, after public discussion and practical experience, to take a more intelligent interest in the ad- ministration of the law; they will understand better the principles on which it is based, and will discriminate between those that are false and those which should be maintained. It must now be admitted, after all the experi- ence we have so far gained, that there was a great deal of truth in the feeling of those who urged the necessity of proceeding tenta- tively-who advised the setting-up of true Conciliation Boards, and foretold the danger of a purely compulsory system. So-called Con- ciliation Boards now are working under a shadow of compulsion overhead, and they are not really Conciliation Boards at all : they are merely inferior Courts with less powers, as has been stated by the honourable gentleman oppo- site - not only with less powers, but with less knowledge and experience, and therefore with less chance of doing any good. It appears to me that they are so constituted as to be not Conciliation Boards at all in the sense that was first contemplated ; they are tribunals em- powered to give judgment, often with inferior means of weighing evidence, with irregular and tedious procedure, and sometimes under the guidance of inexperienced judges. The con- sequence is that conciliation in its true sense, which was accepted as the object to be aimed at in 1894 by those who objected to the pro- posed Arbitration Court, was nearly extin- guished by the system established. The pro- posal urged by some of us upon the Hon. Mr. Reeves when he was passing his Bill through the Legislature-the proposal referred to by the Hon. Mr. Rigg-was practically the adoption of the Massachusetts Act, which provided for a. 