opportunity of a service thoroughly up to date in every way, how do we encourage them ? By reducing the rates about 25 per cent. Yet we are supposed to be an up-to-date community and in the van of progress, et cetera. Even to the Vancouver service, which expired a few years ago, and the contract time for which was 21} days, we paid 10s. 5d. a pound for letters, 1s. for books, and 6d. for ne . spapers. Now, when we have the opportunity of having a seventeen days' service, with boats of not less than 6,000 tons-a three-weekly service-we propose to pay the owners not 10s. 5d., but 7s. 6d. for letters, 1s. for books, and 6d for papers. I simply say I cannot understand it. The Postmaster-General is supposed to be a business- man ; we are all supposed to be business-men, or else we should not be here, and I say such a proposal is not businesslike. If you want to do away with the Frisco mail-service let us say so and be done with it ; but if not, let us pay a fair rate for the service rendered. Of course I under- stand from the papers and from speeches and from conversation with other members the real objection to the service is on account of the American shipping-laws; that is the only pos- sible objection. But let me say in this con- nection that the shipping-laws of the United States are not like the laws of the Medes and Persians that cannot be altered ; they can be altered just as we alter ours occasionally. An Hon. MEMBER. - But we cannot alter them. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. MASSEY .- That remains to be seen. look forward to the day, not far distant, when the Government of the Commonwealth will join with the Government of this colony in bringing sufficient influence to bear to induce America to make an alteration in her law so as to allow British or colonial steamers to trade between American ports just as we allow Ameri- can vessels to trade between Au-tralian ports. So far as I am concerned, I should like to see a fort nightly service by Fr'isco, which would pro- bably require five steamers. And of these five boats I should like to see three of them Ameri- can and two of them British ; and if the Go- vernment of this colony will join with the Government of Australia with the object of bringing sufficient influence to bear, either through the Imperial Government or in any other way, to accomplish such object, I say they will have succeeded in doing a good ser- vice to the three countries concerned. I am quite satisfied that if the service is dis- continued it will be a retrograde step, as it will tend to practically increase our distance from those countries with which we are doing business, and where we sell our produce. It was said, I think, by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that we do not want a fast mail-service while we have the cable. Sir, the cable will never take the place of a mail-service any more than telegrams will take the place of letters. It is quite true, as has been pointed out by the honourable mem- ber for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) that the boats in the past have not always kept up to the time- of new boats and new machinery. However, we have been given to understand-as I think the paragraph which I read to the House a short time ago proved-that the difficulties have come to an end, and we may there- fore expect that in the future the boats will be able to keep up to their time-table. Having just passed the estimates through this House, I need hardly remind members that we have set up a Tourist Department, which is going to cost us a lot of money, and which, probably, will be worth the money it is costing. And we ought to remember that a fast mail-service between this colony and San Francisco must undoubtedly have the effect of increasing the number of tourists that will visit this country ; it will greatly increase the num- ber of people who will visit our wonderland and spend their money here. Now, with regard to subclause (c), which reads as follows : "That, \--- in lieu of the foregoing payments, a fixed an- nual subsidy of $20.000 be paid, provided that one British-owned steamer, registered in New Zealand be employed in the service." Sir, if the Postmaster-General will consent to strike out that proviso, which provides what is at present an impossible condition, he will, I am sure, be doing what is only fair and in the interests of the colony. It is not the slightest use for a private member of this House to at- tempt anything of the sort: but that course would have the effect of giving a subsidy of £20,000 to a three-weekly service between this I colony and San Francisco. I believe the money would be well spent. I et us remember in this connection that the postages would go a long way towards paying the £20,000. The postage for last year amounted to £12,840. What it would be this year it is impossible to say. The Postmaster-General evidently expects it will be a little less on account of the introduction of the penny-postage, and probably it will ; but even then I venture to think it will be quite £12,000. But I want to say this: that if the effect of the introduction of oversea penny- postage is going to lose us the best mail-service we ever had, we are paying very dear for our whistle. Sir J. G. WARD .- The postage will be more. Mr. MASSEY .- Well, that goes to prove my argument, because the net cost to the colony will be so much less. Now, there is just one other point I wish to make, and it is this : The North Island Main Trunk Railway, we may expect, will be completed before this time next Parliament-say three years from now. It is a long way nearer completion at the present time than many of the public imagine. When the North Island trunk line is completed there will be a considerable saving of time so far as the Southern ports are concerned. I think at the present time it takes an average of thirty-six hours between the arrival of the San Fran- cisco mail steamer at Auckland and the de- livery of the Southern mails at Wellington, and that is when the vessels are able to get over the Manukau bar without delay, which is not always the case; but when we get the Main 