to know on what principle the department pro- ceeded in its chargings against revenue and capital account. Looking through the esti- mates, there seemed to be the most extra- ordinary charges. The ordinary person in- sured his house against fire, and if an acci- dent occurred and any expenditure on renewals was required it was done by the insurance company, and the person might be said to have done the renewal out of revenue by paying insurance fund out of the annual revenue, and not out of capital. But in these estimates the restorations were done out of capital account. For instance, the renewal of the old furniture in the Parliamentary Buildings was charged to capital account; in other words, they were borrowing money for that purpose. He felt sad in thinking, while he was sitting on his com- fortable settee, that he was sitting on borrowed money the whole time. Such small items as refencing the grounds, Parliamentary Build- ings, the repairs and painting at Papakura, Taupo, and Napier, and the renovating and re- painting of the new post-office in the town he lived near, were all charged in the same way to capital account, and not to revenue, as all wear- and-tear should be. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, With regard to the remarks of the honourable member for Riccarton, as to the maintenance of Ministers' residences, there was a purchase of some land adjoining one of the residences, and that was charged to capital account. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) wanted to know, in regard to Ministerial residences, why the cost of the alterations should not appear in the estimates, as shown in the annual report by the Engineer-in-Chief. Mr. HALL-JONES said they did not issue a report with the Consolidated Fund estimates. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said he had looked vainly through the expenditure on these estimates for information regarding the Ministerial residences, and the only place where he could see any reference to it was the item, " Buildings not specified." Last year they spent £3,371. Mr. HALL-JONES said that was for all the buildings throughout the colony not specified in the estimates. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said the amount autho- rised last year was £2,000, and he might there- fore conclude that the $1,371 spent in addition constituted the cost of the additions to Minis- terial residences. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) would like the Minister to tell them as to the sum of £1,371, spent in regard to the ground around the Molesworth Street residence. Mr. HALL-JONES said he thought that cost about $1,000. Mr. HERRIES asked if it was true that some more land was to be bought. Mr. HALL-JONES said that was not correct. Vote, £17,000, agreed to. Vote, Judicial, £43,000, agreed to. Postal and telegraph, $55,000. as regards the new post-office site at Levin. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said the Post-office site was offered by a resident at a certain price. After examination by an officer of the department the price was jumped up very considerably, and he was not prepared to pay the increased price, and he declined the offer ; and, as the Government did not believe in being " had," the site was abandoned. Vote, £55,000, agreed to. Vote, Customs, $5,000, agreed to. Lunatic asylums, £18,000. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) wished to know whether the Government intended to take land in Horo- whenua No. 6 Block for a large asylum. Mr. HALL-JONES said, Not that he was aware of. Mr. FIELD wished to know whether the Go- vernment had considered the establishment of the half-way house system in connection with asylums, which, he understood, had proved of great benefit in other countries, to which per- sons in an incipient stage of insanity could be committed, and so be given an opportunity of being cured, instead of being left until they reached a stage when cure became impossible, as was too often the case under our present system. He believed if that system was intro- duced the number of lunatics in the country would be reduced instead of increased. He also considered it most urgent that a better system of classification of patients should be introduced. He was aware that to do this meant an increase of asylum space, and therefore increased ex- penditure. It was also a question whether it would not be advisable to substitute a system of small asylums for the present system of building huge ones. The danger of large dis- asters by fire would thus be much lessened, there would be better control, and for other reasons the system would be a very beneficial one. Mr. HALL-JONES said, The matters re- ferred to would receive the consideration of the Government. Vote, #18,000, agreed to. Vote, Quarantine Stations, £1,250, agreed to. School-buildings, £30,000. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked, In connection with the items of £2,200 and £2,000 in connection with the Levin Industrial School, whether the school at Levin had been started. Mr. HALL-JONES said the land had been acquired, and was being cleared, and the build- ings would in due course be started. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked if it was- the intention of the Government to go on with the proposal to separate boys and girls of the same family. Mr. HALL-JONES said the object had been to separate the boys and girls, but this was the first time this phase of the question had been brought under his notice. He would bring the matter under the notice of his colleagues. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) wished to point out, in connection with the item " New buildings," school for deaf-mutes, that last year £1,500 had been voted and nothing spent. 