ing, anything that will, so far as the colony can afford it, give him a better salary, and make his profession an attractive one to the best of our youths, will receive the warmest support I can give. At the same time I fear that this Bill does certain in- justices, which I desire to point out. With re- gard, first of all, to the second assistant teacher, I admit I have not gone through the evidence, and therefore I am only speaking from the in- formation that has been supplied to me, and that is an additional argument why I think the measure should be delayed till next year, so that we might inquire into the reports that come to us, and see how far they are true and how far they are not. However, what I am in- formed in regard to Otago-and I believe the same applies to Auckland-is that in nearly every case the second assistants have their salaries reduced. I know of one instance in which there is a reduction of $30, and in an- other of $40; and I believe in another there is a reduction of something like $50-from €180 to £130-and that is neither in Otago nor Auck- land, but in Hawke's Bay. Well, if that is the case with regard to second assistant teachers, there is, to my mind, something that needs in- quiring into in the Bill. But the case of second assistant teachers does not supply to me the strong argument that the small schools do, and, if I am informed aright, it is the small schools in certain districts that are about to suffer under this Bill. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - Where ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- In Otago. I admit can- didly I have not checked the information that has been supplied to me as I might have done. I have not had time, nor has any one had the time to check the information they have re- ceived. Mr. GILFEDDER .- Could you tell us how many schools with an average under fourteen will suffer ? Mr. J. ALLEN. - I will tell you as far as I have been informed. The Government pro- posal is to give €5 a head to schools with an attendance of under twenty pupils. They fix a minimum salary for all schools over twenty, but they do not fix a minimum salary for schools with under twenty. Mr. SEDDON .- We leave that to the Boards. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Well, it is all very well to leave it to the Boards ; but, if you are going to leave the small schools to the Boards, why do you not leave the large schools to the Boards as well. If you fix a minimum salary for a school with an attendance of thirty, why not do the same for schools with an attendance of fifteen ? Mr. GILFEDDER .- It is done-$75. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, I will come to that. Now, there are in Otago fifty-four schools with an average attendance of under twenty, and of that number twenty-one of the teachers would have their salaries reduced to below $70. In Otago they have been paying ₺70 a year to the teachers of schools with under twenty pupils, and twenty-one of them would be reduced to Mr. J. Allen would be paid to the small country schools, some of them in the Otago District which have heretofore been receiving £70 a year. Then, my informant says,- "Of course, the border-line would change, and at any time a good few more schools might fall in attendance and come within the zone of this uncertain payment. He would not get anybody to undertake the position at such a salary with the risk of its falling to vanishing- point at any time. Such teachers would never know their income. Covering a recent period, for ten schools at £70, minimum, we had only one applicant ; for four at $70 we had no applicants whatever. You can imagine what the result would be if we advertised a variable salary from £50, that might fall to nothing, and not leave travelling home expenses." Well, that is a very serious matter if it is so - that these small schools, which were always a difficulty with the Education Boards, and which the Otago Education Board has in the past tried to cultivate, should receive a blow like this from a measure which is supposed to advance the educational prospects in New Zea- land. It is, to my mind, such a serious matter that it is sufficient for me to do what I can to delay the Bill to prove whether it is right or not. Mr. GILFEDDER .- It is only a question of money. Mr. J. ALLEN .- " A question of money !" But the question of money is the whole ques- tion. Mr. GILFEDDER. - We were limited to the £5. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I know that; but I say that, while you fix a minimum salary for schools of over twenty, you leave the schools of under twenty to rely on the £5 a head. Why not give the same advantage to the schools under twenty ? These are the schools that deserve the greatest encouragement. They are the schools that at present have no en- couragement - there are no big schools near them, they have no gymnasium, and they have not the attraction of the town. There- fore the schools have no means of keeping up the education unless they are provided for, and under this Bill I consider a serious blow is being aimed at these small schools, schools that are now being cultivated by the Education Boards ; and I hope no Bill like this will be allowed to go through the House without careful scrutiny. I do not intend to delay the House over this Bill, but I do think it is a matter of so much importance-especially in view of the particular facts brought to my notice-that the House should pause before it puts upon the statute- book a Bill which will have such serious effects as those I have indicated. I hope the Right Hon. the Premier, who introduced the Bill, will agree to pay the extra 5s. a head capitation for this year to the Education Boards, and let them administer it for this year, at any rate. Then, next year this Bill should be brought for- ward early in the session, when we shall have any <!-- PageNumber="1" --> 