pleased that the Bill we are about to pass goes a step further than the old Act, and pro- vides that, instead of the minimum pay being 4s. a week, it shall be 5s .- a slight advance which, I think, is no more than on all-fours with the improved condition of the people generally. The Bill also makes this neces- sary provision : that, when girls have been employed for twelve months, instead of allowing them to remain where they are without any increase in wages, or of being turned adrift altogether, they are to receive a reasonable increase from year to year. In that respect it is designed to help, and undoubtedly it will assist, those who require aid. On the other hand, the original Act has helped the employers, because it has protected the con- siderate and honest employer against the un- fair competition of the "sweater " and what is familiarly known as the "nigger-driver." My principal reason for taking part in this debate is to call attention to what may be the results of the efforts of our labour unions if they push things much further than they have been forced already. Through the medium of our concilia- tion and arbitration law there is no doubt that wages have been well and adequately protected, but if the protection afforded to wages, com- bined with certain restrictions that are being placed on trade, should have the effect of diminishing employment, who is likely to suffer, and suffer chiefly? Will it be the employer? No. The capitalist will always find a fair amount of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 return for his capital. If the manufacturer is handicapped and the importer encouraged, the skilled worker has reason to fear that in the course of time he will be placed among the ranks of the unskilled workers, whose position his presence is not likely to improve. The ten- dency in that case will be to reduce the value cf labour. Such a result is inevitable if you overcrowd the number of unskilled workers in the colony. What necessarily follows ? That even the unskilled worker would suffer ; and I am not sure but that that is already being experienced. In this city I mingle very often with manufacturers. I believe I know some- thing of the condition of affairs, and I am sorry to say that I am inclined to think there is a good deal in what has been said by the honour- able member for Riccarton. I know this posi- tively : that some of our manufacturers and importers-because we have a combination of both carrying on business in this city-have been making arrangements with the foreigner, and are now importing articles that they would be only too glad to manufacture. They say that it pays them better to import these articles from abroad, and pay heavy Customs duties, than to comply with the de- mands of the trades-unions to limit the num- ber of their apprentices and pay the rate re- quired for adult journeymen. I am not point- ing out this because I have any feeling in the matter ; I am speaking what I believe to be an absolute fact. I would ask the genuine friends of our artisans to seriously consider whether it is wise that they should so rigidly tie the hands Mr. Hogg 1 prentices, and impose such serious restrictions on our young industries that, in self-defence, the capitalist must import from abroad instead of keeping the labour he could easily obtain well employed in his workshops? I am brought face to face with the fact that some of the large employers in this city, within the last 1 month, have been dispensing with some of ! 1 their hands. They regret very much that they have been compelled to do so, and they say it is simply because they find they are not able to successfully compete with the importer, because the importer can bring articles into the country and undersell them. I ask if this is a wholesome state of things ? I say it is not. I do not wish to say a word in disparagement of trades-unions, They are, no doubt, valuable institutions so long as they do not make a misuse of power. But if we find that they are unduly interfering with the established industries of the colony and reduc- ing the area for skilled workmen in the cities, we must assume that they are not working entirely in the interests of the artisans they are supposed to protect. I think a warning note should be issued. I question whether there is not a good deal of truth in the suggestion brought forward this evening, that the reason why our Customs duties have been going up with leaps and bounds within the last month or two -so much so that the Premier has called atten- tion to the fact-is because we are importing a class of goods that hitherto we were able to manufacture for ourselves-that while impor- 1 tations on the one hand are materially increas- ing, our manufactures are not making a com- mensurate amount of progress. Now, what is the case in regard to the woollen industry ? We know very well that the price of wool is going down ; that, in consequence, settlers are scarcely able to pay their rents in some of the country districts ; that all the back-block people will be able to get for their wool will hardly pay for the labour of taking it off the sheep's back and conveying it to market, on account of the state of the roads, and the fact that they have to pack it on horseback. What do they get for it ? Between 2d. and 3d. per pound. That is the price they are realising at the present time. Yet, singularly enough, in propor- tion as wool goes down in value woollen fabrics are going up; not merely the fabrics imported, but the products of our own woollen-mills. Of course, this is a very good thing for the share- holders, who realise good dividends, and are able to improve their machinery. It is well known that the mills are in a very prosperous condition ; but at whose cost is this prosperity being brought about ? Is it not at the cost of the consumer and the producer ? Mr. BOLLARD .- I am glad to see you are coming to your right mind. Mr. HOGG .- I am always in my right mind, but I am sorry that the honourable gentleman is not invariably in his right mind. Mr. SEDDON .- Is that not a grave reflec- tion on the honourable gentleman Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I understand 