payment; in others he had collected appli- cation-money on the shares sold, and he simply retained the brokerage, paying the balance over to the company. This trouble is to be attri- buted to Mr. Cook being promoter, broker, director, and secretary all in one. (15.) " Shareholders voting and directors acting when their calls were unpaid ": Mr. Cook elicited from Mr. Somerville that he (Mr. Somerville) had voted and also acted as director while his application-money was un- paid, and he had received director's fees, and the accounts of his firm had also been paid, while he still owed money for calls. What happened in Mr. Somerville's case hap- pened in a much worse form in regard to Mr. Cook, which will be seen by looking at the comparative table of Mr. Cook's dealings with the seven companies whose books your Com- mittee have, for in all of these companies he had not even paid his allotment-money till it was about nine months, on the average, overdue, and yet during this time he had acted as director, attended meetings and voted, and even passed some of his own brokerage ac- counts for payment, as well as his secretary's salary. He had actually passed large sums for payment to himself, and had received them, while he himself was still owing to the com- pany large sums of money. The law certainly requires amending in the direction of depriving a shareholder of the right to vote or act as director until he has paid his allotment- money. (16.) " Improper auditing ": The Commit- tee desire to point out that in some cases https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 brokerage was charged by Messrs. Cook and Before paying allotment or calls, Mr. Cook, Ross Day Dawn, paid in £70, and Cook and Gray drew out .. Wicklow, Lees Ferry, Ngahere, No Town No. 2, Tucker Flat, Golden Grey, £385 Total (19.) Messrs. Cook and Gray had to pay for the services of the secretary and certain sums for other brokers, which are not included in the above table. (20.) Mr. Cook did not stand to lose much if these companies failed, but he had the chance of winning much if they were a success ; and in the latter case he was by the flotations to receive fully paid-up shares worth £6,390, while he would be responsible for contributing shares worth $7,500. (21.) The Committee recommend that the law be altered on the lines above indicated, and that the law be so amended that all mining tion-money was never paid ; the matter escaped the attention of the auditors. # GENERALLY. VI. To each and all of the above charges Mr. Cook's chief answer was to point out to the Committee the very large number of contri- buting shares he had taken up in each of these companies for himself and Mrs. Cook. That he must have taken them up purely as a mining venture, and not for speculative purposes only, he said, was proved by the fact that he did not sell his shares, and that he stood to lose double the amount that the others did if the com- panies failed. This position was often during the inquiry impressed upon us by Mr. Cook, and it would have been a very strong argument in- deed of Mr. Cook's bona fides if it was fully borne out, but it does not stand close criticism, for Mr. Cook has paid for his and Mrs. Cook's shares in the seven companies whose books were put in evidence the sum of £2,140, but Messrs. Cook and Gray received £1,841 13s. 9d. back from the companies, as shown by the appended table [p. 893]. (17.) Excepting the Ross Day Dawn and No Town No. 2, the companies are practically in liquidation, and practically no calls will be re- quired. (18.) Besides this, Cook and Gray had the use of moneys obtained from charges to these com- panies, for Mr. Cook did not always pay his application-money when due, and he did not pay his allotment-money till about nine months after it was due, and in the meantime Cook and Gray drew large fees from the companies, as follows :- £ s. d. 247 10 0 50 239 15 0 . . 239 15 50 0 .. 216 18 50 9 50 232 0 0 .. 65 227 5 0 220 15 50 0 £1,623 18 9 companies should be registered under the Mining Companies Acts. (22.) The question of titles having been ex- tensively dealt with in the evidence, the Com- mittee find that in the case of companies in which the vendors' shares have been allotted the titles are held by the company, but in the other companies the titles are held by the vendors, though the company's money has been spent on them. RICHD. H. J. REEVES, Chairman, Joint Committee. 30th October, 1901. 