would not be absolutely ineffective. He thought that any three members of the House, selected by lot, could in a few minutes put this clause in a better form than it could be put in by the whole House in the present position. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he had listened very carefully to what had been said in respect to this matter. An interpretation might be placed upon the amendment that it might not give effect to what evidently had been intended ; but they must realise this fact : that 3.30. it was four years since the Bill was first introduced, and at last they were in a posi- tion to place on the statute-book a measure which would relieve a number of oppressed per- sons in the colony. Our conditions differed from those which obtained in the Mother- country, and there had been some difficulty in getting a measure through which would meet the different conditions, and it was quite pos- sible that the first measure might not be per- fect. He admitted that ; but he asked members to place the measure on the statute-book, so as to relieve existing conditions. Then, again, if the House disagreed with the amendments made by the Council they would have to give reasons, and there would have to be a Conference between three members appointed from the House and another three appointed by the Council. But, as the points raised by the honourable member for Wellington City were purely technical, he thought the best course would be to let the Bill go through, and then let it be referred to the Crown Law Officers for their https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 advice upon the points raised by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) and other members, and, if it was found that what was intended was not given effect to, an amend- ment could be introduced by Governor's message. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is a bad way. Mr. SEDDON said it was not a bad way. The Crown Law Officers could not appear before a Conference or the Committee, and if the course he suggested were adopted it would pre- vent contention between the two branches of the Legislature. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) hoped, if the House agreed to these amendments without their being printed, it would not be taken as a precedent, because he thought on every occa- sion when the Council made amendments in Bills passed by the House those amendments should be printed and circulated so that mem- bers might know what they were doing. He could not help recollecting that last session, in the last days of the session, members of this House often agreed to amendments made by the Council which they did not thoroughly understand, and in consequence there had been friction in certain districts, and hardships had been caused to individuals. On principle, there- fore, he thought that when Bills were amended by the Council, such Bills should be printed in their amended form, so that members might be able to grasp the effect of the alterations. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the only question that might possibly necessitate a Governor's message, he thought, member for Wakatipu, but he had since been advised that the clause met what was neces- sary. It was brought under his notice that in the Interpretation Act " person " included " a corporation," and he believed the honourable member was now satisfied that what was in- tended, and what he had promised, was pro- vided for in the Bill. With regard to the criti- cism of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), he admitted that when the Bill was in Committee the honourable member did take a keen interest in the measure. The Bill was several hours in Committee. He could not, however, forget this : that on two occasions when there was an attempt to count out the Committee, the honourable member, while the House was being counted and before he was counted, left the Chamber, and he could not, therefore, look upon the honourable member as a friend of the Bill. The Bill had been carefully considered ; and he believed that, while the alterations would perhaps restrict the operation of the Bill as it left that Chamber, still it was a fair restriction, and he did not object to it. The scope of the Bill was not extended, but the time within which a borrower could bring the matter before the Court was restricted to one year. He thought that a wise restriction, for otherwise the matter might go on for six or eight years and then be brought up. He took that opportunity of thanking the members who had sat with him in Committee until a late hour. They had succeeded in passing a Bill which would be recognised as a good measure, and one which would prevent many gross cases of hardship such as had occurred in this colony. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) desired to make a personal explanation. At an earlier stage in the course of the Bill the Minister acknowledged the fact that he was the first to point out that this Bill would be largely in- operative, for the very reason that the Pre- mier had referred to-namely, the altered cir- cumstances in this colony as compared with the Old Country. As introduced, the Bill dealt with money-lenders only ; and he (Mr. Atkinson) pointed out that the casual usurer should be dealt with just as much as the pro- fessional money-lender; and it was that sug- gestion that caused the Bill to take up so much time in Committee, and to emerge from Com- mittee with its scope so much widened. He was sorry to be personal, but it was necessary to be personal when on a personal defence. An important part of subclause (1) of clause 3 was nonsense as the Bill was drafted, and it was on his motion that it was put in its present form, by substituting "a Court of equity " for the meaningless phrase "the Court," in line 10. Subclause (3) of the same clause was also much extended by his amendment, which gave a Court power, notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary, to revise the terms of any loan, whether any money had fallen due or not. Subclause (4) (a), was also added on his motion, so as to give the Court these remedial - powers in the case of any transaction which was 