a single member of the Commission say much in favour of it as compared with the higher scale. I remember, when the report of the Commission came before the House, the Premier said that, for the sake of the 2s. 6d. extra capitation, he would not dream of spoil- ing the scale of teachers' salaries, and yet he now proposes to do so. Of course, in measures of this sort the powers of the House are re- stricted through the impossibility of increasing salaries without a message from the Governor. I hope that at some future date the hedging round of the privileges of the Crown in this way, which have come down from old "musty, fusty " precedents, which the Premier is so fond of condemning, will be altered, and that mem- bers will be able to exercise their powers freely in amending such a Bill. Personally, I have always been in favour of a colonial scale of teachers' salaries, and I regret that, when such a scale is seriously proposed, it is not a better one than that now before us. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I had no intention of saying a single word in dis- paragement of the work done by the Com- mission, but, with one or two other speakers, I am bound to confess that I think the Education Department ought to have been able to provide us with a colonial scale of salaries without the information contained in the report of the Commission. Indeed, I doubt whether any real information has been adduced as the result of the work of the Commission which could not have been obtained without it. I am sorry that the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Chairman of the Commission, in his speech to- night, did not give us succinctly some state- ment of the particular information which led the Commission to adopt the scale which is embodied in this Bill. I have not the least doubt that this Bill will pass without even a vote being taken upon it. But I feel quite sure of this : that, whatever scale of salaries is passed at the present time, it is not likely to give satisfaction throughout the colony. But, even though we make an unsatisfactory start, perhaps it is well that we should make a start. I think a great deal of the discussion which has taken place to-night would have been obviated if the Chairman of the Commission had given us a statement of the principle on which this scale is based. There are only one or two points to which I wish to call attention, and I know there will be considerable dissatisfaction with respect to those points. In the first place, I regret that there is such a wide difference between the salaries of the assistant masters as compared with the salaries of the headmasters-not that I would like to see the headmasters' salaries dragged down. I see, of course, the difficulty that lies in the way. I recognise, with the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), that the amount expended upon education has gone up very largely during recent years- as he points out, from $373,764 in 1890 to $512,519 in 1901. But, personally, I do not regret that increase, and if it were en- tircly devoted to increasing the efficiency of less occasion to regret it. But I feel that, in spite of that increase to which the honourable gentleman drew attention, the efficiency of education in the colony is no greater, and certainly the teachers of the colony are receiv- ing not one jot or tittle of advantage from that increased expenditure, and that is a regrettable point. But I am speaking of the disparity between the salaries paid to headmasters and assistant masters. Taking the large schools in the city centres, where a headmaster will re- ceive a salary of #374, the salary of the first assistant master will be $245, and that of the second assistant master £170. And note the vast difference between the salaries of the first and second assistant masters. A serious point about this difference is that very few of the assistant masters can ever hope to be- come the headmaster of a large school, and the great bulk of the real teaching of this colony is done by the assistant masters. Now, it is obvious that a salary of £170 is not likely to prove attractive. If we are to get the very best intellects-and we should get the best intellects to train our young people-we will not get them at £170 a year. There is absolutely no possibility of a young man seeing his way to settle down in life on a salary of £170, particularly when we remember that this is the salary attached to a school in a large city, where the teacher has to keep up a certain show of respectability, and where it is quite impossible for him to hope to maintain him- self and a family on such a salary. The chances of his becoming a first assistant master are remote, and the probability of his becoming a headmaster is infinitely remote, and he will have to remain for the best years of his life a second assistant master. This is no idlo argument, because we know how many of these teachers have been in this position for years, and how utterly hopeless the outlook is for them. I suppose, with the amount of money the colony can spend on education, it may be impossible to give such salaries to the assistant masters as we should like to see them have, but I do regret that there should be such a dis- parity between the salaries paid to the assistant masters and the headmasters as exists at the present time. The only other point is as to the difference between the male and the female teachers, and here I would draw attention again to the difference in the salaries as seen in the teachers of our large schools. Now, the head mistress in a large school receives $200 per annum, while the first assistant master receives £245. How does the argument of equal pay for equal work apply in that case? There is no doubt that the work of the head mistress is equally as heavy and equally as import- ant as that of the first assistant master, and yet the head mistress receives $200 and the first assistant master $245. Then, Sir, if we take suburban schools what do we find ? In the suburban schools the first assistant master and head mistress really divide the work be- tween them, and the teaching of the Fourth and Fifth Standards is really taken turn and 