tion had the Harbour Board in the House ? Except by telegraphing this Bill to either of the two districts concerned, and getting a reply by telegram, it would be impossible to get any local expression of opinion in regard to the Bill, which was only put in print yesterday. Mr. SEDDON said he would explain to the honourable gentleman that, on the petition of R. Hursthouse and others, the Committee recommended,- "That the Borough of Motueka and the portion of the Waimea County, for which the Motueka Harbour is the natural outlet, be withdrawn from the Nelson Harbour District, and that the Motueka Harbour and Wharf, with all assets and liabilities, be vested in the representatives of the Waimea County Council and the Borough of Motueka, and that the necessary legislation for the purpose be passed this session." It was on reference to this that action was taken. Mr. ATKINSON said that Mr. Hursthouse was not the Board. He understood there were things in the Bill that Mr. Hursthouse did not agree with. So far as the House had any offi- cial knowledge, both of the localities con- cerned might disagree entirely with the Bill, for the reason that they had had no opportunity whatever of seeing it. The right honourable gentleman said it was not a local Bill ; but he could not see, on looking through the Bill, that there was a single part of it that could not properly be described as local. It amended a local Act passed only last session. The first operative clause affected the area under the jurisdiction of the Board ; the next clause al- tered the representation of the Board ; the fourth clause gave them power to deal with http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the cutting through the Boulder Bank ; the sixth clause related to the Motueka Wharf; and the seventh clause altered the endow- ments. He would defy any honourable mem- ber to point out any reason against these five clauses, which were practically the whole Bill, being held to be a local Bill. If this was not a local Bill he did not know any other Bill that, by the same liberal interpretation, could not be excluded from the operation of the Standing Orders relating to local Bills. He was glad to think that of the five members of the House on the Committee four voted that the Bill was a local Bill, and only one against ; and that it was only the influence of the Premier, exerted on the representatives from the other Chamber, that, by a narrow majority of one, the Com- mittee considered this was not a local Bill. He thought the decision of the Committee was most regrettable. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) said the speeches of the last three speakers were enough to show that the position of our Standing Orders, in so far as they attempted to define local Bills, was very unsatisfactory. For the purposes of illustration he might refer to a previous case earlier that session, where a measure introduced by him, the Wellington Harbour Board and Corporation Empowering Bill, that was to his mind a local by the Committee to be a private Bill. This was the decision referred to by the Deputy- Speaker when referring the Nelson Bill to the Joint Committee on Bills. He would not say that private or improper influences had been at work on that occasion ; but, in order to obviate any such case occurring in the future, the Standing Orders ought to be altered to make plainer what were public Bills, private Bills, and local Bills. In the case of the Nelson Bill, this also was a local Bill amending a local Bill, and the Committee had declared it to be a public Bill. It would be much more satisfac- tory to the House and to the country, and the two cases that had arisen that session made it very evident that in that respect the Standing Orders ought to be revised. At present the Standing Orders were not by any means a suffi- cient guide to the Bills Committees, who were consequently left to use their own judgment in cach case, and to practically make a law unto themselves. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said that the Bill was intended to amend the Nelson Harbour Board Act of last year, and how any- body could say that a Bill amending what had been passed by Parliament as a local Bill could, by any process of reasoning, become a general Act he could not possibly conceive. He had introduced local Bills himself ; they had been duly advertised in the locality, and drawn up according to the Standing Orders; and by what process the Government could take up as a Government measure, and pass as a general Act, a Bill that was intended to amend and alter a local Act certainly required explanation. The Schedule, which occupied about a page, was lifted almost word for word from last year's measure. It seemed useless to have Standing Orders in a case of this kind. The Standing Orders required that any locality affected by a Bill should have notice given to it, and now, in the dying hours of the session, it was proposed to put a measure like this on the statute-book. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) pointed out that the Government had granted £1,500 a year in hard cash for the next thirty years for the construction of Nelson Harbour, and it was certainly the duty of the Government to see that this money was to be used to the best advantage to the district and the colony. Was that large amount of money to be handed over by the Crown to the Nelson Harbour Board, and the Government to have no control of it ? If the Board appeared to foolishly waste the money, the Government should have the power to say whether the work ought to be carried on as proposed by the Board, or whether it ought to stop. As to the foreshore, he would like to say that the Nelson Board had about ninety miles of it, and the proposal was that only about ten miles of it should be taken away. Motion agreed to. Interrupted debate on the question, That the Bill be now read a second time, Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) said he 1.0. hoped it would be possible to come to an understanding which would enable the 