remains that legislation -innocent on the face of it -was passed which did irretrievable injury to a large number of Natives. The Natives now say, "For God's sake, for our sake, be careful of any legislation dealing with us or our linds." And, with this suspicion in my mind, I intend to ask the Minister why this special case is taken from a Bill of eighteen clauses introduced four years ago and brought down in a special measure. whilst others are ignored. There are cases in that Bill which demonstrate that certain Native men and women are suffering under great disability, and, I ask, why are they not given relief ? This case, I admit, is a deserving one, and should have been attended to years ago ; but it is not more urgent than other cases in that Bill. I ask the Native Minister on this third reading why a special interest has been attached to this one claim. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I think it is due to the House and myself that the honourable member should now give the name of the mem- ber of this House and the amendment put into the Bill which has had the effect that he has informed the House. 1, of course, as members know, am rather chary of accepting amend- ments when I have got a Bill in Committee, and the honourable gentleman has given me a very cogent reason why I should be more care. ful. The honourable member considers that a very grave wrong has been done by a member of the House. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Not a member of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the House. Mr. SEDDON .- The inference was that he was a member of the House. Hon. MEMBERS .- He said so. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Mr. SEDDON .- If that is withdrawn it is another matter, for that was the serious part of it. I understood the honourable member to say that the person responsible for the amend- ment was a member of the legal profession and a member of the House, and that it was done in the interests of the client of the particular member of the legal profession. As far as the other charges are concerned, I suppose of every Government and every Native Minister dealing with Native lands and legislation the same thing has been said, and I can only, in answer, say this : that I stand here and no man living can say that knowingly I was a party to passing legislation in the interests of individuals, and knowing that such legislation would have the effect of injuring any one of the Native race. On the other hand, where there has 8.30. been the slightest ground for believing that the Natives would be injured, I have always prevented it so far as lay in my power. I mev say now that, whilst differing -and we do differ-from the honourable member in re- spect to dealing with Native lands, it is our duty to give what is now our policy a trial. If it fails, then we shall have to do something else. It has not had a trial, because at its initiation, we found technical difficulties had cropped up. We found again, in one district-the Westland District-that there has been a difficulty in ad- i has not adhered to the policy he proposed in Mr. A. L. D. Fraser contending factions, and the result was that we had to take steps to ascertain what was the mind of the Natives in that particular locality. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I must remind the honourable member that he is not now speaking to the Bill .. Mr. SEDDON .- I am replying to the honour- able member, who was allowed to deal generally with the question, because he said that in re- respect to all our Native legislation the Ministry was being practically exploited by designing white men. At all events, there is nothing left but to give a trial to what is now the legislation affecting Native land. Let us give it a fair trial, and if after that we find the Natives will not embrace that which Parliament has decreed, then we will have to make a change. And the next change will be probably in the direction indicated by the honourable gentleman. I have fought against it for many years. I do not think it is right to give free trade in Native lands. I think we must safeguard the Natives. The pres- sure now, I may say, is becoming very great, because the Natives themselves will not do anything with the land ; they are not doing anything with it themselves, and no one else can do anything with it. A good deal now rests with the Natives themselves. So far as this Bill is concerned, I can only say there were very grave reasons for this Bill being taken out of what is known as the "Maori Washing-up Bill," because if the subject-matter of this Bill were left in the Maori Washing-up Bill opposition might be taken to it, and the passing of the Bill imperilled ; and that would result in serious injury to those affected. When I tell the House that for ten or fifteen years, I think, this money has been lying there, that it belongs to these Natives, and that these Natives are in dire distress, I think it will be recognised that the time has now come for us to distri- bute it and let them have their just rights. That is all there is in this Bill; there is no question of policy at all in it. It is a question of doing what is a simple act of justice, and I hope the House will pass the measure. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I would like to make a personal explanation. I did not inten- tionally refer to any member of the House as at present constituted. Mr. SEDDON .- That is just as bad. Will the honourable member say that, at the time these three words were put into that Bill, they were put in by a member of the legal profes- sion who was then a member of the House ? Is that so ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- That is so. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, I say, we ought to know who the individual was. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I hope this in- teresting "little go " between the Premier and one of his principal supporters will not induce a general discussion on Native-land legislation at this stage of the session. The Premier has expressed opinions as to future Native-land legislation that I am very sorry to hear from his lips, and I regret very much he 