thing to do, and we are all Christians here. We pray every day on opening the House that we may set aside all private interests and partial affections. I hope honourable members will do that, and approach this subject from a public point of view. That is the point of view I am going to approach it from this afternoon. Now, we have before us three definite propositions. We have proposals for the San Francisco service, for the Vancouver service, and for the Federal service. The San Francisco service is put in the foreground, because if the negotia- tions entered into with Mr. Spreckels, as the owner of the San Francisco line, do not result in a contract being entered into, then we have to see what can be done with the Vancouver service. But it is not the same with regard to the Federal service. Negotiations are to be made with regard to that whether the San Francisco service is to be carried on or not, but with this exception: that if the San Francisco service is carried on, then provision will not be made for a connection between Sydney and Auckland. Anyhow, whatever happens to the San Francisco service the Go- vernment are to be authorised by these reso- lutions to negotiate for a fortnightly inter- colonial service to provide a connection with the Federal mail-service from Wellington or the Bluff. Now, to take the first on the list, because it is the most important proposal- the proposal with regard to the San Francisco service : We all admit, and no one can deny, the irregularity that has taken place with re- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 gard to the steamers, and that is only to be expected in the starting of a new line such as that. An Hon. MEMBER .- All new boats. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes, all new boats. have heard, in the case of the new torpedo boats of the English navy, that something always happens in their first voyage or so. Any one who has read Kipling's works will know his story, "The Ship that Found Herself," and these ships of Mr. Spreckels have not found themselves yet. I must say I am astonished at the inconsistency of honourable members who voted last year for the proposals of the Post- master-General to give Mr. Spreckels poundage at a higher rate-10s. 5d. a pound-than that which is now proposed, and who are now objecting to the lower rate of 7s. 6d. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It was a temporary arrangement. Mr. HERRIES. - It was a temporary ar- rangement, it is true ; but it was only carrying on the arrangement that had been made with the Union Company for five or six years pre- viously. And, Sir, when the member who represents the Suburbs was speaking he closed his impassioned speech by saying we had been exploited by the company long enough. Does he call a year long enough ? Does he consider that it is only a year since this line was started, or does he include the whole of the time during which the Union Company were the con- tractors for this mail-service ? Mr. WILFORD .- Only last year. exploited us at the same rate as the Union Company did, because the terms are exactly the same as far as the payments are concerned, but twice as good a service is provided by the Oceanic Company. It is a three-weekly service now, and the boats are better. Mr. WILFORD .- Twice as good ? Mr. HERRIES .- Yes, twice as good. Well, now, the only objection I have heard seriously offered is on the question of a foreign subsidised line; and the honourable gentleman objected because the United States Government was paying an expensive subsidy of £50,000 to the Oceanic line, yet at the same time he is quite prepared to take a £10,000 subsidy from the Germans if the Vancouver line calls at Apia. Now, I do not see the difference. If the Ger- mans could subsidise a line for £50,000 and give us as good a line, I would accept it. Mr. WILFORD .- We will take £10,000 and not give it. Mr. HERRIES .- I do not see the difference ; if $50,000 is given to the line by the Americans, I do not care who gives it, whether it is Germans or Americans. And, Sir, if the argument used by honourable members with regard to the flag is carried to a logical conclusion, the Federal service would not suit us at all, because when the steamers take the mail to Brindisi or Naples the mails are taken into an Italian train, and thence across the frontier of Italy into France, and are actually taken in a train which runs in a foreign country. If that argu- ment about the flag is carried out we shall have to insist on all the mails being taken round by the Bay of Biscay to London. I say we must do that if the mails are to be carried under a British flag; they must not be taken by a We foreign train, which is on all-fours with a foreign steamer ; and if the mail-service of the colony is to be taken in British bottoms to London it will mean a forty days' service. Mr. WILFORD .- Thirty-seven days to Auck- land. Mr. HERRIES .- Not by the Federal service. Mr. WILFORD .- Yes. Mr. HERRIES .- The honourable gentleman knows perfectly well that a thirty-seven days' service includes taking the mails from Brindisi across the Continent to London, and he must know that if we take the mails round through the Straits of Gibraltar it would take a week longer. I am only pointing this out to show the reductio ad absurdum of the argument of an all-red route. Well, now, Sir, the honour- able gentleman went on to explain about the all-red route that goes from Vancouver, and he fell into the error of taking the distance from Halifax to Liverpool and comparing it with New York to Liverpool. But the honourable gentleman must know that the mails never go to Liverpool ; the mails are taken off at Queens- town, and go by train to Dublin, and thence to Holyhead to London, and they are delivered in London before the steamer ever reaches Liver- pool. Now, the steamers from Halifax have to go to Liverpool. Mr. WILFORD .- I only mentioned Liver- 