him. Mr. SEDDON .- No. But I do not much care about honourable gentlemen who wish to advertise their merits, like the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson). He drew the £40, and then wrote a letter saying he returned it as conscience-money. But he made a mistake ; people who are conscience-stricken return the money without giving their names, and it is advertised in the Gazette. But he gave his name in returning it, and so I could not advertise him as having given back to the State conscience-money, which he should never have taken if he believed it to be wrong. Why did the honourable gentleman take it out of the Treasury at all ? The same thing applies to Mr. Hutcheson. There was nothing to force them to do so. If it remains in the Treasury it forms a part of the Public Account, although the honourable member (Mr. Hutcheson) thinks it goes into a separate account and that I could not use it. To any member who has any form of conscience at all I would say, Do not touch any money that you do not think you are en- titled to, and I will not quarrel with you ; but, for Goodness' sake, do not take the money and then advertise yourself. Do not take the receipt and read it out to the House, to show to the world, through Hansard, how meritorious you have been. That is not required for some of those gentleman; they would be equally well respected, and there is no necessity to advertise it by the one taking a receipt, and the other sending a letter returning the conscience-money, Now I come to the remarks of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. The honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 member wished to know were those in Parlia- ment to have their election expenses paid and thus enable them to fight some one else. No; we have not contended that ; but I contend this, / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero as shown in the remarks made by Sir Maurice O'Rorke, the Speaker : The salary is attached to the office. After a person attains to that office he is put to considerable expense to maintain it, and the sum should be sufficient to enable it to be maintained with credit to the member and honour to the Parliament and country. I cannot understand why the honourable mem- ber uses that argument in the sense he did. Then, the honourable member fixes on what I consider a basis which is incomplete, and will not hold water for a moment. He said we should fix a limit-a minimum, sufficient to maintain the member holding the position -- that is, the lowest possible amount that & member could live upou. I understood the honourable member to say £200 a year. Well, that is a moral impossibility. Captain RUSSELL .- Do you not remember the time when you only got £100? Mr. SEDDON .- I remember the time when great sacrifices had to be made ; but I remem- ber also the time when we received £400 for four months. That occurred on two occasions. I found at that time that some of the gentle- men who are now telling us that £200 is suffi- cient drew their double honoraria and never said a word. hair. Mr. SEDDON .- No; they "never turned a hair," or returned a pound. I do not like to go into the wretched past, but I could tell the House about some speculation as between the £200 and the £150. Wagers were made, and one or two members were anxious when they saw a majority in one lobby, and, to show that they were not voting in a matter in which they were financially interested, they voted the other way. That, however, is past, and we must draw a veil over it. To-day some mem- bers vote one way, and in their hearts wish the other way carried. There does not seem to me to be much change. Then, Sir, there is this point I wish to draw attention to : We men- tioned the Payment of Members Bill in the Ad- dress to the Throne. That was read on the first day of the session. Now, there is the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) and one or two others who cannot be equalled in the colony for promoting petitions. Has there been a single petition against the Bill since the announcement in the Governor's Speech? Has there been a single protest from the people of the colony since that announcement ? Has there been any real opposition to it from the Press ? No. The general verdict was that it was right to do that; and if it had been done last session it would have been much better than taking the sessional allowance ; and among those I understood to favour the position was the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson). Then, I come to the honour- able member for Dunedin City (Mr. Milları. His reasons for voting against the Bill are the most peculiar, I think, of any that have been given. He said his reason for voting againsi the Bill was that he believed the financial position of the colony was unable to bear the extra strain of £6,000 a year. Sir, could ab- surdity go further ? Notwithstanding the ex- traordinary strain on our revenue this year- the extraordinary call made upon it-we shall have a surplus of over a quarter of a millia. it is almost assured, from the returns now to hand. Then, for a member to stand up and say he will vote against the Bill because it wLi put £6,000 extra on the expenditure and the strain will be hard to bear ; and that is tos forth to the world ! Why do not men thick before they use arguments of this kind? It will go abroad that the finances of the colocy were such that £6,000 additional, which the Payment of Members Bill would entail, was opposed, and on that ground. I do hope. É members are sincerely opposed to a Bill of the kind, they will oppose it on better grounds than that. I do not think there is anything furtha! I need refer to. The Bill, in my opinion. w ... meet with general approval as far as the people of the colony are concerned. My opinion is that, if members are diligent, attentive to the !! duties, pass good laws, careful as to our ad- ministration, see that the credit of our colcti is maintained, and that there is hope for our people, then this £6,000 will be generally stp- ported by the people of the country. Now. 