That the papers be referred to the Public Ac- counts Committee. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I wish to ask the Premier whether the Public Accounts Com- mittee will have time to consider this matter and report to the House upon it this session. As a matter of fact, the question has been before the Public Accounts Committee already, I mittee and the time of this House should be and I regret that the Premier did not take t. e advice given to him by some of his . friends on the Committee. And I myself thought myself his friend in making the suggestion which I made to him, but which was not adopted. I suggested that it would be | a very easy thing to amend the law and get rid of the difficulty about the payment of this in- terest, and I moved to that effect. That would have been a simple and easy way of settling this difficulty - namely, by bringing in an amending Bill, which would have been passed in ten minutes. Mr. SEDDON .- Will you guarantee that it will be passed in ten minutes ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, as far as I am con- cerned it will; but, of course, I cannot answer for other members. I do not see, however, why anybody should object to such an amend- ment with respect to the payment of this interest in connection with the Bank of New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- If the honourable member thinks that we can pass a Bank of New Zealand Amendment Bill in ten minutes I am afraid he does not know much about it. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not suggest bringing in a Bank of New Zealand Amendment Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- But, from what you say, the Act requires altering. Mr. J. ALLEN .-- No. Mr. HALL-JONES. - It requires altering to do what you now suggest. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Such a Bill would certainly get rid of this difficulty. I would have no ob- jection to it if it came down. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I put it suggestively, and in the most courteous manner, that if this matter is to be referred to the Pub- lic Accounts Committee I hope the Committee will dispose of the question with expedition. The time of the Committee has been too much taken up this session in prolonged examinations into the too frequent and, as it appears to me, needless objections of the Auditor-General. May I point out that the Committee has now before it a large and important matter of extreme urgency-namely, the decision to be arrived at in regard to the petition of the Mid- land Railway debenture-holders. Now, I ask the House -- again, I say, in the most respect- ful and courteous manner-why the time of that Committee and the time of the House should be again wasted in discussing points raised by the Auditor-General which have been already disposed of by the Public Accounts Committee and by this House. If the Commit- tee had nothing else to do but to frivol away its | tion. I say the Controller and Auditor-General time in this manner I would not object ; but , is only performing the duty which his high having before us the petition of the Midland office demands of him, and which Parliament Air. Seddon session being now so short. I ask the House to consider whether this communication from the Auditor-General, together with others which we have already in hand, should not be dealt with in the most expeditious manner possible. I think it a pity, at this stage of the session, that the time of the Public Accounts Com- wasted in twice discussing points which have been already deliberated upon and decided upon. I take it that, as a matter of form, this com- munication from the Controller and Auditor- General will go before the Public Accounts Committee. Mr. SEDDON. - There is no other way to deal with it Mr. FISHER .-- Yes, I understand that ; but I do hope that when the Committee meets it will waste no further time in di-cussing these pragmatical objections of the Auditor General. I speak with no disrespect to that officer, an officer whose reports and recommendations ought to be received with respect ; but after deep consideration of the many communica- tions from the Controller and Auditor-General which have been referred by this House to the Committee, and knowing that there is no point of difference in this case to those we have already investigated and decided upon, I say that the time of Parliament at this stage of the session ought not to be wasted in this way. I speak firmly upon the matter now, because we have before the Committee the important question whether or not com. pensation is to be given to the debenture- holders of the Midland Railway Company ; and that question, and that question alone, is sutti- cient to exhaust the remaining time at the dis- posal of the members of the Public Accounts Committee. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- An omis- sion, I think, has been made. I think the motion should be, That it be laid on the table of the House and referred to the Committee, and that it be printed. Mr. SEDDON. . Yes; I asked to put it in that form. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) In corro- boration of the statement of the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, I cannot help thinking that a good deal of time will be lost by referring this matter to the Public Accounts Committee. The Committee has already had a similar question referred to it, and has reported thereon this session ; and what was the nature of that report ? Why, Sir, the same report that has been given with regard to every objection raised by the Auditor-General. We know be- forehand what the report will be, and therefore it will be a clear waste of time to rofor this cor- respondence to the Committee. I must, how- ever, take exception to a remark made by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. He referred to the protest of the Fisher). Auditor General as simply a pragmatical oljec- 