cost to the colony would certainly not be £1,500. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) would like to see arrangements made by which the Native Minister also could go Home, as he thought the Native race should be represented at the Coronation. He hoped when the Premier did go Home he would come back as good a radical as he was now. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) had no ob- jection whatever to the amount of the vote for the Premier's visit Home; in fact, he believed for the occasion it was inadequate. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item, Premier's expenses at the King's coronation, £1,500, be reduced by £500." AYES, 4. Tellers. Herries Atkinson Monk. Hutcheson, J. NOES, 28. Millar Allen, E. G. Hall Mills Hall-Jones Barclay Parata Heke Carroll Colvin Symes Hogg Ward Duncan Laurenson Witheford. Lawry Ell Lethbridge Field Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. McGowan Mckenzie, R. Hornsby Fraser, W. Meredith Palmer. Guinness Majority against, 24. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Amendment negatived. Vote, £32,722, agreed to. CLASS III. - COLONIAL TREASURER'S DEPART- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero MENT. Vote, Treasury Department, £10, agreed to. Land- and Income-tax Department, $150. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) wished to know the status of the persons compensated for loss of office by these votes. Mr. MILLS (Minister for Trade and Cus- toms) said one had been four years in the service, and the other two years, and both had been compulsorily retired. Vote, £150, agreed to. Vote, Miscellaneous services, £3,144, agreed to. CLASS IV .- JUSTICE DEPARTMENT. Vote, Department of Justice, £25, agreed to. Vote, Crown Law Office, #25, agreed to. Vote, District and Magistrates' Courts, £185, agreed to. Vote, Native Land Court, £45, agreed to. Maori Lands Administration Department, £1,685. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) thought the sum of $500 for the election of Councils and $500 for contingencies was a very large sum to be spent on the administration of the Act passed last session. He would like an ex- planation of how the contingencies were made up. He noticed that in the next vote there was included another $500 in aid of the cost of administration of Maori Councils. The total Acts was £3,000, which seemed to be an enor- mous sum for the working of two Acts, of one of which the best to be hoped was that it would remain a dead letter. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the operations of the Councils extended over the whole of New Zealand, and therefore it seemed to him this was a very moderate amount, considering the interests involved. Vote, $1,685, agreed to. Vote, Maori Councils, £1,234, agreed to. Vote, Miscellaneous services, £1,790, agreed to. CLASS V. - POST AND TELEGRAPH DEPART- MENT. Vote, Postal and Telegraph salaries, £1,095, agreed to. Vote, Ocean mail-services, £6,951, agreed to. Vote, Carriage of mails by railway, £750, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, £1,335. Mr. R. MCKENZIE wished to call the atten- tion of the Minister to the frequency of frauds in connection with the Post-Office Savings- Bank and Money-order offices in the colony. He thought some better system should be adopted for the prevention of such fraud. In sending money by wire, when the moneys were handed over the counter there was no receipt or acknowledgment of any kind given, nor was there a suitable system of checking. He thought this was offering a premium for fraud, and placing unnecessary temptation before young officers. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said the whole system of sending telegrams through- out the colony was on the stamp system, which the public themselves could use and so prevent abuse. People who sent telegrams had a right to stamp them, and if they took that precaution no fraud could occur. He dissented entirely from the honourable member's reflection upon the officers of his department as unwarranted, and not in accordance with facts. Vote, £1,335, agreed to. CLASS VI .- CUSTOMS AND MARINE DEPART- MENTS. Vote, Customs Offices and services, £325, agreed to. Customs : Miscellaneous services, £1,165. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for an ex- planation of the item, "Refund of Customs duty on hat-making machinery, £421." Mr. MILLS (Minister of Customs) said this was a refund on part of certain machinery im- ported for the purpose of starting a new in- dustry. This was following the usual course. Vote, £1,165, agreed to. Marine and Harbours, $595. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked who was the new officer, Secretary of Marine, $450 per annum ? Mr. HALL-JONES said the vote was three months' salary for an officer to be Secretary of Marine. No appointment had yet been made. 