sibly three, during which they may trap any- where. "An Hon. MEMBER. - And no poisoning . during that period ? "Mr. DUNCAN .- No poisoning during these months by the department ; that is the way to work this." These promises, evidently given in good faith, had never been fulfilled, and he now asked the Minister to redeem his obligations. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said it was very doubtful if trapping was going to do what was stated by the honourable gentle- man, because the reports he had received this spring from the Inspectors went to show that rabbits had not been thinned out by trapping, and there were more rabbits now than in this month in any previous year. What the honour- able gentleman wanted was going in the direc- tion of farming the rabbits ; and they were not cleared out by trapping properly in the winter. The trapping season must close early, so that poisoning could be done before the spring grass came on, or the country would be again over- run and the result would be disastrous. Two- thirds of the valuations in the Otago District had been lost, and unless strong means were adopted they would lose the rent from Crown lands altogether, as the rabbits were increasing everywhere in districts where trapping had been indulged in. In districts like Hawke's Bay, Wairarapa, and Kaikoura, where they were at one time swarming, the runholders poisoned systematically, and the rabbits had almost been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 exterminated. This matter required very close watching and careful handling or disastrous results would follow. ELECTIVE LAND BOARDS. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If it is his intention to introduce legislation this session with the object of making Land Boards elective ? He thought in all cases the Commissioner of Crown Lands should be a member of the Board, but the rest of the mem- bers might be elected. There was a growing feel- ing that the members of Land Boards favoured their constituents. He did not say the report was true; he hoped not. The way to remove this idea would be to make the Boards elective. Honourable members had heard, in an indirect way, complaints as to the small pittance paid to members of Land Boards for services ren- dered, and he thought the whole matter should be looked into at once. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this was a question which wanted very careful con- sideration. Land Boards were more of the nature of judicial tribunals to see the law ad- ministered. If the members of the Boards were elected, he thought it would lead to a lot of con- flict between the Board, the Commissioner, and the department generally. He thought, how- ever, that certain alterations might be made. As he had said, he did not think it would be ad- visable to have members of the Boards elected, because conflicts would arise, and he would not like to be Minister of Lands if Land Boards were elected. He thought the position would be intolerable and unworkable. It was far better to keep the matter in hand as close as possible. The House should be able to keep the Minister and the department under control ; and the law would then be carried out, and reforms should be made where such were deemed desirable. He could not see his way to bring in such legis- lation at the present time. Mr. FLATMAN said the Minister must admit that the question was a most important one, and, if he could not see his way to introduce a Bill providing for the election of members of Land Boards, probably he could see his way to remove members of the House of Representa- tives from holding positions on Land Boards. He thought reform in that direction would be acceptable to the people of the colony. Mr. DUNCAN might state that that was the opinion of his predecessor, Sir John Mckenzie, who had told him more than once that, in his opinion, a member of the House of Representa- tives should not be a member of a Land Board, because, he said, in addition to his enforced ab- sence during the session, his constituents and friends would often put him in an awkward position, even if they did not try to get a thing done that was outside or straining the law; and, that being so, it was better for the member himself that he should not be a member of a Land Board. AUCKLAND CROWN LANDS. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Lands, What steps are being taken to open Crown or other lands for settle- ment in the Provincial District of Auckland ? The Government had a magnificent asset in the Crown lands of the colony if those lands were properly administered, and he might say that he did not think they had been properly administered in the past. If the Crown lands were settled and made productive they would add greatly to the population and to the ex- ports of the colony. He thought the Govern- ment should put more spirit into their ad- ministration of the land in order to bring about increased settlement. We should first make proper use of our own lands, and then, when they were settled, our surplus population could go to the islands of the Pacific if necessary. Personally, he had expressed his opinion as to the ability and character of the present Minis- ter of Lands. He had said that the honourable gentleman was the "Abraham Lincoln " of the present Government, and when he made that comparison he was sure that all honourable members were pleased at such a compliment being paid to a Minister, because there was no doubt that Abraham Lincoln was a grand man. Last year he asked the Government to survey the Crown land in the King-country, and issue a pamphlet with plans giving the particulars of the land which was available for settlement ; but such particulars had not yet been issued, so that one could not send information as to the land that was available for settlement to one's friends or relatives either in the colony or at Home. Nothing had been done to en- courage people to come from England to settle 