Part I. hereof." Amendments agreed to, and Schedule as amended agreed to. Third Schedule. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to add, " These allowances shall not be payable unless the sums named shall have been paid to the Boards by the Government." The Committee divided. AYES, 14. Rhodes Herries Barclay Bollard Russell, G. W. Lang Collins Lethbridge Tellers. Ell Massey Hardy Fraser, W. Mackenzie, T. Pirani. NOES, 32. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Arnold Hall O'Meara Bennet Hall-Jones Seddon Buddo Smith, G. J. Heke Hogg Carncross Stevens Hornsby Carroll Symes Duncan Kaihau Tanner Field Lawry Ward. Fisher McGowan Tellers. Flatman McNab Gilfedder Fowlds Meredith Palmer. Majority against, 18. Amendment negatived. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to add the following new Schedule :- "In the event of no house allowance being https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 appropriated by the General Assembly in ac- cordance with section eight, the following amounts shall only be paid : For schools with an average attendance of over twenty, £10." http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero The Committee divided. AYES, 14. Arnold Smith, G. J. Lethbridge Ell Massey Tanner. Fraser, A. L. D. Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Herries Rhodes Hardy Lang Russell, G. W. Pirani. NOES, 30. Allen, E. G. Fowlds Meredith Hall Mills Bennet Buddo Hall-Jones O'Meara Heke Carncross Seddon Carroll Hogg Stevens Hornsby Collins Symes Colvin Kaihau Ward. Duncan Lawry Tellers. Gilfedder Field McGowan Fisher McNab Palmer. Flatman Majority against, 16. New Schedule negatived. Bill reported, with amendments. On the question, That this Bill be 3.0. read a third time, Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said, I move, That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of inserting a new clause. I am sorry to have to bring new matter up at this hour of the morn- VOL. CXIX .- 51. tired ; but this clause will not take two minutes to explain, and, as it is of considerable interest to Education Boards throughout the colony, and to education generally, I will submit it to the House. The clause is as follows : " Each Education Board shall have full power to effect an exchange of positions between any two teachers within the jurisdiction of such Board." The idea is this : In section 45 of the original Act it is provided that a Board of Education may remove, suspend, or dismiss teachers ; and at the end of the clause it is provided that no appointment, suspension, or dismissal shall take place until the Committee have been first con- sulted on the subject. The word "removal " does not appear there, and it does not appear to have been contemplated that in the mere case of removal or exchange anything further should be done than just a motion of the Board. What is proposed in my clause is this : In some cases there are teachers who, for some reason or other-not, perhaps, their own fault -- are not getting on particularly well. Friction of some kind arises. We will say that at two points in an education district friction arises between a teacher and some persons in the neighbourhood, or some unpleasantness occurs, and the proposition is that the Board should say to these two teachers, " You two people may, if you like, exchange "; or, " We think you had better exchange." Mr. MASSEY. -- Without consulting the Committee ? Mr. BARCLAY .- It would be hardly neces- sary to consult the Committee. At present the position is that if you want a thing like that done you have to dismiss each of the teachers. Then you have to advertise for fresh applica- tions, and you have to throw the two teachers in question loose on the world, as it were Next a number of applications come in, and the fight begins for the appointments, and there is no end of trouble. All that is proposed now is that two teachers may simply exchange positions. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). -- Sir, I would point out this is a most necessary clause to be carried. In the Education District of Otago we have frequently been tied up because of the difficulty in exchanging teachers owing to some trouble arising. Only recently some of our schools have been created district high schools; and, as the head-teachers of these schools-who have done long and faithful service-may not hold qualifications for the new positions, if there should be vacancies to which they might be transferred, caused by the appointment of a qualified master to the new post, an advantageous interchange might be effected. That is precisely the posi- tion now in Otago. There is, say, a teacher in a large school and a teacher in another school. These men are excellently adapted for a change ; but before that can be done an enormous amount of negotiation must take place, and, if one of the Committees does not agree, what must we do with a faithful servant who has for many year done his duty? We 