New Zealand. I am not this afternoon going to make any proposal as to what should be done. I believe the amendments that are suggested in the Bill now before the House go in the direction of improving the Bill of last year. But I do not believe the Bill of last year is capable by any tinkering process of being made into a respectable measure. While I shall support the proposals embodied in this Bill as being something better than the botch of last year, I do not expect even under the proposed amending Bill that any great advance will be made towards the real settlement of the Native land question. I hope that, now the matter of South Island members interesting themselves in the subject has been mooted by the honourable member for Bruce, something will be done to rouse public opinion in the country, and so put a stop to the scandal that exists in relation to Native lands. I would like also to say this : that with respect to many of the purchases made in the last eight or ten years they have been made in response to a clamour in the country that Native lands along the line of the Main Trunk Railway should be bought before the colony went to the expense of making that railway, putting the whole of the benefit into the hands of the Native The land along that route has largely owners. been acquired now, and something should be done to make it available for settlement. We must also see to it that the present Native owners of land are prevented from rendering themselves landless, and that they make use of the lands they hold, either by themselves https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 or by leasing to some one else. I hope some- thing definite will result from the discussion this afternoon in getting an investigation by outsiders-by South-Islanders wholly, if you like-so that a settlement may be arrived at which will be just to the Natives and beneficial to the colony as a whole. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- Sir, it is not my in- tention to take up much of the time of the House, because I recognise that a great deal that we have to do with this Bill can be done in Committee; but I wish to indorse the remarks that have just been made by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), in re- ference to the southern members and Native legislation. When the honourable member for Bruce was speaking, I also took a note of the number of South Island members who were present in the House at the time, and it was as he (Mr. Fowlds) said : only six of them were present. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- How many North Island members were present ? Mr. LANG .- I will deal with that question presently. I admit that there is a want of interest generally in the question, and the reason I mention the matter is, that when the honourable member for Bruce was speaking he said the matter should be left to the South Island members to deal with. I did not want to cast any reflection on the South Island members. Mr. G. J. SMITH .- We have been told over and over again to leave it to the North Island members. Mr. LANG. - Yes, that is so; and that is a point I wish to emphasize. They do not leave it to the North Island members, for when the vote comes on they vote with the Government. I challenge the honourable mem- ber to look at the division lists as far back as 1894, when the Native Land Court Bill first came before the House, and see if what I say is not the case. He will remember that when that Bill was before the Native Affairs Committee, which is composed for the most part of members who have much experience in Native affairs, the measure was altered in a certain direction against the wish of the Pre- mier. The Bill came down to the House, and the Premier boasted that he would then put the Bill back in its original state; and that was actually done by the votes of those members who stayed out in the lobby when the debate was going on, but came in when the division bell rang, and voted in the direction indicated by the Premier. The only thing I am complaining of is this : that if a member does not take the trouble to understand a question he should. at any rate, refrain from voting on it. Then, it has been mentioned that the North Island mem- bers are more or less personally interested in Native affairs, and are therefore not in such a good position to deal with the question as South Island members. Well, I venture to say there are a large number, at any rate, of the North Island members in this House who, as far as they are personally concerned, are not interested directly or indirectly in the acquisition of Native lands for their own use or benefit. I am aware also that, as far as Native legislation is concerned, there is not a great deal that is new that can be said ; but I do wish to protest again, as I have protested on other occasions, against the Government introducing important Native legislation at this period of the session. That is a thing they have been doing session after session and Parliament after Parliament. They have been tinkering with the Native legislation for the last eight or ten years, and, as far as we can see now, there is little hope of improve- ment in the future. This Native legislation is very disheartening to members of the House who take an interest in it, for during the de- bate there is generally only a bare quorum present ; it is also disheartening to Europeans outside who wish to obtain land for settlement ; and it is also disheartening to the Natives who wish to make some use of their land in the way of selling or leasing it, or otherwise deal- ing with it, instead of having to keep it locked up absolutely idle. It will be remembered that in 1894 the Premier, who was then the Native. Minister, said, with a great flourish of trumpets, that he was going to deal with the question and settle it straight away. But, he faced the question in the way he has faced the local government question. Both matters were to be decided years and years ago, yet to-day we have got little further with either. As far as free- trade in Native land is concerned, it is a matter that has been so often discussed in the House that it is not my intention to go fully into the 