ing Orders in asking the question. The ques- tion was a simple one, and, to his mind, did not need elucidation or explanation. Mr. FISHER said, If Mr. Speaker ruled that the question could not be elucidated or ex- plained, that was an end of the matter. He was debarred from proceeding, but he held very firmly that this was the place in which im- portant announcements relating to the reap- pointment of a Governor ought to be made. Mr. SEDDON wanted to know if this was to go on. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he must ask the honourable member to obey the ruling of the Chair. Mr. FISHER said, Then, he would conclude by asking, Whether it is the fact, as stated by the Premier at a dinner given at a Wellington hotel, that they have asked the Home authori- ties to renew the appointment of Lord Ranfurly as Governor of the colony ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the question on the Order Paper as it appeared was offensive, and probably intentionally so. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able gentleman could not impute such a motive. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member had already given the information to the House that the statement was made at a banquet connected with the association of the No. 1 Contingent that went to South Africa, and the banquet hall was attached to an hotel. If the honourable gentleman asked whether at https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that banquet tendered to the members of the First Contingent he made this statement in pro- posing the health of His Excellency the Go- vernor, the honourable member would have stated that which was a fact, and what was within the honourable member's knowledge. Now, he had a perfect recollection of what was said. Mr. FISHER asked, Was the honourable gentleman quite sure about that ? Mr. SEDDON said he was sure and certain. He fully recollected what took place. Mr. FISHER .- So do we. Mr. SEDDON said, If so, why was the ques- tion asked ? However, the question, as stated by the honourable gentleman, was a very simple one, and his reply was as follows : that the Government had informed the Secretary of State that, in their opinion, it would be very pleasing to the people of New Zealand if His Excellency Lord Ranfurly could see his way to remain with us for another term. An Hon. MEMBER .- How do you know that is the feeling of the colony ? Mr. SEDDON said he was in a better posi- tion to know the feeling of the people of the colony than the honourable member was. It was for him (Mr. Seddon) to judge when a statement such as he had made should be made public, and he thought it was a very suitable occasion to do so when proposing the health of His Excellency the Governor at a banquet ten- dered to those officers and men who had formed an association. They had served in South services. He saw some one standing out in the passage of the hotel in question peering and disappointed --- Mr. FISHER .- I may say that I was not there ; but I ask, What has this to do with the question ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the Premier must take into consideration that he (Mr. Deputy-Speaker) had informed the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that the ques- tion was a simple one, and did not require much explanation. Mr. SEDDON said, In his position it was his duty, as usual, to set a good example to the honourable member. He did not wish to say anything about it. Mr. FISHER .- Wait till the Appropriation Bill comes down. I will have something to say about it then. Mr. SEDDON said, When the Appropriation Bill came down his troubles would soon end, and it mattered very little what the honourable member said. The honourable member could say anything or do anything he liked as far as. he (Mr. Seddon) was concerned. He believed what the Government had done in reference to this matter was in the best interests of the colony, and after the experience of years, and after the thorough knowledge which had been gained by His Excellency as to every part of the colony, and after what His Excellency had done in furthering the best interests of the colony, he thought it would be better to retain him instead of having some strange nobleman to occupy the position, who would have to learn it all anew. That being the case, he had nothing to regret in the course he had taken, and he was prepared to stand by what he had done. # LICENSING ACT. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, Whether-in view of the opinion ex- pressed by Mr. P. Burke, an ex-president of the Canterbury Licensed Victuallers' Association, and one of the oldest licensed victuallers in Canterbury, to a representative of the Christ- church Press, on the 21st instant, that "There is just this to be said for the system of compulsory indorsement : that since it came into force the status of licensed houses had been greatly im- proved ; because, previously, owners of houses and brewers did not care who they put into the houses so long as the rent was paid "- he will move to strike out section 4 of the Licensing Act Amendment Bill ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was not there to be questioned upon a statement made by Mr. Burke or any other gentleman. Mr. Burke was at liberty to make any statement he liked, and he did not think that he (Mr. Seddon) was called upon to comment or act upon what Mr. Burke had said or done. Mr. ELL said the tone of the Premier's reply was anything but courteous. He was quite justified in asking the honourable gentle- man if it was his intention to bring in a Bill to make a radical alteration in the law. 