stand, and as to how the existing legislation is affecting the industries of this country, find that the machinery of the Acts should be eased wherever they produce friction-and that is the proper course for the Legislature to adopt- the unions should rather welcome criticism of that character than hold meetings to protest against it. I do not wish to criticize this Bill in detail. I only hope that its operation will be beneficial to employers and employed. I be- lieve it will be. The member for Ashley has said that persons representing both employers and employés appeared before the Labour Bills Committee, and it stands to the credit of the Government and of the Labour Bills Committee that they have considered as well the interests of the employers as of the employed. If it is the conception of some people that it is the duty of the Legislature or of the Government to push things to such an extreme as to set up and continue a feeling of irritation between the two classes, that is a wrong and a dangerous conception. It is for the Government 11.0. and the Parliament to consider these matters, and, even if they do not go to the ex- tremes desired by the labour organizations, it should be recognised that they know what is best for the people of the country as a whole. I think the Premier was right in making the statements he made, and those who have said legislation should not be pushed to the extreme in this direction will at least receive the credit their intentions deserve. But it was the Pre- mier who said " the labour unions were riding the labour laws to death." Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Sir, it is not my intention to say much on this question to-night. The honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) has said he hopes the Premier will not introduce further legislation dealing with labour matters. Well, the honour- able gentleman must know pretty well the Pre- mier will not introduce further legislation deal- ing with labour matters except in so far as he might consolidate the measures already on the statute-book to make them more workable. I think the Premier has recognised that, so far as the agricultural and the mining population are concerned, they have at last been raised to the point of self-preservation. They have seen com- binations going on for years in our cities, having for their object the reduction of the hours of labour, until now men are calling out for less than eight hours a day and labourers are re- ceiving, in many instances, 12s. a day ; and they also recognise the establishment of very considerably increased salaries ; and during the whole of that time the men engaged in agri- cultural pursuits have not had their hours shortened, nor their wages increased corre- spondingly, because the industry will not admit of it. It seems to me that almost the entire labour legislation that has been car- ried on in this country has been promoted in the interests of the cities, and the whole of that labour is contingent upon the success of mining and agriculture, because without the success of these two industries you might sweep Mr. Fisher members for the cities consider that they are the repositories of all that is wise in connection with labour legislation, and, indeed, of all legis- lation ; and if it is logical at all, if it is right for men in cities to have eight hours a day and to have high wages, why should the men engaged in the agricultural industries not enjoy the same conditions ? But the country cannot stand it. The agricultural labourer and the small farmers-because, after all, nearly all the work is done by the small farmers themselves- are recognising that the cost of the goods they require is increasing year by year, and they are not getting a single cent of increase for the stuff they are producing. We have been told to-night by the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) that there is still a large fund available out of the results of the selling of agricultural pro- duce for further encroachment, without ap- preciably reducing the moneys so avail able. He quoted statistics to show that the agricultural productions of this colony came to £17,379,000. Then, he quoted what the manufacturers produced - £4,650,000. Sir, what becomes of these goods that are manufactured ? Are they exported abroad ? Have they to uphold their reputation in the markets of the world, and hold their own against other competitors? The honourable gentleman knows that is not so. Out of this four and three-quarter millions there is not half a million that goes out and stands its own against other competitors in the markets of the world. An Hon. MEMBER. - More than that goes abroad. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- We have the statis- tics here, and of that £4,650,000 only £378,000 goes abroad. Where does this difference between what is exported of the manufactured goods and what is manufactured go to-this sum of £4,272,000? The great bulk of that is used by the agriculturist and the miners of this country, because the great bulk of the people, I am glad to say, still are employed in the back- bone industries of the colony-mining and agri- culture. But what does that mean ? All this increased cost of the protection means in- creased cost to these people for every article. they use, excepting those which are exempt from Customs duties. And all that goes on-to what? To increasing the cost of production on the part of miners and agriculturists. We have been told here by city people that our towns increase the prices the farmers receive for their produce. With the exception of some of the most trifling articles, perhaps, such as eggs and vegetables, your town consumers in this country do not influence the price one single farthing. The price of all agricultural produce is gauged by the price it realises at Home, less the cost of putting it there. Why, before our freezing industry became the suc- cess it is now, did your population in your cities pay a high price for mutton ? No. Sheep were sold at 3s. 6d. each, and they are worth about 14s. now. But that increased cost has not been brought about by people in the 