cipal Act is hereby repealed, and the following substituted in lieu thereof : - "The Governor may, after considering any recommendation of the Council, remove and revoke any and all restrictions existing against the alienation of Maori land, whether contained in any Crown grant certificate or other instru- ment of title, or in this Act or any Act hereto- fore passed; and thereafter, but subject in every case to the provisions of ' The Native Land Court Act, 1894,' and the next succeed- ing section hereof, the Maori owners of the lands against the alienation whereof the re- strictions have been so removed and revoked shall have the same rights and privileges to alienate the land as any person other than a Maori and resident in New Zealand possesses in respect of his land : " Provided that nothing in this Act contained shall be construed to authorise the alienation of papakaingas." Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) moved to strike out, after the words "The Governor may," the words "after considering any recom- mendation of the Council." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted be retained." AYES, 31. Hall-Jones Allen, E. G. Pere Arnold Heke Seddon Atkinson Smith, G. J. Hogg Hornsby Carncross Stevens Carroll Lawry Symes Ward Collins McGowan Willis. Colvin McNab Duncan Millar Tellers. Ell Mills O'Meara Fowlds Palmer Hall Parata Tanner. NOES, 6. Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Field Massey Pirani Herries. Lang PAIR. Against. For. Lethbridge. Mackenzie, T. Majority for, 25. Amendment negatived. Words retained. On the motion of Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister), the clause was struck out. Clause 7 .- " Section twenty - eight of the principal Act is hereby repealed, and the following substituted in lieu thereof :- " Any Maori or Maoris, whether incorporated or otherwise, owning Maori land may transfer the same, or any other land, or any definite part thereof, by way of trust to the Council, upon such terms as to leasing, cutting up, managing, improving, and raising money upon the same as may be set forth in writing be- tween the owners and the Council ; and the Council is hereby authorised and empowered to accept such trust : " Provided that, in the case of unincor- all the owners if less than ten, must execute the necessary instrument of transfer, and the whole block so owned, or a definite part thereof, must pass thereby." Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved to insert, after the words " Maori land," the words, "or purchased land "; and to omit the words "or any other land." Amendment agreed to. Mr. FIELD moved to add, after the first word "Council " in line 28, the words: "and as may be approved by Governor in Council." The Committee divided. AYES, 10. Atkinson Massey Tellers. Collins Pirani Field Ell Smith, G. J. Fraser, A. L. D. Tanner. Fowlds NOES, 27. Arnold Parata Lang Barclay Pere Lawry Seddon Carroll McGowan Mckenzie, R. Duncan Stevens McNab Guinness Symes Millar Ward. Hall Hall-Jones Mills Tellers. O'Meara Herries Hornsby Palmer Willis. Hogg Kaihau PAIR. For. Against. Lethbridge Mackenzie, T. Amendment negatived. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved to insert the following definition, after the words "such trust ": "' Purchased land ' means land which, though owned by a Maori, has been ac- quired in fee-simple by purchase from the Crown, or from any person other than a Maori, but shall not include land acquired by grant from the Crown otherwise than for a monetary consideration." Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) moved to add : "if they shall have been authorised in writing by the majority of owners in number and interest in the block," after the words " such owners," in the proviso. Amendment agreed to. Clause as amended agreed to. Clause 8 .- Private dealings. Subsection (1) .- " At any time not later than two months after the first meeting of the Council, any party to such dealing may give to the Council written notice specifying the nature of the dealing, the land to which it relates. the extent to which the dealing is complete, and his desire to wholly complete the same." Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) moved to omit the words " first meeting of the Council." and insert "the coming into operation of this Act in all statutory districts." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 9 .- Amendments of principal Act. Subsection (1) .- " As to section three thereof : By repealing paragraph (a) of the definition of 