I move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA .- Sir, I would like to say a few words about the Bill now before the Council. I quite agree with what has fallen from the Minister who has charge of the measure. I think it is a very great pity that it has been left to such a late time before any steps were taken to preserve these relics. . If such a law had been put in force at the time Captain Cook arrived here, or even when the country was first taken over as a Crown colony, a great deal could have been saved. At that time there were a very great many relics and implements and other articles of interest, which have since been taken away to other countries of the world by travellers, and they have collected these in some countries for their own benefit and for the instruction of their people. But I need not say anything about that now. I think we should strive to pass some measure, such as is proposed in this Bill, for the safe keeping of these relics. We should also try and collect what may remain of the articles which were brought over by the Natives in the first canoes in which they landed here. I need not enumerate the canoes, nor need I mention the articles which they brought. There are other things that arrived here be- fore these canoes came-they came by super- . human influence. There were also persons supposed to be here whom our first Maori ancestors spoke of as being spirits. These people were called Patupaiarehe, and Macro- ero, and Pakepakeha. They were not human, but were superhuman beings. These people, who were spoken of by the ancient Natives as Patupaiarche, wero all supposed to be people of fair complexion, and their hair was fair and wavy. When the Europeans first came in their ships the Natives at once came to the con- clusion that it was these people come again, and they called the first Europeans spirits, and Patupaiarehe, and Pakepakeha, and it was from that name that the word "pakeha," which they gave to the Europeans, was de- rived. I hear that the Wellington members all desire to have a building erected in Wel- lington for the purpose of keeping these an- tiquities, and it has been suggested that the building should be erected behind the House of Parliament. If this proposal is carried out, I would like to state that the original Maori name of the place where this build- ing stands was "Kaiota," and I would like the place to be so called. It may be said that I come from the South Island, and how is it that I know the name of this place ? When I first came to Parliament in the year 1870 I saw Wi Tako and Ihaia Porutu, two of the leading Wellington chiefs, who would be well known to Wellington people. Wi Tako was living at Te Aro, and Ihaia Porutu at Pipitea Point. When I went back from the Parliament one evening they asked me if I had returned from Kliota. I asked them what they meant by asking me if I had come from Kaiota. They told me that that was the name of this place, and that it was so called because the | the notice of the Minister of Education, in Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker food, and were suddenly surprised by the enemy, and had to pick up the food half- cooked and run away with it. That is how I first came to know the name of this spot. As I come from the South Island, I think it is only right, if there is such a building to be erected, that it should be built in the South Island - Waipoupamu-the best place, and the place where most of the relics are to be got which the building would contain. I beg to support the Bill, and I may have an amendment to <!-- PageHeader="1" --> propose when this is in Committee The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- It is very in- teresting to hear the remarks of my honourable friend who has just spoken, and no doubt those remarks will be interesting to the future his- torian who is seeking for facts of Maori lore. But, with reference to the Bill itself, I think it scarcely goes far enough. I think some pro- vision should be made that in the various large centres of the colony there should be collections of Maori art. Of course, we have museums, and we have certain collections in those museums ; and we have also private collectors, such as the late Hon. Mr. Mantell, who was long associated with Maori knowledge, and that gentleman had a very good collection, which, I believe, is now in possession of his son. 1 Then, there is Dr. Hocken, of Dunedin. Some time ago I visited his museum, which, I believe, is almost the most complete museum in the South Pacific in all things relating to the i Maoris and to the Pacific Islands. If these relics were procured by the Crown and deposited in some museums in the larger towns they would be very interesting to students of Maori lore. There is one thing which I will mention, and it came to my knowledge during the pre- sent sitting of Parliament-in fact, only a few weeks ago. The Rav. Mr. Bennett, a mis- sionary amongst the Maoris in the Taranaki District, told me that a gentleman-a Mr. Skinner, who, I believe, resides in Taranaki- some time ago purchased a Maori relic of green- stone on which was carved a serpent with an eagle's head. He said that the tradition amongst the Maoris was that the design had come from Egypt to Persia and India, and down through the Islands to the Maoris. The Maoris themselves had no idea of what a serpent was before Europeans came here. He said, further, that the statement was that this relic was pur- chased from a pedlar, who had obtained it from some Maori cemetery ; and the tradition amongst the Maoris was that whoever possessed this ornament-which was of greenstone-the eldest of the family of the chief who possessed it always died young, and that had gone on for some seven or eight generations, until the tapu, by some incantation, was destroyed. That was almost unique, because there were only two other specimens known amongst the Maoris. Such a relic as that it would be very desirable that the Government should obtain. There- fore I think the Government should take an opportunity to inquire as to the truth of this I desire to bring this matter under statement. 