tories, I still say we have to be careful that we do not overdo matters in the direction that we wish, and thereby injure our workers and our industries. This book records that at Home in factories they still work fifty-six hours, and their pay is nearly twenty-five to thirty per cent. less than we pay to the women and young persons in the woollen-mills and other factories in this colony. The Hon. Mr. Lee Smith is a keen commercial man, and he should be able to judge far better than I can as to what the dif- ference is between our industries conducted under a protective tariff of from 20 to 25 per cent. as against the importation of boots, clothing, and other goods produced under con- ditions where low wages and much longer hours are worked. While I keenly appreciate the favourable conditions our factory operatives enjoy here, we should consider whether, by extending these conditions, we are giving to keen business people at Home and in other parts of the world a chance of securing our markets. I will not weary the Council with extracts from this book, but I ask honourable gentlemen willing to read it to do so. By so doing they will see what favourable conditions exist in New Zealand as compared to those in England. We have had petitions presented by the Hon. Mr. Bolt and myself on behalf of the woollen - workers, wherein they state that they are under no great disability ; and if their hours are decreased they are to be the sufferers. It has been clearly pointed out that, under piecework rates, if their hours are reduced to forty-five per week it will mean as much as 2s. 6d. per week less to them. We have far more holidays for our workers in this country than other workers enjoy in other places ; and, moreover, the holidays are paid for by the employers. If the people interested express, as they have done through petitions to us, that their con- ditions are good, and they do not wish to be interfered with, I say we should consider their prayer and give our votes as our intelli- gence dictates. I was struck when reading the report of the Federation Commission, of which the Hon. Colonel Pitt was Chairman, to find that in the Commonwealth of Australia the hours of labour in the woollen industry are considerably more than those prevailing here- one of the mill-managers here stated fifty-six hours per week. If we intend to bring the working-hours down to forty-five for woollen operatives, I think we shall be giving an op- portunity to business people in Australia to cut in and take away a great amount of our trade. Lately I came down in the train with a warehouseman in business in Auckland, and who imports a considerable amount of cloth which is manufactured at Home. He said, "I can see we can import cloth from Home at a rate which gives us a very high percentage over what we can buy from the woollen-mills of this colony." An Hon. MEMBER .- Shoddy. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS -I do not know about that. I am wearing some of the cloth at the present time, and it is as good as any I Hon. Mr. Jennings have obtained here. At any rate, the point is this : The majority of people, in regard to boots, clothing, and, in fact, everything else, will take- that which appeals to them as being cheap, <!-- PageHeader="1" --> looks well, and suits their pockets. That is the case, I believe, with ninety-five out of every hundred people in this colony. But, coming back to the Federation Report, I say we are so close that, with quick - running steamers, it will only be a matter of two or three days be- tween New Zealand and Australia in the near future ; and we should be particularly careful not to overdo by legislation anything that will be prejudicial to our industries. I would be one of the strongest in this colony for advo- cating better conditions for women and young persons employed in factories. Personally, my view is that factory life is detrimental to females. It is not the best mode for a female to pass her existence. Females, however, must do something for a living, and anything that goes in the direction of enabling them to get their living honestly we should be very pleased to see. I hope the Council will give careful consideration to the proposal to bring down the hours of work in the woollen-mills from forty-eight to forty-five. With regard to the clothing industry, I have it on the information of one of the largest employers of females in this colony that he does not see any harm in forty-five hours a week being fixed. In my opinion, I think it is not right that the powers of the Court of Arbitration should be superseded by any Act of Parliament. Not only is that done in this Bill, but in others that have come before us. By statute we are im- posing conditions that cannot be altered by the Court of Arbitration. I have full confidence in the powers of . that Court for grasping the ques- tions that arise; therefore the whole power should be given to that Court to decide as to the hours that should be worked and the pay that should be given to the operatives in various industrial pursuits. I think it is a mistake that those powers should be taken away. I hope the Council will give every consideration to the Bill, and do that which is in the best interests of the workers, of the colony, and the industries concerned. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- The Hon. Mr. Mc- Lean, in his speech on this measure, spoke in such a way that he almost led me to believe that he was seated on this side of the Council. There was nothing censorious about the opin- ions he expressed in regard to the measure. and I must say that throughout the debate a high tone has pervaded the remarks of honourabie gentlemen, which, I am sure, will be advan- tageous to us in dealing with the question. The Hon. Mr. McLean asked, why should we send to America for railway-engines and other rolling-stock ? and he added, if we taught our own people to make these things there would be no necessity to send away for them. I admit- and I believe it to be the general opinion through- out the country-that it is inexcusable that the necessity should have arisen to send away for these things. I am aware that under the cir- cumstances there was no other alternative; 