were through, if those concerned came to some agreement he would be prepared to put the Bill through. His colleague, the Minister for Public Works, had had his difficulties in connection with the estimates, and so had the Minister for Lands, and if there had been more money he supposed there would have been greater satis- faction. Motion agreed to, and the House went into Committee of Supply. ## SUPPLY. IN COMMITTEE. SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES. CLASS I .- LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT. Vote, Legislative Council, 28, agreed to. Vote, House of Representatives, $315, agreed to. Vote, General Expenses, £2,000, agreed to. CLASS II .- COLONIAL SECRETARY'S DEPART- MENT. Electoral Department, £750. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) wanted to know when the Representation Commission was going to be set up. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it would be done next vear. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motucka) asked whether the electoral rolls had been revised since the last election. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said the ordinary law had been carried out regarding the matter. Vote, $750, agreed to. Vote, Printing and Stationery Department, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 £6,250, agreed to. Vote, Public Health Department, £462, agreed to. Vote, Office of Industries and Commerce, €5,010, agreed to. Vote, Tourist and Health Resorts Depart- ment. £6,457, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, £32,722. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) would like some ex- planation of the items, "Entertainment of Admiral and officers of United States warship ' Brooklyn,' $105 " ; of the item, "Further sum required to meet expenses connected with the Royal visit, $20,000"; also, " Grant to Right Hon. the Premier for expenses connected with the representation of the colony at the coronation of His Majesty Edward VII., £1,500." Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motucka) moved, That the item, "Entertainment of Admiral and officers of United States warship ' Brooklyn,' $105," be struck out. He did not see why this should be charged to the State. Sir J. G. WARD said the " Brooklyn," which had been visiting Australia in connection with the Commonwealth inauguration, had been invited to come on to New Zealand, and as a matter of courtesy to New Zealand she had done so. It was not, therefore, a private matter, and it was only fitting that the Ad- miral and officers should be entertained at a public dinner. Mr. Seddon Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved that the item, " Federation Commission : \- Additional allowance whilst in Australia to Commissioners who were members of the General Assembly, anything contained in ' The Disqualification Act, 1878,' or . The Public Revenues Act, 1892,' to the contrary notwithstanding (extra allowance, (442," be struck out : First, because it was in detiance of the Disqualification Act ; and, secondly, . because he did not want a precedent set up. and honourable members would understand that this was a new order of things. He did not raise the question as to what should be paid to Royal Commissioners, but he though: that whatever was done should be done by an amendment of the Disqualification Act, which the Premier had promised to bring down earlier in the session. Mr. SEDDON said this only provided for the payment of these Commissioners during the days they were in Australia. If the House expected these members to go to Australia and represent this colony in this important position, and mix with the leading men in the Common- wealth, and live there on £1 a day, it was expected what was impossible to do. It was unreasonable, to his mind, to ask these memi.ers to be out of pocket while acting in the service of the colony. This course had been followed with the Royal Commissioners who went to Australia before. He knew the House voted $300 to the Commissioner on the Public Trest Commission ; he knew another case where the House voted £220; and several other cases of a like nature. He was of opinion that the Disqualification Act required amendment in this respect. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) knew something about the other colonies, and thought that the travelling-expenses in New Zealand were quite as great as in Australia. He would not object to the vote if the Government showed s disposition to treat the other Roval Commis- sioners in the same way. But the fact was that the money could not be legally paid. He did not think the Government was justified in making a special allowance for this Commis sion, especially when they were not in a ps- tion to alter the allowances to Commissione? all round. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said there was a great difference in the matter of ex- pense between travelling in Australia and New Zealand, and that seemed to him to be in es. tremely good reason why something additional should be granted to the members of this Con- mission. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) did not arprore of this vote being on the estimates, and beli vote to strike it out. Any one who went on a Commission knew what pay he would revive when he was appointed, and none of the (.CI- missioners seemed to have raised their vous against their appointments. If they were di- satisfied they should have objected in the tr: instance. He admitted that it did not pay one to go on a Royal Commission, for. afte! paying hotel bills out of the allowance, they 