partment, in the particular walks of the me- chanical world referred to, two grades apply, and I think it is only right that a similar sys- tem should prevail in the Railway service ; and, holding this view, I am glad to be able to now inform the House that I fully concur in having two grades only in this department, and I will amend it accordingly. I should now like to explain to honourable members what are the effects of this Bill in some of its more import- ant details, as it is only right they should have some idea of what it proposes to do. The Schedule to this Bill provides for increased salaries to District and Workshop Managers, Locomotive and Maintenance Engineers, clerks, draftsmen, auditors, boiler inspectors, store- keepers, running - shed foremen, foremen of works, inspectors of permanent-way, workshop foremen, car and wagon inspectors, coaching, goods, and wharf foremen, bridge inspectors, shop foremen, and timber checkers. Clerical Staff. Present Proposed Scale. Scale. £ Cadets -1st year 30 40 2nd . 40 50 3rd 50 60 . 70 60 4th 5th 75 85 100 6th 90 100 Clerks - 7th 110 110 8th 120 9th 130 120 130 10th 140 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 11th . 140 150 . 140 160 12th 170 13th .. 140 180 14th 150 Under the proposed scale a member will receive #190 more during the first fourteen years than under the existing scale. Clerks and Draftsmen. Proposed Scale. Present Scale. Class abolished. £160, rising to £180 in three years. £190, rising to £220 in £190, rising to £220 in three years. three years. £235, rising to £250 in £230, rising to £250 in two years. one year. £260, rising to £300 in £260, rising to £300 in three years. four years. £315, rising to £350 in £315, rising to £355 in three years. three years. £370, rising to £400 in £375, rising to $400 in two years. two years. Chief Clerk, Head Office, proposed scale, £425, rising to $500 in four years. Under proposed scale engineering and drafting cadets will re- ceive $10 per annum more than clerical cadets, or £20 more than under existing scale; and clerical cadets will, by passing Junior and Senior Civil Service and shorthand examina- tions, be able to obtain allowances equal to two years' service, as against three months for .shorthand only, as at present. Proposed Scale. Present Scale: Ist subclass, 1st grade. £250 and £40 house £315, rising to £355 in allowance, rising to three years, house- £300 in fifteen years. rent not exceeding $50 per annum being deducted. Ist subclass, 2nd grade. £220 and £35 house $260, rising to £300 in allowance, rising to three years, house- £230 in five years. rent not exceeding £40 per annum being deducted. 2nd subclass. £200 and $35 house £235, rising to £250 in allowance, rising to one year, house-rent £210 in five years. not exceeding £35 per annum being de- 3rd subclass. ducted. £180 and £30 house allowance, rising to £190, rising to £220 in £190 in five years. three years, house- rent not exceeding 4th subclass. £25 per annum being £160 and $25 house deducted. allowance, rising to £170 in five years. £170, rising to £180 in one year, house-rent 5th subclass. not exceeding £20 £140 and $25 house per annum being de- allowance, rising to ducted. £150 in five years. This is how it is proposed that amended classification schedule should affect Subdivi- sion 2-salaried staff not otherwise specified : 1st grade, £600 to £650: Railway Accountant, Traffic Superintendents, Inspecting Engineer. 2nd grade, £520 to £575: Locomotive Engi- neers, Hurunui-Bluff and Wellington-Napier- New Plymouth Sections. 3rd grade, £425 to $500 : Chief Clerk, Head Office ; Stores Man- ager, District Traffic Managers, District Engi- neers. 4th grade, $370 to $400: Chief Clerk (Accountant's Branch), Chief Draftsmen, Dis- trict Traffic Managers, District Engineers, Loco- motive Engineers, Workshop Managers. 5th grade, £315 to £355 (Stationmasters provided with houses to pay rental not exceeding £50 per annum) : Clerks, draftsmen, Stationmasters and Goods Agents now paid $250 to £300 and house, Chief Traffic Auditor, boiler inspectors, running - shed foremen, District Engineers, Locomotive Engineers, Workshop Managers. 6th grade, $260 to $300 (Stationmasters pro- vided with houses to pay rental not exceeding £40 per annum) : Clerks, draftsmen, Station- masters and Goods Agents now paid £220 to .9230 and house, Audit Inspectors, Traffic In- spectors, running-shed foremen, foremen of works, electrical mechanician, signalling and interlocking inspectors and foremen, inspectors of permanent-way, inspectors of bridge - con- struction, storekeepers, District Managers, assistant engineers, Workshop Managers. 7th grade, $235 to $250 (Stationmasters provided with houses to pay rental not exceeding $35 per annum) : Clerks, draftsmen, Stationmasters 