in good health and excellent spirits, and ex- pressed himself as much pleased with his visit to Southland and the reception there. More than once he said he was strongly inclined to return to Africa. " After his arrival in Auckland he became engaged to be married, and, though he wrote to me once, and I heard of him several times from others, there was no suggestion that he was in any respect ailing until about a week before his death; when brain trouble set in, which I was then informed was exceedingly dangerous and likely to prove fatal, as unhappily it did. These are facts, and I think it but right that you should know them .- I have, &c., "S. SPRAGG. " To the Right Hon. R. J. Seddon." That was one of the troopers whose death had been laid at his door. Now, here was a cable that His Excellency the Governor re- ceived :- "The Governor has received the following telegram from the Secretary of State for the Colonies, dated 8th inst. : 'Referring to your telegrams of 3rd and 4th July, the Admiralty regrets that, after full consideration, they must adhere to previous decision, of which, as I understand, earliest possible intimation was sent to you. Size and character of ' Tagus' as single-screw vessel, and fact that officers are not acquainted with coast and harbour, render it unjustifiable, in opinion of their Lordships, to send her to Bluff.' Not a single word was said about the health of those on board. It was a question between the two parties as to the destination of the steamer-whether Bluff or Port Chalmers- and the owners had their own way, and the "Tagus " went to Port Chalmers, and it was far-fetched now to bring into the question the health of the troopers. They had Lieut .- Colonel Davies's cable that the "Tagus" was leaving Albany on the 1st, and she was kept there until the 4th. Meanwhile these negotia- tions were proceeding, and the whole trouble was as to whether the "Tagus " should go to the Bluff or Port Chalmers. The question of a more northern port when at Albany never entered the mind of any one on board ; and, in fact, before the men left the front, Lord Kitchener had decided that the boat should go to the Bluff. Then the question was asked, Why the inquiry he had ordered had not gone on? In addition to the telegram he had pre- viously read, he sent this one :- "I cannot understand what objection there can be to an inquiry. Lieut .- Colonel Brigade Surgeon De Lautour, in his telegram a day or two ago, said that pneumonia had been caused through overcrowding, and this overcrowding had proved inimical to the health of the troopers. In his telegram this afternoon he repeats that overcrowding, which had led to pneumonia, although he qualified this by say- ing " unavoidable." The point to be settled is whether it was unavoidable. The fact remains that he reports eleven men sick in bed and thirty-two others reported ill, and, such being Mr. Seddon So far I have had only to my instructions. your opinion and that of Colonel Davies, but from the men, who are most interested, I have had no representations, and an opportunity should be given them of saying whether or not what has been done is what should have been carried out." Then, he received a communication from Colonel Penton to say that Dr. De Lautour had qualified his statement, and that there had been a misapprehension as to the meaning of the telegram in which he said that the pneumonia was due to overcrowding. He (Mr. Seddon) made a mistake then in not insisting on going on with the inquiry ; but when Lieut .- Colonel Davies and Colonel Penton advised against it, and Dr. De Lautour practically qualified what he had reported, he let the matter go, and he was very sorry for it. Then, he would have had the whole evidence in regard to what happened to the officers and men at Worcester ; and why the Transport Officer reported " all well " on leaving the Cape, while a short time after and between the Cape and Albany there were fifty men daily in the hospital, he could not understand. He did his best, under all the circumstances, and he undertook to say that 95 per cent. of the men would state that going from Albany to Port Chalmers had nothing whatever to do with their troubles at all, and that the Premier had nothing whatever to do with their troubles, but that their troubles arose through going down from a warm interior to Worcester, and lying in the snow and wet for three or four days, followed by a trip in an open truck for over one hundred miles. In proof of this members could take the test of the cases of sickness between the Cape and Albany, and compare it with the cases between Albany and the Bluff, because the sickness di- minished between Albany and Port Chalmers. He demanded yesterday a copy of the ship's report from the time she left the Cape to Port Chalmers, but could not get it, because no copy had been kept here. He was very sorry for this, because it would have proved what he had said-that between Albany and Port Chal- mers the health of the men improved. He might state that this was the last telegram he had received from Dr. De Lautour :- "1015, Heenan, and 1402, Sergeant J. L. Long, still serious. All other cases in hospitals practically convalescent." He was glad to say there were only two cases remaining. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said, In regard to the case of Trooper Nelson, who died subsequent to his arrival in the colony, this trooper died in his own home at the Bluff. Mr. J. ALLEN .- You are wrong. Sir J. G. WARD said that the trooper first went to his own home at the Bluff, and after- wards died at Dunedin. But what was the history of the case of Trooper Nelson ? This was the report in connection with his death :- "Trooper Peter Nelson, a member of the Fifth Contingent who returned by the 'Tagus,' died in the Dunedin Hospital at midnight on 