to annex this useless Cook Island Group. In forwarding his paper to the Hon. Mr. Seddon, Mr. Phillips said :- "The Knoll, Featherston, 19th June, 1894. " MY DEAR SIR, - I have the honour of now enclosing you the paper upon Samoa, to which the two Appendices (A and B) I left with you belong. So very little is known in the colonies about Samoa that I have made the paper full, for general reading. " I am not aware of any late historical paper such as this. And, as Samoa is undoubtedly the most valuable group of islands outside the German sphere of influence, containing, too, the best harbours Australasia is ever likely to get in the Pacific, I do trust that the very strongest efforts will be made in bringing pres- sure to bear upon the different Parliaments, so that this group may be brought under the British flag .- I have, &c., "COLEMAN PHILLIPS." The only person who recognised the value of Mr. Coleman Phillips's paper, " Samoa and the Pacific Islands," was Mr. W. P. Reeves, who said he thought the paper should have been made a school-book for the instruction of the children of New Zealand. Now, if, as the Premier says, he took an interest in this ques- tion so far back as 1883, why did he not move in the matter then ? He came into Parliament in 1879. He must have known of the desire of the people of Samoa to be annexed to New Zealand. Here is the request from Malietoa, dated the 19th November, 1883, which was printed in the Appendices of this Parliament at the time :- - # " Capital of Samoa, Molinuu, 19th November, 1883. " To Her Most Gracious Majesty, Victoria, Queen of Great Britain and Ireland : " YOUR MAJESTY,-I write this letter to your Majesty, the Queen of Great Britain, because I wish to bring my petition to your notice. I know well that you have a regard for me, because you are in the habit of sending visitors to me-great chiefs of your Govern- ment-year after year, and they always tell me of the good wishes of your Majesty. Your Majesty, I write this letter, being certain of your regard for me, and love of right; and, because I have seen and heard that other nations, both white and black, which are under your Majesty's Government, have happiness in this world, and have no more trouble nor fear, but have peace in their lives, therefore I wish to be under your arm. I wish to tell you my mind to be under the flag of your Government. I, and three-quarters of the chiefs and people of Samoa, wish to see put up the flag of Great Britain at once. I should be very glad and thankful to your Majesty if you would send me one or two chiefs of your Government, that we can talk face to face, and that we can tell them our wishes for the British flag to be put up in our kingdom, the same as you have done in Fiji. Your Majesty, 1 hope that I shall have an answer according to my wishes. I hope am, &c., " MALIETOA, King of Samoa." Why did not the honourable gentleman move at that time? There is the paper on Samoa addressed by Mr. Coleman Phillips to the " Hon. R. J. Seddon." Why, Sir, the whole thing is "jingo " and afterthought. His colleague, Mr. Reeves, did speak in very laudatory terms of that paper. He said it was so full of informa- tion that it ought to be issued in the form of a school-book for the children of New Zealand to study ; but he did not appear to take a very great interest in the personal welfare of Mr. Coleman Phillips. There is Malietoa's petition of 1883. Now, in 1885, Sir George Grey in this House called attention to a petition from the inhabitants of Fiji, asking to be annexed to the Colony of New Zealand. The right honourable gentleman was in the House then. What step did he then take in the matter? None. Now, I have brought this question of the annexa- tion of these islands up to a comparatively recent date, and I say that the interests of that great archipelago and the interests of New Zealand, and, more than that, the interests of Great Britain, have been neglected by every man in power in this country from that date up to now, when all the valuable possessions have passed away. And now we are asked to make a fuss over these paltry Cook Islands. But the great spirit of Jingoism had not then set in. The right honourable gentleman had not visited those islands. An Hon. MEMBER .- He had not visited Eng- land. Mr. FISHER .- No; he had not visited Eng- land. He had not sniffed the warlike spirit and the spirit of conquest ; and we are asked to dance to the honourable gentleman's piping because the right honourable gentleman paid those memorable visits to England and to the Islands of the Cook Group. And when he went there a sound as of the Apocalypse went round the Islands of the coming of the new Messiah. We are to make them a dependency of New Zealand. For what? They cannot in any way benefit the Colony of New Zealand. We are going to establish a form of government which has only one parallel-to be found in a chapter of " Don Quixote ": " Of how the great Sancho Panza took possession of his Island of Barataria, and how he made a beginning of Governing." But all this is not surprising, since the honourable gentleman has become seized with this idea of conquest and annexation. I suppose it will be pleasing to Old England and the dear old Mother-land. I find on reading the local paper -- the supplement to the New Zealand Tonnes of Saturday last - that the honourable gentleman's ideas of con- quest and annexation now extend far beyond the Cook Group. The article in this paper is headed, "A Colonial Statesman: A Re- markable Man." I shall only quote the very last paragraph of the article. The rest is too absurd and ridiculous. This is what the inter- viewer says of the Premier :-- "Then this many-sided man turned from 