been time for inquiry, would have been inserted. Generally, we have been obliged, under the pressure that has come upon us through these Bills being sent down at this period of the session, to deal with them in a most perfunc- tory and unsatisfactory manner. That is all I wish to say now; but if this occurs another year, and we have to deal with Bills of this kind in this way, then I hope many of us will take such a stand as will prevent them going through. If we did that once we should not in future sessions have the same thing recurring, which cannot possibly continue without bring- ing eventually some discredit upon the Legisla- ture. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I would like to ask the Hon. Mr. Ormond whether he was a member of one of the Local Bills Com- mittees. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I was. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Therefore he has got a certain amount of the sin of the people on his shoulders. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I have admitted that. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I think that, considering the usual course of business in Parliament, this Council has been very well treated by the Government in this present ses- sion. Last year, I admit, there was a terrible pressure. About two days before Parliament was prorogued, there were about twenty-seven Bills, as far as I remember, brought down, and it was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 with the greatest difficulty we could go through decently the forms of Parliament in regard to these Bills. But on the present occasion it is different. Honourable members cannot go to the point of saying there was any need to hurry about these Bills. The Local Bills Committees could have spent three days over each lot. There was no particular pressure at all, as far as I know, at least. They came down at the end of last week ; and the three Local Bills Committees who have been dealing with them could have taken every precaution they liked, as far as the Government was concerned, to have found out everything about them, and I am quite certain if they had three weeks instead of three days spent over them they would not have found out anything more. But it is very hard to please every one. I trust that those who have the responsibilities of regulating the busi- ness in Parliament will not be so misjudged as apparently the Hon. Mr. Ormond is prepared to misjudge us. We do our best, and I feel quite certain that nobody can do more. Re- membering what a pressure there was on the Council last year, I did everything I could to prevent anything like the same thing occurring again, and what is the result? We are abused again. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- Why did they not come down a month or six weeks ago, when we were doing nothing ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- It is all very well to say why did they not come down a month or six weeks ago. The Hon. Mr. Ormond is too old a soldier not to know why they did well the reason why. It is no use talking that way. I say that last year was a very unfor- tunate year, and the Council was very hard pressed-and I would not have blamed the Council for taking a very strong stand-in being rushed with Bills two days before the session closed. But this year there was no question of that sort. The Bills came down last week, the Committees were called together, and they had ample time to do everything they wished. If they wanted information about the Bills, they had either to report against them, or else to take the responsibility of reporting in their favour. The Hon. Mr. Ormond's Committee took the responsibility of reporting on the Bills, and recommending that they should be allowed to pass. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- Some of them. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Then, the honourable gentleman is responsible for the wrong, if wrong was done. The Hon. Mr. Ormond has taken the responsibility, and there- fore I see no reason why the Council should not take the Hon. Mr. Ormond's recommendation, and pass the Bills as he has recommended. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- I entirely agree with the Hon. Mr. Ormond. Last year, as the Hon. the Minister in charge has admitted, it was a most unseemly thing that, on the morn- ing of the breaking-up of the Council, we were flooded with twenty-seven measures-local Bills and Bills which ought not to have been passed through in the manner in which they were passed. I do not blame the Government ; but I say they can prevent these things by making a rule that no local Bills shall be introduced after a certain date. On Friday next we shall have been four months in session, and here, at the last moment, we are flooded with a lot of measures of this kind. The Minister says the Bills came here last week, and I admit they did. They came here last Friday, and on Mon- day we were summoned to meetings of the Lo- cal Bills Committees ; but, being at the end of the session, members are not inclined to devote much time to the work that is placed before them, although they should do so. The mea- sures have now passed through all their stages, and members have had no opportunity of look- ing closely into them. I say, therefore, the Government should not allow Bills to be intro- duced after a certain date. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- It rests with Parliament, not with the Government. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Well, let Par- liament do it. However, I agree with the Hon. Mr. Ormond that it is unseemly that measures of this kind should be forced through in the closing moments of the session. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Sir, it is hard to please some people. We have frequently heard the Government denounced for initiating legis- lation in this Chamber, although they do so simply to expedite matters ; and now we hear them being condemned for business having come forward in another way, as this. It appears to me, from the speeches that have already been delivered, the object is to show to 