Islands that our energies might very well be directed to the settlement of our own Crown lands. In respect to the question of the seat of Government, he would make a suggestion to the Minister of Lands, and that suggestion, if it were carried out, would to a wonderful ex- tent add to the wealth and prosperity of the colony, and would add to the fame of the pre- sent Government. In fairness to the Wel- lington representatives, he might say that he had always been treated by them with the greatest kindness and courtesy, and he was quite sure that no Auckland member could say otherwise. He had nothing to say against Wellington or the people of Wellington, because he liked Wellington and the Welling- ton people, and did not desire that they should be disfranchised. He would suggest that the Government might establish the seat of Go- vernment-the Federal City-on land in the in- terior of the country, and, of course, the Go- vernment Buildings would be there, and the surrounding land could be leased or sold, and a considerable revenue would be derived from it. For instance, the block of land between Te Kuiti and Kawhia, comprising sixty thou- sand acres, might be selected as a site for a city for the seat of Government. What would be the effect of that upon the rest of that Crown land ? There would be no need to bor- row money to buy the land. There was a good harbour, abundance of coal, and, if the Maori Relics Bill were passed, a central museum could be established there, because it would be a very suitable place. At present the best col- lection of Maori relics in New Zealand was in Auckland. If the capital were established on that block of land, it would be in accordance with what had been done in some other coun- tries, for the capital would then be inland, and out of reach of the enemy's guns. He con- sidered that in many respects the progress of the colony depended upon the successful ad- ministration of the Minister of Lands. He hoped the reply of the Minister would be satis- factory, and that he would be able to show that our Crown lands were being administered in the best interests of the people of the colony. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) had given instructions early in the season to push this matter of surveys forward, and he believed in a short time they would have about sixty thou- sand acres ready for settlement. With regard to the proposal to put the seat of Government in the centre of this sixty thousand acres, that would require a resurvey and the laying-off of a township in the most suitable place. There was a road laid off between Kawhia and Te Kuiti, but the country was far too broken for a city anywhere between the two places; but at Te Kuiti there was plenty of level land for a city. The surrounding land was first-class grazing land, and no doubt there would be a rush for settlement as soon as it was opened. The department expected to have it opened before the end of the year. The lands in the Auckland District opened for selection since the 31st March, 1901, amounted to about sixty- Mr. Witheford in the same period were about fifty-six thou- sand acres. The number of surveyors em- ployed in the Auckland District was forty-two, of whom eight were employed solely on Native Land Court work; the others were preparing land for settlement. He thought the Auck- land District was very fully manned at present. Mr. McKerrow, Land Purchase Commissioner, stated that five estates in the neighbourhood of Auckland, aggregating a thousand acres, had quite recently been acquired under the Land for Settlements Act for workmen's homes. ROAD TO PETONE PROPERTY. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Government, When they intend commenc- ing the construction of the road giving access to the property purchased by them at Petone? Quite recently he was informed by the Mayor of Petone, Mr. Mothes, that the Government had handed over to Petone what he might call a legacy of liability ; they handed over to Petone the control of a certain road which had been made to the Korokoro Settlement. Just pre- vious to the handing-over nine or ten slips oc- curred on the road, and these slips would cost the Borough Council of Petone something like $50 or £60 to clear away. The first thing, therefore, that the Petone Borough Council had to do in connection with this legacy which had been handed over to them was to spend $50 upon it, the road not having been properly constructed in the first instance. There was not sufficient care taken to provide against such slips, and the consequence was that the cutting had come down in different places. There was another property purchased near the house of a Mr. Chapman, and that property was not roaded. There were in Petone a number of men who were applying to him for work, and, as the roads which had to be made to this property had not yet been started, he would suggest to the Minister the advisability of at once going on with the construction of the same, in order to create a new avenue of employment for men with families dependent upon them who were deserving and hard-working. In the winter just passed people who had small holdings had a great deal of difficulty in getting to their properties on account of the sticky and soft nature of the new road. If the Government could put in train the work of roading this property they would give employment to those needing it, and at the same time would give the holders of sections an easy means of access to their homes. He hoped the Minister would no longer delay the prosecution of this neces- sary work. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the engineer in charge of these roads stated that they would be put in hand with the least possible delay. With regard to the slips, it appeared to him that cuttings on roads would slip no matter what amount of care was taken in their construction. It depended entirely upon the nature of the soil. They knew that along the railway-lines slips occurred, and they were quite unable to prevent that. 