I would like to see both the Vancouver service and the San Francisco service if possible, but I do not think that many passengers would travel by the Vancouver line. I will give you the following comparision of the speed in delivering the mails to Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, and the Bluff by the San Francisco and the Federal service : - " Average number of days within which the mails were delivered at and from London and Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, and the Bluff during 1900 by the San Francisco and by the P. and O. and Orient Lines :- San Fran- P. and O. Orient line. line. cisco line. Days. Days. DayF. London to Auckland 39.38 39.15 31.71 40.74 Auckland to London 30.85 40.36 London to Wellington 32.86 40.35 39.96 Wellington to London 32.69 41.20 42.14 41.13 London to Dunedin 34.07 41.71 41.01 Dunedin to London 33.69 41.89 40.38 40.96 London to Bluff 34.82 Bluff to London 41.14 34.44 40.26 From this you will see that if you take even from the Bluff to London there is a saving of seven days by the San Francisco route, not- withstanding the long distance from the Bluff to the steamer terminus at Auckland. The people at the Bluff can get their letters by the San Francisco route seven days earlier than by either the Orient or P. and O. line. Now, that is the present position ; but, when the North Island Trunk Railway line is completed to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Auckland-say in another eighteen months or so - there will be a saving to the South of another seventeen or eighteen hours. Thus, I think, we can safely reckon that from eight to ten days can be saved by the San Francisco route as against any of the alternative routes. A great deal has been said about the small amount of trade that this colony has been doing with the United States. The matter has been, I think, most unfairly put. The amount of trade we are doing with America at the present time is over a million and a half per annum; it is, to be exact, $1,520,669. That was the aggregate amount of trade between New Zealand and the United States last year. The value of our export of kauri- gum last year was $525,000, and for the previous year it was $397,607. The trade with Canada was only #41,340, and yet we are proposing to subsidise a line of steamers to Canada in pre- ference to one to the United States. It is true that the greater proportion of the American trade comes to us by steamers from the eastern ports of the United States. But that is imma- terial. The correspondence which stimulates the trade goes direct cia San Francisco. I main- tain that we are now very unwisely engendering a spirit of hostility to the United States. The speeches of the opponents of the San Francisco service to-night have been characterized by a note of hostility against our American cousins -a people of the same flesh and blood, speak- ing the same language, glorying in the same literature, the same religion, and practically the same laws, and with whom we are doing the large volume of trade that I have stated. An all-red route has been spoken of, 10.30. but I would point out that even the Federal service is by no means an all-red route. There is no such thing as an all-red route, and the sentiment on that point is an utterly mis- leading one. The mail via Suez is sent across Italy and France -through foreign territory ; the mails via Vancouver would be, if such a service was established, carried as they were before to New York on the United States rail- ways, and shipped by fast United States steam- ships to Great Britain. Now, what difference does it make, as far as the opponents of this service are concerned, whether you have Ameri- can ships carrying your mails on the east coast of America or on the west coast ? An Hon. MEMBER .- British ships from the west coast. Mr. NAPIER .- No, they were American ships. The mails were sent by American vessels. Then, I would point out that this service is the cheapest. I think the figures are even more favourable on this point than the Postmaster- General stated them to be. I would point out, before referring to the present cost, that in 1889 we paid for a very much inferior service £29,739, and in 1885 £31,250, and that was for what would now be considered a slow service, which occupied thirty-seven days between this. colony and Great Britain, whereas now we are only offering €15,000 for a three-weekly service to occupy seventeen days between this colony and San Francisco, and twenty-six days from New Zealand to England. The cost to this colony amounted to only £5,984 11s. 9d. last year, and I make it up in this way :- DR s. d. 3 0 0 Paid to mail steamers 12,693 Paid transit charges, San Fran- 7 5 4,300 cisco to New York .. Paid transit charges, New York 1,831 16 8 to Queenstown 4 1 £18,825 Total .. CR. 4 .. 12,840 12 Postages collected .. Balance, being net cost €5,984 11 9 .. I exclude, of course, and properly so, the cost of the interprovincial service, which has no- thing whatever to do with the San Francisco service, and must be paid for no matter what mail route you adopt. Now, I would point out that by employing the San Francisco service we are practically getting a subsidy from the United States of £52,000 a year, and this colony has only to pay $15,000 a year to the Oceanic Company to carry on the service. The United States Government are giving a subsidy of £52,000 per annum, and they carry our inward mails without any cost to the colony at all. They have shown, also, by the courtesy that has been extended to us by the postal authori- ties at Washington, that, notwithstanding the large sum which the people of the States pay I' by way of subsidy, they do not oblige Mr. 