no Judge or trustee should ever be put in, and certainly should not voluntarily put himself in. In the case of the increase of the Governor's salary, he could not assent to it ; he had to re- fer it to the Sovereign. I submit we should re- fer our own increase also to our Sovereign. Of course, our Sovereign is also the King of Eng- land; but in this case we may take it that the sovereign body for this purpose is the electors who sent us here, and I submit we should refer the matter to the electors in the same way. As to whether the Legislative Council is entitled to an increase, I do not think they are overworked, and I have not heard any honourable member suggest they are overworked ; but, of course, " Where do we come in ?" is a question they are entitled to ask ; and if it is not answered to their satisfaction the whole Bill might be stuck up, and so they are provided for. Now, I agree with the Premier in deprecating the attribution of improper motives to members who are going to vote for this Bill. I am sorry, however, he broke his own rule by stating there are some members who will vote against the Bill in the hope that it will be passed, and that they would not vote against it unless it were for that hope. According to my own view I cannot honourably vote for the Bill as it stands, nor honourably take any benefit from the Bill as it stands ; but other members may take a different view, and I am anxious not to impute motives. In the first place, I must look to my own view of what is right to guide my own action ; and, in the second place, I must look to the reputation this House is bound to achieve in this country and outside of it if it tolerates legislation of this kind. Mr. FISHER .- The eyes of Europe are upon us. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Mr. ATKINSON .- The honourable member who has interrupted me in this sarcastic way himself referred to the £40 sessional allow- ance of last session as "the £40 steal," and the matter is so termed in popular parlance that it has come to be stamped by this term. Now, I am not desirous that an association of that kind should become a habitual association with the transactions of this Parliament. In ancient Rome the man who took property that was not his own was called "a man of three letters," because there were three letters in "fur," the Latin for thief. Now, the title "M.H.R. "' is one of three letters, and I am just as anxious as any one can be that such a regrettable and discreditable association should not permanently attach itself to this Parlia- ment as arose in connection with that £40 vote of last year, associations that are sufficiently indicated by the phrase my colleague used. I am just as anxious as any man can be that these associations should not be deepened or made worse. I feel, with all respect to those honourable members who may honourably support the second reading, that this kind of reputation is not what we desire for our country, and we shall be fastening it upon her by the passing of this Bill for our own benefit. At the same time I agree with the Hon. the Mr. Atkinson honourable member for Wairarapa, to this extent : that, if we are to dip our hands into the public pocket, it is better that we should take the money ourselves by voting for it than that we should get somebody else to vote for it in order that we may obtain it. It is just like the boy who sends another up the tree to steal the apples, intending to escape the "hiding " if the farmer turns up, and to share the booty if he does not. If the twenty-five members who voted against the introduction of the Bill are in earnest, they will carry on their opposition to this and subsequent stages, and so, unless its operation is postponed, prevent its becoming law. I move, Sir, That this Bill be read a second time this day six months. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- Thinking, Sir, that the honourable gentleman who has just sat down would deliver a strong, emphatic, argumentative speech on this Bill from the notice of motion he had already given for a reduction of the amount of the honorarium. I set myself to make some notes on what he said, and I expected to have a considerable amount of pabulum, of food, for a strong and effective speech in reply. But I must say I have looked carefully down the notes I have made, and. truth to say, I am astonished at the modera- tion he has exercised, at the weakness he has displayed, and at the half-hearted manner in which he urged what points he had. Sir, it is easy for the honourable gentleman to dilate on the enormity of taking any more honorarium than is paid at present, for surely the honour able gentleman's lines have fallen in pleasant places. "He jests at scars who never felt a wound." Here we find him most comfortably installed in Wellington. He goes home from this House in the evening, sails out in the morning to his business, spends the greater part of the day, I trust, in lucrative employment, interview. ing clients and making out, I trust, lengthy bills of costs, and he comes up at his leisure in the evening to delight us with his oratorical efforts. I must say that, indeed, it is easy for him to be virtuous. It is very cheap virtue indeed for him to say that he will not take this honora- rium. I see he attends to his Court work even while Parliament is sitting. I saw he appeared in a case before Mr. Justice Conolly lately, in which, however, I fear he must have allowed his parliamentary exertions to interfere with his legal duties, because I notice that some rather severe reflections were made by the Judge as to what had been done by the plaintiff or appellant, and as to the conduct of the proceed- ings. As far as I saw in the paper it did not read particularly well. The honourable gentle- man's objection was not very convincing, be- cause it is so easy for a gentleman who is living comfortably at home and carrying on bis business, and getting himself well advertised by his position in this House-it is so very easy for him to say that he is too virtuous to take any increase in honorarium, forgetting all the time those who come from long distances, those whose business suffers loss by their absence, and those who are considerably out of pocket in 