Court to accept awards. What, I would ask, is the position of the parties ? What is the position of employers ? What is the position of workers when a dispute arises in an industry ? I am sure honourable members will see that there is anything but a friendly spirit evcked on these occasions. There is a great amount of heated feeling that has been worked up for weeks-and probably months-together before ever it comes to a head. When it does come to a head, and it is proposed to deal with it either by the Board or in the Court, feeling runs exceedingly high, and I suppose that at times very rash and very unfriendly statements aro made. By conserving our Conciliation Boards the first brunt of this contentious spirit is spent there, and, even if they do not bring about an agreement between the two parties, they bring about a feeling modified and sub- dued to a great extent. The parties enter the Arbitration Court in a different frame of mind from that they possessed at the Conciliation Board, and the Arbitration Court in this way preserves its dignity and its respect infinitely better than if it were made the arena for ex- hibiting the hostilities which frequently accom- pany a first inquiry. Therefore, I say, if we do away with our Conciliation Boards the Courts will be to a great extent degraded as well. I wish now for a moment to allude to the state- ment which has been made in regard to men being discharged. The assumption was that they were discharged in consequence of their taking an active part in a dispute. I hold that there is a great danger, if these special Boards are set up, that the men may not get fair representation on those Boards. I feel sure, even if a man felt that his position was fairly good with his employers, there would be a certain amount of hesitancy in his speech and a certain amount of backward- ness in his conduct in defending the position of his fellow-employés. I do not think it is a proper thing that he should be put in that posi- tion. I would say, with regard to the list of discharged men - a very imposing list, no doubt-which has been read out in the Council, I do not think for one moment that all these men were discharged simply because they were doing their duty to a union. I am not disposed to think so badly of our employers that such a number of men would discharge their em- ployés simply because of their defending the rights of their fellow-workers; but I do say this : Even if there were 5 per cent. that were so discharged it would be a case of very great hardship, and it would be a question whether there should not be a thorough inquiry into the case, and an endeavour made by some means to stop conduct such as that. It is the old persecuting spirit over again, and in regard to this matter I am inclined to think that there is not that humanitarian feeling developed in the community which there should be. I feel earnestly on this point, and I say that while employers as a whole are no doubt considerate, yet there are some that do not seem to have any lively conviction of the discharge a mar .. They do not seem to com- prehend the serious consequences of such an action. The man has perhaps a large family depending upon him, and there are the con- sequences not only to him-if he were a single man he could always provide for himself in a country like this-but to his family, even if he is only out of work for a fortnight. It might mean that his household would be broken up and his children scattered over the colony ; and it might lead to other troubles-poverty fre- quently brings crime. In fact, we cannot esti- mate what it may mean, not only to the family but to the community. I say that, while there are a great number of employers who do study the interests of their workmen-and I believe a large majority do that-still there are some employers who do not give sufficient attention to the seriousness of an action which de- prives a man of employment. As I said before, it is a return of the persecuting spirit. In ancient times it used to be found generally in connection with religious questions ; and, strange as it may seem, such a man as I have referred to may not be otherwise a bad man, but he is a man whose humanitarian spirit has not been properly awakened. Some of the best men have been persecuting men. If we go back to the eighth century before the Christian era we find Elijah taking down several hundred prophets of Baal and killing them at the brook Kidron because they would not worship Yah- weh ; and later on we find a so-called Christian king giving a large number of men the option of being baptized or butchered. I need not refer also to the fact that John Calvin was guilty of a judicial murder; and the men who killed Mary Dyer because she was a Quaker were guilty of the same crime. Men who some- times do cruel things are not necessarily bad men, but men whose moral perceptions have not been developed, and sometimes they are more to be pitied than anything else. This was the form of the persecuting spirit in ancient times ; and, when we see a man for some · trivial offence depriving another of the means of living and the family left destitute, it is the modern form of the same spirit. I have no- thing more to add. I believe that the step which we are now taking goes towards breaking up the legislation which we all believe has been beneficial for the last seven years. I believe that it is a retrograde step, and I cannot help thinking, when I see the men who are endea- vouring to push this change on us, of the old proverb, " Beware of the Greeks when they bring gifts." I think this gift will be a great evil to the recipients of it, and I warn the Council-I do so in no dogmatic spirit, but I warn the Council that this will be productive of great evil if it is carried. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I regret that this debate has taken so long, but still I recognise the gravity of the situation. I ex- pressed my feelings when I moved the third reading of the Bill. I said I moved the third reading with a great deal of regret, because the Bill was not produced to us in a condition which 