entered the service within the last twelve years, at all events, get no retiring allowance. He did not wish to delay going into Supply, but would simply move his amendment. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) de- sired to say something in reference to the amendment moved by the honourable mem- ber for Eden, and he felt called upon to make perhaps a little longer speech upon it than otherwise would be necessary, because the district he represented was immediately con- cerned in the introduction of a superannuation scheme, the Petone Railway Workshops being situated in his district. Some time ago the Go- vernment introduced a classification scheme by which the employés of the railway workshops were classified. They were divided into distinct classes, with distinct wages set opposite their in- dividual class or grade ; and, later on, it being found by experience, and after seeing its work- ing for some time, that the grading was not all that was desired, the Government pro- posed to introduce an amendment of the Classification Act, with the desire of im- proving and making smoother the anomalies which were found to be existing. Last session he had a distinct promise from the Minister for Rail ways that a superannuation scheme, and a Bill dealing with a railway superannuation scheme, would be introduced to the House ; and he wished to say, in answer to the honourable member for Eden, that he knew of his own knowledge that at the present time the closest consideration and greatest care and attention https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 were being given to that branch of the subject by the Minister for Railways. Honourable members would realise better far than he could tell them, and members especially who had held seats in the House for some years could realise better than himself, that during the session the time of a Minister was not his own - he was busy from morning until night. He had on more than a dozen occasions, both by petitions and deputations, waited on the Minis- ter for Railways, urging on him the advisability of at any rate bringing down a superannuation scheme, with the idea of enabling the people employed in the railway workshops to consider it. Now, this was not the time or the place for discussing in full the details of a scheme, and he regretted that the honourable member for Eden had taken this opportunity of intro- ducing debatable matter. He thought it would have been better if the honourable member for Eden had simply put the case before the Minister for Railways as he (Mr. Wilford) had done for his constituency, and had urged upon the Minister the advisability of bring- ing forward this scheme as quickly as pos- fible, in order that the House might discuss the terms or the forms proposed in the measure. Now, he had himself suggested respectfully to the Minister for Railways a certain form of superannuation scheme, which he thought should be embodied in the form of Bill to be brought down and considered by members of the House ; and he was perfectly well aware that, apart from the classification proposed by deavouring for some weeks past to get passed by Cabinet a scheme which would be submitted to the workshops men for approval. He had a distinct promise from the Minister that as soon as the Bill was drafted, the form of the Bill would be submitted to honourable members, in order that members might call together the executive of the railway employés in their dis- tricts to discuss the scheme. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why those members, and not all the members ? Mr. WILFORD said he did not mean that only those members who represented railway workshops districts were to be provided with the Bill, but that all members were to get it ; but he meant that those members representing the workshops districts should be placed at once in the possession of the details of the scheme. He recognised that the member for Eden was interested in this matter, and was looking for the same thing as was he (Mr. Wilford), but he should have first made him- self conversant with the fact that a scheme was really before Cabinet. He did not know whether the member for Eden had second sight, or had eyes at the back of his head, but it was a curious thing that there was a deputation from the railway employés in the gallery waiting to ask the Minister for Railways to bring forward the very thing that he was advocating. He wanted, however, to suggest to the Minister that, in addition to the scheme, he should also consider the question of what was known as the "permanent casuals " of this colony. These men never would be permanent, and although they had been in the Civil Service or the workshops for a number of years they would 'not be entitled to such a superannuation scheme as was suggested, nor would they be entitled to the benefits of that particular Bill. He be- lieved that after a man had been in the employ of the railway for a term of years he should be entitled to the benefit of the measure. After they had dealt with the question of superannua- tion they also had to deal with the question of classification, and, although the Minister for Railways had received a lot of credit for his classification of the labour of the Railway ser- vice, he had yet got to deal with the labouring portion of the workshops employés in each district. They might have a classification of holders-up, of lifters, of boiler-makers, of car- penters, or of any other grade or class ; but at the present time they had practically three classes of labourers-a most ridiculous thing. They were supposed to have first-class, second- class, and third-class labourers, and though these three classes were graded differently they were doing practically the same work. In Petone, though there were many labourers, there were only three or four men who were classed first-class labourers. Recently, in regard to an increase of pay made to the workmen, a notice was posted up in the shops showing the payments to be given to the different grades in the service, and among the increases there was a small one of so much per day to the first-class labourers. The labourers, when they 