vote with the "Noes," in order to give an op- portunity for further discussion. Bill recommitted, and progress reported. EGMONT NATIONAL PARK BILL. On the question, That the Bill be read the third time, The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY moved, That the Bill be recommitted, in order to correct the mis- take in clause 4. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he would have no objection to that, and he would ask that clause 3 be also recommitted for amend- ment. Motion agreed to. Bill committed, reported, and read the third time. The Council adjourned at twelve o'clock midnight. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 31st October, 1901. Reserves and Other Lands Sale, Disposal, and En- abling, and Public Bodies Empowering Bill- Debentures under Land for Settlements Con- solidation Act - Personal Explanation - Maori Lands Administration Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 RESERVES AND OTHER LANDS SALE, DISPOSAL, AND ENABLING, AND PUB- LIC BODIES EMPOWERING BILL. On the question, That the introduction of http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero this Bill be postponed, Major STEWARD (Waitaki) drew the atten- tion of the House to the inconvenience of the constant postponement of this particular Bill. This Bill had been asked for over and over again, and the Government had promised that it would be gone on with this session, and surely they could obtain the Governor's consent to bring down the Bill. In a short time they would either have to drop the Bill, or, if it were proceeded with, honourable members would not have time to properly inquire into the matters embodied in it. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) joined in the protest of the honourable member. There could be no doubt that involved in a Bill of this kind was every imaginable form of negotiation, which he would not characterize by other terms, which might be right or wrong, but of which they had no possible means of ascertaining the merits. The Bill should be carefully inquired into by a Committee, and two weeks was abso- lutely too short a time in which to do it pro- perly. He hoped the House would refuse leave to introduce the Bill altogether. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) joined in the pro- test, though for a different reason than that expressed by other speakers, as the non-passing -of this Bill would entail very considerable in- colony. He had at an early period of the ses- sion asked the Government to introduce such a Bill-at a period of the session when it could be properly considered and passed into law. The answer had been in the affirmative, but, like many other Ministerial promises, it had so far not been kept. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) asked the two last speakers if they could quote a precedent for a " washing-up " Bill being introduced except at the end of a session ? It would be impossible to do it. During the session petitions came before Parliament, the recommendations of the Com mittee on which petitions were dealt with in the Bill. As for there being time for con- sideration, there was nothing to prevent any amount of consideration being given ; they could stop another month ; they were there to do the business of the country, and not to consult their own wishes. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) thought it unfair to make an attack on the Bill in the absence of the Minister in charge of it. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) thought the Pre- mier's statement was unfair, considering the hours to which he was keeping the House at work. He objected to measures being brought on when members had not the physical capacity to deal with them. There was plenty of time ahead, and members were quite prepared to stay till Christmas if it was in the interests of the country that they should do so. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the request made for the postponement of the Bill, owing to the absence of a Minister on public duty, was not unreasonable. He was surprised to hear the member for Franklin accusing the Ministry of breach of faith in this matter. He had that day received two tele- grams asking that certain things should be in- cluded in the Bill, and members must know that Bills of this sort had to be deferred till the last possible moment, so that nothing should be omitted that ought to be included. Mr. LANG (Waikato) protested against the insinuation by the Premier, that members were anxious to get away; it was well known that the Premier was far more anxious to get rid of them than members were to go. Members were quite ready to stay and do the business properly, so long as that business was done within reasonable hours, as he thought the country objected to nothing more than that business being done at such unnatural hours. Mr. SEDDON said he was not at all anxious to get rid of members. There was never the end of a session that he did not miss them. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) suggested that the House should adjourn for a week, for a well-earned rest, and then come back and finish the business. Motion agreed to. DEBENTURES UNDER LAND FOR SET- TLEMENTS CONSOLIDATION ACT. The DEPUTY-SPEAKER read the follow- ing letter from the Controller and Auditor- General :- 