dilemma. When we come to the estimates we | Attorney-Generals, they fall on them in a most shall strike off the item. The Bill will be brought on for its second reading, and on that occasion members, having had time to reflect on the information that has been afforded them, will probably pass it without dissent. At any rate, the Bill will go Home for the Royal assent, and those who contend that otherwise there would have been an evasion of the Royal Instructions will be satisfied, because they will see that what has been done by the Government has been done constitutionally. Mr. ATKINSON .- That is rather rough on the Solicitor-General. Mr. SEDDON .- No, it is not at all rough on the Solicitor-General, because the Solicitor- General, while adhering to his opinions as to the legality of the matter, said the question of the personal element-the question of the House and the question of estimates versus Bill -must rest with the Government. It was a political matter, he said, and it was not bis place to advise the Government on it. Mr. FISHER .- What would have happened if the Solicitor-General had decided in the other direction ? Mr. SEDDON .- If the Solicitor-General some weeks ago, before a grant was put on the esti- mates, had advised that the proper course was a Biil, and that the Governor could not give his assent to the Appropriation Bill on account of an appropriation being in that measure, we would not have put the item on the estimates at ail, but would have brought down a Bill in the first instance. The course we are now taking will, I think, meet the objections that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have been raised, and prevent, as I believe it will prevent, an acrimonious discussion on the estimates. Then the matter would not have ended there. We should have had it again when the Appropriation Bill was before the House, and in all probability it would come up next session as well. There will be a fair debate on the second reading of the Bill ; but I do not want it to be said that I was on the horns of a dilemma, and that by taking the course I am now taking I am admitting I had made a mis- take. I have made no mistake. I say I could have passed the amount on the estimates, and His Excellency would have been justified in signing the Appropriation Bill. But the ques- tion of policy comes in, and, as a matter of policy, and with a view of preventing what might lead to unpleasantness, and to promote peace, I am taking the present course. Mr. ATKINSON .- There is something more about policy at the end of the letter. Mr. SEDDON. - I have given you the legal opinion. Mir. PIRANI .- Give us the illegal opinion. Mr. SEDDON .- There is nothing illegal. I may say to members opposite that I quite appreciate the course they have taken. I can- not help appreciating it. The course they have taken has my greatest admiration. I only wish my friends on this side would do the same. On this side there are three or four coming Attorney - Generals, and, instead of members on this side supporting my coming outrageous manner sometimes. But there is one little pet lamb on the other side who is a budding Attorney-General, and on that side they all stick to him. Honourable members all know the legal duels there are at times between the coming Attorney-General on the other side and the member for Auckland City on my side, and if it had not been for the waste of time I would have appreciated those duels myself. I say again that I do not blame the Opposition for laying stress on anything that is brought before the Government by a member of their party. I was young ard erratic once myself, just as the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) is. An Hon. MEMBER .- He is sowing his legal wild oats. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I do not like to in- dorse that opinion, or I might bring the two honourable gentlemen into conflict. However, I wish to say that the course I am now taking is in the best interests of the colony. It will save unpleasantness that might otherwise have arisen, and, that being so, I ask the House to pass the Bill. The course I am suggesting will facilitate the colony in meeting its liabili- ties, because a separate Bill as soon as passed may be sent Home at once, while if we had to wait for the Appropriation Bill we should have to wait until the end of the session. The mat- tor has been well thought out. Mr. FISHER .- Why was it not foreseen ? Mr. SEDDON .- It was foreseen. If you ask me if I could foresee that there were certain members who would block my estimates in respect to that point, I say I could not foresee that ; and I take it that no man in the world could foresee what the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) himself is going to do. In fact, I do not think the honourable member himself can foresee it. Mr. FISHER .- I am like you : I want to see which way the cat is going to jump. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member is the cat in this case, and I want to take the proper course and avoid a catastrophe. Some honourable members have asked why the Pre- mier did not bring in a Bill on the matter. <!-- PageHeader="1" --> Well, the Premier has decided in what way he thinks the cat is going to jump, and the Bill that has been brought in will, I believe, be unanimously passed by the House. The colony will not repudiate ; the responsibility must con- stitutionally rest, in the first place, on the Go- vernment. When the Home authorities asked the question was the colony going to pay the cost, if we had said "No" they would pro- bably have taken another course ; but the Ministry of the day said the colony had in- vited their Royal Highnesses to be the guests of the colony, and the colony would pay the cost. I say this is a legitimate portion of the cost, and I say, further, that the colony will cheerfully bear it. Mr. PIRANI .- I would like to ask the Pre- mier if he will lay the document on the table containing the legal opinion with regard to this . matter. <!-- PageNumber="." --> 