ground for agricultural and pastoral purposes : Provided, however, that if at any time the association ceases to exist, or the Governor is of opinion that it is not using the land for the purposes hereby intended, he may resume it, and it shall thereupon become Crown land, available for sale or other disposal. " (2.) The Public Trustee shall, before such grant is issued, and with the consent of the Minister of Lands, select Crown land in the Auckland Land District open for sale or selec- tion under ' The Land Act, 1892,' of a value equal to the land described in the Twelfth Schedule hereto, and the Governor shall grant such land to the Public Trustee to be held by him on the same trusts and subject to the same conditions as the land described in the said Schedule is held by him at the date of the pass- ing of this Act ; and if the land in such Schedule is subject to any mortgage or other charge, such mortgage or charge shall thereupon apply to the land so selected, and the District Land Registrar shall make such entries against the titles to the lands as the circumstances require, without any fee or charge." Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved to strike out the words "open for sale or selection under ' The Land Act, 1992.' " Amendment agreed to, and new clause as amended added to the Bill. On the motion of Mr. DUNCAN new clauses 55 and 56 were agreed to, namely :- "55. Whereas a certificate of title has been issued in error to Susan Hayes for Lot 45 of Section 1, Small Farms, Panmure, containing two acres and a half, the section having been already Crown-granted to Andrew Bourke, and it is desirable that Lot 48 of the same section, containing two acres and a half, should be granted to George Taylor, the last successor in title of the said Andrew Bourke: Be it there- fore enacted as follows :- " The Governor may by warrant authorise the District Land Registrar to issue without further payment a certificate of title for Lot 48 to the said George Taylor, in full satisfaction for the Crown grant for Lot 45, and such Crown grant shall thereupon become void. "56. Whereas Section 9, Block VI., Village of Torea, Nelson Land District, containing one acre, more or less, was reserved for purposes of public utility : And whereas there are no unlet sections in the said village which can be acquired as a site for a church : Be it there- fore enacted as follows :- " The Governor may cancel the reservation of one rood of Section 9, Block VI., in the Village of Torea, Nelson Land District, and may sell or lease the same for a site for a Presbyterian church as if the same had not been permanently reserved." Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) moved, That the following new clause be added to the Bill :- "Whereas the Crown tenants of Allotments Numbers 16, 17, and 18, Block VI., in the Ao- hanga Survey District, became tenants under the mistake that the public road known as the Wai-o-waka Road was wholly situated on the And whereas this road exists on both sides of the stream : Be it therefore enacted as fol- lows : That so much of the said road as exists between the said allotments and such stream is hereby declared closed, and the land thereof is hereby declared to be Crown land." New clause agreed to. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) moved, That the follow- ing new clause be added to the Bill :- "Section twenty of 'The Public Works Act Amendment Act, 1900,' is hereby amended by inserting next after the words 'the road or street so dedicated,' in subsection three thereof, the words 'in such manner and to such extent as may be agreed upon between the owner and the local authority.' "Section twenty-one of 'The Public Works Act Amendment Act, 1900,' is hereby repealed." The Committee divided. AYES, 20. Gilfedder Massey Allen, J. Monk Atkinson Guinness Hall Rhodes Barclay Herries Collins Symes. Fisher Tellers. Hutcheson Field Fowlds Lang Fraser, W. Fraser, A. L. D. Lawry NOES, 23. Russell, W. R. Allen, E. G. Hornsby Buddo Seddon Laurenson Thompson, R. Carroll McGowan Ward Duncan Mckenzie, R. Meredith Flatman Willis. Graham Millar Tellers. Ell Hall-Jones Mills Tanner. Hogg O'Meara Majority against, 3. Clause negatived. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) moved the. addition of the following new clause :- " Whereas Messrs. George Boritt and T. J. Pearce are in possession of sections num- bered 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9, of Block I., Lower Wanaka District, Land District of Otago, con- taining by admeasurement two hundred and twenty-three acres and thirty-nine perches, and which were originally demised to them or their predecessors in title as agricultural leases. under ' The Mines Act, 1877,' or previous Acts granting agricultural leases on goldfields : Be it enacted with respect to each of them that he shall be entitled, on the recommendation of the Land Board, to a Crown grant for the land in his possession as aforesaid without further payment, if and when the aggregate of the payments made by him in respect of rent of such land amounts to the capital value of the land." Clause read a second time, and added to the Bill. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " Whereas Mary Ellen Boler, Eliza Ann Boler, Edward Theophilus Boler, and Alfred Storey Boler selected on the eleventh day of ! November, one thousand eight hundred and 