some members of the House. They say that the honour of the colony is at stake in this matter. Very well ; if the honour of the colony is at stake, if it is a matter of honour we should pay, then let us pay in full, or not at all. Either we must pay the whole amount or we should not pay anything ; and I say this distinctly : that, so far as I am individually concerned-and I only speak for myself-I will do all I can, and I will use every form of the House, to prevent the paying of anything of this kind. Debate interrupted by the balf-past five ad- journment. # REVENUE RETURNS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) brought up the fol- lowing statement, which he read to the House :- Statement showing the Revenue for the Seven Months ended 31st October, 1901, and for the corresponding Period of Last Year. Seven Months ended 31st October, 31st October, 1900. 1901. s. d. Consolidated Fund Ordinary Revenue 1,248,817 16 01,234,931 12 8 Customs ... 431,036 10 9 Stamps 414,632 11 6 Telegraph 42,475 Post and 38,405 16 11 9 11 cash receipts 4,334 Land-tax 1,836 3 0 Income-tax 6,114 5,559 9 5 7 Property-tax ... 47,204 5 Beer duty 6 44,157 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Railways 985.145 12 2 889,933 Registration and other 39,495 11 2 34,481 fees 15,477 7 Marine 17,925 5 11 .. Miscellaneous 71,167 15 11 62,603 19 ... Territorial 42,990 11 Cash land sales 43,568 17 5 Deferred-payment land 5,257 18 6,765 16 6 sales 89,968 2 Pastoral rents, &c. 91.517 18 3 Totals 3,014,581 4 102,901,223 18 0 Mr. PIRANI .- Give us the expenditure. Mr. SEDDON .- I have given you enough figures for you to understand at one time. move, That this return do lie on the table, and be printed. Motion agreed to. HOUSE RESUMED. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER resumed the chair at half-past seven. RAILWAYS AUTHORISATION BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting draft of a Bill in- tituled, " An Act to authorise the Construction of Certain Railways," and recommending the House to make provision accordingly. Message referred to Committee of the Whole. # IN COMMITTEE. On the question, That provision be made in accordance with His Excellency's message. Mr. Hornsby should have some information as to what rail- ways are recommended in this Bill. If the <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> Minister for Public Works is recommending the construction of any fresh railways I hope <!-- PageHeader="i" --> he will not forget to put in the Bill provision for the extension of the Waihi Railway to Tauranga, and also provision for the extension of the Gisborne-Karaka line to Opotiki, Whaka- tane, Rotorua, and thence to Tauranga. In fact, I trust the honourable gentleman has already made provision for the authorisation of this very important line. Otherwise, as the other railways are comparatively unimportant lines in comparison with the one I have men- tioned, it would not be worth while bringing down an Authorisation Bill this session. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- The honourable gentleman will see the Bill when it comes down. Resolution agreed to and reported to the House. Bill read a first time. PAYMENT OF MEMBERS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- In rising to pro- pose the second reading of this Bill, I feel that I am doing that which has been required for many years. Honourable members will pro- s. d. bably wonder why I should make a statement of that kind. It has been said that, owing to what occurred last session, and the pressure that was brought to bear, the Government and the Premier had come to the conclusion, and on that account had promised to bring forward 3 4 3 a Bill providing for the increase of the payment of members. Sir, I will refer honourable mem- 8 5 bers to Hansard, Volume 36, of the 6th July to 5 10 9 4 the 29th July, 1880, and they will there find that I stood in this House in 1880 moving the second reading of a Bill making provision for 8 the payment of members. 1 am doing the 5 same to-night. 6 Mr. MASSEY .- Private member's Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. MASSEY. - Introduced by Governor's message ? Mr. SEDDON .- Introduced by the member for Hokitika; and I was just casually going through my remarks on that Bill, and I would I not alter a word, but I would say that during this period of years those who have represented the people have not been adequately paid for their service, and with triennial Parliaments. with contingent expenses thrown upon honour- able members, it behoves, in my opinion, the people of this country to pay fairly for services that are rendered. Indeed I hold, myself, that when you come to take the cost of an election. when you come to take the calls that are made upon members to sustain and maintain their position, that the amount you are paying is not a fair remuneration. It is the position. and not the person holding it that must be considered. I shall later on come to the details, to show that if you are to have the colony properly and fittingly represented, and to have all shades of public opinion, that you should not bar the representation of the 