think that in our civilisation we should justify polygamy. In any case, if it is bad for our own race that there should be promiscuous marriage, it is wrong for the Maori. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, I should like to say a word in support of the Bill which has just been circulated. In my opinion, it is fraught with a great deal of importance to the North Island particularly. But I have often wondered when there is going to be any finality to amending Bills regarding Maoris and Maori lands. For the past forty years there has been some attempt made by Parliament to deal with the Maoris and their lands. I think the Maori Councils, set up with a Board composed partly of Europeans, will have a very good effect. the matter were left to the Maoris they would do nothing, but when a number of Europeans are included on the Councils it will be found that progress will be made in regard to the settlement of lands and improving their social condition generally, and that justice will also be done to this fine race, and they will not be left without resources. I should be only too pleased if this Bill conferred powers in regard to the Government taking some strong step in regard to seeing that the Maori Councils were carried out without any further delay. I trust the Bill will have the effect its promoters desire. The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA .- I rose to speak on account of the remarks of the last speaker. I think he is mistaking the Bill now before the Council. It is not a Bill in reference to Native https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 lands ; it is the Maori Councils Bill. It makes provision for the management of their homes. There were two Bills introduced last session and passed into law, and both refer to Native Councils ; but one Bill deals only with titles http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero to land, the other deals with their social and sanitary conditions. It is the latter Bill which is proposed to be amended by the Bill before us. It seems to me that this Bill does not in any way amend the Act of last year, but only gives a little further power to the Committee to carry out their rules and regulations. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY. - This Bill contains simply a few slight amendments to the Maori Councils Act of last session which experience has pointed out as necessary. These Acts pro- vide the means by which the Maori people may by their own exertions, under the guidance and authority of the law, raise themselves socially, both physically and morally, to a higher stan- dard in their village communities. Maoris are not a lawless people. Their social regulations and laws are no doubt different from ours, and it will take a considerable period of time before a full assimilation of European law and custom will be made by the Maoris generally. We must exercise patience, and not force on an amiable and law-abiding race social rules and regulations which they do not yet see an urgent necessity for. My honourable friend Mr. Rigg has re- ferred to the necessity of more rigid insistence on registering births and deaths, and to the system of Maori marriage, which would with Europeans be described as shockingly immoral. Hon. Mr. Rigg regulations are a matter of climate and custom, and the Maori custom has been what may be described as patriarchal. And if the Maoris are immoral in their sexual relations, so were the Jewish kings and lawgivers. The Maori chiefs and leaders I have found to be men of their word, and, as a rule, very agreeable neighbours. I hope the Maori Councils will have the effect of gradually merging the Maori mind with our ideas of true morality, and raise a desire for healthful living and a sense of responsibility for the social and physical condition of their people. Bill read the second time. If OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, this is simply a Bill to remedy defects which have been discovered by experience to exist in the Old-age Pensions Act of 1898. I am sure any one who has studied the administration of the Act must have been astonished at the wonderful way it worked, and at its getting through such an enormous amount of work and dealing with so many applications in a satisfactory way. But still, Sir, it is only reasonable to suppose that after two years' working the officers and the department would be able to find out certain defects and propose remedies for them. Clause 2 simply provides that the Clerk of the Court must notify the Deputy Registrar of the fact, and of the date fixed for the hearing. of an application under this Act. It is purely tech- nical. Then, the Magistrate may adjourn the hearing from time to time at the request of the Deputy Registrar, and the Deputy Registrar, or some person appointed by him, is to have the right to appear at the hearing and to examine and cross-examine the applicant. Clause 3 is as follows :- " (1.) It shall be the duty of every person to make true answers to all questions concerning any applicant for a pension or renewal, or any of the statements contained in any application for a pension or renewal certificate put to him by the Deputy Registrar, or any officer autho- rised in that behalf by the Deputy Registrar. "(2.) Every person commits an offence who - "(a.) Refuses to answer any such question ; or " (b.) Makes any answer knowing the same to be untrue. "(3.) This section shall apply to any officer of any bank or other corporation carrying on business in New Zealand, and to any officer of the Post-Office Savings-Bank and of any other Government department which receives investments of money from the public." Clause 4 provides that, if a Magistrate finds that any real or personal property has been transferred by the applicant to any person, he may inquire into such transfer, and refuse the application or grant a reduced pension. Of course, it is quite necessary that such powers should be given, because we have heard that certain old people strip themselves of their properties, hand them over to their relatives, and then claim the old-age pension. Clause 5 