limited to 2s. in the pound ; but the operative part of this Bill simply amended the section of the original Bill by striking out the words which limited the rating-power to 2s. in the pound. They would have, in Committee, to consider what the limit of the rating was authorised to be imposed should be. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said it had been ex- plained before the Local Bills Committee that the limitation had acted disadvantageously to the City of Auckland, and that in consequence of it the city has had to pay ¿ per cent. more for its last loan. Now, it was proposed to carry out certain works, and to do things which would tend to the promotion of public health, and they had been informed by their banker that they could not raise funds for this pur- pose, except under great disadvantage, unless the limitation was removed. When that was removed they would be placed on the same footing as other Municipalities. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND said, when this Bill was before the Local Bills Committee C the report of that Committee recommended that the Bill be passed, with the proviso that no steps should be taken by the Borough Coun- cil under it until a poll of the ratepayers had been taken. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN thought there was a good deal in what the Hon. Colonel Pitt had said, and that this Act would go further than was intended. He hoped the honourable mem- ber, when he got the second reading of the Bill, would not put it down for committal that day. They wanted to look into the position, and if the Committee was postponed until the follow- ing day it would enable them to look into it a little further. He did not want to stand in the way of Auckland getting what other places had got, but he thought they were getting a little more here than other places had got. That, at any rate, was according to his reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said, seeing the facilities that had been given to the ratepayers of Auckland under sections 121 and others, according to "The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900," to express their views in connection with the eight proposals that would come under the heading of "special loans," he did not know whether anything further could be done as far as those proposals were concerned. The ques- tion raised by the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly was this : Whether the power given, as expressed by the preamble, "to levy rates to such amount," et cetera, might lead to unrestricted imposition of rates, supposing this Bill passed, had to be considered. The Municipal Corporations Act clearly stated that no municipal body could im- pose rates beyond a certain amount. The pro- posed loan, authority for which was asked in this Bill, was for special purposes, that were clearly and specifically stated and placed before the ratepayers of Auckland in order that they might express their approval or otherwise. Therefore he thought that the case was not on all-fours with what the honourable gentleman had men- tioned. In reply to the Hon. Mr. Jones, he presented a great number of petitions, as well as other members of the Council, asking that a poll of the ratepayers should be taken before the removal of the limitations now existing in the rating-power of Auckland Borough. He expressed no opinion upon these petitions be- yond this : that he sympathized to a large extent with the ratepayers, who should have a great deal of consideration given them when propositions were made fixing any increased rates that might be imposed upon them. But he contended that a poll had already been taken, and a very large majority of the rate. payers had expressed themselves in favour of the five proposals submitted for their considera- tion. Bill read the second time. BOROUGH OF MATAURA LOAN VALIDA- TION BILL. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said this was a very small indemnity Bill. It had become necessary for the Borough Council to put its finances in order in one or two matters, power for which was subsequently given by the Muni- cipal Corporations Act Amendment Act of last year ; but the local body failed to wait until that Act was passed through Parliament before com- pleting the transaction-they virtually acted upon a Bill before it became an Act. The preamble of the Bill pretty well explained its whole intention, and he would not, therefore, detain the Council with any further remarks. If any inquiries were made by honourable mem- bers he would answer them in Committee. He begged to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. GORE CEMETERY RESERVE VESTING AND ENABLING BILL. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK, in moving the second reading, said this Bill had a preamble which explained its purpose, and if any further explanation was needed he would furnish it in Committee. Bill read the second and the third time. TEMPLETON DOMAIN BOARD EM- POWERING BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said this Bill, unfortunately, had not got a preamble. It was, however, a perfectly proper matter to deal with. The Templeton Domain Board was created many They had a domain, and out of years ago. their funds the Domain Board had got some- thing like £350 of accrued assets from dealing with that reserve. Now, since the Templeton Domain Board was created the district had become more populous, and many little settle- ments had sprung up near it, and the Temple- ton Domain Board only asked power from Par- liament to enable them to acquire out of this £350 recreation-grounds for the small settle- ments that had sprung up in the district. It was a wonderfully considerate Bill, because it did not ask anything from Parliament. It simply asked that they might be enabled to 