about our manufactures failing at the present time. I might just as well say that the Union Company is failing as that our manufactures are failing. Just as the colony is progressing and healthy, so are our manufactures doing good work and meeting with good results, and so is the Union Company prospering. No one has a right to say that without figures, which the honourable gentleman did not presume to bring before us ; and if he had dealt with figures we could have got at him. No one has the right to say without figures that the manufac- tures of the colony are failing. I have just as much right to say that in the same propor- tion as the manufactures of the colony are failing the Union Company is failing. Neither are failing. The manufactures of the colony are in a healthy condition, and there is no need for the honourable gentleman to try and throw doubt on the prosperity of any of our industries. . It is monstrous on the part of the honourable gentleman to make such a state- ment without supporting the statement with figures. I am sure, even if he had done so, he could not have made a good case ; and had he produced figures we would have been able to prove him wrong. And then he wants to know why the Government does not try to please the right people. What does he mean by that ? I suppose he could not forget that he was at one time a member of a Ministry that had to keep itself in power by very curious ways, and he had to please certain people, otherwise the Ministry could not exist. This Ministry, so far as I am aware, has not distinguished between "right " and " wrong " people. We https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 What we want to do is are too virtuous. simply the right thing, but that does not seem to appear so to the honourable gentleman. So long as the thing is right in itself we do http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero not want to please any particular people. As he has gone away it is difficult to deal with him. Another question I think he brought up was about getting the railway-carriages from America. Why should this be thrown up against the Government? Why should this be made a sin or a fault that they have com- mitted? It is no use honourable gentlemen trying to get away from this fact: For the last four or five years our railway traffic has been increasing to such an extent that it was hopeless to equip our workshops so as to be able to cope with the construction of carriages that were necessary. I hope no member of the Council doubts for a moment that the Government would have sooner bought car- riages in New Zealand than outside. But the last few years the pressure on the department has been so great that there is no use ex- pecting that the shops could turn out a sufficient number of carriages to cope with the traffic on the railways. It might be said that more machinery might be imported, and then more work could be done. That is being done; but you cannot do all this work of a sudden : you cannot increase a shop 100 per cent. on its output all of a sudden. You have to get the machinery; and I can assure honourable gentlemen that, do as much as we Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker can, in the last few years our traffic has grown so much that, in spite of all our efforts in our workshops, we have not been able to keep pace with it in the matter of carriages and rolling- stock. The question was where to get them. It was a matter of time. We order them one year ; we want to get them in before the busy season next year. Naturally we would rather, being a British community, have put the con- tracts out with British manufacturers than with any foreigner. But what could be done ? The most important point of the contract with us was that the cars must be here at a certain time to be ready to take up their work in the grain season. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - They were not ordered soon enough. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, there are only twelve months in the year. Parlia- ment meets only once, and you cannot order these things without you have got authority to spend the money. The honourable gentleman will not deny that. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I know the diffi- culties that occur in our district through shortage. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, I hope it is a growing district in every sense of the word. The honourable gentleman ought, therefore, to know from his experience that the requirements of the railways as regards rolling- stock increase year by year. But, still, Par- liament has to give the authority. We get it as soon as we can. We send our orders Home. and we cannot get English manufacturers to undertake to deliver at any particular time They say they will do it, but they cannot bind themselves to time. We find, however, that American manufacturers will do so. You want wagons in six months. They say, " All right, here is our price, and we will deliver at a certain time "; whereas if it were an English firm it would be different. I have a contract at present with an English firm of the highest standing twelve months over date. I suppose I could chuck it up. That is the mischief with Eng- lish manufacturers, and that is why the Eng. lish manufacturers are going to wreck their own country and their own trade: they will not study the necessities of the case, or recognise that they have to keep up to date-that there !s no longer the old easy way of dawdling along as their fathers and mothers did. They have got to get up to date and know that if a thing is wanted to- morrow it must be found to-morrow. otherwise somebody else will find it. That is the only excuse I can give for the Government going to America for wagons and carriages. I do not mean to say they are better than these made in England - possibly not ; but, still. they come up to date. They are supplied ac- cording to contract, according to our own de- signs ; and I do not believe, in spite of what the Hon. Mr. McLean said, they are too heavy or too clumsy, and not what we want. They were built to our own designs. The only trouble was something about the axle, and they were to be fitted at the expense of the contractors. The Government does not 