sheets, tumblers, or anything else ; and in this respect I think it is a little unfair to the Go- vernor that his name should be brought on the floor of the House. I think that the sum is a large sum, but we have to recognise the fact that our Governor is placed in a different posi- tion from that of the Governor of any of the Australian Colonies. The Governor travelled with, and in a manner entertained, the Royal guests throughout the colony. He had to enter- tain them in each of the four centres, and, whatever the items may be which comprise the sum total of this expense, I can quite easily understand that the Governor would necessarily be put to some expense; and if now the Go- vernor himself asks for and countenances a Bill being brought down to the House to reimburse him for the outlay, I, as a democrat, shall vote for it, feeling that I have no right to cast .on the Governor the cost of entertaining guests we ourselves invited to the colony. Mr. McNAB (Mataura). - Sir, I intend to vote for this Bill. It seems to me as if the posi- tion is very easily summed up. We have in- vited the Royal party to this colony ; one of our officers has, from his peculiar relationship to the Governor of the colony, to go to very consider- able expense in the personal entertainment of them ; and it seems to me that, once you state that position, you must follow it up by taking care that the officer whose position, through no action on his part, is as I have mentioned should not be put to any cost in entertaining people whom you have forced upon him. It is a mis- take that His Excellency's name was ever intro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 duced into this discussion. Some of those who have discussed the question this evening have given as a reason that the proper constitutional procedure has not been followed by His Excel. / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero lency's Advisers. Others have expressed the opinion that it would have been infinitely better if the sum had been put down as one vote, for the entertainment of the Royal visitors all over the colony; and perhaps a great deal may be said in favour of that. But surely we would not urge, because the mis- take has been made by His Excellency's Ad- visers, that therefore His Excellency should in- cur any risk whatever of being called upon to pay this money. These two questions are en- tirely separate, and the mere fact that a pe- culiar procedure-if it is a peculiar one-has been followed is no reason at all for His Ex- celiency's name being brought on the floor of the House and discussed as it has been this evening. However, I do not propose to refer to him or to his connection with this Bill, but simply to say this: that whenever we have a Governor in this colony who is a representative of the King-and I hope there will always be one such who will be sent to us from the Mother-country-we shall never have any one in such a position that he will have to ask him- self, before he takes on himself the position of Governor of the colony, whether he has to run the risk of entertaining Royal or other visitors that this colony calls to its shores. An Hon. MEMBER .- We gave him £2,000 for them. Mr. McNAB .- And if our own actions cost him another £10,000, and he does it well, we have to foot the Bill, and we ought not to raise the question. We had the opportunity of saying whether these people should come here or not, and then was the time to say whether we objected to the cost. A great deal has been said about the extravagance of the Royal visit. Well, we have this to consider in this colony : that when we have private persons going to considerable expense in entertaining the Royal guests, whether we like it or not, the colony must not be behind them ; and on that account, and, in addition to that, when we remember that while in the other colonies the entertainment of the Royal pair centred around the capital city of the colony, and was not distributed over the various towns of the colony, as it was in New Zealand-we have to remember, when we take that into consideration, that the entertainment of the Royal pair in this colony was a very, very different thing from their entertainment in any other city in Australasia. Hence it is that great expense has fallen on the people of this colony. I believe, myself, that $70,000 will not cover the expenditure. And I would have liked to have had an opportunity of discussing the 11.0. whole question in another way. But, seeing that His Excellency has been put to these expenses, we ought, in justice to him, as representative of Royalty in this colony, to pass this measure, and discuss the question of ex- penditure in connection with the Royal visit in another context. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I think, Sir, the difficulty which most members have felt in speaking to-night is an indication that it is a very unfortunate thing that a Bill has ever been brought in at all. The Right Hon. the Premier is not usually embarrassed when he addresses the House or any other assemblage, but he was visibly embarrassed to-night. He was laboured in his speech throughout, and he felt, as we all feel, that he had a most un- pleasant task to fulfil and to call upon the House to fulfil. He suggested that so eminent a personage as His Excellency must be spoken. of, if we spoke of him at all, with bated breath,. and no doubt the greater the deference that can be shown to His Majesty's representative in this colony the better. But it is absurd, when a Bill of this kind is brought in, to suppose that any matter in it at all can be discussed with bated breath or in an undertone. The honour- able member for Ashley has reminded the House of the fact that in discussing similar subjects in the Old Country-where they are more immediately under the shadow of the throne than we are here - the utmost freedom of debate is customary in the House of Commons. An English poet has said, illustrating the aspect on which the Premier prefers to dwell,- A clod, a piece of orange-peel, An end of a cigar, Once trod on by a princely heel, How beautiful they are ! There is truth, and a sublime truth, in these lines, but the spirit and tone are not appro- priate, in my opinion, to the people's repre- 