those districts where high schools had been established, although they were entitled to a proportion of the revenue derived from those reserves, were unable to get any statement of account from the Commissioners. The Board of Governors of the Whangarei High School had repeatedly applied to the clerk of the Com- missioners for a statement showing the receipts from the reserves, and showing how the receipts had been allocated to the different high schools, but the Commissioners positively refused to render any statement of account or give any information whatever to the Board of Go- vernors. It would therefore be seen at once that, in making appointments of Commissioners for those reserves for those districts where high schools existed, those localities should be re- presented on the Commission. The Thames district, he believed, had made complaints for the same reason. They were also in the same position as the Whangarei district was in, and he hoped the Government would bear this in mind in making any fresh appointments, so that the Thames and Whangarei districts should have representatives on the Commission. He could assure the honourable gentleman that there was a very strong feeling of irrita- tion in the Provincial District of Auckland owing to the refusal of the secretary of the Board of Commissioners to furnish any infor- mation as to how the funds from these educa- tion reserves were disbursed amongst the various secondary schools. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the School Commissioners for the District of Auckland were appointed under "The Education Reserves Act, 1877." They were Messrs. Lennox, Mueller, and Shera, appointed by the Government, and Messrs. Luke and Udy appointed by the Education Board. They were appointed for three years, and their present period of office would expire in March next. The revenues derived from the reserves set apart for secondary education were appropriated by the School Commissioners at their discretion for the advancement of se- condary education in their respective provin- cial districts. Last year the Thames and Whangarei High Schools received from the School Commissioners a sum of $80. The matter referred to by the honourable member was a proper subject for consideration when re- appointments were to be made, in March next. RECREATION AND FOREST RESERVES. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minister for Public Works, If he will introduce an amendment to the Public Works Act, pro- viding .- (1) That land may be taken compul- sorily for recreation-ground purposes ; and (2) that forest lands may be taken for the purpose of preserving the forest and native fauna ? He might point out that even in Wellington there was a desire to purchase some land for the pur- pose of preserving the foreshore to the com munity, and that could not be done unless some amendment was made in the law. To acquire land for recreation purposes was one of Mr. R. Thompson could be purchased. As the law now stood the local bodies had not the power to enable them to do that. With regard to forest land, he might point out one instance that he knew of where there was a patch of bush land, and there was a desire expressed by the people in the district that it should be purchased. The owner valued it at £20 per acre, and for taxing purposes it was valued at ₺5 10s., but when the owner was approached with regard to the sale of the property he said he would not take less than £20 an acre, and the local body had either to submit to pay that or go without. When the bush was taken off that land it would prac- tically be valueless, or be only suitable for growing cocksfoot grass upon it. If bush did exist near a town, and the public in the neigh- bourhood desired to preserve it for public pur- poses, the local body should have the power to take it. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public . Works) said this opened up a very large ques- tion -namely, the taking of land for recreation purposes, and also of reserves of forest land. The powers under the present Act were exten- sive, and it was a question as to whether the provisions should be extended in order to meet these cases. No doubt in many cases such re- serves were desirable; but he was not aware that the Government had had representations by the local authorities that what the honour- able member asked should be done. However, the matter was an important one, and when any amended legislation dealing with the Public Works Act was brought before the House he would look closely into this matter and see whether the request of the honourable gentle- man was advisable. OEO NATIVE LAND. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Goveru- ment, Whether their attention has been called to the fact that the sand is increasing seriously on Native land at Oeo, on the west coast of the North Island ; and whether they propose to take any action in the matter ? This was a most important question-one deserving the serious consideration of the Government. He would now read a letter he had written to the Public Trustee in reference to it :- " On Monday, the 1st instant, as the Hon. Hall-Jones and I were returning from Opunake by the Great South Road, when we arrived at Pihama, and again at Oeo, our attention was called to the destruction of property that is taking place in the neighbourhood by the inroad of drift sand, particularly at Oco. Hun- dreds of acres of first-class land have already been destroyed, and, if permitted to go on, the whole of that portion of the district is in danger. The property in question is, I believe. Native land, and, in the interest of the owners, district, and colony, I sincerely trust that some action will be taken to stop the invasion, for. if allowed to go on in the future as in the past. it is only a matter of time until the whole of this particular portion of the coast will become worthless. The Hon. Hall-Jones promised to 