away from the people the liberties which they ought to possess. I say that if the country, under these circumstances, having made pro- vision for possible action during the recess owing to matters which are vet being devised by the Federal Government - I say that, under the circumstances, you can do nothing less in order to meet this situation than to give effect to a proposal of this kind, and leave it to the Governor in Council to act -either to reduce the duty below 3s. per 100 ft., or to increase it beyond 3s., but not over 5s., if that is necessary and desirable, to secure to this country a portion of the business, which I think honourable gentlemen will see is for the well- being of a great industry. That brings me to the last point to which I wish to refer. The honourable gentleman says this has been done without consultation, as far as the people of the colony are concerned. Now, the honourable member will at once admit that, if you want to consult the people of the colony as to what should be done in a fiscal emergency of this cha- racter, it will be necessary for a referendum to be submitted to the people; but when we have the members of the House of Representatives met, as they are, when we are in a position to take their judgment and to follow a course such as this, if it seems right when that course has been adopted, I do not think it can really be said that the people of the colony have not been con- sulted. The representatives of the people have their responsibilities on behalf of their people. And no one can gainsay the fact that the leaders of this industry, the men who are most inti- mately associated with it, after carefully con- sulting together, and with a responsible Minister present-no one can say they are not in a position to advise on the situation. My honour- able friend the Minister of Customs attended during the Conference, when the situation was put before him by those who naturally desire no improper interference with or injury to the industry. The sawmill-owners, the proprietors of the mills-the men of most experience in this industry-would not have unanimously recommended the adoption of something that would be inimical to the sawmilling industry and disastrous to the men employed in it, and therefore ruinous so far as the industry itself is concerned. I can assure members of the House that the only reason we have for asking that this power should be taken for the Governor in Council is to insure, under circumstances that are unique and that have yet to be determined after action is taken by the Federal Council, that then a course should be taken one way or the other that will be most in the interests of this colony. I do not think any better way than the one proposed could be suggested ; but if any honourable member has a better way, then. I say, in the interests of the country, we shall be too glad to receive his suggestions. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I regret I am not able to see the matter in quite the same view as that in which the honourable member has approached it. I feel that at the present time it would be a great mistake on the part of Sir J. G. Ward tate those on the other side. Any of us can see from the discussions that there is much debate as to what should be done, although at the present moment the majority in the Federal Parliament favour a system of protection. But, considering how important it is to us to keep on the friendliest possible terms, I say we should not show even any temporary irritation at what is proposed. I think that is the correct method to follow. If I had time I could enlarge upon the subject, but will not now do so. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - With previous speakers, Iapprove of the remarks of the honour. able member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Rus- sell. I very much regret that we have not had more notice of the measure being brough: down. I am aware that it, was talked of some time ago, but I thought the subject had passed away, and that we were to hear no more about it. From the remarks which have been made on this Bill, one would imagine that the control of the timber business of Australia was in the hands of our sawmillers; whereas the export from New Zealand forms a very important part indeed to us, but a comparatively small part of the timber imports into Australia. This move- ment seems to me almost too insignificant to call for special attention on the part of the Australian statesmen. I would also remind the honourable gentleman that a very large number of gentlemen in Australia are opposing the duty which is proposed by the Common- wealth, and the important Kauri Timber Com- pany of the North, which is almost entirely owned by gentlemen in Australia. You may depend upon it that what influence can be brought to bear upon the Government there will be brought by those gentlemen as a matter of self-interest. I think we should be very careful how we interfere in the way of intro- ducing any irritating element into this matter. Just pardon me for a moment while I 12.0. cast my thoughts back as briefly as possible to the manner in which we have treated the promoters of the movement which resulted in the consummation of the Australian Commonwealth at its first inception. They invited us to a Conference, and we sent over our delegates some years ago, and these dele- gates reported to us that there should be no further participation or sympathy on the part of New Zealand with that great movement. After many years, and after lengthened later and immense trouble, the representatives of the Australian States went before the House d Commons, and there our Agent-General me: them in a very discourteous manner indic. He attempted then to impose interference in s matter that solely belonged to Australia, al.d with which we had previously declared we had little or no concern or interest. And now, Sir. when they are arranging a tariff that they k- lieve to be for their own welfare, and also after we have had an important Commission travers ing the Australian Colonies at great cost to de- termine whether or not it would be wise for as to join in the Commonwealth movement in Aus. tralia-the moment, I say, when they have legen 