issued by the Life Saving Society, of England, obtained through the Agent-General, and dis- tributed to schools. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked, in reference to the item "Grant to the widow of the late Sir John Mckenzie, Minister of Lands, $2,000," whether it was the intention of the Govern- ment to hand over the lump sum, or provide an annuity. Mr. SEDDON said the Government would have the matter carefully gone into, and the House might rest assured that they would do their best and give effect to the wishes of the majority of the House, who in this manner desired to pay a tribute to their late friend and comrade. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) thought the House should be afforded some particulars about the enormous sum of £20,000 in con- nection with the Royal visit. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) thought the expenses of the Royal visit had been covered by the amount on the general esti- mates. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said it ap- peared that the expenses in connection with the Royal visit amounted to $90,000. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) wished to know something about the Premier's visit to the Coronation. He did not object to the amount set down, because it was far better that a reasonable sum should be named, and there should be no haggling afterwards, and he hoped there would be no future sum referring to the visit. Would the Premier say whether he was to be the sole representative of the colony at the Coronation, with the exception of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Agent-General ? Mr. SEDDON said the Government had dis- cussed the matter, and they came to the con- clusion that the Premier might be invited to attend the Coronation, and that being so, they considered it their duty to make provision ac- cordingly. He had all along said that he would not again be placed in the position in which he was placed on the occasion of the Jubilee celebrations. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked if £1,500 would cover all the expenses in connection with the representation of the colony at the Corona. tion. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, it would cover all his expenses. Mr. MASSEY asked the Premier to give some indication as to what course would be adopted in regard to the meeting of Parlia- ment next year. Were they to have a short session ? Mr. SEDDON said they would, so far as he saw, follow the usual course, and take the session at the usual time. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said the £1,500 that appeared on the estimates was too much. It was not so much by $250 as was voted on the occasion of the Jubilee visit ; but at the same time it was $500 more than any of the Australian Premiers spent on the same occasion, and €1,000 more than was spent by the Premier of Tasmania. Our Premier's ex- offer. But for the Premier there would pre- Sir J. G. Ward | penditure during his stay in England at the Jubilee amounted to some $20 a day, although champagne and all the other necessaries of life were found for him by the Imperial Govern- ment at the Hotel Cecil. He failed to see that there would be any more exacting or expensive requirements on this occasion, and he would move, That the item be reduced by £500. He greatly regretted that, amid all our professions of democracy and Liberalism, there was so little regard for democratic simplicity and frugality- that extravagance itself seemed to be regarded as a patriotic virtue when the country had to foot the Bill. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said this was one of those occasions on which honour. able members should drop the quasi-personal tone. All understood that the Premiers of the Empire would go to London to the coronation of the King, and he hoped honourable members would see that the New Zealand Premier went Home in the proper way, and that there would be no haggling or miserable huckstering by members of the House when the right honour- able gentleman came back, as was the case at the time of the Record Reign celebrations. He hoped the honourable member would with- draw his amendment. If the Cabinet had any intention of extending the representation of the colony beyond the visit of the Premier, be hoped that that would be dealt with now, if possible, so that proper provision could be made, and so avoid any unpleasant remarks about the increased expenditure next session. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) wished to state, in reference to the Pre- mier's last visit Home, that at his (Mr. Hall- Jones's) request the Premier made inquiries as to the best and most economical way of obtain- ing the supplies of paper and stationery for the Government Printing Office. As honourable members were aware, a very large quantity was used every year, and the improved arrangements effected a saving of £1,000 per annum, or a total of £3,000 to date. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the reason why he did feel sore, when the expenses of his visit Home were being discussed by the House. was that, by one financial transaction alone be saved this colony £10,000. In view, therefore, of what took place on the floor of the House on his return they could understand what his feel. ings were. The small matter just mentioned by his colleague and by which £1,000 a year bad been saved for four years was outside this etber business which he had just referred to. If any representation was asked for, outside of what was contemplated to be covered by this vote. then the Government would have to consider it. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said. In the event of the Governor receiving a me- sage from the Secretary of State for the Colonies, expressing the desire of the Kies to see a contingent of our Native warriors or Volunteers, what would happen would proiuk's be that honourable members would get tele- grams asking if they were favourable. In that case he would himself have no opinion to 