Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori District) .- The honourable member for Napier has mis- represented me in the quotations which he has made. He tried to make members believe that I departed from the course I took up in 1894. He also misrepresented me in reference to my statement on the petitions which he also referred to. What I did say was, and what I still maintain, is that they were not signed by each individual petitioner. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- How do you know? Mr. HEKE .- I have got information to that effect. The position I have taken up to-night was in entire accordance with the course I have always taken in the past. If the honourable member had been fair he would have explained the cause of my opposition to the Government legislation from 1894 to 1899. What were the causes of that ? The policy of the Government then was the limitation of the right to acquire Native land to itself, which inflicted a great wrong on the Natives; but since 1900 the Go- vernment have done away with that policy, and have fallen in to a great extent with the desires of the Maori people as urged by me ever since I have been in the House. That is the cause of my support given to Government Native- land measures. It is well known that the honourable member never rises to speak in this House unless he insinuates something against others, a form of argument which he thinks good, but others not so. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able member was exceeding the limits of a per- sonal explanation. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- Since my honourable friend the member for Napier quoted the remarks of the Chairman of the Native Affairs Committee I have seen the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Chairman of the Committee, and he explains the remarks made by the member for Napier. The Chairman of the Committee stated that this was an experiment made at the wish of the Natives, and, such being the case, he con- sidered that it would be just as well that we should pass the measure into law. The mem- ber for Bruce was very satirical, and expressed the opinion that, as the North Island members had not shown a capacity to handle the subject of Native legislation, therefore the South Island members should take that legislation in hand. I think that was an ungracious remark to make of the northern members, especially when we consider the number of Maoris residing in the districts represented by those members. When the member for Hawke's Bay was speaking I took down the names of the following members who were present, and in the districts of some of those members large numbers of Maoris re- side : Messrs. Lang, Monk, Lethbridge, Cap- tain Russell, Messrs. Hutcheson, Atkinson, and Herries. That being the case, I feel we must rely upon members on this side of the House to assist the Minister of Native Affairs in this matter. I shall accordingly support the mea- sure as brought forward by the Native Minis- ter. The House divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question.' AYES, 31. Allen, E. G. Hall Pere Russell, G. W. Hall-Jones Arnold Barclay Heke Stevens Steward Bennet Lawry Buddo McGowan Symes Mckenzie, R. Carncross Thompson, R. Carroll Meredith Ward. Field Millar Flatman Mills Tellers. Fowlds O'Meara Hogg Palmer Willis. Graham NOES, 19. Atkinson Lethbridge Tanner Massey Collins Wilford Ell Witheford. McNab Monk Fisher Hutcheson Pirani Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Rhodes Kaihau Smith, G. J. Herries. Lang PAIRS. For. Against. Mackenzie, T. Colvin Hardy Duncan Houston Russell, W. R. Parata. Allen, J. Majority for, 12. Amendment negatived, and words retained. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, one of the most suspicious things in connection with any important measure in this House is the fact that it is brought down in the dying hours of the session ; and it is an extraordinary fact that every Native measure the Government have brought before the House has been rushed through during the last few days of the session. The defects which are said to exist in the pre- sent law, and which are to be remedied by the Bill before the House, could never have existed but for the fact that, after the House had been sitting all night last session, this measure was brought on for consideration at eight o'clock in the morning; and how any sane person could imagine that one of the most important policy measures could be carried into law in a decent shape at that hour of the morning I cannot understand. But it seems to me there is always a fear on the part of the Ministry, in connection with the Government proposals in regard to Native lands, that somebody might find out serious flaws in the measure which might persuade the majority to vote against those proposals. Under the circumstances it is only natural that many members who do not understand the proposals contained in Biils of this sort should oppose them merely from that point of view; and it is rather surprising to many of us to find two Maori members in the House,-and the two most intelligent Maori members, the Maori members who cannot be accused of ever having had anything to do with the maladministration of Native lands- the member for the Southern Maori District, Mr. Parata, and the member for the Western 