the words proposed to be omitted stand part of could assure the House that never since he had been Colonial Treasurer had the amount remain- the question." ing on the 31st March been so small as it was AYES, 26. at present. He intended to look ahead. They Parata Allen, J. Fraser, W. had to go ahead from the 31st March until Hall-Jones Rhodes Arnold further supply was granted, and after the 31st Russell, G. W. Atkinson Hogg March there would have to be a cutting-down Buddo Hornsby Steward of expenditure, or he would be twitted, as he Carroll Hutcheson Symes bad been this session, with having liabilities Ward. Collins Laurenson over and above his ways and means. Conse- Tellers. Ell McGowan quently, he feared the margin must be left, and Meredith Field Colvin in the face of an expenditure of two millions, Mills Tanner. Flatman which was the amount on the estimates, a margin of £380,000 was not too large ; in fact, the mar- NOES, 12. gin ought to be more. He considered, however, Lethbridge Thompson, R. Fowlds that £1,250,000 was sufficient loan-money for one Massey Tellers. Heke year, and the colony would have to do the best Mckenzie, R. Herries Palmer they could with it. Members should realise Witheford. Monk Lang that the country could not go on keeping up Lawry the public debt and borrow more than a million Majority for, 14. a year. The pressure on his funds by members Amendment negatived. had been very great ; but he recognised that Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he had a few they must keep within reasonable limits, and words to say. Regarding the railways north of the amount asked by way of loan for this year Auckland-the subject-matter of the specific -¥1,250,000-was a liberal amount by which to increase the indebtedness of the colony. He amendment, so far as the Government was con- cerned-it was recognised that there was great had a few words to say about the provision in necessity both for roads and railways there. the way of roads for the farmers. He could That portion of the country had not received only say this : that he believed the better roads you had and the more roads you made you im- the same attention as other parts of the colony. In this remark he alluded to years gone by, to proved the condition of the country, and gave the days of large loans, when the public works greater opportunities to producers to get their policy was inauguated. He remembered a produce to market, and thus relieve many who at present laboured under serious disad- statement being made showing the relative expenditure and what had been contributed, vantages. taking the population basis, and there was a and in some districts where there was very little very large sum due to that part of the colony. gravel for the roads, any one who travelled In respect to the North of Auckland Railway, he through the country realised the disadvantages wanted to say there would be a full expenditure under which these people laboured. At all upon the work of the money voted for it, and events, he took it that if you took the votes for there was nothing to prevent the Minister for roads this year, as compared with years Public Works, when he under spent one year. gone by, the comparison would be favourable to the votes for this year. Then, they had been making liberal expenditure next year. Mr. MASSEY .- You intend doing that ? told that the Royal visit had a good deal to. Mr. SEDDON hoped his colleague would do with the stopping of moneys in connection bear this in mind. He wished to remove with roads. He (Mr. Seddon) said that had no another misapprehension. Members looked effect whatever on the expenditure on roads. over the estimates, and if they did not find The Government had taken from the consoli- certain items there they at once put it down dated revenue $500,000, and transferred it to that he, as Colonial Treasurer, had struck out the Public Works Fund. He thought. in a the item. Well, he would like to say he gave little country like New Zealand, that 15s. per the Minister of Lands $30,000 to divide as he head of population, as they had already, pleased. How was it possible for the Colonial for the construction of public works was a Treasurer to know how that money had been very fair amount indeed. With respect to divided ? All the Colonial Treasurer had to do the question raised by the member for was to find the money. Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), he admitted An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not give him that there was room for complaint. There was no doubt, to his mind, that the Wai- £100,000. Mr. SEDDON said he could not do it. In makariri River should be and would be utilised the Public Works Fund he had a margin of for the generation of power. The difficulty had $380,000 to carry him on after the 31st March been in the adjustment as between other bodies next and till the November following. A sum who had rights in respect to that river. With of $100,000 had gone to additions to open lines, respect to the City of Christchurch Electric and $50,000 to roads, out of the $250,000 Power and Loan Empowering Bill. the Govern- additional authorised to be raised. ment could not be blamed. The Government Mr. W. FRASER. - We have not got it. It would have been quite prepared, were it possible, is not on the estimates. to have allowed further time for the considera- Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, they had got $150 of tion of the Bill in question. Once the estimates And in these newly settled districts, 