try railway-station off the main line, and which is only approached by a line from a junction. Suggestions have been made that the best way to get a Vancouver service is to connect with the Vancouver service at Fiji by subsidiary steamers. Now, tourists and passengers always prefer, if possible, to get into the mail-steamer right away. Unfortunately we are so situated here that, if we are going Home by Suez, we have to get on the main route by means of a subsidiary steamer, and every one knows the nuisance of it. The advantage of the Oceanic service is that you can get straight to San Fran- cisco without transhipping, and 1 say that any line of steamers that does not provide against transhipping is not worth subsidising as a mail service. Well, it seems to me that the Van- couver service may just as well be put on one side at once, because I do not see how it can be entered into if there is still eighteen months to run of their contract with Queensland. And then it will take quite a year to arrange, and we are perfectly well aware that the new ships which are being built for the Union Steam- ship Company will probably not be out before two years' time. Mr. WILFORD .- Less than that. Mr. HERRIES .- I hope it will be less than that. No one wants to say a word here to reflect in any way upon the Union Company, and we only regret that they are out of the service to Fr'isco. They were undoubtedly the best- conducted vessels on the line, and it is only the exigencies of the American laws that compel them to drop out of the line, and, though we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 regret it, it is a matter we cannot help. Mr. WILFORD .- All the Auckland members must vote against the Union Company. The Star and the Herald say so. Mr. HERRIES .- I do not look to the Star or the Herald. I think, myself, they are doing more harm than anything else to the Fr'isco service. I look at the question from a colonial point of view, and I say if we want a cheap and fast line there is the San Francisco line, and I shall vote for it. Then, I may point out that the Vancouver service is not a substitute. It cannot be taken advantage of for eighteen months, and the only thing to fall back upon is the Federal service. Now, the Federal ser- vice as a mail and passenger service is subject to the trouble of transhipment, which I have spoken of before. As a passenger route that is a very great objection. You go to either Sydney or Melbourne, and you have to tranship into one of the large steamers either of the P. and O. or Orient, and it seems to me it would be a far more costly thing than the Fr'isco, as the papers show. I do not know where the Hon. the Postmaster-General got his information from. He says we should pay for our share of the Federal contract, on a population basis, £12,000 : does he mean we have the right to come in at that price, or that we can come in as an act of grace on the part of the States Common- wealth ? Sir J. G. WARD. - The Secretary sent a telegram to the Secretary of the Federal Post Mr. Herries same terms as they did- the population basis. The matter is before Cabinet, and they are con- sidering it now. Mr. HERRIES .- I have heard it said that we have the right to come in whether they con- sented or not. Sir J. G. WARD .- No. Mr. HERRIES .- I am sorry to say it has been used as an argument for the Federal service, though not by the honourable gentle- man. Sir J. G. WARD .- The position is : we have the right to come in on a poundage basis, which would cost us nearly double what we would pay if they agree to our coming in on a population basis. Mr. HERRIES .- We should not have the right to come in under the £12,000. Sir J. G. WARD .- No. Mr. HERRIES .- Now, Sir, I would ask what steps are we taking to be allowed to come in under this £12,000 rate? The honourable gentleman has said that he has sent a telegram. But what are we doing on the other hand? There is a certain Federal tariff coming out, and we are not trying to conciliate but are pro- posing to do the "mailed fist " business. We are going to have a retaliatory tariff. It has been stated in this House, and the people of Australia well know that such a tariff has been mooted in this country. Is that the time to approach the Federal Government, asking them as a favour to allow us to come in under the Federal mail-route ? Are we likely to get it ? The Postmaster-General is one time threaten- ing the Commonwealth with retaliatory mea- sures ; we will not come into the Federation ; we are proposing to annex islands contrary to them, and everything we do is contrary to and against the interests of the Commonwealth- and yet, when we come to the Federal mail- service, which is the only possible opponent to the San Francisco service, we are going to ask on our bended knees to share part of the privi- leges they have got for the purpose of carrying our mails. The whole of this statement of net cost of £19,417 of the Federal service depends upon our getting the conveyance of our mails by the P. and O. and Orient lines at the £12,000. Well, I pass on from that, and to look at what the intercolonial portion of the Federal service will cost. The Postmaster- General has put the intercolonial service at, say, £10,000. Well, Sir, what do we find in 1899? When that subject was on the tapis before a letter was written to the Union Steam- ship Company to ask what they would re- quire for it, and they replied,- " For this service we shall require a subsidy of £1,000 a month, and for this we will maintain a weekly service and give you a fixed departure each fourth Wednesday. This service would practically afford you the advantage of a weekly connection with the Federal mail-service, as the mails could leave Invercargill by train on Mondays, Dunedin and Christchurch on Tues- days, and overtake steamer from Wellington on Wednesday. Steamers from Auckland will 