the employers are willing and anxious to have | I do not think there is any chance of bricks the number of disputes multiplied-and this gentleman who gives evidence, and he is in a fair position to judge, being president of this organization, and has taken a prominent part in these matters for considerable time, avers that this clause will multiply the number of disputes-I think that is their own affair. I am only sorry that they have put us in the position of having to pass the Bill containing this provision, because I am quite sure it is not the wish of the workers that disputes should be multiplied. I admit that there have been a great many disputes for some time past, and for the next twelve months probably there will be another large number of disputes to be dealt with ; but so soon as the general run of industries are dealt with under awards, then we will find that the work of both the Court and the Board will be lessened considerably. As it is, a number of men have been forming themselves into unions who have never had any idea as to unions, and I admit that in some cases busybodies are going round trying to bring the men to see that the conditions of their labour and the circumstances under which they are working are not perhaps so good as the condition of others, and they have been suc- cessful to a very great extent. But, although it may appear to bear hardly upon employers at the present time, it will, I think, be to their benefit in the future; because, while these unions are formed now and disputes are brought before the Board, awards will be given and the conditions of any particular trade will be laid down ; and in many cases the awards will be limited, if this Bill passes. I may say I think that in all probability in a year or two we shall find that the constant addition to the number of unions will be stopped, and that the number of disputes will also stop, and that things will go on as merrily as mar- riage-bells. With regard to the multiplying of disputes by Conciliation Boards, I think such an accusation is the height of absurdity, and I cannot help wondering how a man of ordinary intelligence, like the Hon. Mr. Twomey, could get up and read an extract from the paper that was laid on the table, with a view of casting ridicule upon the members of the Board which have dealt with these disputes. He mentioned that in some cases the attempted settlement of disputes by the Conciliation Board had cost a large amount of money ; but, after all, what did that signify? It has often before been said in the Council that, as compared with the cost of strikes, the amount which these dis. putes now cost need not be mentioned ; and it must be admitted that there is no compari- son between the two amounts. But, taking it from another standpoint, supposing it cost $100 to settle a dispute between an employer and his men, or between forty or fifty employers and their men, where there is no chance of com- petition arising from importation, what does that matter? Now, there are a large number of trades in New Zealand in regard to which there is no apprehension regarding competition from abroad. We will take the brickmakers : Hon. Mr. Jenkinson being imported into New Zealand, and I con- tend that if the Conciliation Board, even at the expense of some hundreds of pounds, lays down the conditions of labour under which the em- ployers and workers will be able to work to- gether in harmony, and under which the workers will have a reasonable amount of con- sideration-more consideration than, perhaps, they have had in the past-it cannot bear hardly on the employers, because the great ad- vantages of conciliation and arbitration and the awards made by the Court are that the awards apply to every employer; and I have never known an employer yet who has grumbled about any conditions which have been laid down apart from the effect on his business where foreign competition might arise, and to some extent hamper the industry. But where there is no chance of foreign competi- tion I have never known a fair-minded em- ployer-or, indeed, any employer-take one word of exception to any award or any condi- tion that was laid down to every employer alike in' his industry. I own that in many cases the result of an award may be to enhance the price of a particular manufacture, and that the general community may have to pay more; but, judging by the prosperous condition of New Zealand lately, I do not think that en- hanced prices have been very hardly felt. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- It can only go on to a certain extent. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I do not think so, if there is no fear of foreign competition. Of course, you might exaggerate prices to & ridiculous extent ; but to any reasonable extent there cannot be any hardship to employers. They know that other employers must work under the same conditions-pay the same wages, and work the same hours-and, I ask, how could it be possible for any employer to argue logically that an award was going to hurt his trade under such circumstances! As I have said, I have never heard of one doing so. They have all been perfectly happy when a fair award was given. There seems to be a great deal of unhappiness among employers because the awards of the Concilia- tion Boards are not binding. I think that is a sort of red-herring drawn across the scent. If employers were shown that the recommenda. tions of the Conciliation Boards must be abided by, I believe that a great many more of the points that have been agreed to by the Boards would be agreed to by the employers and em- ployed alike. I do not absolve the workers from blame in this respect, because I think that in many cases they have kicked against the pricks with a view of getting better terms from the Arbitration Court. I know of two men in Wellington-members of a union - who were not satisfied recently with the recommendations of the Conciliation Board, and they went to the Arbitration Court, and now they would be only too glad to go back to the recommendations of the Conciliation Board, and have now a decided antipathy to arbitration. I shall now say a few words regarding section 6. The 