gard to the shifting of things hitherto charged to Consolidated Fund on to the Public Works Fund. If honourable members take up the es- timates of to-day and look at the items-build- ings, post and telegraph, gaols, police-stations, and so on-they will find on page after page of the public works estimates that repairs and painting and so on are now charged to capital ex- penditure. Now, is it fair that the painting and the repairing of a building should be charged to capital account, and if you do charge it to the capital account, what is the value of your finance ? The Premier the other evening, when this subject was mentioned, said that "these items were not charged to capital, as he had transferred $500,000 from Consolidated Fund to Public Works Fund." Now, Sir, with regard to this £500,000 that is transferred to the Public Works Fund, does the honourable gentleman mean to argue that it remains part of the Con- solidated Fund after it gets into the Public Works Fund, or does he mean to argue-and I put it this way-that it remains revenue, and does not belong to the capital account when it gets into the Public Works Fund? I do not care which plan is selected. If he selects to have it called capital account, then he is on this horn of the dilemma : that he is paying out of capital account items like fencing, repairs, and painting that ought to be charged to revenue. Now, Sir, if he elects, on the other hand, to say that this money, the £500,000, when it does go into the Public Works Fund, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 still remains ordinary revenue of the colony, he is on this horn of the dilemma : what is the value of his surplus? Is his surplus a true surplus? If he maintains that it is still revenue of the colony, then against it he must set the cost of painting, repairs, and so on ; and why, I ask, did he not leave it in the Consoli- dated Fund, and charge the repairs, painting, and fencing to the Consolidated Fund ? And what is the effect of the transfer ? The effect of the transfer is to show a surplus which is incorrect, and the honourable gentleman may, with convenience to himself and the department, and certainly with benefit to the finance of the colony, go carefully through the items, and pick out all those that ought to be charged against the $500,000, and reduce his surplus by that amount : that is a fair thing to do. I hold, however, that when he has trans- ferred the £500,000 it becomes a portion of the capital account. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Because it is then a part of the capital account. If I take a sum out of revenue and transfer it to capital account, it becomes part of my capital. Though the honourable gentleman may say it is not, I say it is. There are two accounts-Revenue Ac- count or Consolidated Fund, and Capital Ac- count or Public Works Fund. If the honour- able gentleman cannot see it I cannot help it. In either case he is on the horns of a dilemma. If he maintains that it is Consolidated Fund, it ought to be charged against the surplus, and the surplus reduced by that amount. It is honourable gentlemen who take an interest in the affairs of the colony, and who desire to know how we are going in regard to expenditure and finance generally, to compare this year's esti- mates with every year's estimates for the last ten years, and if they do not have their eyes opened I do not know what possible means there can be of opening them. All that is wanted is a simple comparison of the items now charged in the public works estimates and those charged ten years ago. It is just the same with the railways. I believe the Ministers are dragging us into such a system of finance that by and by, when we are hauled up by a round turn-as I dare say we shall be-we shall find ourselves in extreme difficulties. Suppose that even a few years hence we should find it difficult to go upon the loan market, how are we to put up our fences and make our repairs ? May I ask the Right Hon. the Colonial Treasurer what he is going to do when he has not £500,000 to transfer ? Is he going to keep these items on the Public Works Fund, or is he going to take them back to the Consolidated Fund? I be- lieve we are drifting into a system of finance which is extremely dangerous, and that what- ever argument there may be advanced in favour of charging certain things in respect of the railways to capital expenditure, there is no argument with regard to repairs, painting, and fencing buildings, which I have quoted. I am not referring to the buildings themselves, but to the ordinary repairs and maintenance that every ordinary business-man pays for out of his ordinary revenue account. But in this instance, as honourable members will see, it is not so done. Now, with regard to the general expenditure upon these public build- ings, the appropriations upon these buildings out of the Public Works Fund have risen from $52,000 in 1889 to no less than an estimate for this year of £207,000. Is not that sufficient for honourable members to pause and ask them- selves what the meaning of it is? I say that a portion of that increase is due to items which ought to have been charged to the working- expenses account, but were largely charged to the Public Works Fund. The expenditure for the last eight or ten years out of this fund has been enormous, and if that expenditure had been legitimate one would not complain, but it has not been so. If one looks at the expenditure on additions to open lines he will find that there has been a very large increase too, and, as I have said before, the appropriations have risen from about £12,000 in 1891 to £874,000 to be appropriated this year. As I have said, I do not object to a large increase from our Public Works Fund for additions to open lines so long as that charge is legitimate; but I do ask honourable members to consider this : whether this large and increasing expenditure which has been going on for years ought properly to be so charged ? I think it is a very great pity that we have not adopted the safer policy of 1894, and continued to charge certain of these things, at any rate, to ordinary revenue account, and so lessen de- mands which will be made from year to year 