of Wellington. These gentlemen are members of the Employers' Union, and they attend and advise that union with regard to the industrial disputes. In the case of Mr. Brown it is within my knowledge that he was a party to a dispute, but as to Mr. Field I cannot say. On looking at my communication I find that in the drivers' case both Messrs. Brown and Field were amongst the parties who referred the dispute to the Court. It may appear an extraordinary thing that Mr. Field, represent- ing the employers, sat on the Board and heard a case in which he was directly interested ; while Mr. Samuel Brown, a member of the Court of Arbitration, heard a case in which he was directly interested. For my own part I have no objection to offer. The law is such that it must necessarily be that employers' representatives in . these important positions must be connected with some industry. The workers, on the other hand, must be connected with some union, otherwise they could not be in the position to qualify themselves to sit on those tribunals. An Hon. MEMBER. - Where do you get the conciliation, if that is the case ? The Hon. Mr. RIGG. - The conciliation -comes in after both sides have been heard, and not before. It seems to me that it is a most unreasonable thing that it should be so. Who is better able to advise a union-whether of employers or of employed-than those persons who are so much in contact with the working of the Act? They may point out to their unions many formal matters which must be attended to in order that a dispute may be placed before a Board or Court in proper form, and therefore they probably save a certain amount of time and expense in that way. I can quite understand that to an unthinking person it might seem wrong that because a man is a member of a union he should also be a member of the Board of Conciliation ; but to a person with ordinary common sense it must seem that it is the most reasonable position that could occur, for I cannot understand how it would be possible to set up these tribunals if members of unions were prevented from being members of the Board or Court by some form of legislation. I am going now to deal with the principle embodied in clause 21 of the Bill, which, I have said, is an indirect way of breaking down the law. The question is, How is it going to break down the law? My reply, .based on experience and observation, is this : that the Court of Arbitration up to the present time has not been able to discharge the work that has been brought before it; and I am going to ask, if one Court of Arbitration has to .do the work of all the Boards of Conciliation, in addition to its own work, how is it possible that the law can be carried out ? The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- The delay was due to the Government. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .--- That is true to a limited extent. There was unnecessary delay, I think, in appointing Presidents to succeed. But the main reason for the delay was, I think, Hon. Mr. Rigg President of the Arbitration Court must be a Judge of the Supreme Court, the work he has to do in the Court of Appeal and in the Supreme Court takes him away so much from the Arbi- tration Court that he has not time to do all the work before that Court. I am prepared to say that, if you had a President who devoted the whole of his time to the work of the Court of Arbitration, he would not be able to do the work for the whole colony if the Conciliation <!-- PageHeader="1" --> Boards were set aside by the working of clause 21. Now, the question is, Why is all the work to be thrown upon the Court of Arbi- tration, for we do not by legislation abolish Boards of Conciliation ? The answer is that one or more recalcitrant employers will do every. thing in their power to make the working of the Act as difficult as possible. The law is so dis- tasteful to them that, if they could see that by throwing the whole of the work upon the Court of Arbitration it would be unable to do the work. and the Act would break down, they would not only refer every dispute they could direct to the Court, but by means of requests for adjourn .. ment, and the other means at their disposal. they would delay the proceedings and further increase the labour thrown on the Court of Arbitration. An Hon. MEMBER .- How would that benefit the employers ? The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- It would benefit the employers I refer to by destroying the law altogether. I believe there are good em- ployers in the colony who are in favour of it, and who would be sorry to see anything done to injure it ; but that is not so with some employers, and they seem to some extent to have got support in two directions. In the first place, they have received support from a section of the Press. Then, the newly organ- ized Farmers' Union and some of the Liberal members in Parliament have also given them a certain amount of encouragement. Now. I want to say a word or two about the attitude of some of the leading papers in the colony in regard to this Act. I believe that, at any rate. so far as Wellington is concerned, the work of the Board of Conciliation would have been much more effective and satisfactory had it no: been that the local Press had stirred up a feeling among the employers to oppose the Board of Conciliation. I have noticed that the old tra- ditions in regard to the Press are very much disregarded, especially in Wellington. The Press was at one time considered the champion. of human liberty, and it has on many occasions taken up the cause of those who were unjustly oppressed, and has rendered good service. Can any one who has read the newspapers in this city -and I presume most honourable members do read them-say that they have risen to that high standard ? It is only when you recognise how they put their own sordid interest before prin- ciple that you can recognise the depth of degra - dation to which a useful institution may fall. I was talking this over at one time with a friend. and was referring to the unfair treatment that was meted out to some Liberal members in 