The Clerk of the Arbitration Court received only $25 per annum ; and was any man going to take up the position at that salary? Cer- tainly not. Before he left the subject, he would like to know what principle governed the Ministry in the increases it was proposed to give to these officers. Mr. McGOWAN said the increases in some departments were made by classification ; many of the departments, of course, were not classi- fied. As to the salary of the Deputy Regis- trars, who also acted as Clerks of the Arbitra- tion Court, it was considered that the salaries now given were fair, considering the work donc. He would be glad to confer with the Premier on the subject, and if it was thought that any further increase was deserved on account of extra work it would be given. In regard to the Registrars of the Supreme Court, referred to by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), he was informed that the salary of £400 per annum now allowed to them was fair remuneration for the office. He desired to see every man paid for his services, but no man should be overpaid. At present, the public service, he considered, was officered by good, reliable men, who were entitled to receive fair wages; and he could promise the House that if he found it neces- sary, after consultation with the Premier, who was in charge of the Labour Department, to increase the salaries, then the matter would be again considered. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked if the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 present President of the Arbitration Court, in his capacity of a Supreme Court Judge, drew travelling-fees out of the amount of £2,000 put down on the estimates for "Travelling-expenses of Judges, and other expenses of Circuit Courts and Court of Appeal." Mr. McGOWAN said, When he was travelling on circuit as a Judge of the Supreme Court his travelling-expenses were paid out of this vote, but not when he was travelling solely on Arbitration Court business. Vote, £6,645, agreed to. Bankruptcy, £3,987. Mr. PIRANI asked for details of the item " Contingencies, £101." Mr. McGOWAN said the contingencies were as follows :- s. d. Clerical assistance (casual) 0 17 0 .. Diaries, directories, ink, &c. 6 6 2 . Gas 12 4 10 Fuel, cleaning, &c. 9 5 8 .. . . Legal expenses 2 0 2 .. Salary of office boy, Wellington 25 16 8 . . Sundries 1 1 0 Telephone subscriptions 31 10 0 6 £101 8 Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked, What steps had been taken towards appointing a Deputy Official Assignee at Stratford ? Mr. McGOWAN said, So far as his informa- tion went, the business done in that locality did not warrant the appointment of a Deputy to confer with the honourable member with a view of ascertaining what was necessary in that direction. Mr. SYMES was assured by solicitors prac- tising on the coast that there was a great deal more work done about Stratford than in many places where there were more officials to do the work. At present much of the work had to go to New Plymouth to be attended to. Mr. McGOWAN said he would look into the matter. Vote, £3,987, agreed to. District Magistrates' and Warden's Courts, £46,550. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked why the Minister had not established a District Court at Pahiatua. Mr. LANG (Waikato) drew attention to the necessity of more Justices of the Peace in the back country. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked whether the honourable gentleman had considered the question of establishing a District Court at Auckland. He also wished to know whether the Minister was prepared to consult the Law Societies with regard to the suitability of those it was proposed to appoint to the magisterial bench. Some of those lately appointed were not experienced men. He admitted that the salary was quite inadequate for the work they were called upon to perform. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said there was a desire on the part of the people of the Auckland Province to have a District Court established there, to sit in the various centres of population. With the present salaries paid he did not think that experienced professional men would accept appointments to the magisterial bench. He thought no Stipendiary Magistrate should receive less than $500 a year to start with. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said he hoped the Minister, if he considered the question of establishing a District Court for the Auckland Province, would bear in mind the matter of mining centres. It would be very unfair to have matters tested, that might be of great importance, on appeal from a Warden's Court by an inexperienced man. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked why Mr. North- croft, one of the oldest Magistrates they had, received £50 a year less than some other Magis- trates who were not nearly so experienced as was Mr. Northcroft. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said the establish- ment of District Courts would not increase the cost of justice to the country one iota. There were dozens of towns in New Zealand where the District Court should sit. He also wished to again call attention to the urgent necessity that existed for the appointment of Justices of the Peace in the back country districts. He hoped the Minister would give them an assur- ance that if he did not know the necessities of the people of New Zealand in the matter of the establishment of District Courts, and the ap- pointment of Justices of the Peace, he would make himself so acquainted in the early future. 