and Customs." Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved to insert the words " Police and " before the word " Customs." Amendment agreed to. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved to omit the words "articles or things " and insert " antiquities," and to omit all the words of the clause after the word " Act." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 6 .- " In case any dispute arises as to whether any article or thing comes within the scope of this Act, such dispute shall be deter- mined by the Governor in Council." Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved to strike out the words "Governor in Council," and insert the words " Colonial Secretary." Amendment agreed to. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " The Governor may acquire on behalf of the colony such Maori antiquities as he deems ex- pedient, and may provide for the safe custody of the same." New clause added. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) proposed the following new clause :- " Any person may at any time present to an authorised Government officer any Maori anti- quity, and obtain permission to remove the same from the colony or dispose thereof by sale or otherwise at any time thereafter, which per- mission shall be signified by a stamp or mark made thereon by such officer." New clause agreed to. Bill reported and read a third time. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero SCHOOL ATTENDANCE BILL. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- Sir, this is a Bill somewhat similar to the Bill which passed the Committee stage in the House, and which was introduced by the member for Palmerston. In the main pro- visions of this Bill there are some slight altera- tions from the policy of the Bill of the honour- able member, as altered in Committee ; but in addition to this, there are other alterations, I may say, among which there is no pro- vision for cases of truancy to be heard at the schoolhouse where the offender should be in attendance. That is a mattter upon which members of the House expressed their approval in the former Bill, and is not contained in the present Bill. And then, in regard to the number of attendances, there is some difference. This Bill has passed through the Legislative Council with some other provisions which are an im- provement. For instance, a parent may be often put to great inconvenience and expense owing to being frequently summoned through a child playing truant. Now, it is provided in this Bill not only for the parent being punished by fine if his child does not attend school, but it also provides that the Board of Education may institute a school for truant children ; and if a parent has an unruly child or children, who are in the habit of playing truant from ordinary child or children to be sent to this truant- school, where extra care will be taken that they do attend, and are brought under dis- cipline which it is advisable should be imposed upon them. Then, again, another provision which was not in the Bill of the honourable member for Palmerston is in connection with deaf-mutes. I believe there is a provision in the English law that deaf - mutes shall re- ceive a certain amount of education, but it has never been compulsory in New Zealand. This Bill provides that deaf-mutes shall be sent to a school ; probably it would mean the school established by the State. If the parent is in a position to pay for the tuition and main- tenance of his child, then he will pay up to 10s. per week, and if it is found that certain parents are not in a position to pay that sum, then the Stipendiary Magistrate can fix a sum less than that; and no sum at all need be paid if the parent is not in a position to meet his obliga- tions in this respect. There are some provi- sions which are in the Bill of the honourable member for Palmerston that I should wish to see embodied in this Bill when it is in Com- mittee. As the former Bill was such a short time ago discussed both in the House and in Committee, I content myself now with moving the second reading of the Bill. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I regret that it is necessary to duplicate the work of the House in the way which has been done in regard to this measure, and I think the shortest way to have dealt with this subject would have been to have read the Bill a second time pro forma, and referred it to a Committee to amend it in accordance with the expressed desire of the House. One important omission in the mea- sure is that it does not deal with Maoris and half-castes who attend the ordinary public schools. It has been found very awkward to enforce their attendance, as, unless specifi- cally included in the operation of the law, they do not come under it, and it is advisable they should be included. Then, the provision in this Bill in regard to attendance is most ridi- culous. The provision is that the child shall attend seven times out of ten consecutive times that the school is open. Now, the school can only be open ten times in one week, and I sup- pose about one-tenth of the school weeks con- tain either a half-holiday or a whole holiday, with the result that on these weeks it would be impossible to enforce any attendance at the schools at all. Besides, the child would be able to leave school on the Thursday morning and not turn up again until the following Tuesday afternoon ; and yet that is called a Bill to en- force compulsory attendance. Mr. SEDDON .- Why not incorporate your Bill with this measure and send it back to Committee ? Mr. PIRANI .- I think there are many pro- visions in this Bill that are better than mine, and vice versa : but if sent to a Select Committee of members who understand educational mat- ters in the House an enormous amount of work would be saved, because the differences are only 