Orders. It has not been translated into the Maori language. I never saw the Bill until it came down this evening. However, it is not my intention to oppose or obstruct its passage. I sincerely congratulate the Minister on having brought down such a Bill-a measure which, a> I understand it, is intended to conserve for the benefit of future generations Maori relics, curios, and articles of historical or national in- terest. But there is one provision in the Bill to which I must take exception. It seems to be intended to establish a system of pre- emptive right on the part of the Crown alone to purchase such articles, on similar lines to the pre-emptive right that the Crown has hitherto claimed and exercised in regard to the purchase of Native land. For instance, if a Maori desires to dispose of a relic within the meaning of this Butl he must offer it to the Governor first. No matter how inadequate the price the Governor may offer for the article, the intending vendor must accept that or nothing, even although there may be private purchasers prepared to give many times the price offered by the Go- vernor. I hope to see that provision expunged or considerably softened in Committee. But, generally speaking, I support the Bill in so far as it provides for the preservation of valu- able Maori relics and specimens of Maori art -an art which has now become almost obsolete, for there are only a very few of the older generation now surviving who still retain the knowledge how to execute modern repre- sentations of the old carvings, and matters of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that kind. I have received a communication from Mr. Hamilton requesting me to support this Bill, and I feel that I am justified in doing that, as it is with the object of conserving Maori relics. Sir, I regret to have to state that, with regard to the South Island of New Zea- land, the art of Maori carving upon ancient lines is a lost art, for the reason that the older generation who were versed in it have passed away. But there are still in the possession of members of the present generation of South I-land Maoris valuable articles to which attach family history-weapons and other articles of value still carefully safeguarded by their pre- sent owners. I myself have in my possession ancient family relics, heirlooms that are at least six generations old, and more than that in some instances. I have some ancient relics in my possession which have been buried with their deceased owners over and over again, perhaps five or six times some of them. And no doubt the House will understand my feelings when I say that nothing would ever induce me to part with them to any stranger, and that it would hurt me more than I can say to think that under any circumstances such beirlooms should pass out of the possession of my immediate family, much less leave the colony. However, I am pleased to see that one provision of this Bill guards against the removal from New Zealand of heirlooms or valuable rettes of the description of which I speak. Now, Sir. I was very pleased to hear the suggestion that emanated from the honourable member for the necessity which at present exists for the correction of the spelling of the Maori names of places throughout New Zealand. I think this Bill affords us a happy opportunity in that direction, and that it would be most advis- able to insert a clause dealing with that question. I say that the spelling of all these misspelt names ought to be corrected, because, if they are worthy of perpetuation, why should not the names be perpetuated correctly, and spelled as they ought to be in Maori? We might have a list of these Maori names as now misspelt and as finally corrected com- piled and hung up or exposed to view in the national museum which I hope it is contem- plated by the Government eventually to esta- blish as the ultimate and logical outcome of this Bill we are now discussing. With regard to another matter to which my attention was drawn by the honourable member for Wel- lington Suburbs, the honourable member depre- cated the practice that has been indulged in by some unscrupulous persons of desecrating ancient Maori graves with the object of obtain- ing relics that are supposed to be therein con- tained. In both Islands of New Zealand there are some ancient caves, especially in the South Island, which have been used as burying- places ; and the only people who have the temerity to desecrate those graves-for they are actually graves-are Europeans ; and I say that all residents in or visitors to New Zealand should be prohibited from desecrating our old burying-places. They should not be allowed to enter into these places and treat them in the sacrilegious manner in which they frequently do. I have in my mind at the present time some very extensive caves in the neighbour- hood of Waiau, which will be shortly reached by railway. They are on the road to Lake Te Anau, and I say that all valuable articles obtained from caves such as these of which I speak, any old heirlooms, any articles that are revered and have an historical value attaching to them, should be given a place in the national museum. And I would ask the Government and the Minister in charge of the Bill that, when the supplementary esti- mates are brought down, he will see that a sum of money is placed upon them for the pur- pose of establishing this museum, so that we may commence to make some practical begin- ning. What is the object of talking about the matter in this sort of perfunctory way if we do not do something practical to give effect to the idea. I say again, Sir, that I am very pleased indeed to be able to congratulate the Minister on having brought down a Bill like this for the conservation and preservation of ancient relics and curios illustrative of the history of the Maori. Now, Sir, the honourable member for Waitemata favoured the House with a very in- teresting account of the doings of a famous chief of ancient times, who flourished in the northern part of this Island ; and was followed by the honourable member for Napier with an equally interesting anecdote of a very remark- able feat performed by an athletic old warrior 