from the railways, and I do not think there is any man on the executive of the railway staff who would, without its being laid down as a matter of policy by the Government, do any- thing of the kind ; and, particularly, when he knows the Government does not expect it, and the country does not require it, and that it would not be allowed by the Government, if it were known to be the case. The honourable member must see at once that he is taking up an unten- able position when he practically suggests that the officers of the department would do this merely for the sake of doing it. I know of very many details of the expenditure, and I know that in many cases the officers have erred on the side of charging to the revenues of the railways when capital should have been charged, and I The honourable believe that is going on now. gentleman made a statement in the course of his remarks regarding the value of the rails to-day as against the value they were originally. The honourable member misjudges the position. If you are putting down 75 lb. or 501b. rails to-day, as against 30 1b., which originally was the weight-if you are paying now £5 per ton for that rail-then you ought to debit capital account with the extra weight of the rails you put in now. It is not a question of the relative value now or fifteen years ago ; it is as to whether the excess at the rate of £5 per ton, or whatever the rails cost now, should be charged to capital account. That is the position, and that is the only proper system. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- You charge the whole https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 cost of taking up the rails and ballasting the line to capital account. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member will pardon me; nothing of the kind is done. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero A portion of the extra cost of laying the heavier rails is charged to the capital account, and the honourable member can find that out just as well as I can. Now, regarding this proposal to really burden the people of this country with a sinking fund of $7,670,000, as suggested by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, well, I do not believe there are many people in the country who would tolerate such a system for a mo- ment. If the honourable member were on these benches, and as a matter of State policy it was decided to take out of the pockets of the people £7,000,000 by way of sinking fund ; and at the same time to provide out of the railway revenue a larger sum, - because that is what we are doing : we have given a larger sum than that out of railway revenue for repairs, renewals, and maintenance,-does he not rea- lise that the people would not stand being charged for the same work twice over for a moment, that they would rise as one man against it. When dealing with the railway system you must do what is practicable, and what the people of the country will realise is fair and reasonable in connection with the ad- ministration. The honourable member wanted to know how the extra expenditure had been made up. If he will turn to the railway tables attached to the report he will find in the report sent in by the Locomotive Superintendent and Sir J. G. Ward tion he asks for. It is all there in detail. On pages 5 and 6 of the report he will find the detailed reports of the General Manager, and those of the Chief Engineer and of the Locomo- tive Superintendent, covering their respective departments, and giving the information that he wants. The honourable member knows that during the last two or three years we have added to the rolling-stock enormously, and that we have not yet got up with what is required owing to the expansion of trade. Owing to the increase of trade during the series of years referred to, I say we have not yet got up to what is required for carrying on the ordinary traffic. The honourable member knows the statement that was made by me to the House last year, and again this year, that owing to the enormous increase in traffic we ordered a thousand wagons and were com- pelled to get them from abroad, as we could not manufacture them here in time. We had, very much against my wish or desire, to order them from outside the colony ; and owing to the same cause we had to order a number of locomotives of a heavier type in consequence of the heavier traffic, and we had also to order a number of railway-carriages wholly and solely because we could not overtake the work of making them in the colony. In addition to that, the workshops have been going at top speed all along. We have not eased off, and we are not easing off now, but are making to our utmost capacity. If the honourable member will average wagons at only £100 each, a thousand at £100 would be $100,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are paying £150 for them. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am not talking of the actual cost of those we have ordered. I am giving a hypothetical case. An Hon. MEMBER. - Is your statement that they cost less than $150? Sir J. G. WARD .- I beg pardon, I made no such statement ; and if you look you will find I gave the House full particulars of their cost not fitted up in the colony. But I am saying now, for the sake of argument, that if you take a thousand wagons at only £100 each there is £100,000; and if you take a locomotive at an average of #4,000, and if fifty are wanted, that is $200,000. How are you going to carry on and provide for the expansion of the business if you have not engine - power? How are you going to encourage settlement if you have not the wagons to carry the traffic ; and how are you going to meet the enormous increase in the number of passengers if suitable provision is not made? Even taking last year as against some few years before, our passengers carried ran up in 1901, ae against 1895, from 3,900,000 to 6,243,000. How are you going to carry them if you do not get the necessary carriages for the use of the people along the line ? Unless you do so you cannot carry on; and the honourable member knows perfectly well that the greater portion of our expenditure -at least, £216,000-was wholly and solely for the purpose of obtaining additional rolling- 