I might point out that this is not a money clause ; it does not put any burden on the people. It is only an expression of opinion from the House if it is carried. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Speaking to the point of order, I would like to say there is no doubt that the Premier's contention is correct, providing that the instruction does put addi- tional burdens on the people ; but the terms of the clause may be worded in such a way as to prevent that. A clause may be proposed in the Committee, bringing the Government em- pioves under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, with a proviso to the effect that it shall not entail any additional burdens on the people. I hold it is a matter for the Chair- man of Committees to rule when such a clause is proposed, as to whether it is in order or not. But. as far as the terms of the instruction are concerned, there is surely nothing committing the House to anything. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Speaking to the point of order. I submit that this is not a definite provision for bringing the departments of State within the scope of the Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act. It is merely in- tended as an expression of opinion on the part of the House, and, if carried, it would then be for the Government to consider the desirability of introducing a clause to give effect to the in- .truction. There is nothing definite about it. It is nothing more or less than an expression of opinion. and I do not think it comes within the scope of the Standing Order referred to by the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Premier. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) -Speaking to the point of order. it seems to me that the ques- ton that is raised by the point of order is this : http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero seeing that if it had been a clause to be inserted in the Bill you would have to require the con- sent of the Crown ; do you not require the con- sent of the Crown to move an instruction that requires the putting in of a new clause ? Turn- ing to May on parliamentary practice, page 531. under the heading " Instructions needing recommendation from the Crown," I find this : - " No instruction to a Committee on a Bill can be proposed which would enable the Com- mittee to add provisions to the Bill creating a charge upon the people, unless such instruction receives the recommendation of the Crown." I submit that this comes exactly within the statement made by May-that it enables the Committee to add a provision to the Bill ; and the effect of the provision would be that an out-ide person, or body, or Court, could create a barge upon the people of this colony, and, that being so, we must have the recommendation of the Crown before it can be moved. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- If you turn to Bourinot, which you have beside you, Sir, I think you will find a passage there which, to my mind, bears on this question. At page 537 I find this :- " An instruction to impose a charge or tax cannot be given unless founded on a resolution of Committee of the Whole." tion does or may impose a charge, then, accord- ing to the rule laid down in Bourinot, it could not be given unless it had first been submitted to a Committee of the Whole. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I have no diffi- culty whatever in ruling on this point. The authorities are very clear. In May, page 455, it is stated,- " An instruction to make provisions in a Bill which would entail a charge upon the people cannot be put from the Chair unless the re- commendation of the Crown be given to the instruction." The same words are found on page 531 :- "No instruction to a Committee on a Bill can be proposed which would enable the Com- mittee to add provisions to the Bill creating a charge upon the people, unless such instruction receives the recommendation of the Crown." The whole question is this: Does the instruc. tion have the effect, if it is given effect to by the Committee, of imposing burdens upon the people. To my mind there can be no doubt upon that question, because the only object in bringing the Crown under the Concilia. tion and Arbitration Act is to increase the wages of the men who are dissatisfied. There can be no object in bringing the Crown under the Act so that the Crown can reduce the wages, because the Crown already has that power without any Act. I must therefore rule that the honourable member, not having the consent of the Crown, is not entitled to move the instruction. Mr. PIRANI .- I understand the motion for the second reading was agreed to pro forma. Mr. DEPUTY . SPEAKER. - I have before me the Hansard report of the debate on the second reading. Mr. Seddon moved the second reading of the Bill on the 12th July, 1901, on page 333 of Hansard, and the debate was con- tinued down to page 363-that is, thirty pages. of Hansard are occupied with the report of the debate on the second reading. Bill committed. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- Short Title. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) moved to report progress. Amendment withdrawn. Clause 2 .- " In this Act, if not inconsistent with the context, 'trade-union' means any trade-union registered under ' The Trade Union Act, 1878,' whether registered under that Act before the passing of the principal Act or not." Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved, That the following words be inserted after " Act," " and the principal Act." Amendment agreed to. Clause 3 .- " Where a company registered out of New Zealand is carrying on business in New Zealand through an agent acting under a power of attorney, such company may be registered as an industrial union of employers, and in such case the provisions of section tive of the principal Act shall be deemed to be complied with if the application to register is made 