Board of Conciliators, some years ago there was more common-sense amongst the then leaders of unionism than there has been in some cases lately. I can quote Mr. Bidmeade, who was secretary of the Trades and Labour Council of Christchurch. Mr. Bidmeade gave a very strong argument in those days-nearly nine years ago - in favour of the formation of special Boards of Conciliators for the settlement of disputes. That form was also considered by the Auckland Trades and Labour Council, and I believe that a considerable amount of good would have been attained had these Boards been formed at that time; but the gentleman who may be termed the father or introducer of this Act-the Hon. Mr. Reeves-took the other course, and went in for the Boards as at present consti- tuted. Now, Sir, I cannot see any reason, and I have had no statement given to me to change my opinion, why men employed in any industry will suffer through going direct to an employer on behalf of his fellow-workers. Of course, 1 am aware that there will be found one or two greedy employers, but they are few in this colony, owing to the strong sentiment that pre- vails. My honourable friend Mr. Rigg has read out some names. I know some of the persons he has mentioned. One particularly is that of a man who had no right whatever to assume to represent or to appear on behalf of workers ; he is a man whose career is such that I hesitate to express it in this Council. Yet he is one of the honourable gentleman's gods, . one of his idols. I do not make any state- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ment in this Council which I cannot prove. Well, Sir, I, at any rate, am not going to be led by men whose characters will not stand careful investigation. This person is going http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero about preaching the gospel of discontent. I know several others that I could name, but it is not desirable for me to name them. I know these men, and have watched them ; and I believe that if they were entering into the portals of heaven, and if they' subse- quently were seated there comfortably, the spirit of discontent would be so great within them that even there nothing would satisfy them. Some of these men may have had great oppor- tunities in these favoured lands, but they have thrown their opportunities away through drink. Knowing these men as I do-and I have had more experience than the Hon. Mr. Rigg has had in these matters -- I say the labour party should be careful in the selection of leaders-the level best men should be selected, so that labour should not be "put away" by visionaries and schemers. If anything were needed to support what I have said, I would ask, What did the Hon. Mr. W. P. Reeves write in a letter to the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton two years ago? He wrote to that honourable gentleman, praying him to see that the Act would not be ridden to death. The Hon. Mr. Reeves was evidently watching with grave ap- prehension what was going on in this colony, and saw that the Act was being abused. My honourable friend Mr. Pinkerton, who was derided by the Hon. Mr. Rigg to-night as an VOL. CXIX .- 61 extinct volcano, has had far more experience and far more responsibilities than my honour- able friend opposite, who, when his hat is on his head, has only one feather to fly with. An Hon. MEMBER .- A mixed metaphor. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. - It may be mixed, but it is very true. In regard to the formation of Farmers' Unions, which has been derided by some honourable gentlemen, I might say it has been my experience to have occupied the positions of journeyman, foreman, and manager in my time, and I am not afraid of the formation of Farmers' Unions. I know that, out of a hundred boys who have been through my hands from time to time in my experience, about 50 or 60 per cent. were the sons of farmers. Max Nordeau has been very careful in his investigations as to the effect of town life versus country, and he states that, if it were not for the towns being replenished by people from the country, in six generations the towns would become a huge charnel place. It is the country people we have to consider to a very large extent. It is the country people, to a very great extent, who form the backbone of our prosperity at the present time. I am not at all apprehensive that the farmers are going to be backward in regard to measures that will tend to the improvement of them- selves and their children. While the farmers are alive to their own interests, they will not blame the town workers for striving to better the conditions of themselves and their families. I know well that the majority of men who speak on behalf of labour and of the unions, and who follow handicrafts, are not all agitators, vision- aries, or theorists. I wish to point out that there are two sides to the industrial question. The employer many times is driven to great anxiety as to how his business is to be carried on. When he thinks himself fairly comfort- able he finds that, owing to competition, he has to expend his surplus income for improved machinery. I therefore think we have a right to look at both sides of the question. With re- gard to the light and airy manner in which some honourable members talk about the in- dustries in this colony : Is it not a fact that, with the increase of wages-and I am glad it is so- and with the shorter number of hours we work here-does it ever enter into honourable gentlemen's minds that there is just a possi- bility, owing to the greater number of hours worked in America, in England, and the long hours worked on the Continent, averaging, say, sixty hours compared to our forty-eight - is it not possible that the captains of indus- tries in these places will say of us in this colony : "Those people are somewhat blind; we can supply our goods at 30 or 40 per cent. cheaper than they can produce them in New Zealand "? What will be the result ? The re- sult will be that our industries will suffer, as the keen business-men of other countries will cut in and get our trade. We have a 25-per- cent. duty imposed on boots and clothing. What is that compared with our disadvan- tages on the other hand. We are working under 40 or 50 per cent. worse conditions, as 