of New Zealand. We have taken up the white man's burden very early indeed in our history as a colony. It may be a good and desirable thing that we should start administering the government of some ten or twelve thousand persons of a dark-skinned race seventeen hun- dred miles away; but this Bill is only a beginning of what must happen in connection with our government. We are giving a legal status to one Resident ; but there are proposals in the Bill which indicate a large increase in the number of Government servants that will be in the Cook Islands and the other islands in the annexation. For example, in subsection (4) of clause 5 of the Bill I find :- "The Governor may also from time to time appoint such officers and assign to them such powers and duties, either in the said Islands or in any one or more of them, as he thinks fit." There you have outlined a very large exten- sion of the Government policy in connection with these Islands ; and it is a result of our civilisation that as extension goes on new neces- sities arise, and, consequently, the number of Government officials must be increased. We shall have to deal with the policing of these islands ; with the education of the people ; we shall have to provide them with postal facili- ties. Mr. SEDDON. - We provide them with postal facilities now. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- There is a consider- able difference between postal facilities at one port and the position when you extend your go- vernment throughout the islands, providing for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 a regular system of postal services, as must be the case when civilisation develops. These are part of the responsibilities we incurred when we undertook this spirited foreign policy at the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero instigation of the Premier. I believe the time will come when we shall realise that we have undertaken a very heavy and serious obligation, which will give us, as a country, no commen. surate return. 'The member for the Bay of Plenty has very clearly and forcibly put the constitutional position. I have in my hand the handbook of the Constitution of our colony, and in the clause he quoted-No. 71-it is pro- vided that in New Zealand Native laws and customs may be maintained in special districts. That is exactly the proposal of this Bill so far as these Islands are concerned. But it is also enacted in the second part of the clause that those laws and customs were to be given effect to under Letters Patent to be issued under the Great Seal. I cannot see how this Par- liament, constitutionally, can set up a sepa- rate Government under separate laws in one part of the colony, because these Islands are now as much a part of New Zealand as Stewart Island ; they are an integral part of the colony, and I do not see how we can set up a separate Government in those parts. It must be done as provided by the Constitu- tion Act, which I have quoted. It is provided in clause 8 that the Resident Commissioner is to exercise the powers in that part of the colony, in the way of allowing or disallowing laws made by the local Parliament, which His Excellency possesses in New Zealand. I think the Government will have to find some means of getting out of the constitutional difficulty pointed out. It appears to me, under the Con- stitution of the colony, any laws that are to provide specially for the Native population in any part of the colony must receive the separate and special assent of the King before they can come into force. I would point out this further anomalous position : It is proposed to allow an appeal to the Supreme Court of New Zealand and the Court of Appeal, regarding laws which our Court has no knowledge of. Under sub- section (2) of section 4 it is provided that there is to be a right of appeal from the Raro- tongan Court to our Courts ; and the next clause provides-which gives an indication of further extension in connection with administration- that under certain circumstances the Governor may by Order in Council send a Supreme Court Judge to Rarotonga to decide an appeal. This, to my mind, indicates a very large extension of the administrative work so far as the Islands are concerned, and a large increase in expendi- ture. One of the most important points of the Bill is what we are going to do with the lands of these islands. In reply to an interjection from myself, the Premier stated it was not in- tended that the fee-simple should be parted with in the Islands. I am pleased to hear him state this, although I am not at all sure you will attract a European population to the Islands if the only tenure is to be leasehold. An Hon. MEMBER .- Grant them long leases. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- You might give them the lease in perpetuity, but that is virtu- ally the freehold. I believe that in dealing with the lands the greatest difficulty will be found that this colony will have to face. The Premier, in his opening speech, said that one effect of setting up these Land Courts would be to weaken the power of the Arikis ; and I think that, directly the power of the Arikis in these islands is weakened or destroyed, you will be sowing seeds of a great amount of trouble and dissension amongst them. Mr. SEDDON .- Not if they go with you. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Precisely ; but can you expect these men, whose mana is now so great that they are virtually the persons in whom are vested the trusts and ownership of the lands, will go with you in seeing their power and headship destroyed ? Mr. SEDDON .- It is their wish. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Very well, if that is so it will go far to weaken my argument ; but it has been the belief of many men in New Zealand in connection with the Maori race that, if the power of the rangatiras had been retained, and they had been the medium be- tween the Government and the people, as in the old days, a large amount of trouble that has taken place in this colony would have been avoided. At any rate, my opinion-and I say it with some trepidation-so far as our dealing with the lands of these islands is concerned, is that the greatest difficulty lies before us in connection with the administration. When we begin to adjust titles, and settle who are the 