in New Zealand, what I may call the genesis of a great scheme, and I say it is the duty of the Government to consider whether it is not possible to advance to the Maoris-or to a Board consisting of elected Maoris and nomi- nated Europeans, who shall administer the Maori lands-whatever money may be necessary for the development of those lands. The Maoris themselves have not the capital with which to develop their lands, and you are then shut up to one of these two positions. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - The honour- able member is clearly going away from the Bill. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .--- Well, 1 shall come back to it. The Bill that is before the House is an exceedingly important Bill; but it only touches the fringe of a very large question, and the large question involved is this : In connec- tion with this Pariroa Block, we find it has been stated by the Minister (the Premier) and the member for Egmont that moneys are due to these people in connection with their land, and they are not able to obtain it. How, then, are they able to develop their property ? That brings me back to the point I wished to make just now : that it is necessary that capital shall be provided for the development of these lands, or that you should adopt the other alternative of allowing free-trade. I say this House and this country will not allow free-trade in Native lands again. I believe the South Island mem- bers of this House will be prepared to stand up https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 almost to a man and say that the state of things that has obtained in the past under free- trade shall not be allowed to be resumed. Then I come to the further point, that, when once we lend the Maoris money to develop their land and the land is brought into profitable occupation, we must do what we shall have to do before long, and what the honourable mem- ber for Franklin referred to - we must tax them. But we cannot tax them before their lands are developed. Taxation should only follow when the lands are in profitable occupa- tion. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- Sir, I think if the honourable gentleman who has just spoken knew more about Native lands he would not be so very sanguine. Neither would he be so anxious to encourage the Government to advance money upon Native lands. I say the moment the Natives begin to borrow money on their lands the lands are no longer theirs. The end will be that the land will be taken over by the lender, whether the Government or the private lender. The great trouble in dealing with Maori lands is this: that the Maoris themselves do not feel disposed to turn to and cultivate their lands. That is the whole trouble. I do not think any member of the House wishes to see the Natives despoiled of their land, but there are many districts in which the Natives own valuable blocks of land which they are making no attempt to improve, but from which they derive no income. These blocks are capable of settlement, but the Natives do not show a disposition to clear the land, or to do anything to continue for all time. If we could by any means encourage the Natives to clear their land, and imitate the European settlers by putting the land in grass and making homes for themselves, it would be the duty of the Government and of this House to assist them in every way we can. But, on the contrary, the class of legislation we have been putting through the House for some years has gone in this direction : that we are encouraging the Native owners to believe that by some process of legislation we are going to put them in a position to lead a life of idleness, and to get the pakeha settler to work for them and keep them in idleness. An Hon. MEMBER .- The old story. Mr. R. THOMPSON .-- It is not the old story. I say that all Native legislation for a number of years goes in that direction, and we are educat- ing the Natives to believe that we will establish them as a class that may live by the industry of others. That will not do for the colony. We should encourage the Natives to improve their land, and where there are surplus lands the Natives do not require for their own use we should acquire those lands in the same way as we now acquire land under the Land for Settle- ments Act. We should pay the Natives a fair sum for their lands, and invest the money for their benefit for all time, and at the same time secure to the Natives sufficient land for their o \\n use. If that were done we would for all time save the Natives from destitution, and in the course of time, I believe, the Natives them- selves would realise that is the best thing that could be done for them. An Hon. MEMBER. - How could they improve their land without money ? Mr. R. THOMPSON. -- If you give them money they will not improve their land. I have lived among them for the last thirty years, and I know the trouble. I say the best thing the Government can do would be to come to some friendly arrangement with the Natives, and where they have large blocks of surplus land - it is mostly bush land-that land should be purchased by the Government, the money should be invested for the Native owners-they should not get a shilling of it- and they should be allowed to draw the in- terest. The Natives would then be in a better position than they are now. If the present state of things is allowed to go on, we are putting the Natives in a worse position every day. As I have said, I have lived among them for the last thirty years, and I say the Natives are in a worse position to-day than they were thirty years ago. I have no hesitation in say- ing that in the North of Auckland 9.0. there are Native owners of large estates who are obliged to go out and dig for kauri-gum, and if they did not do that they would have to starve. That is the position to-day. And I say these Native owners of large estates do not contribute any taxation to the State, nor to rates for local purposes, and the land brings in no income to them ; and neither will it so long as the present 