brought ruin on the labour organizations and on the workers of the colony. I then said it was time for us to perfect our labour legislation, and not the time to go too far forward, and that if we did go too far there would be a set-back. . Well, I will say this of the workers of the colony : I have been often surprised to find how much they have been misjudged. There may be a few who would go to extremes-there are always a few who never know when to halt-but I say of the great majority, the great body of the workers of the colony, show them that anything is unreasonable, or against their best interests and the best interests of the colony, and they will proceed no further in that direction. have never known that to fail. And I say that for the man who will show them when they are going wrong they have a greater respect than they would have for the man who would pander to them, and who, for the time being, would go with them and carry them on till the time of reckoning comes, and they find they have gone too far. A man who would do that is the very man they would round on ; they like a man who will tell them plainly what the situation is, and they appreciate him for it. That is my experience of workers in this country, and my experience of workers wherever I have been ever since I was myself an apprentice in a workshop. It is not the man who will always go with them and say everything they wish that they respect. That is not the man they will put in a leading position, because they know-and no one knows better than they do- what is just and what is fair. Now, with re- gard to the attempt that has been made during the last few nights in this House to set the country against the town, no one regrets that more than I do. I say that bodes no good for either town or country, but that it is against the interests of both. I say we should work together as a whole for the common good. If the country is prosperous you have the reflec- tion of the country in the towns. If the towns, on the other hand, are prosperous, and work is plentiful, and there is an increasing population, you have that increase marked in the country products, and there is no market so good as the market near home and at home. Well, Sir, that is always what I have contended, and I believe it to be sound in every sense of the word. Now, probably there was some little cause for alarm in the country, and I say that that alarm was fanned by people who were not altogether influenced by motives in the best interests of the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- There was good reason for alarm. Mr. SEDDON .- No. I say there was under- lying it those who, for political purposes and reasons, were endeavouring to create dissension as between town and country. Now, first of all, I say there was some reason-at least I will give some of the reasons for the alarm in the coun- try. You have the Workers' Compensation for Accidents legislation. There is no doubt, and I say it here, that that is one of the most humane measures that ever we placed on the breadwinner is maimed, that he shall become for the rest of his life a burden upon charity ; or if the breadwinner is killed, that his widow and children. should be pauperised, and that they should at once be thrown upon the charity of the public. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - The Employers' Liability Acts protected them. Mr. SEDDON .- The Employers' Liability was a sham ; it never did do that. Show me a case where it has been able to do it. The Em- ployers' Liability Acts were for the legal pro- fession. It was there for those who had means ; but as for the unfortunate widow and children, I show me one case where they were provided for under the Employers' Liability Acts. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Not one in a thousand. Mr. SEDDON .- No, not one in a thousand. I say that the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act was a measure, and will be a measure, that those who passed it will in time to come receive great credit for. I say that it is the industry-it is not the individual at all- it is the industry that is held to be responsible for the accidents in dangerous employments that are bound to occur ; and, as I say, in its extreme application, what do we find ? We find that the Advances to Settlers Department, as advancers to the country settlers, want cover as mortgagees. Mortgagor, mortgagee, lessee-all to be covered in order to meet contingencies that you would think were almost impossible to arise, but as good security, so this result has been the case. Then, we find, as far as the Ad- vances to Settlers Office is concerned, they must insure with the Government Accident Insurance Department. An Hon. MEMBER. - Is that the mortgagor ? Mr. SEDDON .- The mortgagee. Then, we find in that department they insisted on cover both for mortgagee and mortgagor, whilst in the other insurance departments they only covered the mortgagor. The result 12.0. was 2s. 6d. as against 10s. per cent. This caused considerable friction. I consider, myself, that all that is concerned is the mort- gagee. My own opinion is that we went a little too far-further than the Home Act goes. The Home Act allows a mortgage to stand if exe- cuted prior to a call made owing to an accident. We put the claim for the worker as against the mortgagec. This is not the case at Home, and the result has been this duplication and covering the mortgagor, mortgagee, and lessee. All this means extra cost. I am of opinion that where there has been an attempt to mortgage, or to get out of the liability of the property as it stood at the time, the interest of the employer is the interest that should be responsible, and a slight amendment in this direction would do away with all friction in the country districts. It is not the question of labour legislation that has caused this trouble : it was the difficulty in respect to casual labour in respect to mortgagee and mortgagor having to be covered. The labour members and town representatives are not to blame. However, it is now better understood, and, with a slight 