factory with milk. He knew all the troubles and vexations of the whole thing, but the real difficulty was to find a remedy. Mr. O'MEARA said he had suggested one. Mr. DUNCAN said, Yes, but it was not a sound one. The only thing that could be done was that there might be an expert who might go round and stop at the factory for a few days, and test the factory's milk for two or three days in succession. That might be some gua- rantee which would tend to settle some of the disputes. But they could not go further than that, because the milk varied so much that it would not be the same all through during a month. This had been the cause of disappoint- ing people when they had their milk tested at its very lowest, and some of their neighbours might get their milk tested at its very highest, which, of course, gave them a great advantage. He believed it would be right that a competent man should be appointed to go round and visit each factory once a month or two, but, of course, they could not have a man for every factory. Mr. O'MEARA asked, Why not keep the milk there until the man went round and tested it ? Mr. DUNCAN said. That was not the way it was done at all. He did not think the honour- able gentleman knew anything about it. ## KELSEY'S BUSH. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, Whether he will give effect to the recommendation of the Waimate Borough Coun- cil by setting apart Kelsey's Bush, or at least a portion thereof, as a forest reserve ? The very fine bush which at one time immediately sur- rounded Waimate had in the course of a few years disappeared through axe and fire. But there was still a very nice area of bush, known as Kelsey's Bush, about five miles from the township, which, if it could be preserved, would be a great boon to the district. The Borough Council had sent up a resolution to him asking that this should be done. He had received a reply from the Minister to the effect that he was not sure whether this bush, or any part of it, was in the hands of the Crown, but that he would make inquiries. He would be glad to know from the Minister the result of those inquiries ; and, if this bush, or any part of it, was in the hands of the Crown, would the honourable gentleman give effect to the re- quest ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, As far as they could gather, there was no part of this bush Crown land. It belonged to a man named Studholme. There was about four bun- dred acres in the section, and the owner wanted £4 an acre for it. It was a very nice place, as stated by the honourable gentleman ; that was, there was a fair amount of bush on it -not first-class, but still there was part of it that should be preserved. He had brought the matter before the Government, and was making further inquiries to see if they could come to some arrangement with regard to the purchase of this bush. Mr. Duncan Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Lands,-(1) What is the contract date for completion of the bridge now in course of con- struction over the Macrewhenua River at "Hutton's "; (2) will the bridge be completed at such date ; and (3), if not, at what date he anticipates that it will be completed? If he was correctly informed, the contract time for the completion of this work had expired, and he wished to know if that were so, and what were the Minister's advices as to the date when it would be completed ; also, if the contractor had incurred any penalties for delay, whether they would be enforced. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that some time since he received information that the contractor said the work was finished, but the Inspector would not pass it. There was some dispute between the Inspector and the contractor at the present time, and until that was settled he could not say what would be done. WAIKATO-ONEHUNGA RIVER TRADE. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he will direct the Survey Department in Auckland to report on the feasi- bility and probable cost of connecting the Wai- kato River with the Manukau Harbour by way of Waiuku, so as to make it possible for river steamers to trade between Waikato and One- hunga ? The matter referred to was one of importance to a great many people in the Auckland Provincial District, as the connect- ing of the Waikato River with the Manukau Harbour by way of Waiuku would enable the steamers now plying on the Manukau to reach the Waikato or the steamers on the Waikato to reach Onehunga. Besides, it would have another effect - namely, the diverting of" a very small portion of water from the Waikato through the Waiuku Creek to Onehunga would tend to scour out the channel, making it very much easier for small steamers to reach the Township of Waiuku than was at present the case. He only asked for a report at present, because he understood the capital required would be forthcoming privately if necessary. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state that the departmental answer to this question was :- "There is said to be a depression between the head of the Waiuku Estuary and the Waikato River, through which the latter river probably at one time flowed, part of which is now swamp and part the Awaroa River. The scheme suggested by Mr. Massey is a pretty old one, and the Government has, in draining the Awaroa Swamp, straightened the Awaroa River in order to give a sufficient outlet. It may be that if the river was deepened a little more, and the swamp cleaned out, a channel might be made through which a portion of the Waikato River would flow. It is to ascert. in if this is feasible that, I understand, Mr. Massey asks that a survey should be made. It could be done if you will give instructions." 