cers who were retained. It was time some proper system of retirement was introduced instead of men being picked out for retirement haphazard. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) failed to see what rule the Minister followed in regard to advances of salary in this department. For instance, more duty was collected in Wellington than Auckland, yet the Collector in the latter port was now receiving a higher salary, and it was proposed this year to still further increase him. It seemed to him that no time should be lost in appointing a Civil Service Board which would relieve Ministers and members, and be better in every way for the service. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the worst feature in regard to the increase in the salary of the Auckland officer was that it con- firmed him in his position, for he could not well be retired next year on the ground of being over age after increasing his salary this year because of his great efficiency. The case of Mr. Mckellar, referred to by the member for Pal- merston, opened up a whole train of questions in regard to retirement of officials which he was afraid to touch for fear of injuring any of the officials concerned. Mr. Mckellar was an officer against whose efficiency no word could be spoken, yet he was retired on the ground that he was beyond the regulation age-sixty years. In Auckland there was a man who was also beyond the regulation age, but he was not only retained in his position, but his salary was in- creased by £25. It was an axiom in the department, and had been in the country for the last thirty years, that special fitness was the first consideration in promoting the higher officers of the service, and this branch of the service in particular. That principle had not been observed in this department during the past year, and he asked the Minister to see to it that in future the rule that fitness was the first consideration should be carried out in the making of these high appointments. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item ' Auckland-Collector, $575,' be reduced by $25." AYES, 21. Allen, J. Meredith Hall Herries Russell, G. W. Arnold Bennet Hogg Thompson, R. Collins Hornsby Thomson, J. W. Kaihau Ell Tellers. Buddo Flatman Laurenson Gilfedder Mackenzie, T. Millar. Graham NOES, 31. Heke Allen, E. G. Palmer Bollard Houston Parata Carneross Lang Seddon Carroll Lawry Stevens Lethbridge Colvin Ward Duncan McGowan Willis Fisher Mckenzie, R. Witheford. Fowlds Me Lachlan Hall-Jones McNab Tellers. Hanan Mills Massey Hardy Napier Monk. Majority against, 10. Mr. Pirani Amendment negatived. Amendment to reduce the vote by £1 nega- tived. Vote, £35,176, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, Vote, Customs : £5,010, agreed to. Marine and Harbours, £31,810. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked for par- ticulars of the several items of contingencies. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said the amount expended last year as contingencies under the head of " Harbours " was £338, made up as follows :- Removal of wreck of " Waipara " 71 . . Repairing Napier, Bluff, and Hokitika Lighthouses 41 .. Freight and cartage of stores 37 Removal of piles from Opawa River 29 .. Removal of snags from small harbours 23 .. Harbour telephones 20 Sounding Okarito and Rangitikei Rivers .. 18 Travelling - expenses of Mr. Perham, re- porting re Opunake Harbour .. 17 .. Cutting channel at Okarito 15 .. .. Maintaining Riwaka lights 10 Expenses of officers reporting re wharves at Awanui and Puponga 10 Looking after harbour gear, Rangitikei .. Water-rates, Nelson 6 Plan, &c., of Foxton Wharf extension 3 Repairs to Okarito Wharf 3 Sundries 23 .. £338 Then, under "Lighthouse : Other charges." the contingencies amounted to £332. The fol- lowing were the items :- 41 Storage on oil . Wages of workmen at Marine Store 67 .. Cartage of stores 45 .. New drainage at Marine Store .. 3.8 . Freight on stores 36 . Medical examination of candidates for ap- pointments .. 10 Insurance on stores 9 .. Shoeing station horses S .. Nelson Lighthouse telephone 7 .. Magazines for lighthouses . Planting sand-grass at Manukau 6 Pigeon mail-service Sundries 11 £332 Under the "Inspection of Machinery and Survey of Steamers" the contingencies amounted to $327, made up as follows :- £ Wages of temporary clerks 200 .. . . Advertising 5.3 .. .. .. Telephones 20 . . . Books and instruments 26 . . . One iron safe .. 12 . . .. Legal expenses 5 . Sundries . . . £327 