country. Mr. FISHER .- There are two of my returns ready now. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentleman was no better than other honourable members, nor was he entitled to special consideration, and he did not know the returns he alluded to. But the honourable member had only got the same privileges as any other honourable member, and he claimed for the Government that if they had no unopposed returns to give he could say so. There had been no alteration of the Standing Orders since Mr. Speaker gave the ruling quoted by the honourable member. It was quite true that a simple return that Ministers decided to pass as an unopposed re- turn was blocked for no other purpose than to prevent Ministers having this information made public ; but as the member who had opposed it was not present he had nothing more to say. Mr. FISHER said the honourable gentleman distinctly said that the returns would be given as soon as this embargo had been removed, meaning the termination of his feud with the honourable member for Palmerston. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) hoped that Mr. Speaker, in ruling on this point of order, would recollect the circumstance that caused the debate this afternoon and caused the feel- ing in the House, because there was a con- siderable feeling over the blocking of these returns. It would be in the recollection of Mr. Speaker and honourable members that this arose at a time when the member for Palmerston objected to a return of the Pre- mier's. He was not saying whether the honourable member was right or wrong in doing so; but the honourable member was entitled to object if he saw fit. Immediately the Premier then said, " No more returns will be given this year until that embargo is taken away," and the Premier repeated those words to-day, and also led the House to believe that there were certain returns which he was pre- pared to give to honourable members, but that they would not be given so long as the member for Palmerston objected to a certain return. Well, that was an injustice to the House, and he had no doubt that the ruling of Mr. Speaker O'Rorke, given in 1899, was absolutely on all fours with the position that now obtained, and it was obvious that it would be infra dig. at least on the part of the Premier to object to give returns he was prepared to give. Mr. SEDDON .-- How do you know ? Mr. J. ALLEN said the Premier said so on the day the member for Palmerston objected to his return, and the Premier said so in almost the same words to-day. At any rate, the House know what the honourable gentle- man meant, and he thought it was doing away with the privileges of the House were returns to be blocked which were admittedly unop- posed on behalf of the Crown and on behalf of individual members. He hoped something would be done to get rid of this deadlock. At present only fifty - eight returns had been ordered, and although he had not the record | clearly intimated was that the House should Mr. Seddon point out that returns ordered on the 3rd of July had not yet been given. Here was a return of Civil Service appointments ordered on the 3rd July, and he saw no reason why that should not have been given long ago. There was a return of the cost of the visit of the Duke of York, and the cost of the visit of the Indian troops, and many more, and he did not know why they were kept back. Mr. SEDDON. - You want still further returns, and will find further fault because you cannot get them. Mr. J. ALLEN said he complained that members had not got the returns already ordered, and some of which should have been ready by the end of July instead of still being unprepared. He would like to know why they were not presented. Mr. SEDDON .- Because, owing to pressure of other work, the departments could not get them ready. Mr. J. ALLEN said he did not know why the Government could not get them ready. He never knew a session when there had been so few returns placed on the table. Admitting that only a few were ordered, still, many were ordered in July, and only eighteen out of hfty- eight ordered had been put on the table. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the question submitted for his consideration, so far as he understood it, was this : whether motions for unopposed returns should be proceeded with. In the first place, he had to rule that it was within the right of any member, whether Minister or not, to state that he opposed the return, and that return could not then be moved. Therefore, the decision quoted by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) did not, to his mind, bear upon the question, because Sir Maurice O'Rorke had distinctly ruled that, according to the Standing Orders then in force, and still in force, he could not see his way to get over the difficulty ; but it would be necessary to have the Standing Orders amended before he could interfere, be- cause the honourable member who opposed the return being granted was strictly within his rights. So far as he could see, there was nothing in the Standing Orders to take away the right of any honourable member to say that he opposed a motion for a return. Mr. Speaker had distinctly stated that something would have to be done to amend the Standing Orders, so as to permit of a return being ordered by the House, although it was opposed by an individual member. He quite concurred in that expression of opinion that the Standing Orders should be so altered as to prevent, when there was a great majority in favour of a return, any one or two members defying the whole House and preventing the House from having the return placed before it. But, under the Standing Orders at present in force, he could not see his way to rule that the motions for returns on the Order Paper should be put as unopposed returns. Mr. FISHER said, What Mr. Speaker had 