who caused them to be placed there, and conveyed a most untruthful and unchristian innuendo. They were nothing but an insult to a portion of the community, for whom he and a great many others had much respect. Mr. PIRANI would like to point out that the only insult on the petition was a number of bottles of cordials. An Hon. MEMBER asked, What about the barrel ? Mr. PIRANI said it was ginger-beer. He defied any honourable member to prove there was anything but ginger-beer in it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was a ques- tion for the House to consider how far this sort of thing was to be allowed to go on, and, if allowed to go on, what it would come to. would therefore, if in order, move, That the petitions be not accepted. That would put a stop to a practice that otherwise might be- come objectionable. He understood it had already been ruled that petitions of the kind could not be received. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he had not ruled yet upon the point now raised. Mr. PIRANI believed the picture touched the Premier " on the raw." Mr. SEDDON said it was a question of degree. He remembered there was a long de- bate at one time about a plan being laid upon the table. However, he would accept Mr. Deputy-Speaker's ruling. It was an innova- tion, and the sooner it was dealt with the better. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said that on the pre- vious Friday evening he presented a petition similar to the one now objected to, and after it had been inspected by Mr. Deputy-Speaker it was returned to him, on the ground, he under- stood, that it was an evasion of the Standing Orders of the House. He sent the petition back to the parties who had forwarded it to him. That course having been taken in regard to his petition, he submitted the same course should be followed with any similar petitions. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) said he was ac- quainted with and knew the subject-matter of the petition, and what was alleged in it he believed to be truthful, and what had been proved before the Public Petitions M to Z Committee; and if the House did not take steps to prohibit the Natives from indulging in in- toxicating liquor - the men as well as the women-a similar class of petitions would con- tinue to deluge the House. The sooner the House put a stop to the drinking habits of the Maoris the better it would be for a race that he had the greatest admiration for. The Na- tives were destroying their health and wasting their substance through excessive drinking, and the House should rise to the occasion and pre- vent it by amending the Licensing Act. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) did not agree with the remarks made by the honourable member for Napier. The statements in the petition were quite correct. While he was not going to be an advocate of pictorial petitions, he could assure the House that if there was any subject Mr. A. L. D. Fraser that which was embodied in the picture on the petition. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able gentleman could not discuss the subject- matter of the petition. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) wished to make a personal explanation. He had not seen the pictures, and he did not know what words accompanied them. Mr. MONK .- You said they were untruthful. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER said that what he had stated was that the inference to be deduced from the picture on the petition was untruth- ful. He had never seen barrels of beer or bottles of liquor among the Natives. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) understood Mr. He Deputy - Speaker was asked to rule whether the petitions should be received or not. If they were against the Standing Orders Mr. Deputy-Speaker would no doubt rule that they should not be received ; but he would ask him to rule in strict conformity with the Standing Orders, and not be influenced by anything that had been said with regard to the petition itself. A ruling might be given which would be unjust to those who were dealt with in the petition ; but if there was any doubt about the truth of what was alleged in the petition, it would be far better that it should be considered by the Public Petitions Committee of the House, and the truth of what was stated in the petition proved or disproved. But it would be obviously wrong for us to rule these things out of order simply for the purpose of burking inquiry, if there was anything to inquire into. Mr. McNAB (Mataura), in speaking to the point of order, said that it could not be too strongly impressed that the question, so far, had nothing to do with the merits or demerits of the petition, and that Mr. Speaker's ruling would simply be as to whether a petition could be presented to the House which contained a photograph of a pile of eleven barrels of beer and fifteen bottles of whiskey. He thought it was a scandal. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), in speaking to the point of order, said it seemed to him there was a certain amount of responsibility on the mem- ber presenting the petition. Standing Order No. 308 said, " Every member presenting a petition is to take care that the same is in conformity with the rules and orders of the House." And No. 310 said, " Every petition is to be respectful, decorous, and temperate in its language." It seemed to him, if there was any doubt as to whether a petition was in con- formity with the Standing Orders or not, it would be the duty of the Clerk to call the atten- tion of Mr. Speaker to the petition, and then it. would be the duty of Mr. Speaker, guided, of course, by the Standing Orders, to decide if the petition could be allowed to proceed or not. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that Standing Order No. 300 provided that every petition bad to be written, printed, or lithographed in the English or Maori language. In his opinion, a petition with a picture, drawing, or cartoon, or anything of that sort, would be contrary to 