No. 2. Block No. 2 does not include any of the English grass paddocks. So far as I could judge not any of the land I am applying for has ever been broken up. I enclose you my map, as it enables me to define what I want." He sent the map, and on that map is indi- cated the parts of the estate containing the 1,500 acres, and the description of this stony patchy land was amusing. He then says,- "This land would suit me, as my home is situated only a few miles from the place, and I could work it for sheep in conjunction with my agricultural homestead. If convenient to you, or to one of the members of your Board, I would suggest, in case you are not conversant with the land in question, instead of leaving the valuation to an outsider, you might per- haps come and see the property yourself, and I would arrange, if necessary or desirable, to meet you." He still maintains, mark you, it was sheep country : "in conjunction with my agricul- tural homestead." This is the reply :- "Christchurch, 19th May, 1898. "DEAR SIR,-I am in receipt of your letter of 12th, and am intending to bring the matter before my Board at its next meeting, with a view to fixing reserves on the various portions of the estate. " We are having many inquiries for farms on the Glentui, and it may be that the Board will decide to adhere to its usual practice of first offering by auction. I will, however, give you early advice in reply to your inquiries .- Yours, &c., " WALTER G. FOSTER, General Manager, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington. "R. Meredith, Esq., M.H.R., Springbank." On the 19th May we told him that we were going to submit it to public competition. On the 28th May, in the face of being informed that this land was to be submitted to public competition-and you mark that he wrote in his first letter to us in October his reason for writing. His October letter was as follows : - " Wellington, 19th October, 1897. "SIR, - There is considerable inquiry in North Canterbury as to the intention of your Board to offer for sale, or on terms, portion of the Glentui Estate. I have just received a letter from a gentleman living in the Oxford district who is anxious to obtain a section of land for his son ; but no land at present in that district is under offer. Wool and mutton have been, and are, selling at fairly remunerative prices, hence the desire on the part of the public for the acquisition of land. In case of a lull in the market for mutton and wool, there must inevitably follow a depreciation in value of land. "I beg to suggest that your Board should place the Glentui Estate in part or in whole in the market at the earliest possible date. If the best portions of Glentui were subdivided into sections of from 150 to 500 acres, I am con- vinced there would be a ready market at satis- Mr. Seddon pleased to be advised by your Board of your intentions to act on my suggestion .- Yours, " R. MEREDITH, M.H.R., Ashley. &c., <!-- PageHeader="\---" --> "The Chairman, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington." And, in his letter of 28th May, 1898, he says,- " In reference to my former letter applying for about a thousand acres of the Glentui free- hold and your reply to the said letter, I may state that I am now prepared to make you a definite offer for the land as described by me in my former application to purchase." His former application to purchase was for the 1,500 acres :- "I will give you the Government valuation with 5 per cent. added. I will pay you 25 per cent. cash, balance in three years at 44 per cent. per annum interest. Please give me an answer by Friday, the 3rd June next, by letter, or by wire addressed to Rangiora for me. I have another property in view in case you are not willing to negotiate with me. "R. MEREDITH." This is the reply :- "I have brought the matter of the sale of this property before my Board, and am in- structed to inform applicants that it will be surveyed at an early date and offered by auction about November next. I thank you for your inquiries and offer ; but, understanding you have expressed a wish that the public should have an opportunity of purchasing at auction, the Board has not been unmindful of your views. ## " WALTER G. FOSTER, General Manager." We did not give the honourable member what he wanted, and here is the result. Here is a little map ; here is the bridge across the river ; and here are the prices fetched at auction for this sheep country : Section 2, 56 105. per acre ; Section 3, £5 17s. 6d. per acre : Section 5. £8 2s. 6d. per acre ; Section 5A, £7 126. 6. per acre ; Section 6, €3 17s. 6d. per acre : Sec- tion 7, £7 15s. per acre ; Section 8, $5 7 .. nd per acre; and Section 10, 59 10s. per acre. This is the sheep country. The lowest section sold was $3 17s. 6d., but the average was over £6 an acre, and the difference would have gone into the pocket of Mr. Meredith-over 50(0) When I was engaged in fighting with ofer honourable members, and he interfered, it would have been best for him had he left me alone. I have no feeling in the matter. The honourable member has expressed his regret for what of- curred, and I accept it in the spirit in which it is tendered, but I hope that the next time be reads the correspondence which has taken place he will read the whole of it, and not leave out an important letter which he had in his p. In doing that he made a serious session. blunder. I suppose he did not know that I bad the same correspondence in my drawer, an- ticipating some such proceedings. The mes: important letter he never read : and it struck me that possibly an oversight might occur: but. 