DEFENCES. The expenditure on new lighthouse-works last year was very light. This year provision is made for the new light at Kaiourangi Point, for a commencement with a new tower and providing a new lantern at Cape Campbell, and for connecting the principal lighthouses with the telegraph system. The expenditure on harbour-works was also rather light, the principal items being Napier Spit protection, snagging the Manawatu and Little Wanganui Rivers, and a new wharf at Karamea. This year provision is made for new wharves at Maungaturoto, Manukau Sandspit, Orua Bay, Mokau, Pakawau, Bruce Bay, and Okuru ; and for repairing and extending the wharf at Okarito; also for other necessary works at Oahanga, Wairoa, Moutere, Motueka, and Collingwood ; and for continuing the Spit protection-works at Napier, and the Sticking Point reclamation-works at Lyttelton. The expenditure under the head of " Harbour Defences " was also less than usual last year, but this year a much larger expenditure has been provided for, the amount proposed for same being $25,000. In the case of the vote for contingent defence also the expenditure fell below the amount for the previous year, but this year a larger vote is provided for, principally to meet the payments for the field batteries, submarine-mining vessels, and material ordered, which is expected to come. to charge during the year. # CONCLUSION. In allocating the amounts proposed for the several purposes due consideration has been given to what I believe to be the wishes of honourable members -- namely, that the works should be proceeded with at a reasonable speed, and especially that the formation of roads to back blocks should be pushed forward, the work being done at a time when the best results may be obtained. Every consideration has been given to the urgent requirements of the colony, and I have confidence that the result at the end of the year will give general satisfaction. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to two o'clock a.m. (Wednesday). LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 23rd October, 1901. Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill- Chemists' Rota of Attendance Bill-Education Boards Election Bill-Fisheries Encouragement Bill-Inspection of Machinery Bill-Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill-Adjournment. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBI- TRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved, That the report of the Labour Bills Committee on the Industrial and the evidence taken thereon, together with the proceedings of the Committee, be printed. Motion agreed to. CHEMISTS' ROTA OF ATTENDANCE BILL. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved the second reading of this Bill. As honourable members were no doubt aware, it was his wish to insert a clause with the same object into another Bill, but it was pointed out on that occasion that such a clause would have no effect, as no penalty had been attached. He had since prepared a Bill to meet the case. He wished to say that he had agreed to the withdrawal of the clause from the other Bill, otherwise the chemists' half-holiday would have been endangered. As & reason for the introduction of the present Bill, he might state one or two facts within his own knowledge. Last year he had occasion to send a messenger in the middle of the night for medicine for himself. The messenger went to four chemists' shops, and twice to one of them, before he succeeded in getting the medicine, and it was two hours before he returned with it. Only the other day a member of the other House wished to secure medicine for a colleague who was in a serious condition, and the friend had actually to go almost to the Te Aro end of the town and then could not get the medicine required. Ultimately he returned to the Parliamentary Buildings and succeeded in ringing up a chemist by telephone, from whom he subsequently ob- tained that which was required. In some cases the chemists were married men who did not live on the premises, but in places out of town, and kept no assistants. In other cases their shops were not provided with bells, while in others the bells were apparently cut off. The Bill, it would be observed, was a permissive measure. If the Government found that com- plaints were made, and that as a result there was a neglect of human life or disregard of human suffering, they could put the statute in force ; but if chemists did their duty by the public it could be left in abeyance. He moved, That the Bill be read the second time. Bill read the second time. EDUCATION BOARDS ELECTION BILL. On the question, That the amendments made by the House of Representatives in this Bill be agreed to, The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, With . regard to this Bill there has simply been added to it by, the House of Representatives, clauses in the way of more definitely prescribing the machinery under which the elections are to be conducted. It is possible that members may think that twenty-eight days before the election is a very long time, but still we all know that the education districts are very wide, and that there are Committees in very remote corners of these districts, and each Committee has got its votes which they are expected to record. I am not sure which is the most convenient way of dealing with these new 