a memorandum received by myself from Mr. Martin, containing the clauses that gentleman had been asked to draft under instructions from the Committee, do also lie on the table, so as to give full information to the House as to the position of the Bill. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Is it understood that the minutes and the evidence will be printed ? Mr. SEDDON .- Not the evidence ; it will take too long, and block the Bill. Mr. MASSEY .- I think the evidence ought to be printed for the information of members. It is a motion that, I consider, should come from the Government benches, but, as the Pre- mier will not move it, I beg to move, as an amendment, That the words "and that the evidence be printed " be added to the motion. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Although a city member, I regret very much indeed the failure of the Committee, and that after weeks and weeks of labour they are not able to bring in a more satisfactory report to the House. It does not reflect very much credit upon them. The Bill may not, perhaps, have met with their approval ; but we had a very big Bill last year dealing with Municipal Corporations, and we have put that system of government upon a very satisfactory footing. This Bill proposed to deal with the country local bodies, and some- thing requires to be done very badly. I believe it is to the sincere regret of the Chairman that the Committee have brought that report to the House, and I believe his regret will be shared https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 in by a very large number of members. It seems to me that what we should do is to set up another Committee, and let them start straight away. For my part, I should be glad http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero to act on the Committee. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I also desire to express my regret at nothing practically being done ; but the best thing I think that could have happened has happened, because, although my little Bill is in a very mangled form com- pared with what it was when it left here, it has escaped its step-mother and got back again in the House, and there may be more vitality about it than perhaps some members suspect. At all events, there is the report of the Com- mittee ; and there is no use, as far as I can see, attempting to go much further with the Bill if the amendments made in Committee are sup- ported by a majority in the House. I think the best thing has happened. Members see, at all events, the views of the Committee so far as they have gone, and Mr. Martin himself says that, with the change in the policy laid down by the Committee, he could not get the Bill ready this session ; and, even supposing it could be ready, I would not attempt to pass it in that form. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- I think it is a very good thing indeed that the Bill, as it is at pre- sent, is dropped. We wanted at the start a Counties Bill, and not a hybrid Bill that is neither one thing nor another. This would not put the counties any further forward than they are at the present time. No one in this House | mittee attempted to solve the problem whatever local government reform, but, as I have said, this Bill is neither one thing nor another. It seems to me that whenever we attempt any- thing like reform we have members who feel for their pocket and say, "You must not do that." I say it should have been a Counties Bill only, and that we should have started out with that notion, instead of with a desire to get every- thing under the sun, and then getting nothing worth having even if we passed it. It does not give any more assured finance than there is at present. There is no attempt to give an assured finance. The only thing it would do-and for this we may say "Thank you for nothing,"- is that it would give the present local bodies power to increase the rates upon them- selves, and to expend their own money, so that we had better have nothing than some- thing like that. I think that, if it has done no other good, the labours of the Commit- tee so far have shown the folly of trying to have a Counties Bill, a Road Boards Bill, and a Town Districts Bill all in one, and calling it a Counties Bill, instead of bringing down a con- solidating Bill. If we had started with the object and intention of reform in this direction we might have had a Counties Bill, as it is the desire that the Town District and Road District Bills should be brought down dealing separately with these local governing bodies; but the notion members had was to cram all into this Bill and to say, " You must not have reform, because you are going to hurt some one." I never heard of a reform yet but some one was going to be hurt a little by it. I think the best thing that can be done is to drop this Bill in its present form, with a view of bringing down a Bill or Bills dealing with this question, that will meet with the approval of the country, early next session. Mr. TANNER (Avon). - One cannot help thinking that the position in which this ques- tion is now revealed shows the wisdom of the House during the last three or four sessions in dealing with the question of municipal govern- ment and the question of municipal franchise absolutely apart from the wider question of the local government of the colony. If things had remained as they were five or six years ago, when the two subjects were inextricably bound up together in the proposals then mooted, we should at the present time have made abso- lutely no progress either with municipal or county reform. I think the House acted wisely two or three years ago in dividing the subjects, and in dealing first with the question of municipal franchise and afterwards, by means of a large Committee, with the subject of municipal government, and finally in that way getting one-half of the task fairly achieved. I regret very much the report that has been brought down by the Chairman of the Counties Bill Committee to-day, but, knowing as I do the indefatigable energy of that gentleman, his aptitude and attention to detail, it would be unfair in the highest degree to attach any blame to him, and it is fair to assume that the Com- 