of their being able to carry on a trade in con- sequence of the owners of the steamers desiring that they should go on to London after reaching South Africa, and they stipulated on the South African bills of lading that they were not responsible for overcarrying the goods or pro- duce; and that was really the stumbling-block to the attempt under existing conditions to carry out such a service. It was impossible under such a system for the service to be carried on satisfactorily or successfully. If any proposal were made by the Government to pay the difference between the estimated freight to the shipping companies and the cargo actually ·carried, it could only be on the condition that the steamers would go to South Africa and then return to this colony. The only reason for this colony giving a subsidy at all for steamers to open up trade with South Africa was in con- sequence of there being no return cargo, or very little, from South Africa for New Zealand. If the steamers were to go from South Africa .on to London, and not return to New Zea- land, no contribution ought to be paid by the colony at all, because in that case the steamers must and would subordinate the South African trade to the larger earnings they got from the regular trade of going on to London. A subsidy ought to be offered to ob- tain a suitable class of steamers to trade be- tween the colony and South African ports and return thence to New Zealand ports, and, if we were to have any good from them at all, that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was the only way it could be done. The only reason for offering a subsidy was in consequence of the steamers coming back having little or no cargo for this country. However, the whole question had been under the consideration of the Cabinet on more than one occasion, and it was engaging the attention of Ministers now, and he hoped the matter would be submitted to the House during the session in order to see whether they could establish a service that would be useful to the colony as a whole and beneficial to the producers of the colony. We had lost a good deal of the trade in this direc- tion owing to the superior freight arrangements for carrying on the trade between South Africa and Australia, and that gave both merchants and producers a great advantage over the ship- pers of this colony. He would like to see that overcome if it was possible to do it ; and, if we were to get and to hold a fair share of the im- portant trade that was developing there, it was absolutely essential that we should have a good and regular steam service available for all parts .of New Zealand. OTAGO CENTRAL RAILWAY RATES. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will recon- sider the official reply given to petitioners who requested a reduction in rates charged on goods conveyed over the Otago Central Railway, and grant their reasonable demands ? He was pleased to read that when the Premier was .addressing the farmers at Pahiatua some time Sir J. G. Ward for the earning of heavy dividends. Now, there were special charges levied for the carriage of goods on the Otago Central Railway, charges largely in excess of those imposed for the car- riage of goods going over another branch line into the same interior-that was, the Lawrence line. Now, if the merchants of Central Otago were to compete with the merchants at Law- rence, they felt that they should not be thus unjustly handicapped by having higher rates levied on their goods than was paid by the com- peting tradesmen. They thought they should be placed on an equitable footing. It had been shown to him that the rates on goods from Dun- edin to Ranfurly amounted to something like £2 78. 10d., and that wagons would take the goods up for a little addition to the difference. There was this difference also, that the Railway charged for measurement, whereas the wagons gave them an absolute ton weight when they professed to carry a ton. The Railway gave nothing of the sort, and often charged a rate and a half on goods. He thought the Minister ought to endeavour to do something to redress this grievance. Of course, he recognised the Otago Central was a very expensive line to make, but that should not be a reason for handicapping the people up there, seeing that it was largely a political railway, so far as the route was concerned ; and had it been taken by the way suited by nature such wasteful expenditure would never have occurred, so that the percentage return on the cost of this line had no bearing on the equity of the case. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the rates charged on the Otago Central were classified rates which were applicable to the railways of the colony as a whole. What the honourable member desired was that the de- partment should accept as a basis of arrange- ment on the Otago Central the rates that were charged only on the Lawrence Branch. He might tell the honourable gentleman that such a system as that could not be justified. It could not be restricted to the Otago Central; but, if adopted there, it would require to be made applicable to every district in the colony where competitive rates were existing. There was competition at present on the Lawrence line as against the railway, and it was owing to that competition that the rates were lowered, and that lowering of the rates could not be generally extended without much loss of re- venue. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- How about the road competition ? Sir J. G. WARD said, If the traders carrying on business in Central Otago should by com- petition bring about a condition of affairs simi- lar to that now existing on the Lawrence line, then, of course, they would be compelled to compete on a similar basis there also. It was only by lowering the rates on the Lawrence line that they got a portion of the traffic. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said they had only got the land traffic. Sir J. G. WARD said they had got competi- 