Public Works Fund. If the honourable mem- ber for Palmerston would deduct the full ex- penditure of $2,197,334 from the total of the Public Works Fund, £2,532,515, he would find that he would get £335,181, and the other sum would be raised as required under the Govern- ment Loans to Local Bodies Act. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said it 8.0. never appeared in the Public Works Statement in this fashion before last year, and it had absolutely no meaning. If the para- graph had been put in this way : "In addition to the above expenditure the amount of £46,000 is spent under the Loans to Local Bodies Act," they could have understood it ; but as it appeared here it was put apparently as part of the public works expenditure from this one fund. It was a very humbugging way of putting it, and if the Minister had stated it in his Public Works Statement as he had made the statement now no exception could possibly have been taken to it ; but as it appeared here it was undoubtedly a mistake. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member for Wakatipu and the honourable member for Palmerston were changing their ground. They wanted to make out now that there had been a mistake, and that the depart- ment had not been able to subtract the figures one from the other, but had made a mistake to the extent of nearly $47,000. If members would take the estimates, they would find in the first sheet the following amounts required to be voted :- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 £ 13,250 Public Works Departmental Railways, and Additions to Open 1,236,968 Lines .. .. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Public Buildings. . 207,250 Lighthouses, Harbour Works, and 38,027 Harbour Defences .. Tourist and Health Resorts 9,350 .. Immigration .. Construction and Maintenance of Roads, Bridges, and other Public 384,000 Works Development of Goldfields 50,000 .. Purchase of Native Lands 30,000 .. Telegraph Extension 40,489 Rates on Native Lands Contingent Defence 180,000 . Lands Improvement 7,050 .. £2,197,334 Total . . Underneath that they would find " Govern- ment Loans to Local Bodies Account," which was in addition to the two millions, £46,577. He did not know how it could be put in any other way. Mr. PIRANI said the Premier was trying to shift the ground for the Minister for Public Works. There was no shifting of the ground on his part. The Statement was very clear that the expenditure was £2.197,334; and in addition to that there was $46,577. Anybody could only conclude that the two amounts added together would leave the unallocated balance : that is as clear as daylight, and the Mr. Hall-Jones want to. There was nothing in this paragraph to indicate that the amount was separated altogether from the Public Works Fund. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the paren- thetical remark ? Mr. PIRANI said that was what he was pointing out. It was calculated to mislead, there was no doubt about that. If it had said the balance without that £46,000 would be so- and-so they could have understood it, but it was exactly the opposite. Mr. HALL-JONES would point out that this was worded exactly the same in the Statement last year, and no exception was then taken to it. He ventured to say that nine out of ten members of the House understood that they were spending moneys under the Loans to Local Bodies Act, and that this £46,000 could not in any way affect the Public Works Fund. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) would like to remind the Government that they had not yet appointed a Surveyor-General. It was a matter of great importance that he should be appointed, because, under the Representation Act, the Representation Commissioners could not set to work redefining the boundaries after the taking of the census until the Surveyor- General was appointed. Under the Act of last year six new electoral districts were added, and therefore it was important that the Commis- sioners should be set to work as soon as possible to redivide the colony into electoral districts. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) thought it was now approaching the time when the Government ought to appoint the Surveyor-General, and it had been with the Government a moot question as to whether they should select a man in the colony or whether they should do what had been done by at least one other colony and get a specially scientific man. Considering the experience our own men had got, the Govern- ment favoured the selection of an officer from 300 amongst our own men. The experience of importing a purely scientific man where tried had not been a success, he believed. An Hon. MEMBER .- Have you selected the man ? Mr. SEDDON said, No; that was their diffi- culty at the present time. 650 Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, perhaps the Premier would tell the House how soon the Government would appoint the Surveyor- General. Mr. SEDDON said he thought within a month. An Hon. MEMBER asked when the Govern- ment intended to separate the Roads Depart- ment from the Lands and Survey Depart- ment ? Mr. SEDDON said that had already been done. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) desired to ask a question with reference to the North Island Trunk Railway Fund. He found that the gross revenue for last year was £9,449, and for the previous year it was $8,572. Of course, it might be too much to expect the Treasurer or Minister for Public Works to give the details 