fact that some of these labour leaders presume on their position, and say to themselves, "The employer dare not dismiss me, as he would have the whole union on to him." Conse- quently the employer is sometimes annoyed, and dismissal may take place in that way. believe there is a possibility that under clause 6 this may be intensified in certain instances. I regret the clause was not amended in the direction I proposed, but that was the fault of the stonewallers, not mine. But why on earth is this terrible fear that conciliation will be destroyed. Conciliation Boards have' not been touched. If conciliation is good the people have had time to assess its value, and if they find it valuable they will make use of it in future as they have done heretofore. But, if they find it is a nuisance to them, are you going to jam it down their throats whether they like it or not. That is exactly what you are endeavouring to do now. It is a most extraordinary thing that those who are always telling us to trust the people do not trust them in this matter, but insist on forcing Concilis- tion Boards on them whether they like them or not. There is only one explanation of the attitude of certain gentlemen that I have ever been able to find, and that is contained in a parliamentary paper I have before me con- taining a return which was recently laid before the Council. I will read the return, and honourable gentlemen will understand why I read it :- " Cases in which Recommendations of Boards https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 were agreed to, and Number of Days before the Boards. " Auckland District .- Tailors, 13 days; flour- millers, 2 days; saddlers, 1 day ; tanners, 1 http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero day ; Hikurangi coal-miners, 6 days ; Auckland painters, 3 days. Six cases settled by Board. " Wellington District .- Plasterers, 6 days ; saddlers, 4 days ; Napier painters (withdrawn on recommendation of Board), 2} days ; drivers (partly accepted), 25 days ; hairdressers (modifi- cation agreed to), 8 days. Two cases settled by Board, one partly settled by Board, one modifi- cation agreed to, one withdrawn on recommen- dation of Board. " Canterbury District .- Builders' labourers, 1 day ; saddlers, 1 day. Two cases settled by Board. " Otago District. - Burnside ironworkers, 6 days ; Nightcaps coal-miners. Two cases settled by Board. " Cases referred to Court of Arbitration, and Number of Days before Boards (only). " Auckland District .- Typographers, 9 days ; carpenters and joiners, 6 days ; iron-moulders, 5 days; Waihi gold-miners, 49 days. Four cases sent to Court. " Wellington District .- Linotypists, 25 days; coach-workers, 2 days; wharf-labourers, 38 days ; butchers, 14 days ; match-factory employés, 7 days ; painters, 2 days ; carpenters, 10 days ; tailoresses, 3 days; tailors, 12 days ; wharf- labourers, 5 days ; timber-yards, 14 days; drivers (partly accepted), 25 days; builders' and waiters, 17} days. Fifteen cases sent to Court. " Canterbury District. - Typographers, 2 days ; iron- and brass-moulders, 1 day ; boot- makers, 2 days; tanners and fellmongers, 1} I days ; butchers, 1 day; curriers, 2} days; hair- dressers, 1 day; lithographic and letterpress printers, &c., 1 day; slaughtermen, 2 days ; coachbuilders, 1 day; typographers, 1 day. Eleven cases sent to Court. " Otago District .- Millers, 2 days ; Allendale coal-miners, 4 days ; Dunedin tailoresses, 2 days ; saddlers, 3 days ; millers, 4 days ; Alex- andra coal-miners, 4 days : Dunedin butchers, 13 days ; plasterers, 13 days ; boilermakers and shipbuilders, 23 days ; metal-workers (iron- moulders), 33 days ; carters, 8 days; Shag Point coal-miners, 1 day ; Kaitangata coal- miners, 1 day. Thirteen cases sent to Court. "6. The number of days each case occupied in hearing before the Arbitration Court : Im- possible to answer, as the Court has as many as five cases before it in one day-partly hear- ing one, giving award in another, &c. "7. Cost of salaries, fees, office and other expenses of the Conciliation Boards in each industrial district (1st April, 1900, to 30th June, 1901) : - d. B. Auckland District 366 0 3 . Wellington 1,089 16 5 . . Westland 6 17 4 . . Canterbury 109 0 4 . . Otago 220 14 2 . . Taranaki 8 0 8 . . £1,811 11 11 "8. Cost of salaries, fees, and other expenses of the Arbitration Act for the same period : £1,659 9s. 9d." Now, the cost of the Court of Arbitration in the same time was £1,659 9s. 9d. Sir, we are told that if all the cases had to go to the Court of Arbitration there would be a necessity for another Judge. But in that case you would have the amount of £1,811 that is expended on conciliation now, and that would go towards paying another Judge. It is only right and proper that the people should have the option of going to the Conciliation Board or Arbitra- tion Court as they think fit. I do not suppose it is necessary for me to dwell very strongly upon the action of the Wellington Board that has brought labour into discredit. In my opinion, it is entirely to the advantage of the worker that this Bill should pass. I wish here to direct the attention of the labour people to the actions of the Board which has been ad- ministering this Act in Wellington, and to ask, What has been the result of their action ? The result should teach them to be very careful that they do not abuse the beneficent laws which this Legislature has passed in their favour. Now, clause 21 makes no alteration in the law to the advantage of the employer, but it does make an alteration advantageous to the em- ployé, and I will show you how. At the present time the employer has already all the powers 