of us can derive any benefit from it during the currency of the present Parliament-that is, during the term of the present trust. The argument that members should be more highly paid is entitled to consideration, and so is the hardship of those who come from the far end of the colony, and their difficulty of getting home at all with the very small number of days allowed off by law. I agree that there should be some scale to entitle them to the same net benefit from the exemption that members resident in and near Wellington are That seems perfectly supposed to enjoy. reasonable. But, as was first put by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), the point is really this at present : We took these billets with our eyes open; we asked for them, and some of us took a good deal of trouble to get them, and what right have we now to object to the terms? I was hunting for something else a few days ago when I came across a leading authority which decides an almost exactly analogous point. Mr. Hudson, the "Railway King," was chairman of the York and North Midland Railway Company at a nominal salary of £1 per week. Of course, he was worth thousands a year to the company. Certain shares were put "at the disposal of the directors " by the articles of association or by a resolution of the company. These shares were taken by Mr. Hudson, who was practically the directors, for his own use, and it was urged that in consideration of the small salary it must have been the intention of the company to place these https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 shares for his benefit. The case, York and North Midland Railway Company versus Hudson, was decided in 1853 by Sir John Romilly, from whose judgment I quote the following :- "When Mr. Hudson accepted the office of chairman he knew that the salary was not more than £1 per week, and yet he was content to give his services on that footing. He might possibly have considered that the station and influence acquired in the position of chairman of the York and North Midland Railway was a re- muneration for the time and labour bestowed by him, even if his services were not paid by any salary at all ; but, whether they were so or not, it is the duty of every man who accepts any situation to perform the duties of it thoroughly and entirely. If they require his whole time and attention, it is his duty to give that whole time and attention to the due dis- charge of them. This Court can never counten- ance a person who is placed in a fiduciary posi- tion in retaining for his own benefit sums of money which have come to his hands, or have been acquired by him in that character, although the acquisition of those sums is due to his own exertions, on the suggestion that his services were worth more than what was paid for them, and that he was himself entitled to ascertain and determine the just measure of their value. If this principle were allowed, I know not what there would be to prevent any clerk from retaining the property of his master on the plea that his master had not adequately rewarded his great and meritorious services." member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) with regard to the persons who take charge of his business in Auckland while he is away. I submit the parallel is perfect, with perhaps two exceptions, which are against us - that is to say, there was no increase in the revenue as a result of our exertions ; and, in the second place, there is no obvious or glaring inadequacy in the pay as there was in his case. Now, for whose good is it being done ? The member for Waitemata said that raising the pay would not affect the class of representatives who will be returned at the next election. Well, that seems to me to be immaterial, because the fact that we can get an increase of salary now will have no effect on the choice of candi- dates at the coming election. The question is arguable if the Bill were postponed till after next election; but the fact, as to whether or not we shall take a personal profit from the Bill, as we shall if it passes in its present form, has absolutely nothing to do with the ques- tion of whether or not an increase in the salary for future Parliaments may or may not im- prove the representatives of the people. There is a constitutional aspect of the question to which I wish to direct attention : I refer to the enormous power over members that now rests with Ministers in the way of dissolving Parlia- ment. A member is now elected at a salary of £240 for a three-years term. Now, the power of Ministers is increased very much owing to the fact that members are paid. The power is great enough in the Old Country, but it must prevail to a much greater extent in a country where members are paid, and therefore to a large extent dependent upon Ministers for retaining their salaries. But now, with an indefinite power on the part of Parliament at the instance of Ministers to increase members' salaries, there is absolutely no limit to Minis- ters' power in that respect. The power may be equivalent to bribery with some members, and it may be equal to a threat-and a very effec- tive threat-with others, when it is suggested that some members may get the benefit and that others may be left out in the cold. There is absolutely no finality at all ; but I hold that there should be a constitutional bar which should make it ultra vires for Parliament to interfere in a matter of the kind during its own term. There is such a bar in the United States and Switzerland. The general election is the only test we have at present for ascertaining the people's views, and that is a very inaccurate test, owing to the number of issues submitted together. The referendum avoids this difficulty, and such an increase of the salaries of the people's servants as is proposed by this Bill is one of the ques- tions to which I should like to see the refer- endum applied. The member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) asked, Why not refer all these other increases to the people ?- the increases to Civil servants, and so on. The answer is, for the simple reason that those who vote for this increase are the persons to get the benefit of the increase. We are the judges of our own cause 