creep setting in. The airway was standing in good order, but low, the seam there being only about 5 ft. thick ; and I also noticed that there was a good circulation of air throughout the working-places." He admitted at once that on the day the Commission went there the mine was in bad order. It was unfortunate, but it was un- avoidable. They had been discussing as to the advisability of putting down an air-shaft, and instead of putting down an air-shaft they had decided to construct a new airway, and a double shift had been at work for a fortnight before the Commission went there, and the new air- way was partly opened up. There was another airway on the south side of the mine that the Commission never went to see at all. His grievance was that they did not examine the mine ; nor could they examine the mine in the short time they were there. He had sent for all the reports of the Mine Inspector, but only two had been sent to him, and he sup- posed that that was all that there were. One of the letters read by the Premier was written seven days after the Commission visited the mine. He had not got the letter which the Premier said was addressed to the mine- manager in May, 1900, and he would not be surprised to find that it was addressed to the Minister. If a report adverse to the mine was sent to the Minister, it was the duty of the Minister to advise the mine-owners of it. He had moved for a return of the deaths that had taken place in this mine, but he could not get https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788261 it. He had no fear of a return of the deaths and accidents that had occurred in this mine going before the country. Mr. SEDDON said the attack had been made upon the Commissioners because they had re- ported on the condition of things they had found in the Allendale Mine on the day they visited it, and yet the honourable member him- self had informed the House that it was then in a bad condition. From the evidence sub- mitted by impartial persons who were intrusted with great responsibilities, and who had visited the mine, it was found that a condition of things existed which the honourable member himself admitted was not desirable. He did not want anything more than that. The point was that the mine-manager, in reply, instead of asserting that the statements made in the letter were incorrect, admitted that the state- ments were correct, and that steps were taken to apply a remedy. Had Mr. McIntosh denied the statements, and challenged the Inspector, there would have been an answer ; but playing to the galleries and suggesting that they should now go before the Goldfields Committee or some other tribunal was of no use. An opportunity had been given to the owners and managers to show definitely that the statements con- tained in the report and the evidence given by Mr. Green were not correct ; but that had not been done. They did not, however, want anything more than what had been said by the honourable gentleman. When the re- port of the Commission was read by him, as Mr. J. Allen because he had not heard of any complaints as to this state of things existing. It was fortu- nate in the extreme that the Commission had visited the mine and had reported, because now these things had been remedied. There was a report of the 17th April, 1901, showing that the remedies had been applied. Since the defects had been remedied there should be an end of the matter; but he thought that, when gentle- men had done their best in giving a report according to the evidence, and according to their own evidence - because they had gone through the mine-instead of being blamed they ought to receive credit for what they had done. It seemed to him unreasonable to ex- pect that Mr. Haselden, the Chairman of the Commission and a Magistrate, would do any- thing that was unfair or improper. Then, there was the fact that Mr. Lomas was a working miner of great experience: what pre- judice could he have against the mine-owners ? His sole interest would be in seeing that every- thing was right, and that any danger that ex- isted was removed. The other member of the Commission, Mr. Proud, was a mining manager of great experience, the holder of an English certificate, and, so far as he (Mr. Seddon) knew, was a most amiable man, a man who, if any- thing, would prefer, if circumstances would permit, to take a favourable view rather than to do anything that was unpleasant. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said he had not com- plained of Mr. Green's report at all, but of the report of the Commission. He maintained that there was no more danger during the last six months in the mine than at any other time. As to Mr. Proud, he had nothing to say against him as a Commissioner ; but he was of opinion that no man with an English certificate with- out New Zealand experience in the mining of brown coals was in a position to properly form an opinion about New Zealand coal-mines. What he complained of was not that they said the mine was in bad order,-which was admitted, and which condition was being remedied at the time of their visit,-but that they reported that there was danger; and, further, he complained that they reported they had found prevalent a feeling on the part of the miners that if they gave evidence they would lose their employment. There was nothing of that in Mr. Green's report, and no evidence that the miners were afraid to report danger. He did not believe that the miners were so afraid. They had previously reported danger, and had reported bad ventilation, and had never suffered for so doing. He denied that. insufficient supports had been left. On the south side of the airway not a single pillar had been removed, and on the north side, when the Commission made its report, there was more than ample support for the roof. He also de- nied that there was not sufficient timber in the mine for its safety. There was ample for the safety of the mine, and the proof was that they had had very few accidents. Mr. SEDDON said Mr. Proud thoroughly understood what he was doing. The honour- 