Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- 1 desire to lay on the table the Public Works Statement for the year, and I move that it do lie on the table and be printed. The estimates will follow somewhat later on this evening. Possibly they may not be down to-night, but the printers are at work on them now. I move, That the Statement lie on the table and be printed. Motion agreed to. The Statement was as follows :-- [For the Tables and Appendices, &c., attached to the Statement, see Parliamentary Paper, D .- 1.] Mr. Speaker,-It is with feelings of pleasure that I lay before honourable members my sixth Statement, especially as it has not fallen to the lot of any one of my predecessors to deliver six consecutive Public Works Statements. The work undertaken last year was of a more extensive character than during any of the past few years, and the total expenditure conse- quently reached a higher figure. A large amount of very useful work has been accom- plished, and the extent to which the improved conveniences are appreciated by our settlers is well evidenced by the demands made for further road, railway, and other facilities. Indeed, had these demands been complied with to anything like their full extent, the estimates of expendi- ture which I submit this evening would have been swelled to twice their present dimensions. In dealing with the question of expenditure upon public works, it is well to remember that it is only just over sixty years since New Zea- land became a British colony; and when honourable members bear in mind that at that time there were no roads, railways, or bridges, no telegraphic communication, no post-offices or other public buildings ; that education, be- yond that supplied by the missionaries, was practically unknown ; and the islands were only visited at rare intervals by sailing-ships, it must be admitted that the progress made since that time has been most satisfactory, and establishes a record of which we may justly be proud. Two thousand two hundred and twelve miles of rail- way have been constructed and opened for traf- fic, thousands of miles of road have been formed, Line. Tahekeroa-Ahuroa Helensville Northwards .. Gisborne Wharf-Ormond Gisborne-Karaka .. . . ! Stratford-Toko Stratford-Whangamomona North Island Main Trunk Poro-o-tarao-Ongarue .. .. Mangaonoho-Mangaweka .. Blenheim-Waipara Omaka-Seddon Waipara-Skargill .. Otago Central Wedderburn-Blackstone Hill .. .. Total | graph-lines established ; the necessary public buildings (including schools) have been erected at great cost ; and a large fleet of ships are now engaged in carrying to all parts of the world the products of our enterprising settlers. While this good work has been done during past years, we who for the time being have the welfare of the country intrusted to our charge must not ignore our responsibilities in seeing that steps are taken for the further develop- ment of our colony, and that every opportunity is thus afforded for our settlers to forward their products to the markets of the world at the lowest possible cost and in the shortest reason- able time. To enable this to be done, notwith- standing what pessimists may say, we must continue our policy of road- and railway-con- struction. We must further improve our ex- isting lines of communication ; and this, done with due regard to economy, will result in placing our country in a still more satisfactory position. Without proper means!of communi- cation our settlers are hampered and handi- <!-- PageHeader="!" --> capped ; and it is our duty to remove the dis- abilities under which they labour, bearing in mind that, as the work progresses, each mile of railway completed and each chain of road formed is so much towards the end we have in view. Whilst making provision for the urgent re- quirements of the colony, the Government are of opinion that it would be extremely inadvis- able to enter upon a large borrowing policy for public works, and that we should adhere to the course followed in recent years, and make pro- vision for a fair rate of progress being main- tained both in railway- and road-construction. and provide accommodation and conveniences necessitated by the development of the colony, including the renewal with more permanent material of the old wooden buildings, many of which are past repairing. The sums provided in the estimates will ad- mit of the several works being continued at a reasonable speed, and it is hoped that the fol- lowing sections of railway will be opened for traffic before the end of the current financial year :- 1 1 Length. Section. 1 Miles. Chains. ! 69 4 43 10 . 40 6 .. 21 14 24 9 12 76 40 14 .. 23 12 . . 85 16 1 