obtained on application to Mr. Tregear, at the Labour Department, Wellington. He thought members would agree that such a work would be most useful, more especially for members of Parliament, and that it should be circulated in the same way as was the "New Zealand Official Year-book " and other official publications. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER was not aware himself of the existence of the volume, but he had no doubt it would be of great value to honourable members if circulated among them. He would confer with his colleagues, with a view to seeing if each member of Parlia- ment could be supplied with a copy. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said the honour- able member's question only referred to a cer- tain period. He would like to know if the different numbers would be available for mem- bers as they came out. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER had already said he was not aware of this particular com- pilation, but he would endeavour to make it as public as possible. # ASSEMBLY LIBRARY. The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved, That the follow- ing resolution, as reported from the Joint Li- brary Committee, be agreed to, namely : That the Right Hon. the Premier be asked to secure the sanction of Parliament to the payment of the $500 Watson jine to the Library. It would be within the memory of members of the Council that a few years ago Mr. Watson, then manager of the Bank of New Zealand, was fined $500 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 for contempt of Parliament. . According to the Standing Orders of the House of Representa- tives, it would appear that all fines were to be paid to the credit of the Library Fund. That had not been done in the case of this particular fine. The matter was brought before the notice of the Joint Library Committee a few weeks ago, and he had been instructed, as Chairman, to make application to the Premier for this money. The reply he received was that the amount had been paid into the Consolidated Fund some years ago, and that it could not be transferred without the sanction of Parliament. Now, it did not seem to have occurred to the mind of the Premier that there was no one in a better position than himself to test the feeling of Parliament, with a view of seeing whether or not it would give that sanction. It seemed to him that the reply sent was really an evasive one. However, the matter was again con- sidered by the Joint Library Committee on Tuesday last, and the resolution which was embodied in this motion was passed. If the Council could see its way to indorse this reso- lution, he hoped that the Premier would waive any mere formal objection he might have, and allow Parliament to have an opportunity of say- ing whether or not it would sanction a transfer of the amount to the Library Fund, to which he believed it properly belonged. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER was not pre- sent the other day, he was sorry to say, when this matter was discussed by the Library Com- mittee. He only arrived at the meeting at the Hon. Mr. Rigg fringe of it. But he did not think the Library Committee could get over the Standing Orders of both Houses of Parliament. He could not conceive that any reading of our Standing Orders could connect the fines of the descrip- tion of Mr. Watson's with the fines referred to in the Standing Orders. He did not know whether it had been the practice that fines such as Mr. Watson's had always been paid in the past to the Library Fund, but, read- ing the Standing Orders of the Council with those of the other Chamber, he could not see any warrant for supposing that such fines were alluded to at all. Their Standing Orders Nos. 240 and 241, to which he referred, related entirely to members, and there was a similar rule in the Standing Orders of the other place. Standing Order No. 240 said, " Any member adjudged by the Council, for any of the causes mentioned in any of these Standing Rules and Orders, guilty of contempt, shall, upon motion made with notice, be censured by the Speaker, and such censure shall be entered on the Journals of the Council ; and such member may be fined in a penalty." Then No. 241 said, " All fines shall be paid to the Library Fund." Well, that was perfectly clear and conclusive. He had not the Standing Order of the other House before him, but the wording of it was very much the same. It went no further. It simply dealt with fines to which members were liable if they were adjudged to be guilty of contempt ; and how Mr. Watson's fine could be dragged in under these Standing Orders was more than he could imagine. Of course, Mr. Watson's fine of $500 was paid into the consolidated revenue, and it could only come out of that by a vote of the House. Therefore, it was a little hard that this should be proposed now, because last year a special vote of 5500 was passed by Parliament for the Library Fund, though it was certainly for a particular purpose -namely, to strengthen the reference part of the library. He thought, if conscience money was required from the Consolidated Fund, the conscience money had been paid very fairly by the vote of $500 of last year, of which he was glad to say they were receiving the benefit by the increased number of papers they had this year on their tables. He was sorry he could not accept the honourable gentleman's proposal as a fair interpretation of their Standing Orders, or as a reasonable request to make. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND thought it would be as well if this motion were withdrawn. He had seen in one of the papers a report of what had been said in another place, from which it appeared that the Premier stated that if money was required by the Library Committee the Government would be only too glad to have it voted. They had better be satisfied with that, and the Hon. Mr. Rigg should withdraw the motion, as no good could come from it ; and, reflecting, as it appeared to do, upon what had been done in the other House, he thought it was itself rather open to criticism. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN said it was pretty 