I look back, and I ask the member for Palmers- ton to do so with me, and I find that of the men who have occupied the highest positions in the gift of the people of the country there is not one who may be said to have died anything but a poor man, because of his devotion to public duty. Of course, it is not, and cannot be, the privilege of us all to occupy those high positions ; but those who try to do well by the people of the colony in the position for which they have been selected have a right to be properly re- munerated by those whom they serve, even in a humble position. I desire to say this, in con- clusion : that I intend to vote to-night on this Bill as I have said I would all along to my consti- tuents-before I was elected, and after. I look upon it that it is a right and proper thing that we should be paid a fair salary for the position we occupy and the work we do. Very often people take a man at his own valuation, and if a man reckons he is not worth $300 a year, the chances are that the people in his district will not believe that he is worth $300. There are men who have represented constituencies in this House -they are not here now - who have always de- cried drawing money from the Treasury for their services, and their services were so little thought of by their constituents that most of them were sent to the right-about ; and I know one gentleman, who represented a southern con- stituency, who went back and told his con- stituents that he would not touch the infamous bribe, as he called it, in the payment of mem- bers, and the very next chance they got they turned him out; and then he applied for the money, and he was told he was too late in making the application. He was virtuous ; but it did not come off, and then he applied for the money. An Hon. MEMBER .- He got it, too. Mr. HORNSBY .- Well, if he got it, it is a worse case than I thought. My position is clear. I intend to vote for the measure. I will justify it before my constituents as I do to-night ; and I ask members of the House not to vote for this in a party spirit-not to make it a party matter at all-nor to let any ill- feeling be engendered over the vote that may be passed. Let us vote fairly and squarely on the matter, and those who cannot vote for the increase let them vote against it; but by all that is good and holy and righteous do not let them vote against it and then tumble over one another in their rush to the Treasury to take it, as was the case with some of the gentle- men who voted against the £40 bonus-they called it a "steal "-and yet stole away very quietly and quickly to the Treasury to get hold of it. I hope the Bill will pass. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- We have had two speeches in support of the Bill and one opposed to it, or, rather, one that approved of the principle but objected to the methods of enforcing it. We had the Premier 9.0. stating that the present amount was insufficient, and the honourable gentleman then described the various occupations pursued by members of Parliament, and he indicated that Mr. Hornsby bers of Parliament in their service, and he re- ferred to the loss business-men were likely to sustain. If the Premier's contention and the contention of the honourable member for Wai- rarapa is that a sufficient sum should be paid to members so that they may devote themselves exclusively to political life, then the £240 a year may not be enough ; but has the country so de- I do not think clared ? I do not think it has. the country desires that a sum should be placed on the estimates sufficient to enable a man to follow a political career alone. I think the country requires that he should receive an ade. quate remuneration or allowance for his ser- vices, and that he should employ the balance of his time in his ordinary occupation. An Hon. MEMBER .- Another millionaire. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I am only sorry the honourable gentleman is not correct. I find I have no more than what is necessary for my own ordinary wants, and, such being the case, his interjection is not to the point. Now, I consider the present allowance of £240 a year is sufficient. It is contended that there are members who do not require the extra assist- ance, but that all who are qualified for and elected to seats in the House should be placed in a position of independence. Well, I am not now going to argue that point out'; but this I will say : that the fact that a man was able to do something for himself in the past, or no? follows an occupation, and is also able to devote his attention to Parliament, indicates-in this colony, at any rate- that he is a man who has shown some ability in the management of his own private affairs, and that, as he has come to the front in his district and in managing his own private affairs well, it is, to some ex- tent, an indication that the interests of the colony might reasonably be intrusted to his hands; and it cannot be contended in this colony that the bulk of the people have started with an income, or with wealth sufficient to put them so much in advance of their fellows. Now, as to the remarks of the honour- able member for Wairarapa. He spoke of the allowances in New South Wales, and the ad- vantages obtained by the members of the Legis- lature and their wives and families. Well. I have run out a scale of the fees paid in the various Houses of Parliament throughout the world. It is up to some few years ago, and is the most recent I could obtain. In Belgium each member of the Chamber of Representa- tives receives 200 florins, or £16 15s. a month, while the House is in session. In Denmark the members of the Landsthing and the Folke- thing are paid the same salary-about 15%. day. In Portugal, peers and deputies receive an annual stipend of £67. In France, senators and deputies each get 19,000 francs, or £365 a year, the colonial representatives getting in addition their travelling-expenses. In Sweden the members of the Diet receive 1,200 rix- dollars-equal to £66 14s .- for a session of four months, and their travelling-expenses. Mem- bers of both Chambers are fined 11s. a day if they do not attend. Here we are fined 