stand the Premier to say he had seen another member's proof. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- I de- sire to say, in personal explanation, that if I had made a speech which the Premier assumed I had when he was addressing me, I would not have altered it in the slightest. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I merely wish to repudiate any part of the honourable gentleman's innuendo which may apply to me. I still think it was an unpardonable blunder on the part of the Ministry to intro- duce such a Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, in reply, to show that I have not been at all wrong in my statement, the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Atkinson) admits that the Han- sard reporter left out some very strong matter, and that he himself on receipt of his proofs had put it in. That shows that the Hansard reporter felt ashamed, shall I say, of what the honourabie member had said, and did not re- port it. Mr. PIRANI .- I rise to a point of order. Is the Premier in order in making another speech ? Mr. DEPUTY SPEAKER said the Premier was entitled to explain if he had been mis- understood. Mr. SEDDON .- The member for Palmers- ton, the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), the member for Wairarapa, the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay), the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutche- son), all rose up and made their own explana- tions. I did not interrupt, and I did not rise to any point of order, and it shows how unfairly these gentlemen would deal with me when I rise to put myself right. I again say that the mem- ber for Wellington City said that I said that he had garbled his speech. I never used those words at all, and the honourable member will find that when he looks at my uncorrected proof. I never applied those words to what the honourable member had done. The honour- able member admits himself there were con- siderable alterations, because he said there was very strong terms left out which the Hansard reporter had not reported-I suppose he said it in the heat of the moment-that he never intended to say it -- so that the honourable member is completely giving himself away. And as to what other members have said- namely, that they made no alterations in their Hansard proofs -I have come to the conclu- sion that the Hansard reporters must have dealt with them as they dealt with the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), and refrained from reporting those strong terms used by honourable gentlemen and applied to the action of His Excellency the Governor. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I should like to be allowed to explain what the omission was in my Hansard proof, and the omission which I supplied in correcting the proof. I said that the arguments of certain honourable members were taking us back to the Stuart and to do whatever it was told to do by the Sove- reign. I said, further, there was this difference between our times and those: namely, that in those times the Sovereign could hit back effectively, but here the Sovereign's representa- tive was, unfortunately, helpless. Perhaps it is that the names "Stuart " and "Tudor " were not so familiar to the reporter as the names " Russell " and " Seddon," and that might be the explanation of their omission from the Hansard proof. That was the only substantial omission I had to supply. Mr. SEDDON .- I accept the honourable gentleman's explanation and apology. The House divided. AYES, 38. Palmer Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Heke Parata Bennet Herries Buddo Russell, G. W. Carroll Hogg Seddon Houston Steward Collins Lawry Thompson, R. Colvin Thomson, J. W. Duncan McGowan Field Ward McGuire McLachlan Flatman Wilford Fowlds McNab Witheford. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Tellers. Fraser, W. Napier Carncross Hall O'Meara Stevens. NOES, 21. Hornsby Millar Allen, J. Monk Hutcheson Arnold Bollard Pirani Lang Laurenson Ell Tanner. Fisher Massey Tellers. Mackenzie, T. Atkinson Graham Hanan Meredith Barclay. Hardy Majority for, 17. Bill read a third time. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I want to amend the title, by striking out the words "expenses incurred," and inserting in lieu thereof the words "liabilities incurred and moneys disbursed." Motion agreed to, and Bill passed. MAORI RELICS BILL. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister). - This is a Bill the necessity for which has been urged by several who take an interest in the preserva- tion of Maori relics and antiquities, and it is matter for congratulation that there are so many in the colony who share equally in the deep concern that is taken on this particular subject. In looking up such data as is pro- vided by other countries with respect to the establishment of museums for the preservation of art and literature peculiar to those coun- tries I have found very little to go upon. The chief items of information I have been able to gather have been through the reports of Lord Cromer to the Imperial Government on " Egypt- ology " in 1897 and 1898, and there he shows the large amount of interest that is taken in that country in the building of museums, 