That would fix the maximum rate. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Why should the maximum be fixed in one case and not in another ? Mr. MILLS .- It is fixed on logs because all the sawmillers and every one of experience in the timber industry are quite satisfied that the day has arrived when we ought not to let logs leave the colony to be worked up in Aus tralia, to the detriment of the working-classes. We are satisfied that 3s. on 100 superficial feet will be sufficient for export duty, combined with the heavier freight that is charged on logs. In the latter part of the Schedule, where it states, " Or such lesser duty as the Governor by Order in Council determines," the House will realise why this position is made on a sliding scale, so that we can finally adjust matters to suit the industry of this colony. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - It seems to me there are three great principles involved in the consideration of this Bill. In the first place, as was pointed out by the member for Palmerston last night, the Go- vernor's message is dated one week ago. A great principle first of all presents itself to my mind, that the message has been detained in transit for one week, and the only conception one can have is that it was intentionally de- layed, so that those members who, like myself, hold strong opinions on the subject of free- trade and protection should not have the op- portunity of discussing the matter as it ought to be discussed. That a Bill involving a great https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 principle should be brought down to the House when everybody is fagged out, and every one shows signs of impatience at any member who speaks at any length, is an infringement of principle to begin with. The second principle, which seems to me to be of very great import- ance, is whether it is desirable under any circumstances to impose an export duty ; and, though the Minister in addressing himself to the Bill has spoken of the Commonwealth tariff being of such and such a nature, the honourable gentleman knows, and should have called the attention of the House to the fact, that the Commonwealth tariff is in suspense, and that there is really no true Commonwealth tariff at all. Mr. MILLS .- I said so. Captain RUSSELL .- Well, I did not follow the Minister sufficiently closely to know that he had done so; but, at any rate, this Bill smacks of the nature of a retaliatory measure, and, the people of New Zealand being sincerely anxious to enter into reciprocal treaties with Australia, it is dangerous, before the Common. wealth tariff is assured, to place a measure on our statute-book that could only appear in- tended as a retaliatory measure. But there is another principle which also is of great import- ance, and probably is of more importance than the other two, and that is that we are depart- ing altogether from the true constitutional principle when we allow that the Governor in Council may from time to time, when he thinks fit, impose a duty on any industry; and not Mr. Mills exactly as he thinks fit. Mr. MILLS .- The maximum and minimum are stated in the Bill. Captain RUSSELL .- Quite so; but within the maximum and minimum the Governer in Council may fix such duties as he pleases. That appears to me to be a principle that is absolutely monstrous. At the present time we have a (Government with distinctive protective proclivities, and they may advise His Ex- cellency to impose the highest possible duties. but next we may have a free-trade Government. who might advise His Excellency to abolish the duty altogether, or to reduce it to the lowest possible amount, and that without any consultation with the people of the colony. There are thus three important principles it- volved in this Bill, and I think it is wrong. under the circumstances, that it should be brought down, or allowed to proceed. Once more I wish to emphasize the fact that fer one whole week the Bill has been held in abeyance ; and if there was any intentinc of allowing a debate to take place on the Bill and allowing the people of the colony through the Press to know of the provisions of the Bill, it should have been circulated at least a week ago, so as to allow the country to know what policy was being proposed. I am deter- mined to vote against the second reading of the Bill, and in Committee I shall endeavour to get it so amended as will not leave the power in the hands of His Excellency in Council to raise or lower or abolish altogether the duty, a prit .- ciple which I think is injurious to constitu- tional government. I may also add that time Minister, in addressing himself to the B :. alluded to the fact that he had been in com- munication with the sawmillers throughont the country. That should not weigh with honourable members at all. We are not here to legislate in the interest of sawmillers. c. any other industry, but for the welfare of the colony generally. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) .- The honourable gentleman complains of the de !:: in introducing this Bill. If the honourable member and those who think with him would try to realise the situation, and consider west it is that has induced the Government to b. 'i back this measure to the very last moment. :... ; will understand why it is not proposed in this Bill to impose a direct import duty on tin: .: at once, but to have it held in abeyance. Te- whole reason for the delay in the introductor. of the Bill has been that we might ascert ..:: what is to be done by the Federal Government, who, though they announced their tariff - nie weeks ago, have not yet got it into Comm.die in the Federal Parliament. Captain RUSSELL .- It will not be in fone for three months. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is all the more reasto why we should take the course proposed it: c.r .- nection with this matter, so that we ein sc: during the recess if necessary. The timer t- dustry of New Zealand is a very important cfu. Hundreds of thousands of pounds are invested 