are defects in the system. I presume it can merely be in the incapacity of those who ad- minister the law ; the principle is right. Very well ; I contend if the Boards are properly con- stituted-every care must be taken as to their constitution-I see no reason whatever why, under the Act of last year, the waste lands of the Maoris should not be administered with success, and with advantage to the country and to the owners. But under the Act of last year which has been so much denounced-and let me say here that all the objections raised to-night were really objections to the Act of last year-we had every safeguard, so far as we could conceive at the time, and every provision as far as we could go, to encourage industrial habits among the Native owners, because immediately the land is transferred to the Land Board to operate on the first duty of the Board is to ascertain the wishes of the owners as to what they desire should be done with the land. In the first place, a sufficiency of land must be set apart for the use and maintenance of the owners under papakainga reserves ; then, areas set apart for them to farm ; and then the balance cut up and offered to the public by way of lease on easy terms. All these considera- tions were provided for in the Act of last year, and when you come to look into the speeches of to-night and hear members say what ought or ought not to be done in the interests of the Natives, you are impelled to tell them that they have been already anticipated by the Act of last year. The theory of the honourable member for Waitemata was this: First of all make papakaingas for the individual Natives- that is, inalienable reserves " but not too large," he said. He did not believe in large holdings ; in fact, to use his own phrase, he would leave the Natives "not entirely landless " ! That was his idea. But what did he say about what remained of the land ? He said it should be free to the Maoris to do what they liked with. Sir, what does that spell but free-trade ? And free-trade is distinctly not the wish of the country at the present moment ; therefore, the honourable member is not in accord with public opinion. As for the honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay, I must give him credit for being always consistent in his theory as to the administration of Native lands, and, no doubt, there are certain parts of the policy he advocates that are very commend- able. He makes the individualisation of titles the chief point of his policy. No one objected to that. I say that, wherever it is possible, you should individualise the titles. But when we come to the question of administering the waste lands of the Natives, then the honourable gentleman fails entirely. He says it is only a question of time when we will reach the solu- tion, and that the whole thing will be brought about by individual enterprise. Well, the country will want something moving on in the interim surely-pending the completion of the individu- alisation scheme, the country will demand the early settlement of waste lands; and here we are blamed for trying to make the necessary pro- it is all very well for honourable members to denounce. It is very easy to pull down, but it is not so easy to construct; and honourable members as a rule, when they criticize any Native measure, whether submitted by this or any other Government, are often too much influenced by their experience of individual cases. Very few members, I notice, take the wider flight, and bring within their comprehension the great question of the future of the Maoris and the method of bringing their lands within easy cultivation and profitable settlement. We see constantly in operation the selfish faculties which certainly go to preserve the interests of the individual ; but, Sir, one prefers to see the higher aspira- tions which have for their aim the promotion of the interests of the family, the tribe, and the nation. In this Native question we are not free from what should be our duty in giving fair consideration to the education of the rising generation of Natives, and in studying the future. The only attempt to-night to sketch a broad scheme dealing with the Natives and their lands was that made by the member for Riccarton. I doubt very much whether the House as constituted at present would look at such a scheme for one moment, fearing it would be too large, too extensive, and too expensive for this House to deal with it. I am sure, if the House would provide the necessary finance, that the policy suggested by the honourable gentle- man would be the correct one in every shape and form. I must compliment the honourable member on the breadth of views on this ques- tion. It was on those same lines-though on a smaller scale-that we attempted to grapple with the question when we framed the Bill of last year. The honourable member for Napier did not to-night do us the scant courtesy of treating seriously the policy embodied in the Act of last year, though the Act itself he has so vehemently denounced. I think the honour- able member will agree with me that his objec- tion to the Act of last year cannot be met by the amendments he proposes to this Bill. I would ask the honourable gentleman to con- sider this fact : that we are not repealing the Act of last year, nor are we bring- ing in more than a machinery Bill; there- fore his criticism misses the mark. If the honourable gentleman wishes to repeal the main Act he should bring in a Bill to do so, and not storm away about everything except this Bill. By this Bill we are simply amending the machinery of last year's Act. This is purely a machinery Bill, with the exception of clauses 4 and 5. I am quite willing to drop out those clauses if it is the wish of the majority of the House ; but I do ask that we should give a fair trial to the Act of last year by passing this measure. I am quite certain that if the honourable member has patience enough to wait until the Act, as we propose to amend it, is in full operation, he will acknowledge the successful results with satisfaction, and that his views will change in respect to the prin- ciple which is now under challenge. The 