gaged in agricultural operations are small farmers and their sons, and not employés. Now, speaking as a farmer, on behalf of the farming community, I say I have no objection whatever to the English Act so far as it affects permanent hands. We are prepared to accept all responsibility under the Workers' Compensa- tion Act, but where the present Act places farmers in an awkward position is that it does not define their position. It is very unfair to call upon a farmer to be responsible for acci- dents to those only employed for a little time at harvesting, or in connection with threshing, or shearing, or men occasionally taken 4.0. on to work on the farm. Or it may be a man comes along with a swag on his back, and the farmer knows nothing about him. If this man is employed for only a day or two, and meets with an accident, the farmer is liable-in fact, the man may go to the farmer intentionally to get him into trouble. When the farmer employs a permanent hand he selects a man whose character he knows, and he is perfectly satisfied that the man will act honourably, and in the case of an accident to that workman the farmer is prepared to take the responsibility. It has been said that farm- labourers are not so highly paid as labourers in the centres of population. It is quite true that those engaged in the various occupations in the cities receive higher wages than the labourers working in the country, and the tendency is for workers to come into the towns in conse- quence of the increased wages and shorter hours. I think honourable members will admit https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that this is to be deplored. We ought to try and induce the people in the towns to go into the country districts and settle on the land. The whole trend, however, of things is in the opposite direction, and our legislation hitherto has been in the same direction. If the Premier will bring down a Bill embodying the clause in the English Act read by the member for Riccar- ton, I am prepared to accept it so far as it refers to permanent hands employed on farms, but not to casual labourers. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui). - When the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Bill was brought down last session I have a very distinct recollection that, when a question was asked with regard to farm -labourers, the Premier replied that there was no time at that late period of the session to deal with the matter, but that he would bring down a measure this session to deal with the question. I think that the feeling of the House is that it is only fair that compensation for accidents should apply with regard to country workers the same as it applies to workers in towns. The amount of money required to insure the men is small, and I do not think that employers would have any objection to that insurance being paid. I think the Premier should say what he intends to do in reference to making the English Act apply, as it is only fair it should apply alike to town and country. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I may very often a question as between the widow of say that I have refrained from speaking be- Mr. Meredith as far as possible, reserve my strength and time for helping through a local Bill in which I am greatly interested, but since that Bill has been smothered-not knocked out in fair fight, but smothered or stabbed in the back-I have no further interest in the Bill, and the gag is removed from me with regard to the question now before the House. There are two very important matters in connection with the Bill now before the House, on one of which I have a little knowledge, and which I shall briefly refer to. One is the question of making the Act apply to country districts, and the other is the point raised by the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) and Mr. Hutcheson as to whether section 18 of the principal Act, which gives a workman's claim under the Act preference even over a bona fide registered mortgage, should not be amended. As the first question has been de- bated most fully this afternoon-and debated by those who have much more special knowledge of the country than I have, and also by those who have more knowledge of the details of previous Bills and of the attitude of the Premier with regard to them, and to the various amendments proposed-I do not propose to devote any time to the consideration of that question, but will reserve myself for the second reading of the Bill, when we shall have an opportunity of seeing exactly what it is that the Premier pro- poses to do. I should just like, however, to say a word on this question as to the claims under the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act having priority over a bona fide and properly registered mortgage. It is a very extraordinary thing that such a hard-headed man as the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) should talk of the contrast between the widow and the mortgagee. Only two or three hours ago I was discussing this very point with a labourer making, I suppose, £3 a week, who had got a property worth £100, and wanted to build a house valued at $200 upon it, and to raise the money on mortgage. He was going through the various items, but the final thing was that it would cost him 10s. to insure against accident, and he said he did not want to insure against accident. Of course, he was told that was a liability imposed on the pro- perty, and no mortgagee would take a security subject to that liability unless it was insured as far as practicable. The result of it was, of course, the addition of } per cent. to the interest, and it amounted to just the same thing whether it was called interest or pre- mium. There was the extra money, and the working-man had to pay it, and I will under- take to say the average man employed in the building trade would be in just as sound position financially as this man who had to insure against his fellow-labourers' risk. My colleague, Mr. Hutcheson, and the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) will surely admit, when they consider a case like that, that we are not solely concerned in a matter as between the widow and the mortgagee. It is one working-man and the widow of another. 