two that totalled more than half a million. Mr. W. FRASER .- Not of the class I men- tioned. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman did not mention any class at all. The honour- able gentleman said that as the loans of the local bodies fell due we ought to renew them under this Act. Mr. W. FRASER .- I said loans for public works similar to those this Act provides for. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, what are they? In- cluded in this Act are waterworks, bridges, and drainage, and I say the principal works of the local bodies are covered by this Bill. Every local body in this colony, in my opinion, as soon as a loan fell due, would go to the Govern- ment ; and for what reason? The terms we offer money at are much easier than they could get anywhere else. That is the reason why. All I can say is this : Why urge, and force, almost, upon the Government an increase of the public debt, and then, when that is done, revile us for doing it ? Mr. MASSEY. - We do not object if the money is properly spent. Mr. SEDDON. -- The honourable members do not object so long as they get the money, but as soon as they get it they turn round and blame the Government. Returns are asked for of the indebtedness when we came into office, and the indebtedness now, and a comparison is made against us on the financial debate ; but as soon as the financial debate is over, and what these gentlemen have said has had its effect on the country, then they want more money. I have known honourable gentlemen who, after adversely criticizing the Government and while apparently incensed at the Govern- ment for having increased the indebtedness, come up to my office the next day, and almost go down on their knees, asking for money for their districts. I may say, in answer to the honourable member for Palmerston, who made what, on the face of it, was a reasonable suggestion -namely, that in cases outside the existing Government Loans to Local Bodies Act we should raise money for the purpose of small loans to local bodies-I say it is a very reasonable thing in its way, and local bodies would get their money at a far less rate of interest. Now, I have been one of those men who said, despite anything that has been mentioned in respect to the increased public indebtedness, that where the money has got to be paid for the people and for the colonisation and convenience of the inhabitants in any par- ticular portion of the colony, it is just the same as a loan by the State. That has appeared to me and to my colleague, who just now dis- cussed it; in fact, my colleague the Minister for Railways brought down a Bill, and carried it, two or three years ago - I allude to the Loans to Local Bodies Consolidation Act-pro- viding machinery for obtaining the money at a lesser rate of interest. I cannot see why, if a bridge is to be erected in the colony, and we obtain the money for 3 per cent., a local body, if it has to erect that bridge, should have to and as high as 7 per cent. I must say myself that if the bridge is there for the convenience of the inhabitants, as a means of communication and an improvement to the locality, it should not be so : but there is the difference. I have often said, in respect to these loans, that if we would take the responsibility of raising the money and let them have it, it would be to the interests of the colony, and of great benefit to the inhabitants of the several localities. But one is almost paralysed, because the moment an effort is made to extend the credit of the colony in a way which means a saving to the colony as a whole there is an incessant badgering that we are increasing the indebtedness of the colony. I know several things and there is one of great importance, more particularly to the commu- nity in this district-that would have been done, and the indebtedness of the colony increased a million pounds sterling, had it not been that I did not see why this Government should be twitted with increasing the indebtedness of the colony. I say it is inconsistent for members to urge upon us to do these things, and after they are done to blame us for doing them. I agree with the honourable member for Hawke's Bay that this clause 5 is a necessary provision, and I say that we apply this rule to ourselves- namely, " It shall not be lawful to pay out of any loan the cost of maintenance or repair of any public work or undertaking for which the loan was raised." I say that is a very necessary provision here, and I am prepared to have it in any Loan Act. I am not at all inconsistent. When we use the credit of the colony for new works we should use it for that purpose only, and if we do not do that we are not keeping faith with the people who lend the money; but when for public works estimates half a million of money comes out of the Consolidated Fund I say that I can apply that for any purpose I like. The honour- able member well knows that what he urges means that there shall be three sets of esti- mates - (1) of the ordinary Consolidated Fund department ; (. ) works and repairs payable out of moneys transferred from the Consolidated Fund to the Public Works Fund ; and another set of estimates simply for works paid for out of loans. What he has argued for is three sets of esti- mates, and I say it is not necessary. I say now, and I challenge the honourable gentleman to show that under the heads of "repairs " and " maintenance ' there is anything like half a million of money ; and, unless he can show that, he cannot prove that loan-moneys are applied to such purposes. I move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read a second time. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- Interpretation. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, in the in- terpretation of "district," to insert the word "borough." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. 