Minister. I do not want to go into the altera- tions in detail, but there are others in addition to those I have alluded to that are of some importance, and I am sure we would save the House a great deal of work and be able to get the Bill through if the suggestion I make were adopted. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I will consider the sug- gestion of the honourable gentleman, and also whether I will proceed with this Bill, or, to- gether with the Bill of the honourable mem- ber for Palmerston, send it on to a Select Committee. Bill read a second time. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I now move, That this Bill, and the Bill of the honourable member for Palmerston, be referred to the Committee which is dealing with the Local Government Bill. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I would like to ask the honourable gentleman if, in referring this Bill to a Committee, it is left to the Com- mittee to say which Bill to adopt-the Bill of the member for Palmerston or the Bill of the Minister of Education, which has come down from the Legislative Council. If the honour- able gentleman had moved that the Bill be referred to a Committee with a view of adopt- ing any of the provisions of the Bill of the honourable member for Palmerston to amend and improve this Bill, I could understand it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- That is exactly what is aimed at, so that we may blend one Bill with the other. There are points in the Bill of the honourable member for Palmerston which are better than some of the provisions in the Bill now before the House, and the Committee will take this Bill as a basis, and put in the amendments in the Bill of the honourable member for Palmerston, and we will send it back with our amendments for the Council to adopt. Motion agreed to. EGMONT NATIONAL PARK BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, this Bill, as members will see, is to remedy some of the defects that have been found to exist in the Act of last session. It is purely a technical mea- sure. There is no alteration of principle, and the powers sought are reasonable powers to give the Board. I, therefore, move the second reading. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- Sir, what the Premier has just said is an actual fact. Under the Act of last session difficulties have been found in the way of getting stone from the reserve. This stone, I may say, is very neces- sary in the district, and is required not only in the immediate vicinity of the park but for a long way up and down the coast. It is well known that we cannot easily get metal for our roads in the district. This is the only place, at any rate, where it can be worked advantage ously. It is very necessary that this Bill should pass, to give power to the Board to allow of the metal being worked in a systematic way. It is also necessary for the protection of the scenery that the Board should have power Mr. Pirani time they have not had power to remove anything, unless people wanted to boil the billy; and then they had to get permis- sion to light a fire. Dead timber has been a very great menace in the past on account of bush-fires in the vicinity, and this Bill will in a great measure remove that danger. If a fire got into the park at the present it would simply have removed all the bush for which it has been preserved. I should also like to point out, while protecting the scenery in this par- ticular locality, that it is an absolute necessity to preserve the scenery on the Mokau River. With your permission, Sir, I would like to read the following extract from a report of the Taranaki Scenery Preservation Society on this subject :- "The preservation of the lovely virgin forest that clothes the banks of this interesting and historic river is of the greatest importance to the whole of this province. It has only to be made known and opened up to the tourist traffic for its beauties to be appreciated. Steps have been taken by this society to bring it under the notice of the Government, and the lessees of the land have also been approached on the same subject. Many of us feel that unless a wide belt, averaging, say, half a mile in width, on either side of the river, is per- manently reserved, the attempt to preserve the beautiful vegetation would be futile. The nature of our New Zealand bush is such that it will not survive when left in narrow belts or small clumps, unless protected by some natural barrier, as a river or steep ridge, or, on the other hand, unless it is fenced off and protected by an outer ring of imported trees from cutting winds, and the destruction of the undergrowth by cattle. The latter is one of the most de- structive agents we have to contend against in the preservation of the New Zealand forests. At present there is nothing definite to report on this proposed reservation." I am well aware, Sir, that even in this the Government have some difficulty, on account of it being Native land, but I hope the Minister will be able to give us his assurance that, in addition to the scenery of the Egmont National Park, he will take the necessary steps to pre- serve the scenery also on the Mokau River. I have very much pleasure in supporting the second reading of the Bill. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Will the honour- able member in charge of the Bill explain the constitution of the Board that has control of Mount Egmont. I look upon this Bill as one in the right direction, and I hope that not only will means be provided for preserving the scenic features of Mount Egmont, but that other re- serves will be made throughout the length and breadth of the colony. Such reserves are most valuable assets. Their value in preserving the scenic features, in addition to water-supply conservation, must recommend them as in- dispensable to every thoughtful member of the House. The honourable member who has just spoken laid his finger upon one point, and that is the danger of fires occurring in the bush. 