Mr. HALL suggested that the Minister should establish a stud farm in the Bush district. He also complained that #350 was an utterly in- adequate sum for keeping down the rabbits on the Crown lands in the Hawke's Bay District. Mr. DUNCAN said the honourable gentleman was completely at sea with regard to this latter matter. The Government did not kill the rab- bits, but gave the Rabbit Boards the money for the purpose. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said the Premier was in error in stating that 10,000 tons of bones had been imported last year. He found from the papers that only 368 tons had been imported. The difficulty in connection with these bones was that they were not properly steamed before being brought into the colony. What was wanted was to have the bones, im- mediately upon being landed, taken to some establishment and steamed under Government inspection, or else for the Government to undertake the steaming of the bones them- selves and charge the importers. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) considered the importation of manures was of vital import- ance to the farming community, as they could not keep up the production of lambs and fat sheep unless they imported largely bonedust and manures from outside. 29,173 tons of tur- nip and rape manure was imported last year. In regard to the spread of anthrax, he had heard no complaints from farmers as to its introduction into the colony by means of im- ported manures. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) wished the Minister to inquire into a case of an Inspector who had not appeared to prosecute a case ; he might not have been in a position to do so. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) wished to draw the attention of the Minister to the necessity for appointing an Inspector for Hawke's Bay who understood the Native lan- guage. In regard to the charge made by the member for Wairarapa, he knew all the In- spectors in Hawke's Bay, and knew them to be hardworking and conscientious in their duties. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston), in order to give the Minister an opportunity of replying, moved to reduce the vote by £5. Mr. HORNSBY said he would have no diffi- culty in proving his assertion. Amendment, to reduce vote by £5, negatived. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for particulars regarding "contingencies." Mr. DUNCAN said they were as follows :- s. d. Exhibitions: Christchurch ; Crys- tal Palace, London ; Winter 350 5 3 Show, Dunedin Clerical assistance, Agent-General's Office, London, Head Office, and other offices in colony 1,163 4 2 Compensation for stock poisoned 26 0 1 Experiments, bush sickness in cattle, Auckland 30 12 6 Expenses re swine fever outbreak, 6 Riverton 19 11 soldiers at Chelsea through eating New Zealand cheese 13 2 6 . Camera and photos for annual report 5 8 3 .. Tests in branding meat . . 5 12 5 Costs of prosecution, fraudulent 10 11 0 sales of frozen meat .. Fodder for Government horse, Auckland 6 6 0. Repairs, trap and harness, Master- ton and Nelson 13 19 0. .. Sundries 74 15 5 .. Total £1,719 9 6 .. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked if officers. when travelling were allowed to include tips to hotel servants in their expenses. Mr. DUNCAN said he did not think so. Vote, £57,218, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, $34,663. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) desired some expla- nation about the proposed expenditure upon the establishment of dairy schools. Last year £1,000 had been voted, and only £56 spent. Nothing had come of the proposal so far. A similar amount was on the estimates this year,. and he would like the Minister to tell them whether it was the intention of the department to establish dairy schools, and where, and when. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) was of opinion that there was a necessity for establishing these schools throughout the colony, and that, instead of £1,000, #5,000 should be voted for this purpose, and the amount saved in some other expenses. If that was done, a large- amount of good would be done for the staple industry of the colony. At present they were starving the dairying industry. He hoped a. sufficient sum of money would be placed on the estimates for the establishment of schools at. Pahiatua and every other dairy centre. There ought to be, also, an increased number of dairy instructors. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) wished to know if there was any possibility of a dairy school being established next year at Palmerston North the same as last year had been carried on at Strat- ford. There was no centre in the colony that could command so many factories as Palmerston North. A factory there would serve the dairy- ing interests so well that if the department studied the interests and convenience of the people concerned in this industry they would establish a dairy school at this place without delay. The railway service would enable stu- dents to reach Palmerston and return home daily from Masterton, Waipukurau, Foxton, and Wellington and the intervening settle- ments, facilities which did not exist in connec- tion with any other place in the North Island. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) hoped the Minister would not increase this amount by a fraction. He had been engaged in dairying for thirty years, and did not believe a dairy school would be of much advantage. It would be far better to have experts travelling round to give the farmers the necessary instruction 