ployés taking steps to place their affairs before the Conciliation Board. That is the reason why the workers assure us one and all that they are afraid of a clause of this kind, and I think it is only fair we should listen to them and consider their representations. Similarly, as regards the 21st clause, which gives either party to an industrial dispute the right to pass over the Conciliation Board, and have the matter referred straight to the Arbi- tration Court, a great deal of ink-slinging has been devoted to showing up the useless nature of the work that Conciliation Boards perpetrate in several places in New Zealand, and that the time is wasted, and disputes are lengthened by reason of their protracted proceedings. On the other hand, we have evidence-and I am inclined to believe the evi- dence I heard-that this is quite a wrong way of putting things. Evidence is collected. Evi- dence is sifted. Out of many points that come before the Conciliation Board a large propor- tion are settled, and it is only in the remaining two, three, or four that there is any reference made to the Arbitration Court. The Arbitra- tion Court's work is comparatively simple after the Board has been at work. The two parties know where they are, and they do not bring forward irrelevant arguments. They do not waste time: they have crossed swords once with each other before the lower tribunal, and it appears therefore they are not likely to waste time or words in coming to a conclusion. Everything that we heard before the Com- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 mittee on this matter as between the Boards and the Court would lead me to believe that the Boards were doing a great deal of useful work, and that there is no reason why we should give them a hit in the eye, such as I say clause 21 would do. I trust the Council will not agree to pass it. The Committee re- commend that clause 6 be struck out, which I certainly approve of, and I would ask the Coun- cil to alter "either of the two parties " in clause 21, to "the party." That means all the parties to the dispute, if they choose, may go to the Arbitration Court, but certainly not one. The other parts of the Bill are mostly machinery. There is, however, one important matter which perhaps covers a good many of the clauses, and that is the matter relating to the trade-unions. In the original Act of 1894 trade unions were put on the same footing as industrial unions under the Act. They got the privileges and also the disabilities of peace and war. The Act of last year omitted them because at the time it was thought that all the trade- unions in New Zealand were registered as in- dustrial unions, and that therefore it was mere surplusage to carry on the old legislation with regard to them. But it has occurred to those who are responsible for the working of the Act that trade-unions might drop their registration as industrial unions, and be active parties to strikes as trade-unions, which would be. of course, defeating the object of all our industrial legislation of this kind. This Bill, therefore, proposes to bring in trade-unions Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker are all registered under it as far as I know, but if they are not, or if they were to drop their registration, still, as trade-unions they would be bound by any award of the Court. That is the reason why trade-unions are mentioned in this Act. It is not absolutely to prevent any trouble at the present time, but is simply put into the Bill in case any trouble should arise at any future time. I beg to move, That you leave the Chair in order that the Council go into Committee on the Bill. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I can scarcely believe my honourable friend proposes to go on with this Bill to-day. The Bill has only just been handed to us after inquiry by the Labour Bills Committee. We have only had it a few minutes, and have not had time even to see what the amendments are. I take an interest in this Bill, and should like to see and to consider the amendments, and also to see what evidence was given before the Committee. There are grave doubts in the colony at the present moment as to whether this Conciliation Board should be retained, and there are also grave opinions whether or not the constitution of this Court ought to be altered. Surely we must see what evidence has been taken by the Committee on these very important points before we go into Committee on the Bill. I ask my honourable friend to name some time, not to-day, for going into Committee on the Bill and to let us have the information wanted before we do so. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - If the Council desire it I have no objection to post. poning it till to-morrow. An Hon. MEMBER. - Can we get the evi- dence ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- There is i not much evidence, and I think it ought to be up to-morrow. The Hon. Mr. BONAR .- I think we ought to have the evidence before us. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I would sub- 1 mit that we go into Committee and report progress. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- The only thing I think is a little hard is that I have been allowed to make my speech at once, and every one else is to have twenty-four hours more to think over it. If the Hon. Mr. Ormond had asked me before I moved the motion to post- ! pone it I should have been only too glad to do so. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I should like to say I had no idea my honourable friend was going to ask us to go into Committee on this Bill at once. I thought, as a matter of course, we should have time to consider the matters referred to in it, but I do not wish to be unfair to my honourable friend. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- So far as I knew the Bill was circulated this morning. An Hon. MEMBER. - No. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I searched for it before I came in, and only got it after coming into the Council. 