formation at all ; and I regret to have to say that that ordinarily prudent member, the mem- ber for Avon, was one of those who voted against the adjournment. Therefore, when he rather scolds the Premier, I think he is a little bit unjust, for, when he had the opportunity of demanding the information which we thought was essential, he did not avail himself of it. Then, I also have to disagree with almost the last words he uttered --- namely, that the House last year, in a deliberate manner, decided upon the incorporation of these Islands. I say the conduct of the House was the very reverse of deliberate. Not one of us knew what lia- bilities were being incurred, and we have scarcely yet realised the trouble we have got into. I admit we are in a position in which it is difficult to know what is best to do ; and, that being so, I think it is better to re- main in statu quo for a year than to pass a Bill which I believe will only intensify the trouble. The honourable member for the Bay of Plenty has spoken very soundly upon the subject, and the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) also made a very excellent speech, and the honourable member for Avon was, as he But, always is, accurate in his information. Sir, I would like to point out that, though we are giving great power to the Governor in Council under this Bill, I am not so sure that that is not better than retaining the power in the hands of this Parliament. We shall, at any rate, have a responsible high official who can, of course, give his decision only after consultation in Council, and we may be sure that there will be some kind of deliberation, however slight, before a decision is arrived at. Look at this House now : there is hardly a quorum when this great national question is being considered, and yet to the Parliament of New Zealand is to be granted the power of deciding which of its laws are to be brought into force, and what are not to be brought into force, in this widely-distributed island group. Much as I deplore that we should have to give this extra power to the Governor in Council, I honestly admit that it seems to me to throw the responsibility on Ministers, instead of leaving it with that multitude of counsellors who in their wisdom are not present to assist in this debate. In looking at the Bill,-and here let me say that I believe that after all the difficulty we have got into, the Cook Islands will have to be administered in the same manner as a Crown Colony : that may be held to be, and very probably is, unconstitu- tional ; but is it more unconstitutional than the form of government which is in this Bill before us now ? That we have actually incor- porated the Cook Islands as part of the Colony of New Zealand is, unfortunately, true, and therefore, if it is so, it is extremely doubtful whether we shall not be exceeding our con- stitutional powers in legislating in this par- ticular way. I do not see that it is a bit more unconstitutional to treat the Islands as a Crown colony than it is to make them par- tially so, as will be the case under this Bill. Captain Russell short-but I would ask the House to consider for a moment what the original inhabitants of this group hoped and believed was to be the principle under which, to use their own words, they say they were to be annexed to New Zealand. They had no idea or intention what- ever that the Governor in Council or the Par- liament of New Zealand would be allowed to enforce upon them such laws as they thought fit. Under the petition which was presented to Parliament last session, just two minutes before I was compelled to rise in my place and speak on it-in that petition, of which we had never heard and had never seen before, a petition that was merely read by the Clerk and had not been printed, and which I begged might be printed and put into our hands before we debated the subject-we have certain statements I wish to draw attention to ; and that petition being presented and read just before the reso- lution on the subject was proposed by the Premier, may be taken as containing the views of the Natives of the Cook Group as to the laws that they were subjecting themselves to. This petition, I say, we must consider purely as set- ting out the position of the native people. If you take the part of the globe in which these par- ticular islands are situated, you will find that almost without exception they are within the tropical limits, and therefore it is only reason- able to believe that, with a native population that is diminishing, and a European population that is not increasing- at any rate, a European population that I venture to say will never be worthy of sending a census officer to count the numbers-the position will be a peculiar one ; so we must consider the subject purely from the standpoint of a native population that, as I have said, is, unfortunately, diminishing. The European population may consist of a few traders, a few beachcombers, a few people who have antagonism to civilised methods, and who prefer to live in a tropical climate, where the life is one of indolent ease; but we shall never have a vigorous, energetic, British community living in these islands. That, how- ever, is by the way. I find that in the 3rd clause of the Bill,- "The Governor, by Order in Council, may from time to time direct that any of the laws in force in New Zealand, other than the laws relating to the sale of alcoholic liquors, shall have operation and be observed in the said Islands, as in his opinion are expedient for the peace, order, good government, and welfare of the inhabitants." Now, the petition of the people of the Cook Islands, the petition under which they were annexed, differs absolutely in principle from the principle laid down in that clause. The Bill proposes that the Governor in Council is to bring into force in the Cook Islands such laws as he thinks fit. On the other hand, the petition on which we consented to the annexa- tion of the Cook Islands-it may be found in Volume 114 of Hansard, page 394, of last ses- sion, says :- " And whereas the Legislature and Govern- 