to the best of their ability. And there are plenty of such cases in this House. It has been said that this question has not been before the country. Well, Sir, if being before the country means going before the country as a test question in a general election it may fairly be said that it has not been before the country ; but it has been before the country, as my colleague Mr. Arnold pointed out, during the recess. The question of the £40 on the estimates was discussed. It was discussed in my own constituency and on the platform by my- self and my colleagues. I addressed the electors in Dunedin, and at that time I met an audi- ence that was not particularly friendly to me. Some of the newspapers had been endeavouring to incite the people against me, and the audi- ence I met on that occasion was not at the beginning particularly friendly or kindly. Yet in the course of my speech I told them it was stated that a Bill would be introduced to raise the honorarium to £300 a year during the next session, and that, if it was, I would support such a Bill. They responded with a prolonged round of applause, and at the conclusion of the meeting they passed a vote of thanks and con- fidence without a single dissentient. I there- fore, Sir, at all events, have a free hand in voting for this measure. "Let the galled jade wince, our withers are unwrung." It has been several times pointed out that the increase in Ministers' salaries did not go before the country as a test question ; but it was discussed by the Press and people of the colony, and the measure was passed. Now, there is little or no dissatis- faction in any part of the country with that Act. As far as I have been able to learn, the people say it was a step in the right direction, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero and I believe they will say exactly the same in regard to this measure. It has been said that the consideration of the Bill ought to be post- poned to the next Parliament. That argument is not good. This Bill is either a right Bill or a wrong Bill. If it is right that members should get $300, it is just as right that the present members should get it as that the future mem- bers should get it. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. BARCLAY .- Surely you will not say that members of this Parliament have not earned it just as well as future members of Parliament will earn it. There is no escape from that position. Now, the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) began his speech by a quotation from Hansard -& passage in his speech of last year on the £40 session allowance. Our memories are not so bad, nor were his remarks on that occasion so weighty or so brilliant, that he needed to refresh our recollections by dishing them up again for us. Moreover, they were not in the least in point, because the Hon. the Pre- mier, in referring to the honourable gentle- man's remark that it was better to introduce a Bill to pay the honorarium than to put a sum on the estimates, referred to an interjection made by the honourable mem- ber when the Premier was speaking this even- I liament, that we asked them to return us- speech last year at all. What, then, was the point in revivifying the corpse of his effort of last year? One honourable member said that there was no point in the argument that it was ludicrous to pay £130,000 to the Midland Railway Company debenture- holders and at the same time to object to paying the money proposed to be voted under this Bill. Of course, the members who speak against the granting of £130,000 to the Midland Railway debenture-holders are those who think that if we pay that money we will be paying it for nothing. It is a different matter with re- spect to the £15,000 a year which the honourable member, Mr. Atkinson, referred to. We hope to get something in return for that payment. Now, it is curious the unanimity with which every one seems to agree that members are not suffi- ciently paid. The member for Palmerston said that he did not think members were paid suffi- ciently. The member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) said that it was simply "sweating" them to give members what they are getting now, and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) said he did not object to the $300 if it came into force after the next elec- tion. There seems to be a consensus of opinion, even amongst those who oppose the Bill, that the $300 is a fair amount, but the main objection is that it ought to come into force after next election. I may say, however, that this matter has been discussed throughout the country, and that little or nothing has reached members by way of remonstrance. Leading articles in the Press in my own dis- trict have set forth that no objection was taken to the £300, but that objection was taken to the voting of £40 on the supplementary esti- mates. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) and other members re- ferred to this proposal to pay members £300 as analogous to the case of a clerk who took upon himself to raise his own wages out of his master's receipts. Sir, the com- parison is utterly absurd. The following case would be on all-fours : Supposing the owner of a property puts a man in charge to manage it, and says to him, " You fix your own salary ; I have sufficient confidence in you to leave that to' yourself." The manager, after a time, says, "I find this salary is not enough ; I cannot manage decently with it." Well, he would have to fix his salary at a higher sum ; and that is what we have to do, unfortunately. There is no one else to raise our salary but our- selves. The public as a whole cannot do so. There is no use having any false delicacy about that. The only question is, Is it a proper sum or is it not? Does any honourable member mean to say that the next Parliament will be worth £300 whilst this is only worth £240, or vice versa ? That argument will not hold water for an instant. I do not think it is neces- sary to say very much more. The honourable member for Wellington City said that we " begged for our billets" here, that we went about beseeching people to send us to Par- 