How are you to provide for the rest of the Natives ? I say, if this system of allowing the Na- tives to take up portions of the Maori lands that are suitable on lease with individual titles, that would get rid of the difficulty, and, instead of the Government of the colony having to pro- vide from the Crown lands land for the settle- ment of these Natives, provision could easily be made out of the five million acres of land. The present system of holding Maori lands in com- mon is detrimental to the Natives, both from a physical and financial point of view. Only the other day, when I was up the Wanganui River, a Native pointed out to me that he had cleared a portion of the common holding and had sown a crop on it, but he reaped no benefit from it, because the other Natives, who held the lands in common, simply turned their horses on the holding that he had spent so much time and trouble on, and he had no right even to deny them the privilege of destroying the fruits of his labour ; and that sort of thing obtains almost everywhere. It is only the natural result of this holding of land under common title, and I am very sorry that no better attempt at individualisation without allowing alienation has been made. I fear that the main measure, even with the amendments, will prove a very clumsy substitution for the provision embodied in the statute of 1892 in regard to the West Coast lands, and I regret very much that the extensive and expensive experiments proposed at the present time should be embodied in the law. I was unable last year, unfortunately, to take part in the discussion and consideration of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the main law, and I feel certain if I had been here it would not have been on the statute- book now. I feel certain that, with the assist- ance I could have rendered to those members who were opposing this measure, the Govern- ment would have abandoned the measure, and we would not be troubled this session with any amendment of it. I regret the opportunity of doing that has passed ; but if I can do any- thing in Committee it will be in lending assist- ance to utterly destroy the measure of last session, which I conceive is bad in principle and bound to be bad in practice. I do not think it is a measure that will be of any advan- tage either to the Natives or Europeans. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I should confine my remarks almost entirely to a single clause of the Bill. I do not propose to traverse the whole scope of Native-land legislation, as has been done by some honourable members. It was remarked, I think, by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford), or some other speaker, early in the debate, that the success of the policy outlined in a Bill of this description must be very largely dependent upon the administration. Of course, there is a great deal of truth in that remark. The very best legislation could not be made a success of unless the administration was to match. I have a remarkable illustration of the manner in which the Government approaches the administration of these Native measures in their appointments of what I think are called Mr. Pirani Act, which, honourable members may remem- ber, we put through along with the Maori Lands Administration Act last year, between eight and half-past eight in the morning, after having sat continuously about twelve hours on the two Bills. One of the func- tions that we imposed upon Maori Councillors under the Maori Councils Act-in the vast number of miscellaneous and extraordinary duties we imposed upon them-was the pre- vention of drunkenness and sly-grog selling : and I have it on the very best authority- and I would invite the attention of the Native Minister to the point-that one of the persons appointed in Kahiti No. 59, of the 24th July last, as the Advisory Counsellor of the Mania- poto Maori Council, has been several times con- victed for the offence of sly-grog selling. That member has been appointed a member of a Council, one of whose functions is declared by section 16, subsection (4), to be " the prevention of drunkenness and sly-grog selling." Now, I do not know what other qualifications that gentleman may have for the position. The Native Minister may be able to inform us ; but I am quite satisfied that he will not be able to disprove the assertion that one of that gentle- man's qualifications is repeated convictions for sly-grog selling, which it is one of his duties to assist in suppressing. Now, the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford), who has poured that diffusive benevolence of his over the Native Land Department, as he does over most other departments of the Go- vernment, even he will find it difficult, I think, to reconcile that benevolence with a just view of the Administration who are tolerating such an iniquity as that. I would put it to the honour- able member that if he took a burglar who has just served a term of penal servitude, and made him straight away Inspector of Police, it would be just as rational and as proper an appoint- ment as to appoint a convicted sly-grog seller to be an Advisory Counsellor for the purpose of preventing sly-grog selling under the Maori Councils Act. There are many chiefs among the Maniopotos of high rank, and if they have not got this other qualification of sly-grog sell- ing I would suggest they might be given a show. I have not mentioned the name of the Counsellor, but I should be glad to supply it to the Minister, with such other information as ] have. Now, the clause in the Bill of last ses- sion about which there was most contention was the clause which finally went into the Act as section 22. That is the section which is proposed to be amended by clause 4 of the Bill before us. The history of the evolution of that clause was a marvellous story of bungle upon bungle, with just a suspicion here and there of something intentional which would be en- titled to a harsher name. But there was no question about it but that the clause as we finally passed it was a clause which no draftsman and no Committee of sane men would deliberately have adopted. It was the result of patchwork-one amendment made by the Native Affairs Committee, one or two 