What he wanted to draw the attention of the House to was this fact : that, although the members of the Native Affairs Committee had done the very best they could in the short time at their disposal to go through the various clauses, it was impossible for them to ascertain the true merits in any one single case. The evidence tendered was all ex parte, and he for one would take no responsibility upon his shoulders for anything that might be wrong in this Bill. He did not wish to say the Govern- ment were behaving wrongly in bringing down this Bill, but he went back to the position with which he started-that there was no clause of the Bill on which members could arrive at a definite or decided opinion, for the facts were such that it was impossible for any one but the departmental officers to give an opinion upon them. There was no doubt, however, about this : that by such a Bill we were undermining the authority of our own Native Land Courts and Native Appellate Court. Their decisions, which were supposed to be final and con- clusive, were liable now to be reviewed, and he knew it for a fact that the Judges of the Native Land Court felt already that the feeling amongst the Natives that by petitioning they could upset final decisions of the Native Land Courts was upsetting their respect for the de- cisions of the Appellate Court, and that the Natives themselves were losing confidence in those Courts. Under these circumstances, he invited the House to be very careful how it dealt with this Bill, and to lay the responsi- bility on the Native Minister and the Govern- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ment, and not throw that responsibility on the Native Affairs Committee, which had not been able to ascertain what the actual position really was. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, as far as the Government were concerned, they were bring- ing forward this Bill because they had been re- quested to do so, because members had ap- proached them on the subject, and because the parties more particularly interested had peti- tioned Parliament. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay must take some responsibility, because he had been sitting on the Committee which had been inquiring into many matters covered by this Bill, and upon which the Com- mittee had reported favourably, and the Go- vernment, therefore, were now giving effect to the recommendations made. It would be simply an impossibility for the Government to know the full details of every case ; but, as far as they had been able to ascertain the bearing of the results of the proposed legislation, they felt it would remove many cases of injustice. They believed persons had suffered from various causes, and where this was done it was in Par- liament, which was the highest Court of the land, in which relief should be given. It was the Court by and under which relief was ex- pected to be given; and, that being the case, this was the only way to do it. These cases had been known for years, and members of the Native race, and also Europeans who were interested, had looked forward with hope, and Captain Russell their circumstances, and they had done so under this Bill ; and, if good cause was shown why any clause should be struck out or altered, the Government would only be too pleased to allow the matter to stand over for further con- sideration. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) was not pre- pared, like the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, to pass the Bill on the understanding that the whole of the responsibility was to be shunted on to the shoulders of the Minister. It was not right for the House to take up that attitude, and it was not fair for the Com- mittee themselves. With regard to the Bill mentioned by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, the Reserves and Other Lauds Sale, Disposal, and Enabling and Public Bodies Empowering Bill, he might say there were fifty-two clauses in that Bill. Now, he came across one very dangerous provision there, re- lating to a tramway concession in the neigh- bourhood of Christchurch. On hearing of the facts of the matter he went to the Government, and when he represented the circumstances to them they agreed to strike that clause out. An Hon. MEMBER said the Bill now before the House was a Maori Bill. Mr. ELL was quite aware of this, and had merely given an illustration to show that if they shunted all responsibility on to the shoulders of the Ministry, as the honourable member for Hawke's Bay suggested, they would not be doing their duty ; and to put the respon- sibility on the Minister was not fair to him. Members should take their share of the re- sponsibility. They were supposed to be more acquainted with the needs of their several localities, and to be more conversant with the particulars of matters brought up in connection with their districts than any Minister could possibly be. His feeling with regard to this Bill was that they should not proceed with it. There were fifty-six clauses in the Bill, and they were within a few hours of the closing of the session, and he did not see how they were to deal with an important Bill amending dif- ferent Acts relating to land-administration. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) said, in respect to the main number of clauses there was really nothing serious, and nothing for the members of the House to take exception to. They were pretty well all based on favourable reports made by the Native Affairs Committee. On the other hand, the only objection was as recaris those clauses affecting the individual blocks, the question being as to whether it was a right policy to allow the Native Land Court, or the Native Appellate Court, or a Royal Commissior. to review these cases over again. In Maori cases he held that the circumstances were so entirely different from anything else that they were entitled to a further review by the Court. Strong reasons had been adduced before the Native Affairs Committees which caused them to make reports urging the Government that some legislation should be passed for the purpose of giving effect to the prayers of the petitioners. In reference to the clauses ameud- 