been before the House previously, but not in the same way-they had not been put in a con- crete form. Such being the case, he did not think any harm was done in giving the infor- mation. Now, so far as the return is concerned, he said the present Government's average dur- ing the time they had been in office had only been £260,000 a year. That was, if from the total indebtedness was deducted the amount which was non-revenue producing. All the other increase in indebtedness was revenue- producing, and he wanted that to be marked by the people of this colony-that the manner of increasing the indebtedness of the colony to-day, and the purpose for which the money was used, were so different from what they used to be in former years. Mr. ALLEN would like to know whether the Premier was in order in discussing the Financial Statement on the question of a return being laid on the table. He did not object to his reading the return, though he believed that was out of order, but now he was going wide of the mark altogether. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said no honour- able member had a right to discuss the Finan- cial Statement on such a question; but he understood the Premier was simply drawing attention to and explaining some of the items in the return. Mr. SEDDON said he was not discussing the Financial Statement ; and it seemed to him that as soon as ever he began to give facts to the country which were against the honour- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 able gentleman and those opposite, and con- troverted what he had repeatedly said, and which was absolutely incorrect time after time, then the honourable member could do http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero nothing else but rise to a point of order. Well, he would not stop the Premier. He never mentioned a word about the Financial Statement. He simply said this, and he would repeat it now, and he would repeat it on every platform in the colony : that although during the Seddon Administration, or during the last ten years, the colony's indebtedness had increased by ten millions, of that ten millions there was $296,000 a year for which the taxpayer of the colony was not called upon to pay interest. Mr. J. ALLEN rose to a point of order. The honourable gentleman was going beyond the question in the return. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the Premier was explaining some of the items in the return. Mr. J. ALLEN submitted that the question of revenue - producing money was not included in the return. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, The Premier, so far as he understood it, had simply read out the items of loans raised during the Ballance and Seddon Administrations, and was pointing out that of those items the taxpayers only paid interest on a certain amount. Mr. J. ALLEN said there was nothing about that in the return. Mr. SEDDON said that that was the second occasion on which Mr. Speaker had had to rule Mr. Seddon Bruce, out of order. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he did not object to the statement that had been made by the Premier. He only asked that he should make it a little fuller. Mr. SEDDON said he had given the member for Wellington City just as much as he could understand, and if he gave him any more it might, like what was said in respect to persons of a certain nationality in respect of jokes, de- mand a surgical operation. At all events, he must only give them what he knew would be understood-in other words, he must bring him- self down to a certain financial level to be under- stood by the honourable member for Bruce. He would repeat what he had said - namely, that of the indebtedness of ten millions the interest on over seven millions was paid directly by those receiving the benents of the money; and, in addition to that, he might say that during the term there was a direct profit of £68,000. That was to say, the seven millions was so expended and used that they received £68,000 more than they were paying for the interest on 'the loans. That, he thought, would be understood even by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). All he wanted to do was to show by this table- and he would not have troubled about it at all had it not been for the member for Franklin- that when he made the statement, taking the thirty years between 1871 and 1901, that the indebtedness of the colony had increased in former years at a higher rate than it had in- creased during the Administration of the past ten years, that that statement was correct. The honourable member seemed to him to look upon it as being almost impossible. The honourable member said so. He (Mr. Seddon) then said that he would have the return pre- pared and laid on the table, to show that he was correct. He had had it prepared, and he now laid it on the table, and he hoped the honourable member was convinced that what he (Mr. Seddon) said was correct-namely, that during the last ten years the annual increase had been considerably under that of previous years. Motion agreed to. TRAWLING IN HAURAKI GULF. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) brought up the report of the Public Petitions Committee on the petitions of J. Wheeler and others, J. Cairns and others, of Auckland, and C. W. Taylor and others, of the Thames. The petitioners prayed that trawling might be not allowed in the Hauraki Gulf, and that certain restrictions in regard to the fishing industry in that gulf might be removed. The Committee reported that, "after hearing the evidence of the peti- tioners and the departmental officers, this Committee would strongly recommend the Go- vernment to take immediate steps to have the complaints of the petitioners thoroughly in- vestigated by some competent authority, with a view of conserving the deep-sea fishing of the colony." He moved, That the report do lie on the table and be referred to the Government for favourable consideration. 