these cars when they came here were done at the expense of the contractors. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I think it would be an improvement to send them back. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, the only thing to be said is that the country re- quired to have some cars and we could not build them. Our building-yards were full of work, and we could not get a supply from Eng- land ; and we had to go to the next best place- to our Yankee cousins, who will always take an order and execute that order up to time. That is a very great matter, and I think our friends in the Old Country would do well to study that point of business better. When we send orders Home to England they should always execute them to time. But they do not do it in Eng- land ; and it is in a very unsatisfactory way that our orders are fulfilled. There is hardly an order that goes Home in which they do not want an extension of time, and all that kind of thing. Send an order to America and it comes out punctually ; and they were our own patterns we sent to America. The price was arranged, and the alterations that have been done since they came here, to the axles, and so on, have been done at the expense of the contractors. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- It did not say much for your pattern-makers who have sent them. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I do not know. The whole thing came out exactly to time, and they are running all right. Now, the Hon. Mr. McLean wanted to know about https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 how much short-dated debentures were issued by the Government. Well, I am astonished that he should ask a question about such a matter of common repute as that. He has only got to look at the Financial Statement. is all to be found there. If book and Bible will not convince the Hon. George McLean it is no use my talking to him; but I can assure him it is all there. I trust the Council will pass the Bill. This Bill is in exactly the same form as such a Bill usually comes down to us, and, as the Hon. Mr. Ormond very properly said, it is a Bill we cannot possibly amend, and it is necessary for the public good it should be passed. Bill read the second and the third time. OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- " On the hearing of any applica- tion for a pension or renewal-certificate, if the Magistrate finds that any real or personal pro- perty has been transferred by the applicant to any person, he may inquire into such transfer and refuse the application, or grant a reduced pension." The Hon. Mr. McLEAN moved to add the following words : " before granting any such application or renewal." The Hon. Colonel PITT moved, That progress be reported. The Committee divided. Eon. Mr. W. C. Walker Barnicoat McLean Swanson Ormond Bonar Twomey. Bowen Pitt NOES, 13. Jones Rigg Bolt Feldwick Kelly, T. Smith, A. L. Pinkerton Tomoana Gourlay Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Reeves Jennings Majority against, 5. Motion to report progress negatived. The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be added be so added." AYES, 9. Barnicoat Jennings Ormond Jones Bonar Pitt Bowen McLean Swanson. NOES, 12. Bolt Smith, A. L. Kelly, T. Feldwick Pinkerton Tomoana Gourley Reeves Twomey Jenkinson Walker, W. C. Rigg Majority against, 3. Amendment negatived. Clause 7 .- " Every person commits an offence who receives any money in consideration of or in respect of the procuring of any pension or renewal-certificate, and, in the case of any licensed Maori interpreter so committing an offence, his license as such interpreter shall be cancelled." The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved, That after the word "person" the following words be in- It serted : "other than a licensed Maori inter- preter." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words be inserted." AYES, 3. Smith, A. L. Rigg Swanson. NOES, 17. Barnicoat Harris Pitt Bolt Jenkinson Reeves Bonar Jennings Tomoana Bowen Jones Twomey Feldwick Kelly, T. Walker, W. C. Gourley Pinkerton Majority against, 14. Amendment negatived. Bill reported. The Council adjourned at a quarter past twelve o'clock a.m. 