if the deviation were constructed, would be £13,508 per year; so that, on a very moderate computation, there would be sufficient money saved by the deviation to pay for the whole cost of the work and provide a sinking fund of 1 per cent. It would also save one hour in the time consumed in the journey. Then, there was the additional saving between Featherston and Cross's Creek. He felt sure the construction of the deviation would be a good business invest- ment for the colony! Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) had no desire to say anything against the allocations of public money for roads and railways in the Auckland District, but would point out, in reply to the re- ferences that had been made to the construc- tion of public works in Canterbury, that Canter- bury had provided funds for public works by selling land for not less than £3 per acre, and, subsequently, when the best land had been dis- posed of, at £2 per acre, some of which had been resold last year at 16s. per acre. It was with the proceeds from the land-sales that the people of Canterbury had made their roads and bridges. They put their hands into their own pockets and provided money for roads and bridges, while Auckland and Hawke's Bay sold their land for as low as 5s. per acre. He asked the Minister when the first section of 12.0. the Waipara-Cheviot line to Skargill, about fourteen miles, would be opened for traffic. During the next six months not less than sixty thousand fat sheep and fat lambs would be ready to come by that line from Scar- gill to Christchurch. He would also like to know if a tender had been accepted for the rail- way-bridge over the Hurunui. This line should be constructed with all celerity, as it would be one of the best-paying lines in the colony. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) asked what was the intention of the Government with regard to the large combined road-and-railway bridge over the Motueka River at Tadmor. It was reported in the Statement that tenders had been invited and declined, and the plans were under recon- sideration with a view to modification. Had they reconsidered the plans, and did they intend to reinvite tenders forthwith ? Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) said the Minister was pursuing the same policy of "shunt " with regard to the Rimutaka devia- tion that he had pursued with regard to the straightening of the Hutt Railway. The manner the Government had of dealing with the votes was only hoodwinking members of the House. As for the Manawatu Railway, he was satisfied the Government had no more intention of pur- chasing it than he had. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked what was proposed to be done in regard to the vote of $2,000 which was passed last year for the Ngahere-Blackball line and bridge. In the Public Works Statement last year the Minister told them this line had been asked for for several years, and the time had arrived for pro- viding a better means of crossing the Grey River and giving access to the railway system. To meet this requirement it was proposed to Mr. Hornsby Grey River, and the vote of £2,000 was to make a start with the work. It was a branch line to the Town of Blackball, and a very considerable traffic in connection with gold-mining and coal-mining would pass over it. At present that traffic had to be taken from the Ngahere Railway-station across the river in punts and drays at very considerable cost. Last year, although the vote was passed, the Minister did not include it in the Railways Authorisation Act, and none of the money had been spent. This year the same £2,000 appeared on the estimates again. When the residents of the district heard there was no in- crease in the vote, they held an indignation meeting last Saturday night ; and he now asked were the Government prepared to carry out the original intention upon which the vote was passed last session ? He would urge the Minister to show some expedition in the construction of the bridge over the Grey River, as it would take a couple of years to build. It was a most urgent and necessary work. He would also urge the Minister this session to bring down the Railways Authorisation Bill that he pro. mised last session, and give an assurance to the House that he would proceed with the work, and that it would be completed within a reason- able time. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) pointed out the necessity there was for a deviation of the line from Marton to Wanganui. The de- viation had been surveyed, and the cost would only be £80,000, and it would shorten the dis- tance by ten to fifteen miles. Mr. HALL-JONES said, With regard to the Rimutaka deviation, they must look to the needs of those settlers who had no railway or road communication rather than to those in places where there was communication. With re- gard to the Waipara-Skargill Section of the Cheviot Railway, that would not be ready for opening before January. With regard to the Hurunui Bridge, the tenders were considerably above the estimate, and the Cabinet would decide what course to take. The plans of the Motueka Bridge were being revised, with a view to economy in construction. They would pro- bably be completed in time to allow the work to go on this summer. Mr. GRAHAM wished the honourable gentle- man to give him an assurance that tenders would be invited early, so that they might take advantage of the present summer. Would that be so ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, certainly. Mr. HALL-JONES .- With regard to the question raised by the honourable member for the Grey, if they had a Railways Authorisation Bill this session Ministers would have no ob- jection to that work being included. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) moved, That the vote, "Marton-Te Awamutu, £160,000," be reduced by the sum of £10,000. He did so as a protest against the action of the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) speaking of the Gra- hamstown-Whangarei extension as a swindle. He favoured the reduction of the vote by £10,000 because he believed the work could be 