the right to select their representatives in this House. Members should be able to come here without being barred because of their want of means or position in the world. I say that is a sound argument. There should be no bar; but as long as you pay the amount you are now paying it is a bar ; and there are a number of men who have been members of this House and representatives of the people who have found themselves at the end of their time in debt. If they had not come here to represent the people, but had gone on with their usual occupation, these very same men and their families would have been better off. The question to ask is this : Should the colony ask that sacrifice to be made ? and my answer is, No. Does it apply to all ? I say there are very few exceptions it does not apply to. On the 7th July, 1880, at page 64, I said,- "With triennial Parliaments and an ex- tended franchise they would not be doing their duty to the people of this country if they did not place members of the House in an inde- pendent position." And I had something to say about the repre- sentation of Wellington, and the exceptional situation of members representing this city. This is what appears here,- " He wished, however, to say this : that those honourable members who resided in Wellington, who could attend to their business during the day and came to the House in the evening, were not entitled to the same amount as members who came from a distance and had to leave their business altogether, the result to them being a great indirect loss." I was not so severe as some people who go the length of saying that you should disfranchise http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Wellington and place it in the same position as Washington ; but I did think that members who were able to be at home at night, and live at home, and attend to their business, might have some difference made in their remuneration from what is paid to other members. But in this Bill, knowing that if I was to attempt to make such a distinction as that it might cause debate, that provision has been excluded. Mr. SYMES .- Some one else will move it. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, then, you are going back to what I thought in 1880. On the next page I am reported to have said as follows :- "Then he came to the question, Is payment of members necessary under present circum- stances ? It had been argued by some that it was a very inopportune moment, now that re- trenchment was the order of the day, for him to bring forward a measure of this kind ; but he said that now was the time, because they were twelve or eighteen months from the next general election, and, if they affirmed the principle now, the electors would then be able to judge of their paid representatives when seeking re-election. it was not fair for some representatives to be placed in the position they were placed in by members of Parliament who had more coin with Her Majesty's figurehead upon it than less fortunate gentlemen." out that speech, I do not think it would be necessary for me to say anything further. Con- trast the position of the colony now with its position in 1880, and even the year when we passed the £240, and I think honourable members will admit that we can well afford to pay this £300 a year. The country should not ask members to make the sacrifice they are making. It is well known that some members come here from the carpenter's bench, and it is well that there should be that representation ; but once having been members they cannot go back to the bench, even if they wished to do so, nor do their fellow-workers desire that they should do so. Then, again, there is a difficulty in their obtaining employment. An employer does not care to have working in his workshop a member of Parliament, as we know things are said about it, and practically as soon as he becomes a member of Parliament his entire existence is changed. He has his £240 a year. Out of that he has to pay his election expenses, and the expense incurred in travel- ling through his district, in keeping with his position - not, probably, in keeping with his means -- and he has to meet other calls that are necessarily made upon him from time to time; and every honourable member in this House must admit that very heavy calls are made upon him from the fact that he is a mem- ber of Parliament. Now, do the people of the country desire that members should make this sacrifice? I say, No. The increased cost, as provided in this Bill, if spread over the entire population, amounts to about the smallest sum you could mention : £6,000, spread over eight hundred thousand people. I, there- fore, say that, looked at from that stand- point, whilst the sum is small to the indi- vidual representative, it means the difference between a man being able to make some pro- vision during life for his family and himself for years to come and not being able to do so. Under existing conditions he is in a worse position than he would have been if he had followed his ordinary avocations, even though working at a carpenter's bench. Now, I do not think the country wants that. I will come now to a man in business, and I say he is the heaviest loser of all. He may have partners or a partner, and, in that case, the counsel that takes place between them in respect to the business is lost, and, however good and able the partner may be, there is bound to be a loss. and in place of this counsel there is the additional loss of advising the absent partner and keeping him posted up in the business. However, I will leave that, and come to a member carry- ing on business without a partner, and what is the effect there? I do not care how good a manager he may have, without the head of the firm being there losses are entailed. Credit is given where no credit should be given, and money is uncollected that should have been collected and would have been collected had the head of the firm been at home and look- ing after his business. If you take the balance- sheet and put the cost to the representative of 