of the following proviso : "Provided that if at the close of any financial year it appears in the case of any mine that the surplus profit for the year, computed as aforesaid, does not reach five per centum on the total capital expended, then during the following year the Minister shall raise the price of coal from such mine to such extent as, on the basis of the previous year's operations, will produce a profit of five per centum on the total capital expended." The Committee divided. AYES, 16. Bollard Lang Russell, W. R. Thomson, J. W. Carncross Massey Mackenzie, T. Fraser, W. Hardy Monk Tellers. Pirani Herries Allen, J. Rhodes Atkinson. Hutcheson NOES, 33. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills O'Meara Arnold Graham Hall Parata Bennet Buddo Hall-Jones Russell, G. W. Carroll Hogg Smith, G. J. Collins - Hornsby Ward Lawry Colvin Wilford Willis. McGowan Duncan Ell Mckenzie, R. Tellers. . Field McNab Symes Fisher Meredith Tanner. Flatman Majority against, 17. Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. SEDDON moved the addition of the fol- lowing new clause :- "6A. In addition to the powers conferred on the Minister by the last preceding section, he may, in such manner as he thinks fit, work any tramway, hulk, ship, or other movable appli- ance acquired by him under that section for the purpose of supplying and delivering coals."" New clause agreed to. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " Every worker employed under the provi- sions of this Act shall be subject to the pro- visions of 'The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900,' and the Minister shall be deemed to be an employer within the mean- ing of that Act." The Committee divided on the second read- ing of the clause. AYES, 23. Hornsby Atkinson Rhodes Collins Lang Russell, G. W. Colvin Lawry Russell, W. R. Ell Massey Smith, G. J. Fowlds Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. Fraser, W. Meredith Tellers. Herries Graham Monk Pirani Hutcheson. Hardy NOES, 29. Allen, E. G. Field Buddo Arnold Carncross Fisher Bennet Flatman Carroll VOL. CXIX .- 59. Gilfedder Mills Ward Hall O'Meara Wilford Hall-Jones Parata Willis. Hogg Seddon Tellers. Kaihau Symes Barclay McGowan Tanner McNab. PAIRS. For. Against. Allen, J. Duncan Bollard Napier Lethbridge Stevens Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority against, 6. New clause negatived. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the following new clause :- "Any award under ' The Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900,' relating to coal-mines in the industrial district in which any State coal-mine is situated, shall, subject to such variations as in the opinion of the Court are necessitated by local circumstances, apply to such State coal-mine." . New clause agreed to. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved the following new clause :- "'Unalienated Crown land' includes all Crown lands held under any lease for depas- turing purposes, or any occupation license, but shall not include any land under lease in per- petuity." The Committee divided on the question, "That the proposed new clause be agreed to." AYES, 11. Fowlds Wilford Monk Hardy Rhodes Tellers. Hutcheson Russell, W. R. Herries Thomson, J. W. Lang. Massey NOES, 37. Allen, E. G. Pirani Graham Russell, G. W. Hall Arnold Hall-Jones Seddon Atkinson Smith, G. J. Heke Barclay Hornsby Bennet Symes Buddo Kaihau Tanner Lawry Thompson, R. Carncross Carroll Ward McGowan Mckenzie, R. Willis. Collins Colvin McNab Meredith Ell Tellers. Field Hogg Mills Fraser, A. L. D. Parata O'Meara. PAIRS. For. Against. Duncan Allen, J. Bollard Napier Lethbridge Stevens Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority against, 26. Clause negatived. Bill reported. On the motion, That this Bill be read a third time, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said,-I very much regret that the amendment I moved in 