et cetera. Then, subsection (3) provides that, after State requirements have been fulfilled, the Minister may sell and supply coal ; and sub- section (4), as previously stated, provides that he may enter into contracts and engagements. Subsection (5) gives general powers. Under section 7 provision is made for private con- tracts to be transferred to the Minister on the coal-mine being taken over. I may say, in respect to this, it is the intention of the Government that every transaction shall be laid on the table of the House within ten days of the beginning of each session, and the fullest information given to Parliament. Now, as to the power of raising the moneys, we take the power here to raise $150,000. That will be raised as an ordinary liability of the colony. I do not think we should require the amount I have mentioned; but it is well, I think, to be strong, and not to be crippled for want of the necessary capital. The security is mentioned in section 11; section 12 deals with the debentures. As to section 13, I think mem- bers will approve of that. Captain RUSSELL. - Why provide for a 4-per-cent. loan for forty years-clause 12, sub- section (3) ? Mr. SEDDON .- I put in 4 per cent. at pre- sent owing to reasons that are known to the honourable member, and we have put that pro- vision in other Bills. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not look ahead ? Mr. SEDDON. - So I do; but it is not to be said that I am going to give debentures at 4 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 per cent. for forty years, although I have taken the power to do so. We have the power now, under the present law, and we are only giving 3 per cent. under other loans. The same power is contained in the last loan Act, and also in other loan Acts. Section 13 is as follows : - "With respect to each coal-mine worked by the Minister under this Act the following pro- visions shall apply :- "(1.) The Minister shall cause full and faith- ful accounts to be kept of all moneys received and expended, and of all credits and liabilities. "(2.) Within twenty-one days after the close of each financial year the Minister shall cause a balance-sheet for the year to be prepared, together with a statement of accounts (including a capital account and a profit and loss account). " (3.) Such balance sheet and statement shall be so prepared as to show fully and faithfully the financial position of the mine, and the financial result of its operations for the year. " (4.) Within twenty-eight days after the close of each financial year the Minister shall cause the balance-sheet and statement of accounts for the year to be submitted to the Audit Office for audit. " (5.) The balance - sheet and statement of accounts, duly audited, together with a report by the manager on the opera- Mr. Seddon within ten days after the audit is completed, be laid by the Minister before Parliament, if sitting, and if not, then within ten days after the commencement of the next ensuing session thereof." So that we have already made provision for what I stated was a very necessary thing to do. Then comes the allocation of the profits. Clause 14 provides,- " After full provision has, in the case of each mine, been made for all outgoings, losses, and liabilities for the year (including interest and debentures issued, and on moneys paid out of the Consolidated Fund and not recouped), the net surplus profits then remaining shall be applied in establishing a sinking fund in respect of debentures issued, or money to be recouped to the Consolidated Fund as aforesaid, and, subject thereto, in establishing a depreciation fund in respect of capital expended." We have taken it for granted that we shall obtain more coal from the State coal-mines than we shall require for ourselves, and if we have from the sale of that coal and the working of the mine a net profit of 5 per cent., then for the next year the price of coal will be reduced proportionately. An Hon. MEMBER. - If you have not made 5 per cent., what then ? Mr. SEDDON .- If we have not made 5 per cent. we shall keep at the then existing rates. An Hon. MEMBER .- If you make a loss you will keep it ? Mr. SEDDON .- No; that does not follow. You may work your mine without a loss and you may not make 5 per cent. You may make only 3 per cent .; and, therefore, anything be- tween working at par and 5 per cent. you would do nothing; but in the case of anything over 5 per cent. you give away in the way of reduc- tion. That is reasonable. I suppose I shall be told that we cannot do this without a loss. My own opinion is this : that the very fact of having our own mines to supply our own re- quirements will keep down to a reasonable rate the price of coal. I do not see how we are to lose at 7s. 6d. a ton as between the estimated cost and what we are now paying, which is now being made out of us; and I have that on the most positive information. Is it to be said we cannot work a mine, when they are making 7s. 6d. a ton profit out of us at the present time ? Why, it is a moral impossibility for there to be any loss. Mr. MASSEY .- Do you know of any coal- mine owners who have made fortunes ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, I do. Then, under the head of " Miscellaneous," I have said that the mines should be worked under the same laws as apply to private mines. I have said that the moneys payable are to be appropriated by Par- liament. Then, we make the same provision in section 18 as applies at the existing time to private coal-mines, as, for instance, the West- port and Greymouth coal-mines-namely, that, as moneys were advanced by the State, the net profits of Greymouth and Westport have 