throughout the industrial world-that it takes years and years before you arrive at that state of perfection which enables you to secure the full advantage of your initial steps towards im- proved conditions. Therefore, all I can say is this : So far as regards this Act, it does not dis- appoint me in any way. If it took another seven years, and there were still some troubles before the Conciliation Board and Arbitration Court, I say we would be well repaid if in that time we could have found and proved a method which would leave the industrial question free from these difficulties which surround it not only in Great Britain, but all over Europe and the New World. However, Sir, there are many English people-and Mr. Lloyd, for one-a great American authority-who are looking upon us with envy for the means which we have to deal with these great questions. There are thinkers there - not the capitalists, not the multi- millionaires, not the people who are controlling and driving the industrial machine entirely in their own direction - men with high ideals, who are looking to this colony's legislation, small as we are, to see the fulfilment of the happy solu- tion of the troubles which now surround them, and surround them in a way which I believe will end in an industrial war-a war between men who are owners of enormous wealth and the people who are under them and earning a wage per day which the millionaires them- selves would spend in food for their dogs. Sir, I hope I am not overpainting this question, but I say all honourable gentlemen who read the papers and other sources of information, which https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 can be attained, and easily attained, if they have the inclination to inquire into it, will see We had this approaching crisis in America. a strange instance of that in the Carnegie http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero strike. We saw there an enormous com- bination of two hundred millions sterling of capital dealing with a few thousands of men, and who are able by the possession of that great capital to repress competition, and to compel their employés to accept such wages and conditions of employment as would enable them for evermore to carry out a system which would simply mean the destruction of all people entering into the same trade. To come back to the Old Country. Of course, I cannot refer to a previous debate, but I have in this Council alluded to the troubles which are going on there, and I gave instances. Since then I have been reading others, and, although there is not that enormous combination of capitalistic power that there is in America, there are still there all the conditions necessary for eventually creating a smaller or greater edition of the American sys- tem. I was reading the other day a paper by Mr. Sidney Webb-anybody who knows any- thing of industrial questions will have heard of Mr. Sidney Webb - and he here deals with the question of treating labour, in the following words : - "We often forget that the contract be- tween employers and workmen is to the em- plovers simply a question of the number of shillings to be paid at the end of the week. To ! system is new to us, and because we do not like Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith wage-earner does not, like the shopkeeper, merely sell a piece of goods which is carried away. It is his whole life which, for the stated terms, he places at the disposal of his employer. What hours he shall work, when and where he shall get his meals, the sanitary conditions of his employment, the safety of the machinery, the atmosphere and temperature to which he is subjected, the fatigue or strain which he endures, the risks of accident or disease which he has to incur-all these are involved in the workman's contract, and not in his employer's. Yet about the majority of these vital conditions he cannot bargain at all." "What hours he shall work " : We have solved that in the Factories Act, and the con- ditions worked under during these hours we have also regulated. "When and where and the time he shall get his meals ": This has been arranged. "The sanitary conditions of employment ": These are as yet the ideals of the people at Home, and in many cases have yet to be considered ; but we have already dis- posed of such questions. "The safeguarding of machinery ": That is a thing we have carried out better in this colony than they have in England. Look at the railway-workers. There is an enormous number of men hurt on the railways in England every year, and why ? Because the railway companies, having large representation in the House of Commons, have enormous influence against reforms involving great expenditure in improved plant. Practi- cally, a majority of the House of Commons is made up of railway shareholders and directors, and it seems no amelioration of the condition of railway workers can be passed there. Here we have Government railways, and a free hand to pass such legislation as we think fit for the benefit of the people at large. "The atmo- sphere and temperature to which he is sub- jected ": Our Factories Act is stringent on these points. Young boys at Home work long hours, and men far more-under unhealthy conditions-than they have to work here ; but the impending change must come. It is just a question of time before they discover that the policy which we have followed does not, as so many honourable gentlemen think, result in less efficient work or more costly working. I argue, and always have argued, that the workers who are best treated, and are working in harmony with their employers, are the men who enable you to make a success of business. The improvement of machinery is so great now, and there is such an enormous saving, that if labour does not get a share of it the employer practically gets all the advantage. What has machinery done for capital? It has given it an ever-increasing power. Has not the worker a right to say, "I see this going And, instead of on, and I want some of it ?" striking and going into the streets, and shying stones in a time of great industrial warfare, what does labour do? It goes to the Concilia. tion Board and states a case, and because the 