establishment of receiving homes, and many other items elsewhere, there had been a complete and new departure involving a large amount of extra work, and the increased work meant in- creased expense. With respect to Sir Edward Gibbs, he was an officer who had been in the department for over thirty years, and he did not think any one who knew the work done by that gentleman would say that the salary was too large. If they did not recognise the services of their officers, it would mean that the best officers would be induced to take positions in the other colonies. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said he would have preferred if the honourable member for Avon had moved that all the increases be struck off. This department seemed to stand in the way of the Education Boards. There was considerable friction. He could not understand why there was a continual addition to the expense of the department. He felt inclined to support a re- duction of the whole of the proposed increases. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch) wished the honourable member for Avon had moved a resolution to the effect that the total vote be decreased by one-half. It had been pointed out that in the last five or six years the ex- penses of the Head Office had more than doubled. The school-teachers had failed to participate in any degree in the increased prosperity of the colony, and instead of their salaries increasing they have decreased. He thought it was a monstrous thing that, while the teachers' salaries had decreased, there should have been this large increase in the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Head Office. He would like to see this vote reduced, if only as a protest against raising the salaries of departmental officers until the teachers' salaries had been put on a better / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero footing. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) objected to the unnecessary interference on the part of the department with the Education Boards, and instanced a flagrant case in Central Otago. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) pointed ont, with regard to the increase in expenditure, although the Education Department had, ac- cording to the Minister, over half a million to administer, yet it passed nearly the whole of it over to the Boards, in whose hands the real administration lay. To make a comparison between the year 1896-97 and the year just ended, the appropriations for the former under the heading of "Education " were £428,000, and for the latter £445,000, an increase of only £17,000. Under " Lunacy and charitable aid " the amount for the former year was $55.000, and for the latter £63,000. In the Head Office the amount for the former year was £2,225, and for this year £4,982, while the number of officers had risen from eight to twenty. He did not desire to impair the efficiency of the department, but he thought some explanation should be given of how it had grown to such disproportionate dimensions. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) thought it was unfortunate that the Minister in charge of the estimates in the House was not the Minister in charge of the department. He was as anxious as any man for the well-being of the Education Department, but it was growing beyond their means, and he protested against the unwarrant- able manner in which departmental expenses were piled up year after year. Mr. HALL-JONES would like to point out to honourable members the great amount of work carried out by the Education Department and the small cost of administering it. The Native schools in the past had largely increased, and were more closely attended to now than in former years. Then, the House decided to have a change in regard to the inspection of indus- trial schools, which had been gradually carried out by the Education Department. Provision had also been recently made for technical in- struction, and members must recognise they could not do increased work without increased expenditure. He had heard a lot about the falling-off of the school attendance, but he would like to point out that, so far from this being the case, the attendance for the last quarter constituted a record for the colony. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, in regard to the amendment, that he did not like attacking individual cases, because in many instances he believed the increases were well deserved. But he must say he did not approve of the wholesale increases proposed in connection with the Education Department, which were altogether out of proportion to the amount of work being done. He would suggest to the honourable member for Avon that, instead of attacking one salary, he should move to reduce the vote by about one-half the amount of the increases-£300-and he would have great pleasure in supporting him. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) would support the reduction, and his reason was that, as a country member, he knew many teachers who were harder worked than these officers, yet only received £100 a year. He would support any proposed reduction until more equitable salaries were given to the teachers of small schools among the country settlers. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) was not in favour of a reduction, because he thought the salary of the Assistant Secretary, compared with men in the same position in other departments, was miserably low. He thought his length of ser- vice and efficiency entitled him to an increase of double the amount. At the same time he must say this department sadly wanted what it was trying to provide for the teachers-some classification. They seemed to be setting loose in the country an army of Inspectors and lec- turers who would be better at Home doing some decent work. But what he objected to was the encroachment of a department on the work of local bodies. He thought that if the Education Boards were to be abolished, let them be so by all means, but not in the manner at present adopted. In regard to technical educa- tion, he was of opinion that the money would be far more usefully expended if the depart- ment handed it over to the Education Boards. Mr. HALL-JONES would point out to the honourable gentleman that the officer who gave the lecture on plasticene was requested to visit 