lows :- "(1.) The Chairman chall publish a notice setting forth the day, not less than one nor more than three weeks from the day of the said meeting, on which the poll shall be taken. " (2.) On that day a poll shall be taken in like manner as the same would be taken for the election of a member of the local authority, and every rate- payer shall be entitled to vote accord- ingly. "(3.) The voting-paper shall be printed, and in the form numbered (1) in the First Schedule hereto, and shall contain full particulars of the notice mentioned in section eight hereof, with the words legibly printed below in two distinct line .: 'I vote for the above pro- posal,' and ' I vote against the above proposal.'" Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved to strike out " every " in subsection (2), with the view of inserting "only." The Committee divided on the question, "That the word be retained." AYES, 36. Allen, E. G. Fraser, W. Napier Gilfedder ()'Meara Arnold Bennet Hall Seddon Buddo Smith, G. J. Hall-Jones Hornsby Carncross Stevens Carroll Kaihau Symes Collins Lawry Tanner Duncan McGowan Ward Witheford. Mckenzie, R. Ell Field McNab L'eilers. Meredith Fisher Hogy Pirani. Flatman Mills Fowlds NOES, 13. Thomson, J. W. Atkinson Lethbridge Bollard Mackenzie, T. Hardy Monk Tollers. Russell, W. R. Herries Hutcheson Lang Thompson, R. Massey. Majority for, 23. Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 12 .- " If the total number of valid votes recorded in favour of the proposal is at least three-fifths of the total number of valid votes recorded at the poll, then, and not other- wise, the proposal shall be deemed to be carried, and the local authority may proceed with the proposal accordingly ; but if the pro- posal is not carried, the local authority shall not so proceed." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to add the following proviso to the clause : - " Provided that in the case of boroughs a majority of the total votes recorded shall suffice to carry the proposal." Proviso added, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 16 .- " (1.) A special rate to provide for the payment of interest, or interest and made and levied where necessary, by special order gazetted, in the form numbered (2) in the First Schedule hereto. "(2.) Every special rate shall be an annually recurring rate, and shall be payable at intervals as specified in such special order; and shall be levied year by year, without further proceeding by the local authority, until the loan in respect of which such special rate was made is paid off. " (3.) A special rate to provide for the pay- ment of interest, or interest and sinking fund, upon a loan raised for the exclusive benefit of any part of a district, may be made and levied as aforesaid within that part only. "(4.) All special rates shall be applicable to the loan for which they were authorised to be raised, and to no other purpose.' Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to add the following new subsection :- "(5.) A local authority may, with the consent of the Auditor, decide by special order to pay the interest on special loan out of its general fund." The Committee divided on the question, "That the subsection be added." AYES, 21. Smith, G. J. Herries Atkinson Bollard Hutcheson S.mes Collins Tanner Lang El Thomson, J. W. Massey Ruodes Fowlds Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Russell, G. W. Lethbridge Fraser, W. Russell, W. R. Pirani. Hardy NOES, 30. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Mills Barclay Hogg Napier Bennet Hornsby Seddon Buddo Kaihau Stevens Carroll Lawry Thompson, R. Duncan McGowan Ward Field Mackenzie, T. Witheford. Fisher Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Flatman McNab Carncross Gilfedder Meredith O'Meara. Hall Majority against, 9. New subsection negatived. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to add the following new subsection :- "A local authority may, with the consent of the Auditor, by special order decide to pay the interest, or interest and sinking fund, on a special loan out of the general fund, provided that the amount so paid shall not exceed twenty pounds in any one year." New subsection added. Mr. PIRAN : (Palmerston) moved to add the following new subsection :- "A local authority may, after taking a poll of the ratepayers affected, amalgamate a num- ber of special loans, and levy one special rate to pay the interest and sinking fund on such loans." New subsection negatived, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 48. - Interpretation. 