the position of those who were not under the scheme; and he felt sure the Minister himself would be one of the first to admit that they were not fairly dealt with in comparison with other employés of the same rank in the Civil Service. Therefore he did not think the Minister should take exception to those mem- bers who were anxious to give him support and assistance. Accordingly he did not think the Minister should complain that members of the Opposition should take this occasion to urge upon the Government the necessity of bringing down this scheme as soon as possible, in order that it might be fairly considered. Some mem. bers seemed to arrogate to themselves the sole right to legislate for the railway servants ; but if those members of the House who had railway workshops in their constituencies were disfran- chised from dealing with such questions as this it would be very much better for the railway servants themselves-that is, the railway ser- vants who were worth their salt. They had got a new cry in Parliament-namely, that certain members in the House represented the railway servants. Did anybody ever hear such non- sense? No honourable member had a right to represent the railway servants as a class. They came there to represent their constituents, and, with their constituents, the people of the colony. If they were going to cast their vote in a direc- tion which was not a fair and right one simply because a large number of their constituents belonged to a certain class, then it was political log-rolling of the worst kind. He did not think members of Parliament were willing to do that, / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788261 but that if a classification scheme were brought down in time members would consider it tem- perately and give the Minister every assistance they could to see it brought into law ; and, even http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero if they were opposed to him politically, they would be as pleased to congratulate him on his good work as though they were his own sup- porters. Mr. LANG (Waikato) wished to urge on the Minister for Railways the necessity of going on with this scheme at once. The classification scheme had been anxiously looked forward to by all the men in the service for years past. He would not go into the merits of the question, because it was a matter that was admitted on all sides of the House to be a proper thing. The Minister had said that members were in favour of it, and had been asking for it ; but he regretted that the Minister, when speaking, did not indicate, and clearly, whether he intended to bring down the Bill this session. The Minis- ter should tell the House plainly whether he intended to go on with it this session. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said that questions regarding superannuation and classi- fication were put to the Minister for Railways in four separate ways on one day recently, and the answer given by the Minister for Rail- was was that his scheme for superannuation and classification had been prepared for some time. and that it merely awaited the assent of the Cabinet. He hardly understood, therefore, what necessity there was for proposing such an amendment. The Government had expressed VOL. CXIX .- 6. no unwillingness to lay the scheme of the Minister for Railways before the House. It was only with them, he thought, a matter of asking for time to devote proper consideration to such a large scheme as this was. He was not in the House when the Minister spoke, but he assumed that the honourable gentleman did not say any more than he said in answer to the questions put to him the other day. Sir J. G. WARD said he said more. Mr. FISHER would like to know whether the Minister supported or opposed the amend- ment. Sir J. G. WARD said the Ministry had not opposed it. Amendment as amended agreed to, and motion agreed to; and the House resolved itself into Committee of Supply. SUPPLY. CLASS III .- COLONIAL TREASURER'S DEPART- MENT. Treasury Department, £7,819. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) said he intended to make a new departure. As they were allowed only a certain number of speeches, he would begin at once and give to the Com- mittee the fullest information regarding the staff and working-expenses. The amount voted last year was £7,662, and the amount expended £7,384. This showed a saving of £288. He made that statement to emphasize the fact that care and economy had been exercised. The increase this year comprised increase of salaries £240, and there were three new cadets, making the total increase £495. The increases were : Secretary to the Treasury, £50; Accountant, £25; clerk in charge, £20; one clerk £15 and five clerks £10 each ; five cadets, £10; and messenger, 1s. per diem, which had been approved by the House. The binder was also increased 5s. a week. The Secretary had been twenty-eight years in the service, and the Accountant twenty - four years in the Treasury and eleven in other departments, making thirty-five years. The clerk in charge had been twenty years in the service. These, he thought, were the full particulars, and honourable members would see that the pro- posals were reasonable in the extreme. Ex- ception might be taken to increasing the Secretary's salary by $50, making the salary £850; but when he told members that last year there had passed through this man's hands #20,000,000, or, rather, that he was responsible for that amount, and when they compared his salary, even with the increase that he was paid, with those in other colonies for men holding a similar position, they would see that they were a long way from giving what was paid elsewhere. The Inspector of Lunatic Asylums got £1,200. The financial head of the colony was the Secretary to the Treasury, and, considering his responsibility and services, his salary ought to be equal to that of others who had nothing like the same responsibilities. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the position worth in other colonies ? 