gentleman was responsible for the lengthy dis- cussion which has taken place, which should properly have been taken on the previous order ; and what reason there was for the interception I really cannot tell, because it was simply putting the debate off for a day or two at the longest, and what there is to gain by that one cannot easily comprehend. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must see that that is out of order. Mr. CARROLL .- Very well. I do not want to discuss the question of Native policy at all. The time, I admit, is unfitting ; but you have allowed honourable members every latitude, and the least they can do is to feel grateful to you, Sir, for your complacency. I do not want to follow in their steps, but as certain questions were interrogated of me respecting the "Washing up Bill" and its non appear- ance, and why the subject-matter of this mca- sure under discussion was taken out of it and put into a separate Bill, and why certain alleged anomalies occur in our Native ad- ministration, I must in some way satisfy the curiosity of members. I say there was every valid reason for making this a separate Bill. This is a matter of great urgency, for one thing, about which there could be no question. Moneys have accumulated in respect to the land herein which should be in the hands and pockets of the Native owners. They have been for years without the use thereof, and, as it was necessary to employ special machinery to carry https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 out the particular objects of the trust, a sepa- rate Bill such as this was indispensable. Be- sides, there were no European or other interests involved, and everything was plain-sailing. And, further, the "Washing.up " Bill this year includes many clauses which deal with matters entirely fresh and additional to those which were contained in the Bill of two or three years ago. Thus there might be contentious matter which would imperil any legislation intended for the Pariroa Reserve. The honour- able member for Napier is very much afraid that the exploitation which was common in the past might be resumed in the present in- stance, and disastrously affect this " Washing- up" Bill. I can assure him that great care will be taken that every clause in that measure undergoes a very careful scrutiny. Then, Sir, the member for Bruce asked me pointedly this question in regard to the administra- tion of Native lands by the present Govern- ment: "Is it true that land for which the Native owners have been offered £30 per acre, and were not permitted by the Government to accept, was purchased afterwards by the Go- vernment at $9 per acre? " I know nothing of such a transaction. Captain RUSSELL .- You know of lots like it. Mr. CARROLL .- No. I have yet to find out that in any case has the Government given $9 per acre for Native land. An Hon. MEMBER .- You never gave as much. Mr. CARROLL .- If the honourable gentle- man had spoken of shillings there might be something in it. What is the Government being discredited for now by its opponents ? First of all, for taking the pre-emptive right, and then for buying Native land at small prices much below their value. The honourable member for Bruce must not listen to every story poured into his ears. When we compare private purchases with Government purchases, though the private purchaser in some cases gives a higher price for the land, he is the gentleman who picks out the very cream-the eyes of the country -and leaves the ordinary waste lands of the Natives for the Crown to acquire. That is the history of land-purchas- ing and land-acquisition in this country. Sir, although the Government may give a smaller price than that which may be ruling on the day, or give a smaller price than what is offered by a private individual, we must remember the Government is buying for the State-for every one. It is not buying for private individuals or as a private individual ; every member of the community has an interest in the purchases made by the Government, and, if the Govern- ment buys forty thousand or fifty thousand acres of land at 5s. per acre, the advantages and benefits arising therefrom will be shared in by the public, including the Native sellers of the land. You cannot, therefore, on public grounds put the Government and the private purchaser on the same footing in dealing with the question of Native-land acquisition. Sir, I say the Natives as a body look forward with every hope to successful results obtaining from the administration of Native lands on the principles affirmed by Parliament last year, and which are now on the statute-book. I take this opportunity of satisfying honourable members on the point as to whether the Govern- ment intend to revert to the policy of free- trade in Native land. So far as I am concerned -and I think I speak on behalf of the Govern- ment and party-there is no such intention whatever. I can give an emphatic denial to any suggestion of the kind. The Government re- cognise this : that the day for free-trade in Native land is past and cannot be restored. I think the Natives should have every opportunity of testing the merits of the Maori Lands Adminis- tration Act passed last year-that is, the ad- ministration of their lands through Land Boards. Why should they not have Land Boards ? If the system is good and effec ive for the waste lands of the Crown, why should it not be equally so for the waste lands of the Natives ? Sir, no one deprecates the turn the discussion has taken more than myself, because we should have had the debate proper on the Bill I attempted to move into Committee. I only regret that the House was not permitted to fully discuss the wider question, which would have been more interesting to the country than what has taken place as a result of this frivolous attempt to frustrate the Government. Bill read a third time. COAL MINES BILL. On the motion for the committal of this Bill, Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said,- Sir, I believe that I will be consulting the 