the operations go on as regards the Native land. I have every sympathy with the Hon. Mr. Williams, but I think he takes a mistaken view of the case, because I think he has miscon- ceived the position; and the case he raises, if he is right, would defeat the object he has in view. I know the honourable gentleman's objects are most single-minded. We have had his valuable services on the Native Affairs Committee for many years, and I do not think any one on that Committee can say more than that he has given long and valuable service on that Committee ; but I think he is wrong in his contention. He very properly goes to a clause of last year's Act and says " This is the keynote of the whole case ; that is the clause which says the Maoris are to get parchment documents showing they are en- titled to papakaingas ; " but after twelve months' experience the Government find it takes a little time for any Maori to get a parchment docu- ment showing he is entitled to a papakainga ; therefore the Native Minister thinks it would be in the interests of the Maoris themselves and of settlement that there should be some relaxation in this direction, and if the District Judge can certify to the fact that these Natives have got sufficient land or are entitled to suffi- cient land in the block, so that there is no fear they shall be deprived of a substantial interest in the tribal estate, the block can be dealt with, not for the benefit of any one man, not for the benefit of any pakeha exploiter, but for the benefit of the Natives themselves, because if you have got to wait until all these parch- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ment documents are furnished in every part of the colony it means the Native lands would be locked up for a good many years. I am certain this is not what the Hon. Mr. Williams wants. All he wants is that every Native shall have his title clear and sure. Is not that so ? The Hon. Mr. WILLIAMS .- Individualised ; yes. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, the original Bill says that, and this amending Bill simply emphasizes it. We found, after a year's trial of the Act, that it is impossible to get all the titles at one and the same time in parch- ment form ; but still, at the same time, a Judge of the Native Land Court who will be the Chairman of these Boards-because the Native Minister assured me that he proposed to make a Judge Chairman of the Board - in nine cases out of ten the Judge would certify that nine out of ten Natives were absolutely entitled to suffi- cient land for their own subsistence and main- tenance ; but, if these ad interim titles are not procurable, it means you will have two and a half million acres locked up until every one of the titles can be dealt with. I believe the honourable gentleman's object is the same as that of the Government. At all events, the Com- mittee showed this morning that they thought he was wrong. I would ask the honourable gentleman to look over the question again, and see whether, in the true interests of the Native race, he cannot make up his mind to abandon his present opposition to the Bill. I know the honourable gentleman is in sympathy with its also, I am sure, that the Native Minister is doing his best for his own race and the Euro- peans. The Hon. Mr. WILLIAMS .- I was in sympathy with last year's Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Then he ought to be all the more in sympathy with this year's Bill, because it simply removes the friction that has occurred in the working of last year's Act. I have already said it is im- possible to get two and a half million acres sur- veyed and cut up in the course of a few months. If I had a black- I will give an instance. board I could do it better, but I suppose I can- not use one side of the Chamber for that purpose : Supposing there was a block of ten thousand acres-a quarter of that block would be quite sufficient - and there are two hundred members of Native families who have got to have per- manent allocations on it. A quarter of the block would probably be quite sufficient to pre- vent all these families ever being dependent on the State or anybody else, after this block has been inalienably conveyed to them. But until these parchment certificates, which last year's Act mentioned, are prepared, and the surveys are completed, and the pegs are put in, that block of ten thousand acres is absolutely locked up; whereas I say that three-fourths of it might just as well be earning an income for the benefit of the Natives concerned as not. But they cannot deal with it until the surveys have actually been gone through ; and this Bill, with regard to land like that, is wanted, so that a Judge of the Native Land Court can give a certificate that these Natives are entitled to a beneficial interest in certain land, which will prevent them being landless, and that therefore the block may be dealt with in the first instance, and the rents secured. It is not only a question for the Maori ; it is also a question for the European, because this question, which deprives of settlement all these acres, is no trifling thing. Of course, the object of the legislation in the first case was the interest of the Maori, and in their interest I ask you, Sir, to put the question, and I trust the Council will commit the Bill. We have heard a very eloquent exponent of the race this afternoon. He approves of the Bill. Why, therefore, should certain members of the Council object ? Well, I am sure the desire last year was that this new departure in Native land transactions should have a fair show. This Bill is not new legislation. It is simply supplementing and implementing what it was attempted to do last year. Bill committed. On the question, That the Bill be read the third time, The Hon. Mr. JONES said, When it was pro- posed to-day by the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill to go into Committee, the Hon. Mr. W. Kelly and I pointed out to the honourable gentleman that the Bill had not been circulated amongst honourable members, and we desired that we should be given time to see and peruse the Bill before proceeding with 