the question and answer in reply to the last question had very prominently brought under his notice Standing Order No. 81, and he would read it for the information of honourable mem- bers and Ministers, namely :- " Questions and the replies thereto are not to contain arguments, nor are any facts to be stated beyond what are necessary to elucidate such questions and replies." Honourable members, therefore, would take notice that he would have to stop them sub- mitting arguments or stating facts beyond what were necessary to elucidate such ques- tions or replies. WALTER DELANEY. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will place on the supplementary estimates, in accordance with the favourable recommendation of the Public Petitions A to L Committee, a sum in recogni- tion of services rendered by Mr. Walter Delaney to the colony in the time of the Maori war ? The Committee took a lot of evidence in regard to this man's case, with this result :- "No. 386 .- Report on the Petition of W. M. Delaney, Wellington. " Petitioner prays that he be granted some remuneration or compensation for military services. "I am directed to report that the Commit- tee recommend that this petition be referred to the Government for favourable considera- tion. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 "3rd September, 1901." He might say this man had been in hospital for a considerable time, and was very much in want of the assistance the Committee recom- mended he should get. He hoped the honour- able gentleman would see his way to place a sum on the estimates for the benefit of this man. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the same course would be followed in this case as in all others- namely, that all matters referred to by petition and reported upon by the Petitions Committee would be dealt with by the Government imme- diately prior to the supplementary estimates coming down. This matter was now before Cabinet. NEW ZEALAND: COLONY OR STATE? Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Go- vernment, If they will consider the desirability of introducing legislation this session to provide that henceforward New Zealand shall be offi- cially styled a "State," and not a "colony "? The term "colony," by virtue of the Imperial Act 28 and 29 Vict., c. 63, sec. 1, includes all of His Majesty's possessions abroad in which there shall exist a Legislature as defined by that section, except the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and such territories as may for the time being be vested in His Majesty under or by virtue of any Act of Parliament for the government of India. He thought New Zealand had now attained to a position in which the term " colony " should be discarded. the parent State who had settled upon foreign territory. Such a description was no longer applicable to this young "nation." The im- portance and position of New Zealand and the status it had acquired in the world seemed to him to be such that we ought now, as a people, to be styled by a term which constitutionally was a more dignified one. The colonies of the Commonwealth of Australia had discarded the term "colony," under the Commonwealth Act, and he thought the time had arrived when New Zealand also should abandon the term, which, though suitable in early colonising times, had ceased to recognise in its signification the growing greatness of this country. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) did not agree with the honourable gentleman at all. He said the one mistake we had made was that when we abolished the provinces we did not name our- selves as the Commonwealth of New Zealand. We were then in the same position as Australia was to-day. Now, of course, the States in Australia were looked upon as being our sub- ordinates, and to bring us down to the level of one of the States of Australia would be reducing the status of New Zealand and New-Zealanders. He contended now that we held a position equal with the Commonwealth itself, and we were entitled to that position, and what the honour- able member was endeavouring to do was to give us a secondary place, and he did not believe in that at all. He liked the term "colony " and the term "colonial," because they carried back with them pleasant asso- ciations and were well recognised in the Mother- country. He would like to see that in the title of our King the word "colony " should be included. He did not trouble himself about this State business; it had too much of the American about it, and he would rather, as a Britisher, be a colony. Mr. NAPIER might explain that the right honourable gentleman misunderstood him, in his statement that he (Mr. Napier) wished to reduce New Zealand to the level of one of the States of Australia. That was not his object. The term " State " applied to countries like France, Germany, Russia, and all the countries of the world. It was not with a wish to diminish the importance of New Zea- land, but to enhance its importance, that he put the question. Mr. SEDDON said, Then, he thought it would have a lowering tendency, although that was not intended by the honourable gentleman. He looked upon the position as that the Governor of New Zealand should take the first position after the Governor of the Com- monwealth ; and to term us a State would place us on the same level of one of the States of the Commonwealth. At all events, he did not like the name of "State "; he preferred " colony." DISFRANCHISEMENT OF WELLINGTON. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Go- vernment, If, owing to the fact of the City of Wellington being the seat of Government, and - 