and in the passing of the measure are en- tirely opposed to any contention of that kind. And, Sir, that it should be raked up now by the member for Wairarapa, and other members, as a pretext for voting against the Bill - when it refers to Governors for all time -- all I can say is that, in my opinion, they are raking it up for the purpose of providing a cloak to hide their real antagonism this evening. If any man in this House, or country, regrets having been in the House and listened to this debate, it is myself. I have read in the papers articles on the decadence of the New Zealand Parliament, and I say here, if proof is wanted of that decadence, it is to be found in the spreches we have had delivered to-night ; and the only way to prevent further decadence is for the people of the colony to take care that there is no further insult to the intelligence of this country by preventing the return of those who hold and express sentiments that are not in touch with the opinions and views held on this matter by a large majority of the people of this country. I say the people of this country desired what we have done in the way of enter- taining the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, and they are inferentially degraded by the action of those who seek to repudiate pay- ment. We should not have it go to the outside world that we have not entertained them in a manner befitting the people of this country. I say that the people have no right to be insulted and flaunted by gentlemen holding for the time being-and for a very short time, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 in my opinion - positions as members of the Parliament of New Zealand. I say that the views of the great majority of the people of this country are not in accord with the speeches we have had this evening. The tax- payers of this country desire that we shall consult the dignity of the House, and that we shall conform to what is right and just, and shall show, and continue to show, that we are an integral part of the great British Empire, and, when the Heir-Apparent to the Throne and the future Queen come here, that the representative of the Government here should, at the express wish of Ministers, incur liabili- ties and suitably entertain, and having incurred liability meet them cheerfully. We should not raise the question that His Excellency has acted for his personal gain ; and that is what has been said during this debate. That is what has been said by the last speaker. The honourable member said that the Governor came to the House as a suppliant. The Governor-the King's representative -is no suppliant. If a man has, by express au- thority, incurred liability on behalf of another, and he says, " Here is my account-pay it " ; if that puts him in the position of a suppliant, where, I say, is the honour of the individual, or. as in this case, the colony, if payment and refund is denied? Where, I say, can the Governor be regarded as a suppliant? He sends to his Ministers a statement showing that in accordance with their wishes he dis- bursed £1,153, and that he incurred other accounts to the colony, and his Ministers admit that those accounts are in accordance with the arrangements made. What were the ar- rangements? is the next question. Thearrange- ments were that this colony should entertain the Royal visitors. I say that the members to-night who spoke were those who strongly favoured the invitation being sent : and when I say that it was arranged that His Excellency should be reimbursed any excess of his or- dinary expenditure-when I say it was ar- ranged that His Excellency should act as the host, and as the representative of the colony -- and, properly speaking, he was the best fitted to so act-and, after he has done that, to say that he is a suppliant, when the accounts are placed before us for payment-again I say this shows a decadence that I should never have expected to see or hear on the floor of the House of Representatives of New Zealand. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) says they never intended any re- flection upon His Excellency. What greater reflection could be passed upon His Excellency than to say that the Governor has been very prodigal with our money -in other words, that if it had been his money that he was spending he would not have been so prodigal ? There is no other deduction to be made from the honourable gentleman's language. And if the honourable member, with his learning, can- not find other language in which to express himself without leaving such a deduction, I say, what must be said of other members who have not had the advantages in this respect of the honourable gentleman ! Again, I infer also that the honourable member is one of those who hold that the increase of His Excellency's salary was made for the purpose of allowing him to provide for the reception of their Royal Highnesses. I say, if the honourable member voted for it under such conditions, I regret very much that he should so forget himself, know- ing, as he must, that the raising of the salary was permanent. Then, the honourable mem- ber raised the constitutional question An Hon. MEMBER. - NO. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; the honourable mem- ber, by attempting to make out that it was unconstitutional for us to pay either by passing the item on the estimates or by Act, did so, and he quoted the Royal Instructions. What do the Royal Instructions say ? Section 6 states : - "The Governor shall not, except in cases hereunder mentioned, assent in our name to any Bill of any of the following classes, unless he shall have previously obtained our Instruc- tions upon such Bill." Now, the honourable member has contended this is one of the classes referred to. Now, subsection (2) of section 6 says :- " The Governor shall not assent to any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to him- self." Now, this is not a grant within the meaning of subclause (2) of clause 6 of the Governor's 