ticular case, he would like to explain the circumstances to the Minister, and after he had done so he hoped the honourable gentle- man would not prove himself a Minister of in-Justice-that he would not refuse to do justice in the case of Mr. Grant. The adver- tisement in question was sent to this colony by a well-known firm of publishers in Mel- bourne, Messrs. Gordon and Gotch. It was an advertisement in connection with the Eight Hours Day art union, and was to be published at a nominal price. It had been approved of by the Colonial Secretary in Vic- toria. It was inadvertently printed by the proprietor of the Woodville Examiner, but im- mediately the proprietor found he had com- mitted a breach of the New Zealand law he withdrew the advertisement. In the Court, though he pleaded guilty, the Magistrate said he had no option but to fine him $5 and costs. Now, judging by the various decisions given on a number of similar cases throughout the colony, one would really imagine that New Zealand, instead of being one colony, was divided into a number of States. The Wynd- ivim Farmer was prosecuted for the same offence, and the Magistrate thought so little of it that he dismissed the case. At Stratford the outcome of a similar case was a nonsuit. At Dannevirke, which was almost contiguous to the borough in which the Wood- till Eraminer was published, the proprietor of a paper was fined 5s. Immediately north-at Hastings-another proprietor was fined 5s. At https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mangaweka the proprietor of another paper was fined #2 and costs, and in the Eketahuna district, and before the same Magistrate, the Eketahuna Eroress was fined £2 and costs-all for the same offence. Still, in Mr. Grant's case the Magistrate said he had no option but to inflict a fine of $5 and costs. The Minister, he thought, would see that an injustice had been done to Mr. Grant. There were others who had been also unjustly treated, and he trusted that on the supplementary estimates the Minister would propose a vote so that a refund might be granted to those proprietors of papers who had been fined unjustly, or, at any rate, with unnecessary severity. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the honourable gentleman had put his case pretty well ; but he imagined he had gone a little further than a request for a remission of the fine, because he had taken up the position that the fine was absolutely wrong. Mr. O'MEARA .-- Undoubtedly. Mr. McGOWAN said that before he could deal with that matter the law would have to be altered. There was no doubt there had been a breach of the law, and honourable members would condemn him very strongly if he inter- fered with the decision of Magistrates in regard to breaches of the law, even though, as] some- times happened, a Magistrate in one district had given a different decision with regard to a particular offence from a Magistrate in an- other district. Mr. O'MEARA .- It is the same Magistrate. gentleman had the whole particulars of the case he was not in a position to judge, because the same Magistrate might give a more severe sentence for the same offence if a warning had been given by a conviction elsewhere. A first offence was usually treated lightly. In regard to the remission of this fine, he might say that several other newspaper proprietors had been fined for publishing the same advertisement, but in no case had a remission yet been granted. He stated incidentally to the honour- able gentleman in Supply yesterday, that pro- bably a refund of £4 on the estimates was for this particular case. He found he was wrong in saying so, but he would inquire into this. case now that it had been brought before him. # MILK-TESTING. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister for Agriculture, If he will make arrangements that disinterested persons be- appointed to test the butter-producing quality of milk supplied to butter-factories and skim- ming-stations ? There was some dissatisfaction amongst milk - suppliers with the system of testing milk at the butter-factories throughout the colony. In some cases, he was informed, the testing-machines had proved to be out of date and unreliable, and in some cases the testing was done by inexperienced young persons, and in all cases the supplier had to trust to the in- telligence and honesty of the person in charge of the factory. Now, what was wanted-and he would impress this upon the Minister -- was that there should be a check tester appointed, who would be disinterested, to see that a correct test of the milk was made, because the price paid for the milk depended on the amout of butter- fat it was ascertained to contain. If the Minister. could introduce a system that would satisfy the milk-suppliers that their milk would be in. all cases correctly tested he would confer a very great boon on the dairy farmers. He was not making any charge against the people in charge of these factories; it was the system that he complained of. There was a suspicion that sufficient care was not always taken in reading the machines, and the farmers had an idea that in all cases justice was not done to them. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) might say that it would be very difficult indeed to comply with the request of the honourable gentleman, because to do so thoroughly would require an expert at every factory. And, then, to do the testing thoroughly the milk should be tested every day, because the milk taken from the same cattle varied every day, and farmers often thought when the milk fell away in quality now and again that it was the machine and the people in charge of the machine that were at fault. He believed it would be right to have an expert with an independent machine to go to any place where a dispute arose and test the milk once or twice. But he could not go further than that, because it would cost too. much money to keep a man at every factory. He knew there was discontent amongst the suppliers, for the reason that the milk did not 