hours by improved automatic methods with their products, the saving is immensely greater than any saving that could be made by any small reduction in wages. Therefore I think that if our manufacturers would take the same view of it, and not harp so much, as some do, against the factory legislation, I believe they would be much better off. The honourable gentle- man referred to the Farmers' Union. I do not suppose that any one here has the slightest possible objection to the farmers taking exactly the same steps to improve their condition as any other employer of labour. They have a perfect right to do so. But the most I have heard in this Council in reference to the farmers was in the direction of stating that they have started in their new career in a very unfortunate frame of mind-that is to say, that they found a point of attack before almost they got into the har- ness of a union, and that they attacked their employés, and had thrown down the gauntlet, so to speak, to challenge them to fight, inas- much as they sent to Parliament a request that their labourers should not be allowed to have the benefit of the Workers' Compensation Act. Now, I cannot see that anything worse could be done. It is no offence in any shape at all to the farmers belonging to this union to say that they were unfortunate in their selection of methods to initiate their movement. So far as I am concerned, I recognise they have many great difficulties to encounter, and if by a system of working together they can get the benefits which other people in towns have hitherto derived by unionism they have every right to it, and I wish them well in it ; but I think they would have done better by not running the risk of creating difficulties, and a spirit of antagonism in those who worked with them, in the very first stages of their new career. In reply to a speaker the Hon. Mr. Peacock has alluded to the building of stores, and has also referred to the experience which those people have had of the small interest on the money which those stores bring in. There is a reasou for that. All people who are looking ahead in these towns do not build temporarily. They say, " Here is a fine site of land : we must not encumber it with a building which will be obsolete in ten or twenty years ; we must make ample provision for the requirements of the future, so as to secure that we get the full benefit of that store in twenty-five or fifty years' time, when the accumulation of wealth and business around us will enable us to get a very much greater interest than we have now. An Hon. MEMBER .- That does not show the present prosperity. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Certainly it does, in that it shows that the people have got the spare money, and confidence and pluck not only to spend a large amount of money, but to spend it in such a way that temporarily they will have to make a sacrifice and be con- tent with only a small amount of interest, in order that they may secure in the long-run the great benefit that will accrue to them amongst others of the good prospects that they think honourable gentleman went on to say that ex- cessive wages prevent production and so en- courage imports. No doubt if wages are carried to an extreme extent, and so high as to hamper the operations of the manufacturer, that might result ; but if the honourable gentleman care- fully casts his eye over the returns of the last few years he will find that the exports have largely increased over the imports, and that, as regards the question of boots, I think it will be found, when the census comes out, that the ratio of increase in the production of boots in the colony is higher than the increase in the importation of the same. On this ques- tion it is to be said that the American has better leather and has also better boot-machinery. There is no doubt that they do not make ma- chinery of the same lasting-power in America as they do in England ; but the Americans never stick to old ideas-they take up any fresh improvement that is made-hence the fact that machinery there so soon becomes obsolete. These American boots that are coming in are good wear and have an artistic finish, and are much liked, especially by the female sex. But the solid industries of this country, I unhesi- tatingly affirm, have not suffered by any legis- lation that has been passed. When the census comes out I believe that will be proved to the letter. I do not want to see our legislation go much further in the direction of changes, be- cause I want to see some rest come, especially to those employers who have been so disturbed in their minds about this legislation. I desire that we should wait for a year or two, for I think that at the end of that time it will be proved that not only are we not going back- wards, but that we are going considerably forward. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, when I contrast the condition of the factory operatives at Home, as recorded in a book I have in my hand, called "The Effects of the Factory System," written by L. M. Clarke, I think we should be careful to maintain the very good conditions we have secured in this colony ; and, also, we should be particularly careful, seeing the hours which are worked, the low rates of pay, and the great machinery we have to com- pete against in other countries, that we shall not run in a direction that may militate against retaining the success we have achieved in this colony for our workers. The Hon. Mr. Lee Smith has also stated that we should be careful now, so as to give a certain amount of assurance and consideration to those who are running in- dustries, that they will not be unduly ham- pered. I instanced yesterday that in Dunedin and Christchurch there are certain industries which are suffering owing to importations, and these are facts which are indisputable. Some honourable gentlemen may shut their eyes to these indications, but they are the straws which show how the wind blows. While I am at one with every honourable gentleman in this Chamber who holds views similar to those which I do in regard to legislation benefiting women and young persons employed in fac- 