the name and on behalf of His Majesty. "(2.) In the case of any Federal or local Ordinance which, if the same were an Act of the General Assembly, would by law require to be reserved for the signification of His Majesty's assent, such local Ordinance shall not be as- sented to by the Resident Commissioner, but shall be transmitted by him to the Governor, who shall deal therewith as by law required. "(3.) The Federal Ordinances which at the commencement of this Act were in force in the Cook Group shall be deemed to be in force throughout all the said Islands." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, in subsec- tion (1), (a), to strike out the word " same," before the words "power to make " ; also all the words after " inhabitants thereof." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, in subsec- tion (1), (b), to strike out the word "same," before the words "power to make " ; also all the words after the word " jurisdiction." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, in sub- section (1), (c), to strike out the word " same" ; also all the words after " jurisdiction." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, in the pro- viso, to insert, after the words "Ordinances shall," the words " be transmitted by the Resi- dent Commissioner to the Governor, and shall." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, in the pro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 viso, to strike out the words " Resident Com- missioner," with a view of inserting the word " Governor." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out subsections (2) and (3). Amendment agreed to. Clause 9 .- " (1.) There shall be paid on all goods imported into the said Islands duties of Customs in accordance with the New Zealand tariff. " (2.) No drawback shall be paid in New Zea- land on goods shipped to the said Islands. " (3.) All goods the produce or manufacture of New Zealand, and all goods on which duty has been paid in New Zealand, or which are admitted into New Zealand free of duty, shall be admitted to the said Islands free of duty ; and similarly all goods the produce or manufacture of the said Islands, or on which duty has been paid in the said Islands, shall be admitted to New Zealand free of duty." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the following new subsection :-- " The Customs Laws Consolidation Act, 1882,' and all other laws relating to Customs now in force in New Zealand, shall be deemed to be in force in the said Islands." Amendment agreed to. Clause 13 .- " (1.) The Governor may from time to time, by Proclamation, set aside Crown lands within the said Islands to be reserves for the purpose of Imperial or colonial naval or military defence, or any other specified public purpose. evidence that the lands specified therein as Crown lands are in fact Crown lands for the purposes of this Act. "(3.) With respect to reserves for Imperial naval and military defence, the following special provisions shall apply :- "(a.) Upon being satisfied as to who is the proper person or authority in whom any reserve ought to be vested for the Imperial naval or military service of His Majesty, the Governor may, by Proclamation, vest the same in such person or authority and his or their successors in office for an estate in fee-simple, in trust, to hold and use the same for the Imperial naval or military service of His Majesty, as the case may be, according to the tenor of the Proclamation, and for no other purpose. " (b.) Upon being satisfied that any such reserve is no longer required for the purpose for which it is so vested as aforesaid, the Governor may, by Pro- clamation, revoke the vesting Procla. mation, and thereupon the title created by the vesting Proclamation shall be deemed to be divested, and the reserve shall revert to His Majesty as Crown land and be liable to be dealt with accordingly in like manner in all respects as if the vest- ing Proclamation had never been made : Provided that all works, buildings, and machinery erected on the reserve during the currency of the vesting Proclamation may be removed or otherwise disposed of in such manner as the naval, or, as the case may be, the military, authorities of His. Majesty think fit, and within such period after the reversion of the re- serve as may be agreed on between the Governor and them. "(4.) All reserves (other than those for Im- perial naval or military purposes) shall be held and administered by such persons, in such manner, and subject to such conditions as are from time to time prescribed by the Governor, or any person or authority empowered by the Governor in that behalf." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out " satisfied," with the view of inserting "in- formed by His Majesty's Secretary of State for the Colonies." Amendment agreed to. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) moved the following new clause :- "This Act shall remain in force until ten days after the expiration of the next session of Parliament, and no longer, unless further by Act of the General Assembly extended." New clause agreed to. Bill reported. The House adjourned at five minutes past. twelve o'clock a.m. 