Mr. MASSEY .- Well, I have no doubt the details will be forthcoming, but I cannot give them at present. If on any future occasion the honourable member wants to make out a good case against the San Francisco service he ought to be sure of his facts, and in this instance I have shown that some of his more important statements are far from correct. Now, Sir, coming to the speed of the Fr'isco service, I do not think there is any one who will say the Fr'isco service is not a long way the best and the fastest service possible between this colony and Europe. I shall quote from a table on page xx. of the Report of the Post and Telegraph Department, showing the time occupied in the different mail-routes. Last year, from London to Auckland, the average time by the Fr'isco service, was 31.71 days, by the P. and O. line, 39-38 days, and by the Orient line 39.15 days. That is to say, the Frisco service, as far as Auckland was concerned, is shorter by eight days than any other route. From London to Wellington the average time by the Fr'isco service was 32.86 days, by the P. and O. line, 40.35 days, and by the Orient line 39.96 days. The Fr'isco service was, therefore, seven days faster than the others, as far as Wellington is concerned. Then, from London to Dunedin the average time by the Frisco service was 34.07 days, by the P. and O. line 41.13 days, and by the Orient line, 41.71 days : or six days faster, as far as Dunedin is concerned. From London to the Bluff the average time by the Fr'isco service was 34.82 days, by the P. and O. line 40.26 days, and by the Orient line 40.38 days; so that even the Bluff, the most southerly port in New Zealand, benefited by the Fr'isco service to the extent of six days ; and, as I mentioned to the honour- able member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), the service in point of speed will be very consider- ably improved in the near future. I want now to quote a paragraph from the New Zealand Times, published in Wellington, and no one will say that paper is biassed in favour of the Fr'isco service. This paragraph appeared in the issue of the New Zealand Times of the 5th October :- "The quickest time ever made by mails across the American Continent (says the San Francisco Chronicle of 8th September) was re- corded at 9.57 o'clock yesterday morning, when the fast train of the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern and New York Central and Hudson River Railroad pulled into the Grand Central Station in New York three minutes ahead of time, bearing the Australian mails. The follow- ing ' log' of the run from Sydney to London is of interest : With the ' Parliamentary ' mail on board, the Oceanic Company's steamer ' Ven- tura' left Sydney on the 13th August at 4 o'clock p.m., and after a swift passage arrived at San Francisco at 6 o'clock p.m. on the 2nd September. Owing to quarantine and Cus- tomhouse regulations she was delayed in the harbour all night before inspections were made, and the vessel docked. The mails left San Francisco at 10 o'clock the following morning arriving at Omaha on the 5th September, and left Chicago at 10.50 p.m. on the same day \- -- over the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy rail- road. Promptly at 9.07 o'clock on the morn- ing of the 6th September the train pulled into \-- Chicago. Here a special was ready on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway, and at 10 o'clock the run was begun to over- take the fast mail of that line. This was ac- complished at Toledo, the mail transferred to No. 6, which arrived in New York three minutes ahead of time, or twenty-four days and fifteen minutes from Sydney, actual travel- ling time. As the 'Campania' left New York at noon the same day, the mail would be de- livered in London on the 14th September-less than thirty-one days from Sydney, and less than twenty-six days from New Zealand." That is the service it is proposed to abolish- less than twenty-six days from New Zealand. "The mail leaving Adelaide by the Peninsular and Oriental line, using rail from Sydney, which left Sydney on 14th August-one day after the 'Ventura '-was not due to arrive in London until 16th September, and then only by using the fast Continental express across Europe. This shows a gain of a full day in favour of the American line. The ' Ventura' left Auckland on 17th August, thus putting the New Zealand mail into London in twenty-six days, or about six days quicker time than could possibly be made by any other route, even if & special steamer left Auckland for Sydney and the mail was transhipped by rail to Adelaide, and thence by Peninsular and Oriental steamer." The instance I have just quoted shows there is no other service possible that can be com- pared with the Fr'isco service, so far as time is concerned. Now, Sir, in going about the colony at different times I have come in contact with a great many people, but I have never heard & single soul express dissatisfaction with the cost incurred by the colony on account of the Fr'isco service under the old contract, and I am quite sure, if we are able to make satisfactory arrange- ments now, there will be no trouble in regard to the new. Coming to the resolutions before the House, I can hardly say I am satisfied with them, because, even if approved of by Parlia- ment, I am afraid their effect will be to lose the fastest service the colony has ever known. I do not think on this occasion either the Minis- try or the Postmaster-General has risen to the occasion. Years ago we paid 12s. per pound for our letters forwarded by the Fr'isco mail ; from 1895 to 1898 the rate at which our letters were carried was 12s. per pound, and that is the rate \- which is charged at present by the Federal service. In 1898 the basis of payment was altered, and from that time we paid 10s. 5d. per pound for letters, 1s. for books, and 6d. for newspapers. That was the arrangement prac- tically until last November, when the new steamers took up the running, the conditions being up to 1895 a twenty days' service, and from 1895 to 1898 a nineteen days' service, four- weekly, the vessels employed to be of not less 