£480,000. Sir J. G. WARD .- If the honourable gentle- man will say that none of it is charged to capital, then I will say that he is entirely wrong, and that it is contrary to the report of the Victorian railways for 1900. In the re- port for 1899 it will also be found that the statement relating to 1900 is again borne out -namely, that. large capital expenditure takes place on working lines. The following is a paragraph taken from the report :- "The capital expenditure at 30th June, 1899, amounted to £39,056,451, or an increase for the year of $454,147, charged as follows :- " Construction of new lines and 112,486 surveys Capital works on existing lines, &c. 206,318 Rolling-stock . . 135,393 . .. £454,147 " This shows that £206,318 was expended for works on existing lines. Can the honourable gentleman deny this ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not deny that. Sir J. G. WARD .- Then, that is what I say : that a portion comes out of capital and a por- tion out of revenue ; but it is not right to say that in Victoria they do different from what we do here. Mr. J. ALLEN. - The honourable gentle- man's explanation does not upset my argument in the least. The items were charged to main- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tenance. Mr. SEDDON .- Out of revenue, and charged to working-expenses. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes ; out of working-ex- penses. But I hope the Premier will not in- terfere; he does not understand the subject. The point is this: The items I mention were charged to working-expenses, and they included the relaying of rails with heavier rails, and the strengthening of bridges. I do not deny that some of the expenses were charged to capital account, and rightly so ; but these items I have referred to-lighter rails for heavier rails, and so on -are in Victoria charged to maintenance. Sir J. G. WARD. - It does not say so in the Victorian report from which you have been quoting. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - Sir, I 10.30. just wish to make a few remarks upon the grant that has been allotted for the Kaipara line. I do not intend to speak for any length, or I would have only to repeat the remarks I made on a previous occasion; I cannot urge anything stronger. But, from this Statement, it would appear as if there is a deliberate pur- pose on the part of the Administration to scant the expenditure in the construction of the Kai- para Railway-line. I cannot imagine for what reason it is done, because this work, I would remind the Government, is of special import- ance to Auckland, for it not only inflicts great inconvenience on the settlers north of Auckland, scanting their opportunities of getting their produce to market, but it also affects to a land. And I am sure that it cannot be on account of the honourable members for the City of Auckland not being warm and ardent supporters of the Government. In fact, on their account I naturally expected a very handsome contribution to be expended this year, at any rate, upon the line north of Auckland. It is only reasonable one should expect such to be the case. And I want to remind the Minister that the Government have had petitions presented by the members for Auckland, containing some thousands of signatures, for the more speedy extension and progress of that work; and yet we find the very small amount of £15,000 put on the esti- mates this year, and of which amount £6,076 was spent by the 31st March last. And there is also the Public Works Statement ; it should make the Minister for Public Works blush to see the extension of the Kaipara line only ex- tended to the very small length of 4 miles 69 chains. There is no interest taken in this work by the Minister for Public Works. He is content with a length of under five miles after such a long period, when a new work, the Stratford-Toko line, has six miles to its credit. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Look at the difference in the country through which the line is being made. Mr. MONK .- The difference is all in favour of the North of Auckland line. Then, I would remind the Minister that £100,000 is set down for the Otago Central. Not for a moment do I wish to deprive the members representing Central Otago of £1 of the money placed for the construction of their line if fairness is ob- served ; but I do want a more equitable dis- tribution of public money. I want a promise from the Minister to be a little more attentive to this line than he has been in the past. I have a comparison here, which I have already pressed on the attention of Ministers, and which I will now hansardise-a comparison between the claims of the extension north of Auckland and the Otago Central, on which such large sums have been spent. It says,- "We desire that you should seriously con- sider the isolated position in which our northern settlers are placed, and see that the northern extension receives more favourable treatment than it has had in the past. We are unanimous in our belief that the vote for this railway should be at least double the amount voted for the Otago Central, for the following reasons: The European population north of the Waitemata numbers 38,000, the Maori population 9,000-a total population of 47,000 persons. The construction of the rail- way will open up an enormous territory of land which is essentially adapted for a small and close settlement, and consequently capable of carrying an enormous population ; whereas the Otago Central Railway passes through a coun- try almost without population, and over land which at the present time is practically use- less, and which cannot be brought into profit- able use without the expenditure of at least a million pounds in irrigation. We therefore 