when he shakes his "mailed fist"-his San Francisco mailed fist-in the face of the colony, and expects us all to come to the salute or the salaam, even if we do not go so far as to run away. One of his threats was that the city I represent would be disfranchised if we did not fall into line. Now, it is too late for the honourable member to set up as a humourist in this House-we know him too well ; but, I shall not insult the intelligence of the House or the country by treating that argument seriously. He has recently become not only an authority upon military etiquette, but on the principles of warfare, and a question raised on the Order Paper by my junior colleague is, whether the paper he has published on the principles of warfare is to supersede the ex- position of the same principles in the other Napier's " Peninsular War"? Whether his authority is to supersede that of his namesake, I do not know, nor whether on naval matters he is going to succeed Captain Mahan as an authority. But I would ask him to deal frankly with this problem, if he does handle the sub- ject namely, Whether it is in accord with his principles of naval strategy to subsidise the cruisers of a foreign Power? I am sure the honourable gentleman's answer to that pro- blem will be awaited with the keenest interest throughout the colony. Then, he said, "these hostile tariffs and restrictive laws"-he was referring, of course, to the tariff of the United States-" ought to be swept out of existence." Of course they ought to be, and if a wave of his https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 mailed fist would have swept them out of exist- ence they would have gone already. But, unfortunately, the mailed fist is not powerful enough for that; the tariff and the laws are there, and, as sensible men, we must deal with them as facts, and not blink them. Then, the honourable gentleman told us that that great country is "practically under the same laws " as we have ourselves. That, of course, includes the navigation laws, and, as Artemus Ward makes the remark, "Meanwhile the airth continues to revolve on its own axle- tree, subjec' to the laws and constitootion of the United States." So the honourable mem- ber apparently thinks that this colony, and even this planet, will continue to exist and to revolve in space, subject to the navigation laws of the United States, and to whatever terms Mr. J. D. Spreckels chooses to offer. I am not exaggerating when I say that not only in his telegram but also in his correction of my colleague, the member for Wellington City, the honourable gentleman gave us to understand that the interests of the Empire were at stake, and not merely those of Auckland or this colony. Now, he dealt most disingenuously, as it seemed to me, with the figures relating to the trade between this colony and the United States. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, dealt with the subject much more frankly, and he admitted that there was no cargo at all, practically speak- ing, coming by this route; but he urged that quick mail communication was essential to trade, and, therefore, the service must be main- Atlantic ports of America, and therefore we must maintain a rapid and expensive mail- service with the Pacific coast. Surely that was no argument, and, as one member said, probably Mr. Spreckels would carry our mails whether we subsidised him or not. Failing that, communication via Vancouver or Sydney would be quite fast enough for the purposes of the East Coast trade. Now, I have here the figures with regard to our trade with the United States, and though, to a certain extent, I am anticipated by the honourable member for Waihemo, I have fuller details here, and will give them :- TRADE BETWEEN NEW ZEALAND AND THE UNITED STATES, 1900. Imports. Wellington. Total : fall Auckland. Lyttelton. Dunedin. Ports. \- United States- £ £ £ £ £ 243.914 268.52 168,552 198,076 \|958,28€ East Coast 14,330 12,024 103,587 West Coast ... 45,112 19,536 That is to say, 15.2 per cent. of Auckland's imports from the United States come from the west coast, and 10.7 per cent. of the colony's. Exports. Wellington. Total of all Auckland. Lyttelton. Dunedin. Ports. United States- £ 379,283 14,012 8,788 East Coast 6,057 424,314 .. 31,482 West Coast 24,395 8,104 794 891 That is to say, 6.5 per cent. of Auckland's exports to the United States go to the west coast, and 8.1 per cent. of the colony's. Actually 82.3 per cent. of the New Zealand exports are represented by kauri-gum : 94 per cent. of the Auckland exports are kauri-gum ; and 99 per cent. of the kauri-gum goes to the east coast of America, and not to the west coast. The figures regarding the kauri-gum are inter- esting, and I will give them : Exports to east coast, £375,472; exports to west coast, $2,520. Something like } per cent. goes by this route, upon the maintenance of which the salvation of this colony and the Empire depends. Now, there is undoubtedly a strong sentiment with regard to this service which did not exist a couple of years ago. So far as my sentiment is concerned, for ten years I was something like an exile in the Old Country, and I have the very warmest associations with the San Francisco service, dating back from that most impressionable time in my life. But the argu- ment of sentiment has changed in consequence of the appearance of the Messrs. Spreckels on We have heard a great deal about the scene. 