at a comparatively cheap rate, the country not being nearly so difficult. Again, in the South the most of the land has been settled and the roads mostly made. I contend that the time has arrived when the requirements of settlement in the North Island should receive special attention. I do not blame southern members for getting as much as they can for public works ; but the Government have a right to recognise the fact that land-settlement is going on rapidly here, that we are increasing rapidly the trade and commerce of the colony, and that we are relieving the South of its We are finding land for surplus population. settlement for our friends in the South, and in recognition of that we require more money to be expended in the North. I sympathize with residents in the North of Auckland, who have been petitioning very largely for railways there, because I see that the two principal railways for which they have petitioned -- the Kawakawa- Grahamtown line and the Helensville-North- wards line-have only had £15,000 each allotted to them this year. I suppose that will mean about an extra mile of railway. If these rail- ways are worth constructing, and are to be con- structed, such a rate of progress means that before they are completed the colony will have entered upon another century. I do not think this is treating the people of the North fairly. They should be treated in the same way as in the South. In the South there are about five hundred miles more railway than in the North, and it is time, therefore, that the North had its fair share of public works. There is no doubt it has been badly treated in the past. I believe the southern members are neither un- just nor ungenerous. If the Government would only consult their wishes, I believe they would avoid spending so much money on useless lines in the South and spend a little more in the North Island. The North Island Main Trunk line is now beginning to tap the Waimarino Forest, one of the finest forests known in New Zealand, and every inch of the line there is likely to be highly reproductive. The timber alone will pay for its construction twice over. Hence, I consider the amount Ministers have allocated to it this year is far too little. On the other hand, the sum of $200,000 is to be spent on two lines, one of which will certainly never pay. I ask members who have seen it to say whether they believe it is likely to pay. It is the height of folly to go on with works of this character. I trust that before more money is spent on it the Government will have the opinion of a competent engineer as to what the possibilities of the line are. Contrast the Otago Central with the splendid arable country that awaits roads and railways in the North Island. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Makohine Viaduct. Mr. HOGG. - The Makohine Viaduct con- nects huge tracts of some of the finest land in the colony. Then, take the Rimutaka line, It never should have been constructed over the mountain, and it is a great injustice to the people in my district that a deviation is not made. Another thing in connection with the Mr. Hogg the omission of any reference to light-lines or loop-lines to give relief and assistance to the settlers in our back blocks. There are large tracts of country where no road-metal is to be found, and something should be done to give the settlers relief there by constructing light lines or loop-lines. I have suggested the urgent necessity of having a line made through the Mount Cerberus and Puketoi districts, so that the settlers may have access to markets. This might be done by having a loop-line on a por- tion of the Wellington-Napier line. I am sorry this seems to have escaped the attention of the Minister; but I hope before another year elapses we shall have a full account of what is proposed to be done there. The settlers are located on very good land ; they are prepared to go in for dairying, but they have no means of communi- cation with the principal markets. It is the duty of the Government to assist them ; and, seeing that roads are going to be very expen- sive, they should ascertain whether the con- struction of light lines is preferable. It is surely better that £100,000 should be spent on work of this kind than that money should be thrown away amongst the huge rocks and boulders of the South Island. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- It is well, Sir, that some one should rise to explain to the honourable gentleman who has just sat down that he is entirely mistaken as to the Otago Central Railway, to which he has referred. It became very evident to me, by what he was say- ing as he went on, that he had never seen the line, and I accordingly interjected, " Have you ever seen it ? " The honourable gentleman re- plied, as I expected he would, that he must confess he never had seen it. I have therefore the advantage of him in that respect. I have been over it, and, without professing to be an expert in land-values and things of that kind, I can only say that, as far as I could judge, few finer tracts of land exist in the colony than I saw along some parts of that route. There is the magnificent Ida Valley ; there is the Manuherikia Plain and the Maniototo Plain, all level and fertile. Honourable members should know that the climate up in that country is eminently suited for the growing of all kinds of grain and fruit. Are honourable members aware that just a few miles from the railway is Naseby, the site for the proposed sanatorium for consumptives ? Do they know that the cli- mate of Clyde is one of the finest and best in the colony ? Do they know that Roxburgh and the Teviot district are magnificent fruit-producing districts. The honourable member for Master- ton could not have been aware of all these facts or he would not have spoken in the strain he has done. Then, Sir, this line-unfinished as it is-is a line which pays already. It is a line which pays working - expenses and in- terest on the cost of construction. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- When did it commence to do that ? Mr. BARCLAY .- It has been doing so for some considerable time, as you can ascertain from the Railway Department. The honour- 