any return for it. The horses were given as a free gift, and as soon as they were given each one was branded with an arrow on the hoof to show that it had been handed over to the Government. He was surprised that this had been brought up, and he believed that the majority of those who had made a present of horses would be ashamed that this question had been brought up in the House. He did not believe that those who gave the horses wished it, but that it was done by those who thought that it would be a popular thing to advocate that the horses should be paid for. If a man who had not been in action was paid for his horse, then surely it would be right that a man who had been in action and had his horse shot should be paid for his horse also. He hoped this question would be dropped, for he was sure he was speaking for the great majority of those in his own district who had given horses, and also for the majority of those in the same position throughout the colony, when he said that they had no intention of getting any return for their generosity when they made the gift of horses to the Govern- ment. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the member for Wanganui said these horses were a gift, and that a gift was a gift. Also, an agreement was an agreement, and a contract was a contract. He knew many first-class men who were selected because they were first-class men, but they had to stand back to make way for inferior men, because the inferior man was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 in a position to offer a horse as an inducement to take him. Very well, that was a contract. The horse, by agreement, was declared to be the property of the Queen. The men were selected and went to South Africa; but the horses no longer belonged to them, they were the property of the Queen. Now that the whole thing was over some of them saw a chance to get something for the horse. They ought to remember that in the first place it was the horse that was selected, and not the man. If it had not been for the horse they would not have been selected at all. Ho re- peated that some of the best men in New Zealand who wished to go to South Africa did not go because they were not in a position to offer a horse as a free gift to the Queen. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said that the adverse remarks of the last speaker referred to the whole of the colony, and he wished to say that his remarks about excellent men being re- fused because they were not in a position to supply a horse did not apply to the East Coast -they did not apply to Gisborne and Hawke's Bay. He considered the claim was absolutely contemptible, and for the troopers of his part of the district he could say there was not a single man from Woodville to the East Coast who had returned who would claim the value of his horse. When they collected funds in Hawke's Bay the district stood out as a bright particular star in its liberality : only one pro- vince gave more than Hawke's Bay. In an hour and a half he himself collected £1,250, Mr. Willis lected. Not a single man was refused because he had no horse of his own, because there was a committee who chose the horses, and the com- mittee paid for them. They paid £92 a head for equipping the men, and it was never antici- pated that they would get a quid pro quo of any kind. It was all regarded as a gift to the colony and the Empire. The people in Hawke's Bay bad no connection with the political cry. He had no doubt some members were trying to make political capital with a political object. Mr. MASSEY rose to a point of order. Was it in order for the honourable member to im- pute motives in the way he was doing in his speech ? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER ruled that the honourable member was in order. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER said, Perhaps he should not have said what he did. However, he simply wished to have it put on record that on the East Coast it was a clear understanding that the men and horses were equipped at the expense of the district, and it was never an- ticipated that any return would be made to the district by the colony. He could not help realising that the logical deduction of the mem- ber for Wanganui must have impressed itself on honourable members- that was, that because a man's horse lived through the campaign he was to be paid for it, but that the unfortunate man who had his horse shot under him, and who had in consequence to walk fifty or sixty miles to camp, was to get no payment at all. Mr. FISHER wished to make a personal ex- planation. He had made no reference what- ever to the men or to the horses of the East Coast, nor did he say anything in reference to that district. But it was well understood that the district produced better horses than men. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) did not think the remarks of the honourable member for Napier should be allowed to go unchallenged. When the honourable gentleman rose to politically "stouch " the opponents of the Ministry he was as fierce as a canary. Now, it was all very well for the honourable member to attribute motives to those he was associated with, and whom he probably knew better than he knew members on this side of the House, but, when the honourable gentleman began to attribute motives to members whom he might say the honourable gentleman was hardly in the same street with so far as political honesty and poli- tical purity were concerned, he rather over- stepped the line that every member ought to toe. The honourable gentleman tried to be very funny when he quoted from the Govern- ment black-book against members of his own party, a course he not uncommonly pursues when the Ministry think they need rounding up. The honourable member might do that in regard to those who were on the same side of the House as he is, but there were members on this side of the House who would not allow the honourable gentleman to impute motives of political dishonesty to the member for Franklin without contradiction. If there was a man in this House who did not resort to political tricks 