procedure, and that was why the Committee sought to have the ballot carried out by the method which was suggested in their report. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said it was necessary for him to say a few words on this point in order to set himself right, and to make intelligible the vote he was going to give. He voted for the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly's amendment not be- cause he approved of that part of it, but because he approved of the other parts of it. He did not approve of the open nomination. Now that there was nothing else before him he opposed the open nomination, and would vote against it. His own idea was that the simplest way to do these things was the best way. If they handed the name of the candidate they intended to nominate to the Clerk, and these names were placed alphabetically on slips of paper and handed round to the members, and the members were to strike out the names of all but the name of the candidate for whom they intended to vote, the whole thing would have been settled. That was, if they elected the Chairman much in the same way as a member of Parliament was elected at the general elec. tion he thought that would be the best way. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON said the ques- tion resolved itself into this : that in a system of open nomination the Government would exercise more power than if the other system were adopted. In his opinion, the Council ought to assert its own rights. He thought that was the whole question involved in the matter, as far as he understood it. The Hon. Mr. ARKWRIGHT hoped the Hon. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. T. Kelly's paragraph would not be carried. It seemed to him, if it was carried, they might just as well save themselves the trouble of dis- When they introduced cussing this matter. the system of ballot it was not done to enable them to give their votes so that no one should be able to find out how they were cast. He took it the object was, in the first place, to pre- vent such a thing as a Government candidate being put forward for this office ; and, in the second place, to prevent members getting them- selves put forward and canvassing other mem- bers in the lobbies for votes. He hoped that the clause which reinstated the practice of open nomination would not be carried. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER must say that he thought it would be very advantageous for the convenience of members if the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly's motion was carried, because, in the first place, it was not only important as a matter of providing machinery for the election of Chairman of Committees, but he trusted this would also be important in the way of probably altering the machinery by which they elected the Speaker of the Chamber. They had learnt by experience, and he felt quite certain that those who saw the election of Speaker without nominations must come to the conclusion that there was a great deal of deception in the apparent innocence of the ballot nominations, just in the same way as there was a great deal of deception in the three votes at each ballot. The present proposals went so far as to only Hon. Mr. Jones was quite necessary to be explained. He be- lieved it was just as essential to get the true will of the Council as soon as possible, and with as little friction as possible, and that there should be nominations. For that reason, and simply for the purpose of assisting the Council to make the best selection possible, he trusted the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly's motion would be carried. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN hoped the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly's motion would not be carried. If they were to proceed in this election by ballot, then they should nominate by ballot. The whole thing should go in the one way, and he did not see any reason why they should have nomina- tions by somebody standing up in the Council and stating that he nominated So-and-so, and then somebody else standing up and saying that he nominated some other person. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE said there was no system that they could devise which would prevent nomination in one form or another. It might be that the nomination often really took place in the lobby, and members were canvassed, and would be canvassed, it did not matter what system they adopted. But he thought the open nomination proposed by his honourable friend was not the best way. He thought the scheme brought up by the Com- mittee was the best they could enunciate for the consideration of the Council. The Council divided on the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly's motion. AYES, 9. Tomoana Jennings Rigg Kelly, T. Shrimski Walker, L. Swanson Walker, W. C. Louisson NOES, 23. Pinkerton Arkwright Johnston Pitt Jones Baillie Kelly, W. Barnicoat Smith, A. L. Smith, W. C. Kenny Bolt Feldwick McLean Taiaroa Gourley Montgomery Twomey Morris Harris Williams. Jenkinson Ormond Majority against, 14. Motion negatived. On the question, That " (b) The election shall be by ballot," The Hon. Colonel PITT moved to insert, after the word " ballot," the words "for which pur- pose the Clerk shall deliver to each member present a printed list of the names of members of the Council, on which each member voting shall place a cross against the name of the member for whom he votes in cach ballot." The Hon. Captain BAILLIE thought this almost unnecessary, as it had been the practice hitherto for the Clerk to furnish each member with a list, and to direct them how to record their votes. The Hon. Mr. JONES did not think there was any harm in laying down the course that should be pursued. Words added. 