able gentleman's explanation. From his re- marks I took it that he wanted the leases in perpetuity brought under the land-tax, and was of opinion that the exemption was too high. Bill read a second and a third time. LOCAL BODIES' LOANS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- This is a consoli- dating Bill. At the present time you have to go through the various statutes since the first law was passed, and it is very confusing. We have carried out in this Bill practically what is in the existing legislation, and there are very few amendments. The Bill will simplify and improve the law. The amendments are as fol- lows : Section 4 provides that preliminary ex- penses and the first year's interest may be paid out of loan. The local bodies have asked for this. Then, in section 5 we have said that maintenance shall not be out of loan. Section 6 provides for loan-moneys being deposited in banks. Section 19. deals with the interest on coupons, and section 81 refers to restrictions on small boroughs. Those are the only clauses containing new matter. As I have said, the Bill goes in the direction of simplifying and improving the law, and I think members will admit the necessity of having the laws consoli- dated. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- I think the Government has acted properly in bringing down a consolidating measure. I should not have risen but that I desired to draw the Pre- mier's attention to a point that has been urged https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 upon him on several occasions by myself and by some other members in this House, and I hope, when this Bill is in Committee, the Premier will accede to what is, after all, only a very reasonable request. I refer to section 49 in Part II., the Government loans to local bodies portion of this Bill. I wish to know whether he would permit a local body that had borrowed money for the construction of a public work in years prior to the placing of the original Act on the statute-book-namely, 1886-to bor- row now under this Bill in order to repay the former loan on maturity. Local bodies, such as small boroughs, in years gone by, had to borrow money for the construction of water- works, and so on, at 7 per cent., and I can see no reasonable objection to the Government lending such local body under such circum- The stances sufficient to repay said loan. Premier so far has declined such request, but I hope, in Committee, he will consent to an amendment being inserted in the direction I have suggested. Surely, if a local body may borrow money from the Government under this Bill to construct a public work, it ought to be allowed to borrow money on the same terms to repay a loan which it has contracted to con- struct a similar work. If this is not conceded, local bodies which have had to construct these works before the year 1886 must go on borrow- ing money in the outside market at a higher rate of interest than those which have con- structed works after 1886, and that seems to me unreasonable. I shall therefore, in Com- serted in the direction I have indicated. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- 1 con- gratulato the Government upon clause 5 of this Bill. It may perhaps be worth while passing a Bill for embodying such a principle in our legislation as is set out in clause 5, otherwise one might criticize the methods of the Government in bringing down a Bill which, even though it be only a consolidat- ing Bill, is one of large effect, with a great many clauses, and which should have been in our possession long before it was. Mr. SEDDON. - This Bill has been for a long time before the House. Mr. PIRANI .- It is No. 140, so that it could not have been down long. Captain RUSSELL .- I should like to read clause 5 to the House, so that they may realise that we are at last setting out a principle I have advocated so continually-namely, that loan - money shall on no account be used to repair or renew works made out of loan :- "It shall not be lawful to pay out of any loan the cost of maintenance or repair of any public work or undertaking for which the loan was raised." That seems to me to be a good principle, and I am glad to see the Government are getting sufficiently wise to realise that we must sooner or later practise some such method of pro- cedure. In the public-works estimates we have this year the sum of $675,000 allocated for doing that which is provided in clause 5 shall not be done-or, at least, to a consider- able extent. That is to say, out of the public- works expenditure we are to paint our sheds and do such works as concreting a back yard or repairing the roof of a public building out of capital. Sir J. G. WARD .- No. Captain RUSSELL .- The Hon. the Minis- ter for Railways says "No." Well, I have a great respect for the honourable gentleman's ability. but I believe he is a bit extravagant when he deals with loan-money, and I believe he is pre- pared to go too fast. Well, there is £675,000 set aside for additions to open lines, a large proportion of which additions consist of re- newals, repairs, and maintenance of works which have been built out of loans, and which are now to be repaired or repainted, relaid or renewed, out of loans. As an illustration of the principle of expenditure put before us, there is $675,000 proposed under the public- works estimates for additions to open lines, and a sum of only £531,000, I think it is, for new works. I just draw the attention of the House to the fact that the principles laid down by Minis- ters for the guidance of local bodies are sound, and their practice is illustrated in their ad- ministration of public works. There is another point which I think the House ought to take no- tice of, because it appears to me to be extremely dangerous. Under clause 19 of this Bill deben- tures are to bear interest not exceeding 5 per cent. Five per cent. seems to me too large a rate of interest to pay, seeing that private persons in a moderately solvent position are able to borrow 