are true, because I have known him for a long time, and I know him to be a decent, honest fellow. And it is only another instance which goes to justify what I have read from the com- munication I have received from the secretary of the Trades Council in Christchurch-that unionists who take any prominent part in dis- putes are made to suffer. Sir, I do not believe that what I have said is any exaggeration what- ever. Now, just a word or two on clause 21. This clause caused a good deal of heat and argument when going through Committee. It is a new provision, and reads that either party to an industrial dispute can file an application requiring that the dispute shall be sent direct to the Arbitration Court. And, Sir, it is very strange indeed, when you come to think that the honourable members who opposed the passing of this Act in 1894 were so very strong on the question of conciliation that they begged us to rely on conciliation. They said, " We do not want compulsory arbitration ; the very fact of putting the word ' compulsory' makes the Act hideous in our sight : allow it to go by voluntary conciliation." They quoted the Mas- sachusetts Act, and several Boards that have been set up in England, to show that Boards of Conciliation were there sufficient to deal with disputes. Some of them, I allow, have been successful, and some the very reverse; and those that have been successful have only been successful to a certain extent. We know that in England during the last ten years some great strikes have taken place, and also in America, and this despite the fact of this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 These honourable voluntary conciliation. gentlemen argued and claimed that they were quite willing to agree to voluntary conciliation, but they would have none of compulsory arbi- tration. Now, Sir, what seems a remarkable point to me is that these honourable gentle- men wish to sweep conciliation by the board. Sir, it is utter nonsense, in my opinion, for any honourable gentleman to get up in the Council and say that will not be the result of their actions. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Who said it ? The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- You are one of them. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I deny it. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- The honour- able gentleman denies it. He may deny it in words, but does his actions prove that he has not been doing it ? I say, and I have also the evidence of every worker who gave evidence before the Labour Bills Committee to the same effect, that will be the result of the action we are taking, and I cannot help thinking that the Hon. Mr. Twomey must have known, when supporting this clause, that the very action of allowing one party to drag the other to the Arbitration Court would be the means of sweeping Conciliation Boards off the board altogether and relying upon arbitration. And why, Sir, are employers so anxious for it ? We have had the evidence of employers- they seem to be like drowning rats, ready to grasp at any straw-who say, "Give us the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson Conciliation Board." It appears that the actions of the honourable gentlemen who sup- ported this clause must have been prompted by the employers-not of the two employers who gave evidence before the Committee, but of the Employers' Association. Now, we had a little evidence bearing on this subject in support of my view of the matter. I dare say other honourable gentlemen can find evidence in support of the other side, but I am not going to quote it. On page 9 of the evidence the witness says,- "Clause 21 reads : 'Either party to an in- dustrial dispute which has been referred to a Board of Conciliation may file with the Clerk an application in writing requiring the dispute to be referred to the Court of Arbitration, and that Court shall have jurisdiction to settle and determine such dispute in the same manner as if such dispute had been referred to the Court under the provisions of section 58 of the prin- cipal Act.' I disagree with that clause alto- gether. I consider it is a big mistake and a gross error of judgment to make this alteration. It in effect, in my opinion, will be the means of practically wiping out Conciliation Boards alto- gether. It provides that 'either party to an industrial dispute which has been referred to a Board of Conciliation may file with the Clerk an application in writing requiring the dispute to be referred to the Court of Arbitration,' and I believe, if this was carried, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred you would have no con- ciliation whatever. It would be all arbitration, and so far as the workers are concerned-and my union in particular-we are most anxious to have as much conciliation as we can possibly get. We would not fall back on the Arbitraa- tion Court every time. We like to meet the employers in friendly conference, and discuss these questions-to have everything clear and above-board, and put before the Conciliation Board in a proper manner. This clause would practically take that power away altogether, and I think it would be far better if it was wiped out altogether. It has been put in here, I think, without any consideration, and in effect will be the means of practically extermi- nating our present Conciliation Boards; and I know and believe that I voice the opinion of the majority of the unionists in Wellington when I say that they are most anxious that every method should be exhausted through the medium of the Conciliation Boards before they go on to the Court." I want to lay special stress upon a few words he uses, because it has been urged all along that the workers are inclined to rule things with a high hand. Here is one of their repre- sentatives speaking the mind of those who sent him-of his executive-and that executive is the executive of a very large body indeed: he says that his union in particular is most anxious to get as much conciliation as it possibly can. If we take the experience of what has happened during the sittings of the Conciliation Board referred to it goes to prove that the awards [ given by the Board were in many instances 