assuming that the employé is the person who sues the employer, and that is the proper view to take of it in the face of what has been going on up to the present time. The employé must sue before the Board of Conciliation, go to all the expense and trouble, and the employer can snap his fingers at him and take no notice whatever of him. The employer, therefore, has within his reach all the power that is conferred upon him by clause 21 at the present time ; and what benefit is it, therefore, to him that clause 21 should be passed ? I may be told that if he does not attend the Board of Conciliation his case may be prejudiced in view of any action before the Court of Arbitration ; but in reply to that I will give an instance within my own knowledge where the Court of Arbitration reduced the award of the Board of Conciliation by 8s. a week. I do not think, in the face of that, any employer need be afraid of his case being prejudiced because it is heard before the Board before it reaches the Court of Arbitra- tion. Now, I think it is a great advantage to him to learn what the other side have to say, and what they are going to prove, because, if they show their hands, when the time comes he is prepared for them before the Court of Arbitra- tion. For these reasons I say it is a disadvantage to the employers that clause 21 has been passed, whereas it is a great advantage to the employé. The employé must now, whether he likes it or not, go to the Board of Conciliation, file his case there, give evidence there, spend his time there, and go to trouble there, and it is im- possible for him to go to the Court of Arbitration until such time as he has gone through that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 process. Now, under clause 21 what will happen is this : The employé will sue in the usual way, and then, when he finds that the employer has filed a document that he wants to go to the Court of Arbitration, the employé is there and then relieved of the necessity of going through a useless form before the Board of Conciliation. The Board is relieved of the necessity too, and the country is not put to useless expense. Con- sequently the position of the employé has been greatly improved under this Act. That is the way I look on it, and that is the reason I have voted in favour of it. I believe it is a great improvement which will be entirely in the interests of the employés, and it cannot do any good to the employer, who has all the power already to go direct to the Court. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I shall vote for the third reading of this Bill because I think it is a good Bill. If it were a one-sided measure I would not vote for it, but it cuts both ways. It offers the same facilities to the employé as to the employer. I cannot think what ground there can be for what I may call the morbid suspicion of the Arbitration Court. If I were an employer-which I am happy to say I am not, as things are at present in New Zealand- I should hail this Act with the greatest amount of satisfaction ; and if I were one of the em- ployed I should do so likewise, unless I were under undue influence. At present there is no doubt there is an uneasy feeling on the part Hon. Mr. Twomey Boards, and if I were an employer I must say, were I hauled up to appear before one of them, I should fancy as I entered the building that I saw written over the portal, "Abandon hope all ye employers who enter here." What is the use of our boasting so much that we have no strikes in this colony? Why, there is what amounts to a perpetual strike, I may say, going on; and we have continually, ad nauseam, disputes announced in the papers in the different trades. I believe it would be almost better if there was a good strike, and so end the matter at once, in preference to this perpetual nagging that is going on, and the hot water in which industrial pursuits seem to be kept in this colony. I have confidence in the Supreme Court, and I think both employers and employés should have the same. The Judges of the Supreme Court are above sus- picion. There can be no suspicion that a Judge of the Supreme Court would go outside his Court and foment discontent, and work up cases for the Court to decide. I cannot think how anybody could doubt that the awards of the Arbitration Court would be in the right direction, and based on the soundest principles of justice to both parties. I could understand a man unwilling to go to the Arbitration Court who had a bad case. It reminds me of the Irishman who, when he was imprisoned, and awaiting his trial on a very serious charge, was consoled by a friend, who bade him remember that he would have a just Judge to try his case. "Oh," he said, " it is not exactly a just Judge I want ; that would be a very small consolation to me. I want one who would lean a little." Now, I can understand an employé who wanted a Judge to lean a little, shrinking from going to the Arbitration Court where equal justice would be meted out to both parties, and pre- ferring the Conciliation Board. I hope the third reading will be carried. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I need only say at the outset I am very sorry the Council has thought fit to pass the Bill as it at present appears, and I am almost sure that some of the members have not given such consideration to clauses 6 and 21 as their importance demanded. We have an instance this afternoon in the Hon. Mr. Twomey, who has said that if he had clause 6 before him again he would vote against it. I think that is only one instance, and there must be others in the Council who voted on the clauses of the Bill, and particularly these two clauses dealing with trade-unions, who did not exactly understand the importance of the points they were deciding. The clauses dealing with trade-unions-clauses 2 and 5-require a little consideration. At first sight it would appear that it is very unjust that trade-unionists should be allowed, as some honourable gentle- men expressed .it, to contract themselves out of the law ; but, Sir, they have had this privi- lege, if it is a privilege-I do not know that the term "to contract themselves out of the law" is applicable - for some six years, but it was never taken advantage of. We have it in evidence taken before the Labour 