will convince the House how slender are the | The honourable gentleman had pushed that grounds urged in justification of this vote when one calls to mind one of the illustrative argu- ments given by the Premier in moving the second reading of the Governor's Salary Bill of last year. Without the least possible apposite- ness he told us that Lord Hopetoun, Governor- General of Australia, was to receive a salary of from $10,000 to $15,000. There is a rather wide gulf between $10,000 and £15,000; but there was the illustration : £10,000 or £15,000 was to be paid to Lord Hopetoun as Governor- General of Australia, and only $7,000 to Lord Ranfurly as Governor-General of New Zealand. Mr. PIRANI .- And Rarotonga. Mr. FISHER .- I am coming to that-the member for Palmerston has spoilt my illustra- tion : he is a little "too previous " -- the term " Governor-General of New Zealand " being ap- plied to Lord Ranfurly because we have joined to New Zealand a few islands called the Cook Islands. Then, to allude to the point touched upon by the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Bar- clay), the Duke of Cornwall brought with him £20,000 to be distributed as presents, and certain titles. I believe a title was conferred on His Excellency the Governor. That should be re- garded, I think, as a sufficient recognition by the King for any service rendered by His Excellency. Now I come to the constitutional point. The honourable gentleman took this vote of £2,250 out of the estimates because the Governor's assent could not be given to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Appropriation Bill if that amount had been included. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, it could. Mr. FISHER .- Then, why did the honour- able gentleman take it out of the estimates ? Mr. SEDDON .- For peace' sake. Mr. FISHER .- " For peace' sake " clearly shows that we all are placed in a falso position. Then, it follows that if the Governor would have been compelled to reserve the Appropria- tion Bill for the signification of His Majesty's assent, the position is not changed in the least. This Bill will have to be reserved for the signfication of His Majesty's assent. Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. Mr. FISHER. - I am glad the honourable gentleman has made that admission, because he told us only a day or two ago that the Solicitor-General was of opinion that the Bill would not have to be reserved. Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. Mr. FISHER .- I take it that if the Bill of last year increasing the Governor's salary was reserved for the signification of Her Majesty's pleasure thereon, it follows that this Bill will have to be reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure, and I have no doubt what the result will be if this Bill is sent Home for the consideration of the King and his Respon- sible Advisers. I hold now, as I held when I spoke on this Bill at a previous stage, that the Governor had no authority whatsoever to expend moneys on behalf of this country. VOL. OXIX .- 10. point very ingeniously ; but the point ought to be made clear that, while the Parlia- ment authorised the Government to expend the moneys of the country in the reception of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall, it did not authorise the Governor to expend moneys on his own responsibility on its behalf. That is a point in regard to which the House ought to draw a very plain distinction. For, if the Governor could incur expenditure to the extent of $2,250, why not $5,000 ? If he had authority-and I lay great stress on the ques- tion of authority in the matter-to expend £2,250, why not #5,000-why not £10,000 ? Where was the limit ? There is as much authority for the Governor to expend £10,000 as to expend £2,250. And there was no authority. Then, again, upon whom was this money spent ? It was spent on a very limited circle-the select few-and the people of New Zealand have a rooted and a radical objection to that kind of thing. It is a thing repugnant to the nature of the people. It was said by the member for Wairarapa that the very wheels of the carriages of those who drove to these enter- tainments splashed the faces of those who are called upon to pay the money. Those who were plastered with mud are called upon to find the "dust." Sir, there is nothing more to be said. His Excellency the Governor took French leave in the matter. He took this expenditure into his own hands, without receiving any authority from this Parliament or from the people of this country. Mr. SEDDON .- No ; emphatically, No. Mr. FISHER .- I say Yes ; emphatically, Yes. Money was flowing like water, and it is quite possible that the Premier, with a large gene- rosity which cost him nothing, may have indi- cated that the Governor could exercise carte blanche ; but the honourable gentleman's cheap bounteousness could not be regarded as an authority coming from the people or from the Parliament. The people of this colony, having spent £100,000 in the reception of the Royal party-which is an ample sum and a liberal sum-have paid sufficient. Sir, I do not want to labour the matter. The speeches that have already been delivered correctly in- dicate the feeling of the people of the country in regard to this particular vote. Mr. SEDDON .- No, they do not. Mr. FISHER. - At all events, the people's representatives are here to speak on behalf of the people. I am not going to endeavour to influence any member of this House in regard to the way in which he should vote ; but this is an exceedingly delicate question, and we are called upon to speak plainly, and to vote plainly. I make no appeal of any kind to any member. I say that members should be neither influenced nor coerced. No influence should be brought to bear to sway their votes in one direction or another. My mind is clear as to what my duty in the matter is, and I shall vote with those who vote against the pass- ing of this Bill. 