if it be necessary, it is excusable to illustrate arguments and the position. I go back with the greatest comfort and pleasure, with the full re- cognition of the beneficence of the great prin- ciple of conciliation, to the strike which took place in 1890. I dare say that every honourable gentleman here will remember what a fearful state of things was then displayed almost all over the colony. There was a feud between employer and employed which, I dare say, up to that particular period, was never contemplated as being possible. We saw in the streets of our large cities almost a war. We saw on the one side the people resenting, as they thought, the absence of any favourable response to the long appeal they had made for some method whereby labour questions could be settled, and how the people who had to live by their daily employ- ment could be brought into a better position than they had been -- a desire that, no doubt, had we been in their place, we should have taken exactly the same step that they took to accomplish. Has not this colony gone ahead during the last ten or fifteen years in a marvellous manner? Have there not been evidences, strong and clear, of the enormous increase in the value of property, increase in the wealth and well-being of the community ? And I ask honourable gentlemen if they can say that up to that time there was any attempt made to pass such legislation as would be in the direction of making that great acces- sion of wealth fairly distributable throughout https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the whole community. I say there was not. Then, to allude to the position in 1890, I have the comforting reflection that I was, I believe, one of the very few in Dunedin who http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero did not suffer from the strike. As soon as I saw what the position was, I took up the at- titude that I hold to now, feeling as I did that conciliation was the key-note to the whole question as between the two classes, and in the midst of all this trouble that was going on I went down to a manufacturing firm with which I was connected and addressed the men, and I showed how I thought this matter could be settled ; and I can say that on the very next morning after the men would have gone out the whole thing was settled, and the men went on work- ing. There was no further trouble, except that one man withdrew because he was ordered to do so by an outside union of which he was a mem- ber. Under the circumstances that was a great achievement, and any one who thinks I am taking up this position from a self-seeking pur- pose will have the fact before him that the at- titude I am taking up now was the attitude I adopted then. So that my views cannot be said to have been formed hastily. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- That action was taken before any Act was passed, and it is there- fore all the more credit to you, Mr. Smith. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Well, I had been long a student of this question, and I re- cognised that was the first step to take, and made up my mind that if ever I had an oppor- tunity I would endeavour to give effect to it by legislation. I can point to the fact that I seat there, that the people should have an op- portunity of dealing with this question, and that we should have some legislative machinery to give effect to it. Then, some people say, " What is your game ? " and there are all sorts of jeers and jibes at me because I-being, so to speak, a rara avis-have said that I would take up this position. It is said that, being an em- ployer, I am false to my friends and to my position, and that I am taking up this attitude entirely for a self-seeking purpose. Well, Sir, I can only say that, at a time when one's life might be said to be approaching its end, I would not be likely to be seeking any political position, and if I were out of the Council to-morrow I should not stand for any con- stituency. When that time comes I shall endeavour to spend the remaining few years of my life in peace, reflecting upon my forty-five years of work, and watching the course of events. There is no constituency I would stand for, because I am perfectly well aware I could not perform the work necessary in the other Chamber. Now, I have referred to past labour movements, and it would be only exhausting the patience of honourable members to go into all the facts and figures and the causes of that long war, because honourable members are all familiar with it. But, Sir, I want to point out that this is the only country in the world which has discovered, and which has effectively carried into existence, a method of treating these questions which is scientific, and which appeals to the very best views of mankind, and to their higher ideals. Most of us have, I dare say, come here from Great Britain to improve our position. I desired, and I suppose every honourable member desired, to attain to a better position and degree of comfort than they had prospects of attaining to at Home. Instead of that degrading condition of things which is so common in the manufacturing centres in Great Britain, what do we find here now? A happy and contented community. We meet them on almost equal terms, and the great difference between wealth and poverty does not offend the eye, does not offend the mind and heart, as it does in England. It must be a great source of happiness to those who can feel that, having done well themselves, they have in their way-let it be in the Legislature or by personal exertion outside-contributed to help those people who, possibly, from want of educa- tion, by the want of capacity, or by the want of those opportunities which others have had, have been unable to attain to that degree of comfort and prosperity which those who have been more favoured have been able to do. Let me allude to the working of the Act. How could any one have expected that when you have made such a tremendous somersault from one posi- tion to another as this Act illustrates, that in a short space of even seven years-seven years is nothing to the centuries to which I have alluded-you could get its machinery to perfection ? Do we not know that in other spheres of life-in the development of all scien- 