we should have such provision, or otherwise the State might be giving more-the workmen, by bringing pressure to bear, might be able to get more money for working in the State coal-mine than was paid by a private employer, and thus the private employer might be prejudiced. The member for the Bay of Plenty took up quite another attitude. He said his reason was that he wanted to give the same right to those in the State coal-mine-that the workers in the State coal-mine should be in a position to force the State to give them the same as other em- ployers were giving, and have full power to go to the Court. Which of the two is correct ? I say the member for Palmerston is of the two nearest the mark. We have no complaint as to the wages we pay, and if there are well-founded complaints the best Court is the representatives of the people in this Chamber. And if the State is under-paying, then I say the men would very soon make themselves felt, and no Govern- ment on these benches could be parties to in- justice for any length of time. We have a proof of that in connection with the railway men. When a proposition was made in favour of this being applied to another branch of the service they themselves, who ought to be the best judges, said, " We prefer to be as we are." They preferred to rely on members of Parlia- ment and trust to the Government of the day, rather than force the masters before the Court and thus cause friction. I say it is not ad- visable. But if I thought for a moment that the position I have taken up was prejudicial to the workers I would be the last to do it ; but I believe it is really in the interests of the workers, and is conserving that which we have I believe if those already granted to them. who are misguided-I do not say wilfully so- had forced the Government into the position http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero attempted by the member for the Bay of Plenty, my opinion would have been that it was prejudicial to labour legislation. It would be the thin end of the wedge, and the end of it is not very far to see. I know those who are opposed, and who always have been opposed, to the labour legislation are most strenuous in saying that this legislation should apply to the Government, and by this means are endeavouring to injure this legisla- tion, and, by injuring it, hope to ultimately succeed in wiping it off the statute-book. It is for these reasons that one has to continually combat the attempts that are being made. This is an important measure, and, on its pas- sage through Committee, when I saw the Bill jeopardized by the amendments proposed, naturally, seeing a danger which other mem- bers did not see, I have had to do my best to get this Bill through ; and as it now stands I am very well satisfied with it. I will say to members that during the evening I have had to fight to get my Bill through, and in doing so I have done no more than was simply my duty. I believe in fighting for what I believe to be right, and I concede to others the same privilege that I claim for myself. I fight vigor- ously, but with me when the debate is over Mr. Seddon have taken part in placing this Bill on the statute-book will never regret it. I repeat the Government will be very careful as to their selection, and they will put the strongest men possible in charge, and we hope then to relieve the colony from the present unusual position in which it is placed. We are consumers to the extent of 100,000 tons of coal annually, and, if in a country teeming with coal we can bring coal from Newcastle and undersell the local article by 10s. per ton, I say that points to one of two things : either there is not sufficient capital invested, or the capital is invested and those holding the monopoly are charging the consumers more than they are called upon to pay. I believe that feeling has been in the breast of members on both sides of the House, and has caused them to be unanimous almost in the passing of this Bill. We will do our best to work it in the interests of the colony, and I believe we will have no cause for regret. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I desire to make a personal explanation. I refrained from speak- ing on the third reading so as to facilitate busi- ness. The Premier has taken occasion to mis- represent what I said in Committee, although I do not say the Premier has done so intention- ally. The Premier said that the attitude which I took up in regard to the arbitration clause was that it was necessary to have this amend- ment, and that the State should not be com- pelled to give higher wages than private em- ployers. That was not my sole argument on that point. That was only one of my argu- ments, as I pointed out at the time that a State coal-mine was not to be compared with the railways or other Government employment in which it had been sought to introduce the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, because in regard to coal-mines you had a standard to go by in the private companies, which were de- veloping coal-mines on similar conditions to those under which the Government would work. I said that, with that guide to go by, it would only be fair to have the Arbitration Act applied to the Government mines in the same way as to private mines; and I further added that it would also prevent political pressure being brought to bear on the Government to raise the wages of the miners, although similar wages were not being paid by the companies and under the order of the Arbitration Court. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I may say that I had not the slightest desire to misrepresent the honourable member, and, of course, what I said he has himself admitted is almost in the same language as what he has said. I must give him credit that he also did use the other argument -namely, that there might be political pressure brought to bear to force up wages against the Government ; and I think the honourable mem- ber will recollect that that struck me and caused me some little anxiety, and I said that we must meet it in some way or other ; and it is met in the Bill. Mr. PIRANI. - Will the Premier consider the point raised by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), as to whether it is not advisable 