bought up by the pakeha. If it is a question of policy, I am prepared to say that no one who has 640 acres of first-class land, or 2,000 acres of second-class land, can buy any of these sections. But to the Maori I would give a free hand. If he could find a purchaser let him sell. Why should the bogey be always held up of the landless Maori? Is the landless Maori any worse than the landless pakeha ? If we want to educate the Maori race, and bring the race up to the equal, as I believe they are, of the pakeha, why should we always tie him to the land? I do not see anything to be frightened of in the landless Maori. I do not profess to be well acquainted with the Maoris, though I have lived in a Maori district for many years, and perhaps have more Maoris in my electoral district than any other member of the House ; but any one travelling among the Maoris can- not but be struck with the disadvantages of the communal system under which they live. One sees the tangis and other proceedings that take place. A lot of Maoris will travel from one part of the district to another, living on their friends ; one party goes to one place, and an- other goes to another place. Any one who sees these things, then, must admit that this system of life cannot elevate the Maoris in the way of civilisation. In my opinion, there is nothing like every one having a piece of land, to " elevate their aspirations "-to use a phrase that is well known to the honourable mem- ber for Waitemata - and to improve their civilisation. There is nothing that would do the Maoris more good than to individualise their titles, thus giving them the idea that the piece of land they cultivate is their own, and that the crops they are putting in will not be reaped by one of their friends who may also have a claim on the land. Now, every one must know that civilised nations do not depend entirely on the cultivation of the land ; that the actual people who are engaged in the cultiva- tion of the land -pastoral people-do not always rank high in the list of nations; that mechani- cal arts and industries and commercial enter- prise are the highest type of civilisation. And why should not the Maoris enter into those arts and enterprises and industries as well as the Europeans? They are quite as well qualified. Any one who has seen Maori carving or Maori sculpture knows perfectly well they are as qualified in those arts as the Europeans. say, then, that as long as this system of bind- ing them to the land, and saying that they must cultivate the land, or that they must be farmers, or sheepowners, or shearers is con- tinued, the race does not have the same advan- tages as the pakehas have. I believe, myself, it would be an advantage to the Maoris if some of them were landless, and obliged to go to work like their pakeha brothers do. I do not wish in any way to deprive them of their land for their harm, nor would I say that a landless Maori would not be a bugbear if I thought the Maori would not work ; but I know per- fectly well the Maori can work as well, if not better, than the European, and is quite willing Mr. Herries that the landless Maori is a man to be politi- cally shunned. I only use this argument be- cause it is said that if you individualise the titles you will be confronted with an army of paupers. I do not believe you would; I be- lieve the Maori would be as capable of looking after himself if he had no land as his pakeha brother. To my mind, that is the logical conclu- sion to come to : that in the end the only way to solve the Native question is to individualise the titles, and get the land cultivated either by the pakehas or by the Maoris. As long as we go tinkering as we are with our laws, first one way and then another, swinging the pendulum towards the Land Court and then towards the Maori Councils -swayed by expediency to placate either the Maoris or the pakehas-there will be no success. The political element has come in, and, as a consequence, the question has never been dealt with in the statesmanlike way it ought to have been dealt with. The question is always shunted over by one Govern- ment on to another. The law is passed to suit the moment, and no scheme of going right through with a Native policy has ever been in- troduced by any statesman in this colony. From the days of Sir Donald McLean, with his blanket policy, down to the Government, who are doing quite the opposite and robbing the Natives of their land, the system has been the same-a system of shifting from one Govern- ment to the other and living from hand to mouth. I should have thought the Native Minister, with his knowledge of the Native race-and we know he has the aspiration to be a statesman, and I believe he has the qualifica- tions-would have brought forward, to mark his period as Native Minister, something better than the Bill we have before us. Now, Sir, I do not believe this system of Maori Councils will work. I know it has been the idea among several prominent Natives that the Maori Councils are the panacea for everything. Well, Sir, from what I know, I always find a 4.0. great distrust among one set of Maoris as to another set of Maoris. No people can be more suspicious, in my opinion, of each other. They may have reasons to be so, or may not ; I know nothing about that. I only know that any one having a knowledge of Maori character knows that every Maori is suspicious of what every other Maori is going to do. When you have that at the foundation, how can you pos- I sibly erect a superstructure which will stand the test of time, when the one thing that would be conducive to solidarity is mutual trust? If they have no trust in each other. how can the Maori Councils ever work ? They will stay, possibly, if the amending Act has the effect the Minister thinks it has-they will stay probably for a year or two; they will be to the Maoris as a sort of new toy, but after a bit it is inevitable that distrust will crop up, and then it will be found that the Maori Councils will be thrown aside. This attempt has been tried before and found wanting, and there is no reason to suppose that the Maori Councils under this Bill will not be found wanting just in the 