anything could be done, but he would have the matter inquired into. In regard to the honour- able member for Tuapeka, the Government recognised that it was most important to reduce the carriage of wool throughout the colony, and he would do so shortly. In re- gard to the question of sleepers, he said the department could not get the class of sleepers procured from Australia in New Zealand, even at a price equivalent to the cost of getting them from the other side. If such sleepers were available in this colony, all he could say was that no official intimation to that effect had yet reached the department. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) said he had not an answer to his question with respect to the want of efficient shed accommodation for the storage of grain and other perishable produce, which had to be stacked owing to the insuffi- ciency of trucks. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) called attention to the fact that hardwood sleepers had been brought to the colony from Australia at a cost, he understood, of 4s., while puriri could be obtained within our own shores for 4s. 3d. or 4s. 6d. He thought it would be much better to get silver-pine sleepers at 38. 3d .- which, it was claimed, could be got in abundance-than to import anything. He had no doubt, how- ever, the puriri sleeper was the best sleeper that could be obtained. He also wished to mention to the Minister that it might be ad- visable in the colony to follow the plan adopted in Australia of making special provision on the railways for carrying poultry in baskets. He wished, too, to protest against what seemed to be a hardship. A Mrs. Johnston had bought from the Assets Board a piece of land situated http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero alongside the Kaipara Railway-line, the original egress from which was across the railway-line previous to its construction. She bought be- lieving that the right still existed, and she applied for a crossing, to learn that the de- partment required payment for what seemed a right they should not be justified in taking away. Sir J. G. WARD said he had taken a note of the matters the honourable member had re- ferred to. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) referred to the promised revision of the time-tables of the railway service in the Auckland District. He hoped that, at any rate, an alteration would be made on the Auckland-Mercer line, and that the journey of forty-three miles would be accom- plished in, say, two hours at the outside. To enable the Minister to reply, he would move, That the vote be reduced by £1. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked, with regard to the item, "S. W. Hicks, temporary assistance, $75," whether the Government had finally de- cided what provision was to be made for this unfortunate man, who was injured in the Mu- ngaroa accident. He had heard that #1 10s. per week was being paid to him, and desired to know whether that was the allowance finally fixed. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) hoped the starting a daily express service to Rotorua before the summer began. Sir J. G. WARD said that Hicks was in the same position as he mentioned last year, and was receiving £1 10s. a week. As soon as he was in a fit condition he would be found a suitable position in the service. In reply to the request of the member for Franklin to inquire into the matter of the Mercer train, and have improve- ments in the time-table effected if they were necessary, what could reasonably be done would be done. Regarding the Rotorua ser- vice, if they could develop the tourist traffic by increasing the number of fast trains the Government would be quite prepared to do it. The Government was considering the de- sirability of running the trains faster, but he could not make any commitment offhand that a daily express would be given. The Committee divided on the question, "That the vote be reduced by £1." AYES, 8. Tellers. Atkinson Monk Herries Russell, W. R. Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. Smith, G. J. Massey NOES, 39. Meredith Arnold Hall-Jones Bennet Hardy Mills Parata Buddo Heke Carroll Rhodes Hogg Russell, G. W. Hornsby Collins Colvin Lang Symes Duncan Laurenson Thompson, R. Field Lawry Ward Fisher Lethbridge Willis Witheford. McGowan Flatman Tellers. Mckenzie, R. Fowlds McLachlan Fraser, A. L. D. Fraser, W. O'Meara. McNab Graham Hall Majority against, 31. Amendment negatived, and vote, £1,152,000, agreed to. CLASS XIII .- PUBLIC AND SCHOOL BUILDINGS AND DOMAINS. Public buildings, £20,450. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for the parti- culars of " Contingencies " under this vote. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the "Contingencies " were as fol- lows :- 8. d. £ 6 Salaries (storekeeper, &c.) 187 7 .. Wages .. 315 11 11 .. .. Travelling-expenses 5 0 7 .. Freight 6 5 10 . . 8 11 Coal, gas, and water 32 Supplies, stationery, &c ... 21 3 9 15 16 11 Repairs .. . . 2 0 Medical fee 2 . . . . Expenses in connection with de- struction of building by fire at 39 0 0 Napier .. .. £627 1 10 Vote, £20,450, agreed to. 