their land is taken up for settlement purposes they should be treated in exactly the same way as the pakeha is. Now, the honourable member for Riccarton waxed very eloquent about the South Island members-that they were looked upon as knowing nothing about Native affairs or legislation. Does the honour- able gentleman ever understand any subject he speaks about? I do not think so. He is going back to the same old one sermon and the three texts. His knowledge of Native affairs is just about in keeping with that. If he does not know that a number of the South Island members are on the Native Affairs Com- mittee, then his knowledge of Committees is as limited as it is of Native affairs. If he knew anything about the business of this House, he would know that a number of South Island members, being on the Native Affairs Committee, must take some interest and have some knowledge of Native affairs. He talked about the Treaty of Waitangi as though it had never been heard in this House before. Why, Sir, we have heard the Treaty of Waitangi trotted out so often that it is as well known as the Lord's Prayer. It has been dished up ad nauseam in this House. He also spoke of finality of legislation in connection with the Native difficulty. Well, is it possible to have finality on any subject ? Are we not always amending the pakeha legislation ? Then, why ask for finality in connection with the Maori laws : why should they be treated differently from the pakeha ? At any rate, much as I dis- like the Bill, I must say that, so far as I can see, it is only rectifying errors of last year, and cannot make that legislation any worse, but might improve it. I would like either to have the Act of last year repealed, or amended in such a way that it will be of some practical use. At present it is a dead-letter. I do not like the measure before us to-night, but I intend to support it, reserving to myself the right when in Committee to support amend- ments which I consider necessary to meet some of the requirements in connection with Native legislation. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- Sir, I purpose saying a few words on this Bill, because I con- sider it involves matters that are as important to the Europeans as they are to the Natives. I believe the Bill is an honest endeavour to get over the difficulties that have existed in the past in the way of making use of Native lands. If the Bill passes the House, not only will the Natives themselves get a benefit from the rents that will be derived from the leases, but an opportunity will be given of settling the people upon enormous areas of land at present lying perfectly useless. I know that throughout my district the Natives are taking the greatest interest in the question. On various occasions the leading chiefs have waited on me, urging me to do my best to facilitate the passing of this measure. For many years Wanganui has been almost landlocked owing to the enormous quantity of Native land surrounding it. Sir, up to the present time we have no inland road of the country, and the only means at present at our disposal is by way of the Wanganui River. For the last twenty years the Wanga- nui people have been endeavouring to see if something could not be done in the direction of a road to the interior, but we have always been blocked by the reply from the Government that the whole of the lands in the neighbour- bourhood are Native lands, and that until they can be dealt with it is impossible to spend money making roads. I consider, Sir, the wishes of the Natives should be given effect to. The wiser of them say the time has gone by when the remaining portion of their lands should be parted with, and that opportunity should be given to them to lease their holdings, not only for their own benefit, but for the benefit of those who come after them. Certain parties have strong objection to land being leased in this fashion, but I consider the step would be a good one. Sir, the measure we are now considering is brought forward largely to meet the difficulties that exist in my district. The Ohutu Block consists of about ninety thousand acres of land, all of which is now lying useless, besides other large areas of Na- tive land. It is excellent land for settle- ment, and if it could be dealt with under the Bill, not only would the Natives derive a benefit, but land settlement would be promoted to a large extent, and the much-needed roads into the interior would be proceeded with. I listened to-night with a great deal of pleasure to the speech of the honourable member for the Northern Maori district (Mr. Hone Heke). I consider the speech he delivered was eminently a practical and logical one. He knows the difficulties the Natives labour under, and he showed in the most conclusive way that he had & grasp of the subject, and that the Bill is one that should have a trial. If blemishes are found in it we can remedy them later on. Last year, when the Native Lands Administra- tion Bill was brought down, a good deal of interest was taken in it, and there was a sincere desire that the Bill should pass; but we find now, that when an amending Bill is brought down to remedy certain defects in last year's Bill, there is bitter opposition expressed to it, and I will leave the House to judge why that opposition is expressed. Sir, I hope the House will not lose this opportunity of passing a Bill that will do good to all sections of the commu- nity. If anything happens to this Bill we go back to the old state of affairs. The land will be locked up, the Natives will have a feel- ing that they are being badly treated, and to avoid that we should make an endeavour to do something for them. It has been said to-night that the southern members have not taken the interest in the measure they should take. Well, perhaps we may understand why that is so. In the South they are not interested in Native matters as we are in the North, but at the same time I believe they wish to see fair play, and if they have not taken an active part in the debate it is still their desire that the Native lands shall be open for settlement. I consider, 