pose of paying Inspectors and other people to see to the extermination of the disease. The disease had now been exterminated, and there was no more reason why the sheep-tax should be kept in force than that a tax should be put on cattle, or any other stock. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Minister if he would give some reply to his question put earlier in the evening, as to anthrax. As to the poisoning of rabbits in the King-country, he thought there was no necessity for that, for they could be kept down very well by trapping and the Government paying for skins that were brought in. He agreed that it would be a very desirable thing to have milk tested by Govern- ment officials, and if that were done a great boon would be conferred upon settlers. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that anthrax re- quired stamping out, and to do that demanded preventive measures. What brought the disease was the importation of bones and bone-dust. Last year about 10,000 tons had been imported into the colony, and the question naturally arose, whether those bones had been properly treated by private enterprise. His opinion was that they might have to shut out the 1.0. bones altogether. He was not sure but that would be the proper thing to do; and after the treatment they were receiving from Australia, he was not sure that they would be doing wrong to spend £10,000 in providing digesters for this colony in order to prevent anthrax coming from Australia. His opinion was that other manures could be used, and, if https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the germs were not in the bone-dust, then bone-dust might be purchased. The matter had not escaped the attention of the Govern. ment, and the department were grappling with http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero it to the best of their ability. It was only a question of expense. There was one digester in Auckland, but that would only put through a certain quantity. At the present time the matter was before Cabinet, and recommenda- tions were being considered from the depart- ment. There was some danger in the Govern- ment going into this business ; serious claims for compensation might be brought, and he objected to playing with dangerous weapons. It could not be said that the Government or the department had ever been harsh to settlers. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) said that the reply to a question he had put to the department on the subject of the numerous complaints regarding the milk-testing had not been satisfactory. He had since written several letters to the depart- ment on the subject, to which no satisfactory replies had been obtained. He trusted the Minister would realise, from the number of members who had spoken, that the complaints were genuine, and would see that the matter was one which should be immediately dealt with. Respecting the supply of cream by the Experimental Farm to the Wellington Fresh Food and Ice Company, he might say that the figures he had received from the Levin Dairy Factory were at variance with those supplied to the Minister. He would like to know if the Mr. Massey tory should have been given the business unless there was some very good reason to the contrary ;. and if that factory was prepared to give as large a price as the Fresh Food Company the matter was one for serious inquiry. Then, as to the question of a site for the Wellington Abattoirs, he wished to know whether any reply had been received to the last communication from the Minister to the City Council, disapproving of the Ngahauranga site, and, if it had not been, whether the Government meant, at all hazards, to adhere finally to Banks's site at Kaiwarra. There could be no two opinions as to which site was the best. Banks's site was the one which would suit the small butchers, as well as the farmers. If it were adopted he saw good reason for hoping that we should have a satisfactory small butchers' market, and that the Meat Export Company's pressure would be removed. Mr. DUNCAN said the question of the site was still unsettled. Of the three sites selected in company with the Abattoirs Committee of the City Council, there could be no doubt that Banks's site was the best. There was every- thing required there, and the objection that it was not level did not hold good, because a level site was not the best site for abattoirs. Mr. FOWLDS .- Did you not say that you would approve of any one of the three sites ? Mr. DUNCAN replied that what he had done was to lay down what he thought necessary for an abattoir site, and he had said that he would approve of any site that fulfilled those conditions. As to the destruction of cattle suffering from anthrax, he believed there had only been one or two beasts destroyed at a time. At the very outside they would not amount to more than twenty-five or thirty. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) pointed out that the Kaiwarra site for the Wellington Abattoirs was approached by both railways. If it was adopted it was practically certain that at the Khandallah Station, close by, saleyards would be erected. At the Kaiwarra site there was room for the necessary paddocks, but the site at the Nga- hauranga Gorge had no paddocks at all. The owner of the Kaiwarra site had offered to allow the land to be taken under the Public Works Act, or to allow the price to be settled by arbi- tration. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said there were ten distinct places in the colony in which anthrax had broken out. Besides the stock which had died from it, one man had died and three others were seriously affected. It was, therefore, a very serious matter. He considered that those whose paddocks had been closed in consequence of this disease ought to receive some compensa- tion. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) pressed for an answer to his question about the sheep-tax. Would the Minister instruct the department, in cases of prosecution in this matter, to take the case to the nearest Court, and not sixty miles away, as had been done with one case in his district. 