it. Another difficulty which will arise, I am afraid, is that as soon as any changes we may bring about interfere with the power of the Arikis we shall have some trouble. As long as the Arikis work with us everything will go smoothly ; but, supposing there is any trouble, the whole question as to the expense of keeping order and maintaining any system of government will fall on the colony. On the other hand, we must, as far as we can, main- tain a system of free-trade between New Zea- land and the Islands ; we cannot put duties on any goods we send there, and I am afraid we should be unable to prevent others from landing dutiable goods : they can land anywhere on the islands, unless we had police or revenue officers, or some system of coast-guards. They will do it in spite of us. We must make the best of the bargain, and see how it will work out. In my opinion it would have been a very wise thing if we had treated these islands as a Crown colony for a few years; we should have allowed them to go on under the British Resident, and any changes we wish to make in the system of go- vernment should be brought about very slowly and carefully, and we should not attempt any sudden change. I feel certain, if we commence to appoint resident officers in their various is- lands, we shall simply be committing the tax- payers of this colony to heavy expenditure, and we should get no revenue in return. It is ab- surd to suggest that the people of the Islands https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 should be included in our electoral system ; it would be absurd to bring representatives from these Islands to this House for many years ; but unless the Government is very careful about establishing a system of government we shall be simply going to great expense and bring little back to the colony in return. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha). - I agree almost entirely with the speech to which we have just listened. The honourable member for Marsden has brought good, sound sense to bear on the question, as is usually the case with him. The question has been raised as to whether we have the right to pass such a Bill as this. There appears to be some doubt about it, but, should it be found at any future time that we have gone beyond our powers, no doubt an Act will be passed by the Home Legislature legalising our action. We labour under great disadvantages in considering a question of this kind. These islands are so far away that few of us have visited them, or are ever likely to do so. They are inhabited by people whose modes of life are entirely different from ours. It, therefore, appears to me that we should act with very great care, and that we should make as few changes as possible. Mr. Moss was Re- sident Agent on the islands for a good many years. He was, apparently, the guide, philoso- pher, and friend of the native population, and did good work amongst them. He set up a kind of Federal Government, and, as I under- stand the Bill, its object is simply to continue the form of government set up by Mr. Moss. Whilst I agree generally with the Bill, I do not Mr. R. Thompson establishing a Native Lands Court. As the country is not suited for European settlement, there does not seem to be any necessity for investigating Native titles. Such a Court would be almost certain to lead to friction, and would be very expensive. I object also to the 13th clause, which provides for the making of re- serves for defence purposes. By-and-by these people might look to us to assist them in erecting defence-works, and these defence-works would cost more than the Islands are worth. It has been stated that, as far as the Islands are concerned, we are taking up the white man's burden. That is true ; but with good manage- ment the Act might be advantageous both to ourselves and the native races of the Cook Islands. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- The step that we are about to take in annexing these islands, although undoubtedly of an important character, is not being taken without sufficient caution. The question of the advisability of annexing certain islands of the Pacific has been amply discussed not only last session but in years past. It was the ardent wish of a statesman whom we all venerate, the late Sir George Grey, that New Zealand should attach those islands to it, and gradually bring the native races into the same state of civilisation as we find the Maoris in this colony. In the interests of civilisation, I think we are taking at once a wise, judicious, and very commendable step. The movement is one that will add undoubtedly to the prestige of the colony, if we can show that we are able to ameliorate and improve the condition of the inhabitants of these islands, and protect them from the dangers with which they are sur- rounded, and which have been referred to by the Premier. It will redound to our credit if we bring about a better state of affairs in the Islands by giving to the inhabitants similar laws to those that prevail in this colony. I am very pleased that the Bill before the House has had so favourable a reception from the members to whom it has been submitted. It seems to have been well framed. There is nothing of a revo- lutionary character in it - nothing likely to disturb the existing state of affairs in the Islands. So far from being a source of anxiety or additional expense to New Zealand, I believe and trust these islands will be of very consider- able advantage to us. The exchange of pro- ducts alone ought to be a very decided gain, and as to any increase of expenditure that may be occasioned, I should hope that it will be largely recouped by the interchange. The matter has been very well debated, and there is no necessity for much time to be taken up with it, consequently I will only add that I hope the experiment-for it is an experiment- we are now trying will turn out to be as success- ful as its most sanguine supporters anticipate. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City). - When this matter came before the House last session it was declared to be one of the most important questions Parliament up to that time had had to consider, and I took the same view of the question. During the discussion a motion was 