that he used his best efforts to get me to vote with him on this present occasion, what he has said to the House is perfectly true. He did do his best ; and a good many other persons besides the honourable member for Napier have approached me in regard to this matter, and have endeavoured to obtain my vote on their side. But, Sir, there are interests of other per- sons to be considered by me which I must put before the interests of those members who try to persuade me to exercise my vote in a par- ticular direction merely to oblige them, and those persons are my constituents. I refer both to the European and Maori residents in my district. I have a duty to discharge to them, and, no matter what attempt may be made to tamper with me or influence my opinions, I shall vote as I consider right. say, further, that any member who speaks as the honourable member for Riccarton has spoken is not worthy of being replied to. He has got a head on his shoulders, and so have I, and I hope so has every other mem- ber of the House, and that we all use our heads, as I do, for the purpose of thinking for our- selves. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). - I merely wish to congratulate the House upon having come to so statesmanlike a decision upon this matter, and I would also like to congratu- late members upon the courtesy and good temper which has characterized this discussion throughout. I think it must be a matter of pride to us that, on a question upon which opinions were so evenly divided, the debate has been carried through with so little heat or feeling. and in such a thorough gentlemanly manner. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- I do not think the honourable member for Riccarton has given cause for the censorious remarks that have been passed upon him. I do not think any member of the House has any personal feeling against any of the Maori members, and I am sure it is not that feeling which actuated the member for Riccarton. Let me go back a few years. I have not had so long a parlia- mentary experience as some of my fellow- members, but I may explain that when I came into the House in 1894 I was then told that it had been customary with the Maori members, on all questions solely affecting the European race, to vote two and two-two for the Opposition and two for the Government. I do not know personally whether that was the custom, but it was manifest to members that on many occa- sions legislation was introduced and passed, practically on the Maori vote, materially affect- ing the welfare of the English-speaking people in this colony. And while paying all deference and respect to the ability shown by the Maoris, still they have not the experience or knowledge of the wants and wishes of the European race ; and when we are dealing with questions affect- ing our own people peculiarly, then I think that when a proposal is accepted or rejected by a majority composed of the votes of the Maori members they may see the reason of our feel- Mr. Kaihau stand very clearly in what position the Maori vote is to be. If it is understood that on all questions the Maori members exercise their vote simply as members of the House, we shall understand where we are. But if the old <!-- PageHeader="1" --> arrangement is to continue -that is, that on general questions the Maori vote is to be. divided-on Native questions, of course, they will vote solid - the House will understand. that position also. I confess that I sometimes have felt irritated, not in connection with this particular debate but in previous sessions of the House, when in some question upon which I felt very strongly, and upon which my con- stituents felt very strongly, I was defeated by the vote of the Maori members. I do not think that members ought to reply to the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton in the I way they did. He simply stated that the question had been carried largely by the Maori vote. I say that is a fact. If the Government claim the right to have the Maori vote exer- cised on their behalf the House should under -. stand that. I only rose to state what was the- position prior to 1894, and if that position is to- be departed from it will be a good thing for the House to know it, and to consider the question generally. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I do not. intend to delay the House at great length. The House should be grateful for being con- gratulated by the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Witheford), and I think the honourable gentleman might have added that- the interests of Auckland were largely helped by the calm and pleasant manner of Mr. Fowlds, who has been a very great factor in connection with this vote. Of course, we can- not overlook the influence of the powerful Whip on the Opposition side; but I think Mr. Fowlds, who has not advertised himself as the other two Auckland members have, has had more to do with securing the service than the methods of the other two representatives. Therefore I think it necessary now to mention the fact, and Mr. Fowlds's name in that connection. He does not talk about the "mailed fist," or raise the ire of the colony by injudicious com- munications. My object in rising was this : that, although it is not at present much con- sidered, yet I think this colony in the future must have a direct mail-service of its own. That is the view I take. I know it is not regarded at the present time as possible ; yet we have heard the opinion of Captain Russell, when he said that there is a very great change coming in connection with maritime speed, and I think, as I . have said before, the question of a week is not of very great importance for the delivery of mails. There is more made of it than there should be. Cheap cable communi- cation is the great factor of the present and the future. The vessels conveying our produce Home are, as a rule, slow-going boats, and there is ample time, even in the ordinary Federal service, for all mail-communication requirements. But what I do think is this : that as we are developing in this country now 