honourable member admitted at the same time he had not the opportunity of going through the return to see whether it was correct; and, out of his own mouth, he could not therefore form a correct opinion. And yet he had the assur- ance to say that it was inaccurate. Now, that was not fair. The detailed information con- tained in this return was of general public interest, showing, as it did, what the public indebtedness had been for a series of years, and how this indebtedness had grown up; and, that being so, he would have thought that the honourable gentleman, instead of taking ex- ception to it, would have welcomed it. Mr. J. ALLEN said he did not take exception to it. Sir J. G. WARD said, At any rate, the honour- able gentleman had no reason to suppose that it was not accurate, as he had suggested. Mr. J. ALLEN said that he had pointed out that what was stated in the Premier's speech on the financial debate was not accurate. Sir J. G. WARD said that the Premier had already explained that the information in this return was not contained in his speech. In that speech he merely gave the totals, and not the details which were now brought forward in this return. Any honourable member who took the trouble could from the public records verify the return and adequately check the whole of the figures from the first year of the public debt, and if any attempt was made to submit a return which was inaccurate it would bring about the inevitable result of showing up its inaccuracy. He had simply risen to say that when they laid the fullest information about the public in- debtedness of the colony on the table, the honourable gentleman, who professed that he was so anxious for these returns, was the first to http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero tako exception and find fault. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the Post- master-General had stated that the House was flooded with questions for returns. Now, he understood the Premier had stated the day be- fore -unfortunately, he (Mr. Pirani) was absent at the time-that owing to his (Mr. Pirani's) action the Government had been blocked in giving returns that they would have given if he (Mr. Pirani) had not objected to a certain re- turn in the Premier's name. He might say that he did not now oppose any return. He did one day, but he had never offered any opposi- tion since. A deputation, consisting of forty- four members on both sides of the House, had besieged him with prayers not to oppose the returns any more. Well, he was quite inno- cent of persistent opposition, and he did not intend even to oppose returns brought up by the Premier himself, who was getting so inflated that he supposed he would soon be called the Premier of New Zealand and the rest of the Cannibal Islands. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said it seemed to him that it was a wrong thing for the Premier, or any person occupying that position, to put before the House a paper that was not signed by any responsible officer in the Govern- ment service. There was no paper that they had laid on the table of the House that did not Sir J. G. Ward except extraneous papers that they always objected to in connection with Fiji, and news- paper comments on public actions in that country. But it seemed to him this particular paper now under consideration was quite un- necessary, as it was nearly all contained in the right honourable gentleman's speech on the Financial Statement. There were one or two inaccuracies which he thought the honourable gentleman had corrected. There was an in- accuracy to the extent of £10,000 for the year 1890-91 in the honourable gentleman's speech. Mr. DEPUTY.SPEAKER hoped the honour- able gentleman would not discuss a previous debate. Mr. HERRIES said he was merely pointing out that this was almost word for word what the House had had from the Premier before. Mr. SEDDON asked if the honourable gentle- man was in order in discussing this matter when the paper was already laid on the table. Mr. HERRIES said when the paper was laid on the table it was not signed by the Minister in charge, and he understood that it had to be laid on afresh. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said there was no expressed rule or Standing Order which re- quired any of these documents to be signed, but it was a practice that had been adhered to for so many years that he must hold it was necessary to adhere to the practice. Mr. SEDDON said he did not want to stop the debate nor to interfere with the honourable gentleman's speech, but he might say he had many times handed a paper in a hurry to the Clerk without signature, and the Clerk had subsequently sent it back to him for signature. That course would have been followed on this occasion if the member for Bruce had not got hold of the paper. Mr. HERRIES thanked the Premier for his kindness and condescension in not wanting to interfere with the free speech of a member of the House. Mr. SEDDON said he could raise a point of order at any time if the necessity arose therefor. Mr. HERRIES said, The right honourable gentleman could do many things, but he could not control Mr. Speaker, who was the guardian of their liberties. He only rose to protest against a paper being laid upon the table when it had not been signed by any duly authorised officer of the department. It might be full of inaccuracies, or it might not; but there was no signature at the bottom of it. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, According to the Minister for Railways. this return was valu- able because it was accurate; but he (Mr. Massey) was afraid there were some inaccuracies in it. The first thing that had caught his attention-he had only just been able to glance at the paper-was that the Hall Administration was credited with having raised a five-million loan. That loan was raised by the previous Administration. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. MASSEY said it was authorised by the Grey Administration, and hore the Hall Ad- ministration was credited with it; so that on 