given effect to next session. Personally, he thought that the construction of lines like that by the local bodies was a very much better and very much safer method of dealing with public works than by so many politi- cal lines being promoted by the Ministry in power to please certain of their supporters. There could be no question about it that, if the people in a district were willing to tax themselves and borrow money on the security of their own properties for the construction of public works like that, there could be no better earnest of the importance and necessity of the lines, and the possibility of the work pay- ing, and of these lines only being constructed where the necessities of the district required them. A railway such as that was very much better than railways promoted as they were at present by the Government. Mr. HALL-JONES. - Do you mean cheap tramways ? Mr. PIRANI was talking of light-line rail- ways, such as were contained in the proposals of a Bill that the Minister had in his possession, and which he had had for some three months. As the member for Ellesmere reminded him, this was foreshadowed in the Public Works Statement of 1897. What was wanted was not steam tramways, but light-line railways, meant primarily for carrying goods in country where roads were not so easily constructed, where metal was scarce, and where a better and more permanent means of transit could be obtained by light-line railways. He did not think it was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 an encouraging thing that settlers should go to the trouble and expense of making preparations to have this matter fully considered, and should then receive such scant courtesy at the hands of the Government. Personally, he thought it pro- bable the Government had not had time to go fully into the matter. He had brought it up at this stage at the request of gentlemen inter- ested, so as to find out from the Government whether it was possible in the near future that some such proposals as those in the mea- sure alluded to would receive the sanction of the Government. He felt sure that the neces- sity of many districts he knew of in regard to communication could only be met by railways of the sort mentioned ; and, even if roads were afterwards made, they could be formed much more cheaply and efficiently if the metal and other materials for the construction of the roads were carried on light-line railways. These rail- ways would be a sort of pioneer in districts like some he knew of. Take, for instance, the districts beyond Hunterville : what were merely horse- tracks had been constructed, and nearly the same amount of money spent on a light line of railway would have enabled immediate com- munication to be got, and good roads could be constructed afterwards. He did not desire to labour the point, but he had been specially asked to direct the attention of the Govern- ment publicly to it ; and he would like to ask the Minister in charge whether it was not pos- sible for him, if he had not given consideration to the proposals that had been outlined, to go VOL. CXIX .- 75. formulate some scheme on the lines proposed in the draft Bill, so that next session effect might be given to the proposals that outlined a proper and self-reliant policy on the part of the settlers interested. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) hoped that some consideration would be given to the matter spoken of by the honourable member for Pal- merston, and that the Minister for Public Works would look into it during the recess. He had in his hand the Public Works State- ment for 1897. In that Statement the Minister for Public Works gave a considerable amount of information concerning light-line railways. He (Mr. Rhodes) had a question on the Order Paper dealing with a light-line railway in his district. He in this question asked the Minister to send an engineer to examine that line, and he hoped the Minister would do so. This was not a line to be constructed upon the same conditions as those spoken of by the honourable member for Palmerston, but was an authorised line, as reference to a return laid on the table of the House in 1898 would show. In this list of authorised lines was the one from Little River to Akaroa, to which he referred ; and, unlike most of those in the list which had but recently been authorised, this was one which had been authorised early in the seventies. Other lines in this list were being gone on with, but no progress was being made with the line from Little River to Akaroa. That line was in a particularly favourable position, as there was an area of 72,000 acres set apart for its construction, and from year to year they saw an amount accumulating which was placed to the capital of that line. As far as Little River it had been constructed at a cost of under £108,000, and there remained now only an amount of £19,000 which had not been paid for ; and in the course of a few years the whole amount would be paid off by the land settled by the Canterbury Province, and at no direct cost to the colony like other lines. He thought the time had now come when some effort should be made to push on this work, at any rate, by means of a light line to Akaroa. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) agreed with what the honourable member for Hawke's Bay said, and he would like to add a few words in connec- tion with the opening-up of the country between Turnagain, Castlepoint, Weber, Pongaroa, and Rakaunui. The whole of that country was completely isolated owing to the want of com- munication, and he would suggest to the Minis- ter for Public Works that surveyors should at once be sent out to survey the best route for opening up the country between Pahiatua, Weber, and Waipukurau with a railway. promise had been made by the Premier that engineers would be sent out. If that were done, and a railway constructed, it would enable the settlers to send their produce to a good market. At the present time there were simply roadstead harbours, and at times it was impossible for steamers to work cargo. Settlers in that portion of the colony were prepared at the present moment to rate themselves for the 