colony, for the Customs duties which formerly went to the Islands will come to New Zealand. From every broad standpoint I am firmly con- vinced the right thing was done, as time will prove that we are justified in what we have done, and the taxpayers will not suffer. I am pleased the debate, although there has been some adverse criticism, has taken the direction it has. I regret I have not had time to give more information which is interesting and applicable. Bill read a second time. OPIUM PROHIBITION BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - This is a Bill which is brought forward with a view of pre- venting what is a spreading evil in the colony. There will be a loss of revenue of about £8,000 or £9,000 a year; but we prefer to lose that revenue rather than see this curse spread amongst the European youth of both sexes. I have received a largely signed petition from the Chinese themselves asking for this Bill to be passed. They, of course, know its evils, and they see what it is doing, and when they appeal to us to pass an Act preventing the importation of this drug I do not think we should turn a deaf ear to such a request. It will, no doubt, be urged that this Bill only means that this drug will be smuggled into the colony, but I believe that the precautionary provisions of the Bill are sufficient to act as a preventive to smuggling. There is no doubt that we can follow the drug as we do other https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 goods that are smuggled, and, in my opinion, by careful administration, we can stop the spread of the evil. That this evil habit of opium-smoking is spreading can be proved at any time by reference to the police records, and, to my mind, a drunkard or a gambler as compared with an opium-smoker is to be pre- ferred. At all events, we do know that the evil is growing, and we know we have the means of checking it, and I propose this Bill feeling satisfied that, notwithstanding the difficulty there will be in suppressing the intro- duction of the drug, yet we have a right to make the attempt. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I would like the Premier to tell us what the duty is at the pre- sent time on opium. Mr. SEDDON .- I am not sure, but it is very heavy, and I know the revenue comes to about £8,000 or £9,000 a year. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, it is very seldom that I have the pleasure of support- ing, almost unreservedly, a Bill introduced by the Hon. the Premier, but I must admit that it is the case on this occasion. I think that the opium habit is a very serious one, and one that ought to be kept in check by legisla- tion. It must have developed in this colony to a very considerable extent when we hear from the Premier that the duty collected on this drug amounts to something like €9,000 per annum. There is one clause though- clause 8 -which, in my opinion, goes a little too far. It is a clause which gives a constable the power of entry to premises of Chinese when he has Mr. Seddon cause to suspect that opium-smoking is per- mitted in any house or premises. The clause continues that "he may, under a search-war- rant, enter and search such house or premises, and seize and carry away any opium, and appliances for the smoking of opium, found therein." And, then, it goes on to say, " Pro- vided that a search-warrant shall not be re- quired in the case of any entry on premises occupied by Chinese." I think while we have Chinese in this colony, some of them naturalized British subjects, the same law should apply to them as applies to Europeans ; and if it is necessary to procure a search-warrant in the case of Europeans, I think it should be neces- sary also in the case of Chinese. There should be no difficulty in obtaining a search-warrant, as Justices of the Peace are sufficiently plentiful in the larger towns where this sort of thing goes on. However, these objections can be dealt with in Committee, and, generally, I support the Bill. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I rise to say I am heartily in accord with every one of the provisions of this Bill. I have re- ceived a number of communications from Chinese residents in this colony touching on this measure, and, as one who for some years lived on the diggings in the South Island, I know from personal experience of the dreadful effects of this opium-smoking habit. I have seen the effects of it both on Chinese and Europeans, and it affords me a consider- able amount of satisfaction to be able to support unreservedly the whole of the provisions of the Bill. In regard to the objection raised by the member for Franklin, let me say that, under all the existing circumstances, it is absolutely necessary that the police should have almost unlimited powers in this matter for the pur- pose of carrying out a very necessary duty, and I hope there will be no attempt made, on the score of the same law for the Chinese as for the Europeans, to prevent the police having this unlimited power. Those of us who know any- thing at all about the way in which the Chinese live know the difference in the circumstances between the European dweller and the Chinese ; and I hope this Bill will go through, because I feel convinced that, once its provisions have the force of law, we shall have taken a very de- sirable step indeed in the direction of putting down one of the greatest curses ever imported into any country. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I have also pleasure in supporting the second reading of this Bill if it is necessary. It may be that there is great cause for it, but, personally, I have never heard of any great habit of opium- smoking in the cities, and I should have liked to have heard the Premier give us more in- formation in regard to the necessity for this Bill. I suppose opium-smoking is always pre- valent amongst Chinamen, and perhaps more so in Wellington than any other city, because of the larger number of Chinamen here. But I never heard it was affecting colonial youths, and I am very much distressed to hear it. The Premier made that statement, and I think he 