members will find the names of gentlemen who are strongly in favour of the continu- ance of the San Francisco service; and in that document they urge the Government not to renew it unless a British-owned steamer was included. Here are the names : E. Shirt- cliffe (chairman), Frank Oakden, Chas. Rhodes, W. H. Argall, Andre P. Griffiths, F. N. Adams, A. H. Briscoe, D. Dobbie, Rowland Bramwell, Jno. Duthie, D. E. Turnbull, John Campbell, R. G. O. Platt, Wm. A. Mercer, E. G. Jellicoe. These gentlemen, or most of them, were pre- viously in favour of the continuance of the San Francisco mail-service. Take the case of Mr. John Duthie, of Wellington, as an in- stance. He now wants the service continued. Yet in this memorandum to the Government there is a clause in which they urge that we should not renew the contract unless there is a British-owned steamer in the service. That is the difficulty we have to face : the absence of the British-owned steamer. And I know of nothing that could more strongly indicate the intense feeling raised by the compulsory exclusion of a British-owned steamer than the petition sent me by the gentlemen whose names I have read. I say, notwithstanding that difficulty, we ought not to let the service go, and I will give my reasons for it presently. Now, why was the provision for the British- owned steamer included in this proposal ? If honourable members look at subsection (c) they will find this,- "That in lieu of the foregoing payments, a fixed annual subsidy of £20,000 be paid, pro- vided that one British-owned steamer, regis- tered in New Zealand, be employed in the ser- vice." Why is that included ? It is included for this reason : that if the present owners accept the 7s. 6d. subsidy they will still have the right, in the event of their including a British-owned steamer, to obtain a subsidy of £20,000 for a period of years. We have asked the British (Government to use its influence with the United States Government to open the high- way to British ships between Honolulu and San Francisco; and we hold that out to Mr. Spreckels as an inducement to bring pressure to bear upon the Washington Government to include a British-owned steamer in the service. Then, the idea is at once taken up that this is put in with a view of killing the service. It is with the object of trying to meet public senti- ment, and to hold out inducement, as we ought in this country, by representations to the United States through the British Government, to have this bar against British-owned steamers between San Francisco and Honolulu removed ; and we desire Mr. Spreckels, if he will, to work in the same direction. That is the reason we put that in as an alternative proposal, and under the circumstances I do not under- stand how anybody could assume it was put in to militate against the service. I want now to say that the Government is asking the House to agree to give it the power to effect the alternative proposals contained in the reso- Spreckels declining to carry on the San Fran- cisco mail-service on the basis of 7s. 6d. per pound for letters, with a minimum of $15,000 guaranteed, this country ought not to be in the position of having its important mail-services left unprovided for. There should be some authority given for an alternative route to be carried out, and the only alternative routes are by way of Van- couver, or by the Federal line, or a direct line. Let us suppose Mr. Spreckels declines - I am now viewing the matter from the standpoint of some of my friends from Auckland-and sup- pose Mr. Spreckels does decline, which is very improbable indeed, do honourable members mean to tell me we cannot then give effect to some other proposals which would meet the circumstances of the North in as good a form, if not better, than under the existing conditions. Of course we could. If we were to establish a Vancouver service, it is a mistake to suppose the time occupied would be much longer than the present time. It would not be much longer than the Fr'isco, as it would be about eighteen days between Vancouver and Auckland. And here let me say that I consider that Auckland should be the port of call for a Vancouver service: Auckland should em- phatically be the port of call in the interests of the colony as a whole. If a mail-service is to be carried on successfully, the shortest and the fastest route must be adopted, and the shortest and fastest route is to Auckland by either of the services. As far as the Government is con- cerned, our intention is, in the event of esta- blishing a Vancouver service, and in the event of Mr. Spreckels declining, that Auckland should he the terminal port in the interests of the colony. But let us suppose we could not get the Vancouver service, and that Mr. Spreckels also declined, what would be the position ? If honourable members will look at the route of the two services, they will find that Pango-Pango has been made the by-port to call at for the Fr'isco line. Suva was formerly a by-port to call at for the Vancouver line. Well, I ask honourable members, Do they think we could not arrange for the Vancouver service to call at Suva, and by having a fast subsidised steamer service between Auckland and Pango-Pango and between Auckland and Suva, could you not intercept both lines, and if you could not get the main boats to come to Auckland, you could make Auckland the port of call for a fast subsidised branch service. If you talk about being driven into a corner in the event of Mr. Spreckels not accepting our conditions, I say you are assuming we are nothing but a pack of children. Are we going to have this fetish put up-that unless we lie down and worship the present arrangements, nothing else satisfactory as a substitute can be secured ? It is a suggestion I would not for one moment assent to. I say we will treat Mr. Spreckels fairly, and endeavour to bring him into line ; and if he does not agree, then we can esta- blish a good branch service as indicated, with Auckland as the port of call, which the Go- vernment would be quite prepared to do; and 