from factories, have been in the habit of making material for the different storekeepers in dis- tricts, and they have been on the whole re- markably well paid. The result of the Act has been that all this is stopped, and these persons have been deprived from earning an honest living. Now, I want to know how it is that the Parliament of New Zealand should enact a law that deprives people from making an honest living. That has been the effect of this law in the country districts, and especially in the district I represent. Why, a shoemaker who has two sons working now must be constituted a factory, and these people are deprived now from making a living unless they come under the Factories Act, which I say would be most irksome in the country dis- tricts, and, as a country member, I must raise my protest against the passing of this Bill. I admit that much good has been derived from the passing of the Factories Act in the large centres where large numbers of hands are em- ployed ; but I say that the Labour Depart- ment, in trying to force this measure on the country, is doing a great injustice to the coun- try. There was a case which came under my notice in Auckland some time ago in reference to the working of this Act. A large factory there is run by Archibald Clark and Sons- perhaps one of the largest factories of the kind in the colony-and they employ a large number of girls. Most of these girls live in the country districts about Auckland, and they have an hour for lunch. The result was that they im- plored the manager of the factory to allow them to have only three-quarters of an hour for lunch, and to work the extra quarter of an hour in order to enable them to get away home on Saturday at a much earlier hour than they otherwise would. Having to go to the coun- try districts, they were obliged to take 'busses leaving town at a certain hour to give them the whole afternoon at home. This was the unanimous wish of the girls, and the manager agreed with them. And this system was found to work smoothly and well until some busybody reported the matter to the Labour Department in Wellington, with the result that instructions were issued from Wellington that the girls had to take the whole hour. The con- sequence was that, as they did not spend the full hour in eating their lunch, they spent the re- mainder of the hour in trotting round the town. It was a great injustice to the girls, and I say it was the result of nothing but the arbitrary act of some of the officers in Wellington. There- fore I hold that country members should pro- test against such an Act being forced on the country districts. I do not object to the mea- sure being applied to large centres, but I say that no injustice should be inflicted on the country settlers, who earn their living in an honest way, and all the country members in the House should raise their voices against the measure. Sir, I shall vote against the Bill. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City). - Sir, before this measure is dealt with I should like to say a few words. I think the House is Mr, Houston Labour Bills Committee for the revising work <!-- PageHeader="1" --> they have done in connection with this Bill. I did not see the Factories Bill of last year, but, from what a member of the Labour Bills Committee told me about it, that Committee last session did a considerable amount of work in connection with it, and had got it to such a state that in all probability it would have given satisfaction to both employers and employés throughout the colony. When the House met this year the members of the Labour Bills Committee and the House understood that they were given the Bill as it had left their hands last year, and I can only say that, while the Premier accepts the responsibility in con- nection with the alteration of the Bill, I think he is accepting a responsibility that he might very well disclaim. I sympathize with him in the fact that, although he thought the Factories Bill as introduced this year was simply the Bill of last year, yet to protect some of his officers he shoulders the responsibility of the alterations in the Bill. I think the Premier is dealing in an exceedingly generous manner with some officer of the department, who has very distinctly mis- led him and misled the House. I was very dis- appointed to hear some of the Premier's opening remarks. I admit at once that there are em- ployers in the country who deserve very severe restrictive legislation, but I was sorry the Pre- mier, in referring to the employers, referred to them generally as being practically void of generosity. The Premier did not mean that, I am confident ; because he must know, as I know, that there are employers in the colony who are as generous as any other class of men. Mr. SEDDON .- I quite admit that. It is the few who cause the trouble. Mr. G. J. SMITH .- I am delighted to hear the Premier say so. I was convinced that was his opinion ; but in speaking he did not say he was dealing with the few, and I was going to say it would be just as fair for the employers of the colony to assert that all working-men were bad because a few of them are bad. Mr. ARNOLD .- The employers say so. Mr. G. J. SMITH .- I challenge the honour- able member to prove that statement. The employers of the colony have never charged the workmen of the colony with being a bad lot. There is, I suppose, a small percentage of the workmen of the colony whom even the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) will not support in all their contentions, and there is a small per- centage of the employers who deserve strict repressive legislation. But, in dealing with a Bill such as this, it is only fair to say that the restrictive legislation proposed is for the few who, unfortunately, do not and will not treat their employés fairly and justly. I am not a member of the Labour Bills Committee, but, as far as the question of payment for holidays is concerned, I venture to say the bulk of the workers of the colony do not ask to be paid for the holidays as proposed originally in this Bill. I believe that the workers of the colony only want to be paid for the work they actually do, and I think that will be found to be in accord- 