selves, provided their security could be made ac ceptable by law. This town really formed part of the county, and the County Council quite agreed that this particular part of the county should raise a loan for a water supply ; but under the existing law and without the assist- ance of this Bill they were not in a position to do so, the goldfields tenure not being considered sufficient security by those who were prepared to lend money. It was a large town, and was very much in need of a water-supply. Hitherto the inhabitants had been supphed by the Waihi Company from their race. The company had very properly and kindly given the citizens the use of their water, but at any time it might have to be cut off. The Bill was to enable the district to raise a loan for a water-supply for domestic and fire-extinction purposes. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) did not agree with the honourable gentleman who spoke last. The effect of the Bill would be to allow local bodies who were getting goldfields revenue to do what what necessary in the interest of their district. In the case of Waihi there was no power to obtain from the Government the money for the purpose of instituting a water-supply. Any other local authority than one on the goldfields had power to borrow money from the Govern- ment for the purpose of procuring a water- supply, but a goldfields local authority had no such power. This Act was therefore brought forward to place them all on the same footing. Waibi was in danger of a water famine, and it must have a supply. Waihi was now one of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the largest inland towns in New Zealand, and was still rapidly growing. This town was absolutely at the mercy of fire, if any fire took place. The Waihi Company had been good enough to let them use their water, but they had no power to obtain water for themselves without this Bill. As it was now nearly three o'clock in the morning, and members were anxious to get home, and were interrupting him with cries to let the question be put, he would comply with their request, and, however much he would like to continue, he would not keep them longer, but simply thank the House for putting the Bill through. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that he had been up at Waihi, and knew the conditions under which these men worked in the dry- blowing process. There was no part of the colony where water was more required, and in case of fire there was no chance of saving pro- pertv. He considered this was one of the most necessary measures they could pass, and, when the position was such that matters could not proceed without the Bill, it was necessary to ask whether anything could be done, and the County Council impressed upon the Govern- ment the necessity of relieving them of the situation. The Government did so, the neces- sary measure was introduced, and if honourable members knew all the circumstances they would say it was one that was absolutely required. Bill read a third time. The House adjourned at twenty minutes to three o'clock a.m. VOL. CXIX .- 46. Thursday, 24th October, 1901. First Readings-Third Read ne- Sly grog Selling- M ssing Steamer " Mo ovai"-Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Cook and other Islands Government Bill, Old-age Pensions Bill, Local Bodies' Goldfields Public Works and Loans Bill. THIRD READING. Fisheries Encouragement Bill. SLY-GROG SELLING. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS asked the Minis- ter of Education, (1.) Whether the attention of the Government had been called to the fol- lowing portion of the report of the Commis- sioner of the Auckland Main Trunk Railway League, published in the New Zealand Herald of Saturday, 12th October: "The sly-liquor selling seems to have reached an acute stage, and has grown to large dimensions the last few months. The Public Works Department are now carrying all goods from the Poro-o-tarao Tunnel to Ongaruhe, and at first they refused to carry the liquor on, but they found on inquiry that as public carriers they had no option in the matter, and so have to carry it. I have been told that one consignment of sixty cases of spirits has passed through their hands to one man in a single train. How is this for prohibition ? The liquor is said to be of worse quality than in the old days. You will wonder what sly-grog has got to do with the progress of this work. It seems to have a good deal, or else is being made use of to reduce hands. This is where the liquor busi- ness comes in : A good many of the men drink more than is good for them, and, besides the time lost drinking, owing to the quality of the drink they take a long time to recover, and although they may put in time they are not able to do much, and the result is that there is not much money earned "? (2.) Will the Government take immediate steps to ascertain if the allegations made by the Commissioner are correct ? It would be premature for him to say anything further until he ascertained from the Hon. the Minister whether the facts alleged by the Commissioner of the Auckland Main Trunk Railway League were correct. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, as far as he could gather, the Department of Public Works and the police authorities had been in- formed that there was a good deal of slv-grog selling going on in this district. The Public Works Department and the police were making every effort to suppress such traffic, and, as far as the Public Works Department was con- cerned the men had been warned that they were doing it at the risk of forfeiting their pre- 