to arrange a tariff for their own convenience we foolishly threaten them with a punitive tariff. I regret the time is so short that I cannot go into the matter fully, but, at any rate, I shall attempt to give members some idea of what I think will be the result of our interference. In the first place, if the Minister of Commerce, the Hon. Mr. Mills, had dealt with this matter aright he would have shown us precisely how the proposed tariff would affect our export in relation to the value of the other timber im- ported into Australia, and how far it was neces- sary for them to take our material. Mr. MILLS .- I would have done so only the time at my disposal was so limited. Mr. MONK .- We would be better off with a few solid figures or statistics of that kind than with what the honourable gentleman told us. Mr. FLATMAN .-. I thought you were in favour of this Bill. Mr. MONK .- No, I am not, because I do not see what the result will be to us. I should like to know whether it is necessary for the people of the Commonwealth to take our white-pine. I believe there are very few, if any, other kinds of timber so suitable for butter-boxes as our kahikatea. It is odourless and tasteless, and these are the two essential qualities in timber that is required for butter-boxes. But I am not satisfied that in the course of time they may not contrive other vessels for the purpose of carrying our butter, or discover means of effacing the odours and flavours of other timbers, and in that case we should suffer severely. Now, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 with regard to kauri, in the cutting of the timber, if we send it away in flitches, there is no doubt we should have a large quantity of small sizes left on our hands, as by imposing a duty of 3s. on it I admit we should be under considerable difficulty in disposing of it in our own market. I have tested by some figures dealing with this matter from the point of view of the sawmillers in relation to white-pine only. Let us say a log of 1,000 ft. would cost when landed 10s. per 100 ft. in Melbourne; it would cost the miller when sawn up net 17s. per 100 ft., allowing the log to produce 800 ft. Now, in cutting up the timber on the other side they would be bur- dened with the small stuff, which I do not think would be worth 17s. And they would find a difficulty in getting rid of that, which would raise the price of white boards suitable for butter-boxes to about £1 a hundred. Now, I believe that if we do not impose this duty there will be a larger consumption of white- pine, and the trade will be in favour of this colony. There is a feature that I suppose has occupied the attention of the Cabinet while they have been dealing with this question, and that is to keep in the colony the labour that is engaged in our sawmills. The labour in pro- ducing the logs will supply a profit all the same. The milling of the log I have men- tioned is only a matter of about 12s. True, it would affect the timber merchants over on the other side, who are taking the logs from us and sawing them up there; and when we supply them with logs under the duty suggested they will have the burden of the small sizes, VOL. CXIX .- 78. and consequently will use less than they do at present. There are important interests in Aus- tralia which are very strong both ways, and if we let them alone I think it is likely we may come off better than by interfering at present. For instance, there is the Moreton Bay pine, and the mill-owners producing it would be very strongly in favour of this duty, and no doubt they have brought pressure on the Government to impose the proposed Commonwealth tariff as against our timber. On the other hand, there are very powerful traders in timber who have relations with us, and they are taking very large quantities of our stuff, and importing from Nor- way and Puget Sound and the limitless resources of Alaska. Of course, they will do all they possibly can to keep the duty down. Let us divest ourselves of the feeling that there is on the part of the Commonwealth an en- deavour to punish us. We are only to suffer the natural consequences of the duties they deem requisite for their own interests. Let us divest from our minds the feeling that this is all owing to partiality or preference. The Australian merchants are getting an import of far larger quantities of timber than we should ever send them, and they are met with pre- cisely the same duty, and it would be far better for us not to interfere at all in the matter. They know all we could tell them. They know how far we are punished or otherwise, and I would plead with the Government not to in- terfere in the matter ; and, if we find it is neces- sary or to our advantage to impose a duty next Parliament, let us do it with a perfect knowledge of all the conditions in which the question is involved. I plead with the House, having a feeling of sympathy or concern on behalf of New Zealand, to let us defer the con- sideration of this matter. Then, again, there was a remark made by the Minister as to re- tarding the destruction of our forests. The Minister may remember that I have fought in the House for the Government to take up this question, and to try and conserve our forests by protecting them from fire, but nothing was done ; and if I owned a forest my effort would be, not only in my own interests, but in the public interests, as quickly as possible to turn it into cash. Lately we have been favoured with moist summers, but only let us have a droughty season, and the destruction of forest may be enormous. I am sorry to have to say so, but such is the truth. I should like to see the Go- vernment take more care and means for the conservation of the remainder of our kauri forests than they are now doing. In regard to conserving the products of our bush lands, I think it is all nonsense. There is one matter I would like to call to the mind of the Hon. the Premier. Does he not remember that many years ago I complained about the Premier imposing a duty on standing timber, and making it to the interests of the bush- owners to get rid of the timber and turn it into cash as quickly as possible. Let them pay only a small royalty to take it out of their forests as soon as the bush has grown into a convenient size for marketable purposes. In 