in a mercenary manner the opportunities we possess ; but until there is a surplus of money, having no need to borrow as we do, and until we have provided the country with roads-we are only a new country, and there are special demands upon the pockets of the taxpayers- we should not depart from the sentiment in practice and continuous resolve to be eco- nomical in every direction possible, in order to have more money to spend on works that are absolutely necessary for the welfare of settlers in the back out-of-the-way places, and to help those who have not yet the proper means of carrying their produce to market. Do you think I could feel satisfied in taking even a pound or a shilling, knowing what a very small sum indeed has been allowed for the extension of the railway north of Auckland -& railway I know people have been waiting twenty-five years for, and who are yet without reasonable access to their markets up to the present time? Of course I cannot. Now, I think the statement that has been made by some honourable members-to leave this matter over for the next elections-is only reasonable. It is not so very far off. It will be very little loss to each member ; and I say it will be more honourable and independent to tell our consti- tuents from the platform that we consider that not less than $300 is the remuneration that we ought to receive, and to ask their opinion upon it. Let the constituencies from one end of the colony to the other say what they desire on this matter; but to take it now, when they understood-at least, nothing was said about the matter so far as I am con- cerned, but the understanding was that I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was to receive an honorarium of £240 a year ; and I can assure honourable members that I am speaking with all sincerity, that I feel too proud in spirit to take anything that is indelicate or ungraceful by voting it for one's self in the manner as is now proposed. Is it wrong to feel a pride of that kind ? Is it wrong to be so proud that I would not have it uttered from the lips of any of my constituents, " You have taken advantage of your position and added £60 a year more than you agreed to re- ceive. Why did you not come and tell us you thought you ought to have it ?" The very gibe that would be flung in one's face would be an annoyance, and I hope honourable members have something of the same feeling, although I know some have expressed themselves differ- ently. I do not want to waste the time of the House, but I think the Right Hon. the Premier must recognise there is something belonging to the dignity of one's position in this House- that we should not be ready to vote any accession to our honorarium until the matter has been openly submitted to the various constituencies from the platforms of the colony. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- It is my intention to oppose this Bill, for the simple reason that I was elected on the understanding I should receive $240 a year, and I consider it wrong that we should endeavour to increase that sum during our term of office. If it was necessary to increase the honorarium of members, I Mr. Monk think it should be brought before the electors at the time of the general election, and let them say if they are of opinion it should be increased or otherwise. I maintain that has not been done. One or two honourable mem- bers have said it had been mentioned in their electorates, but those must be isolated cases, for in any speeches I have read during the con- test the question of an increase in salaries was not mentioned in any way. If this Bill passes its second reading I believe an amendment is on the Order Paper to the effect that it shall not come into force till after the next election. If that is moved it will have my support, because that is the next best thing we can do. I look upon the £40 vote of last year as being wrong, but it seems to me the £60 this year is just & . - bad. I cannot see the difference that some mem- bers and some electors see between the two. I say, if £40 is put on the estimates any member of the House can raise his voice against it, in the same way as they can oppose this Bill. I think it is splitting straws to say there is a difference between the two. It is useless to debate the question at any length, for every member hus made up his mind which way he is going to vote. It has been before the country, and hus been discussed in the lobbies, and nothing that can be said will alter a vote. I shall content myself, therefore, with giving my reasons for opposing the Bill. Reference was made to those who voted against the £40, and then took it. I look upon it that if the House passes a sum on the estimates or a salary by a Bill it is a member's own business what he does with that sum. It is more or less impertinent for any member to endeavour to dictate to another what he ehall do with it; it rests between the member and his con- stituents. I opposed the bonus, and also oppose this Bill, but I would not think of dictating to others if they thought right to vote for it and accept it. One thing was clear in my own mind as far as the £40 bonus was con- cerned. I had no intention of handing it back to the Government. I look upon it as voted by Parliament, and it is my own business what I did with it. I did not enrich myself with it, and it would be just the same if the House had voted $500. Many members have given reasons for the necessity of an increase of their salaries -that they are put to greater expense than formerly. I am quite ready to admit that since I have been in the House, for nearly eight years, the expenses of members have in- creased year by year. But that is not the question; we should look at it that we were returned for a certain time, and we made & bargain that we would return to the House to serve for £240 a year, and when we have made a bargain we ought to stick to it. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) .- I am sure the tone of this debate must be pleasing to all. Some twelve months ago, when the sum of $40 was passed on the estimates, we had shriek after shriek passing through the Press and from the lips of members on the public plat- form, not only in harsh language, but to a very great extent exaggerated. That was taken up 