strike out "one," and insert "three-quarters of an," in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 19 .- " With respect to the employ- ment of women or young persons, the following rules shall be observed in every factory :- " (1.) In the case of a woman, or of a young person under the age of eighteen years, the occupier of the factory shall not be entitled to make any deduction, set-off, or counter-claim against a claim for wages or other remuneration for work actually done, except to the extent of the special damage (if any) which he proves that he has suffered by reason of the un- lawful act or default of the claimant in leaving the employment or being absent from the employment after the work was actually done as afore- said. " (2.) A woman, or a young person under the age of eighteen years, shall not be employed in any factory in which wet spinning is carried ou, unless full and satisfactory provision is made to protect each of them from being wetted, and, where hot water is used, to prevent the escape of steam into any room in which any of them are employed. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 "(3.) A woman shall not be employed in any factory during the four weeks im- mediately after her confinement." Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to strike out " In the case of a woman, or of a young per- son under the age of eighteen years," in sub- section (1). Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 20 .- " With respect to the meals and meal-times of women or young persons, the following rules shall be observed in every factory :- " (1.) A woman, or a young person under the age of sixteen years, shall not be per- mitted to take any meal in any room in which any handicraft or manu- facturing process is being or within the previous two hours has been carried on, or any person is or during the previous two hours has been engaged in work. " (2.) A woman or young person who under this Act is entitled to an interval for meals shall not be permitted to do any work or to remain in any work- room during such interval. "(3.) In every case where not less than four women, or young persons under six- teen years of age, are employed in the factory, the occupier shall pro- vide a fit and proper room in which they may take their meals : "Provided that the Inspector may autborise a place of shelter within the factory, other than a room, to be | four hours continuously without having an that it is reasonably sufficient for the purpose, and is sufficiently secure from the weather and from public view. " (4.) Such room or place of shelter shall be furnished by the occupier to the In- spector's satisfaction with seats and tables, so as to permit of the meals being taken with reasonable comfort and security, and shall not be used for the storage of materials or goods." Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) moved to strike out of subsection (2) the words " or to remyin." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words be retained." AYES, 33. Hall-Jones Allen, E. G. Napier Barclay Hardy Palmer Bollard Heke Seddon Hornsby Stevens Carncross Tanner Carroll Hutcheson Collins Kaihau Ward Duncan Laurenson Wilford Ell McGowan Witheford. Field Tellers. Mckenzie, R. Flatman McNab Arnold Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Millar. Hall NOES, 11. Buddo Monk Willis. Houston O'Meara Tellers. Smith, G. J. Lawry Fowlds Meredith Symes Massey. Majority for, 22. Amendment negatived, and words retained. Mr. MILI.AR ( Dunedin City) moved to strike out subsection (3), with the view of inserting in lieu thereof- " In every case where the number of women and young persons under sixteen years of age employed in the factory exceeds four, the occupier shall provide a fit and proper room in which they may take their meals." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add, after subsection (3) : " Provided that in the case where four women or young persons, or less, are employed in the factory, the Inspector may authorise the said persons to take their meals in the workroom and remain therein." Amendment agreed to. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) moved to strike out of the proviso to subclause (3) the words " other than a room." Motion agreed to, words struck out. and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 21 .- " (1.) The prescribed number of working-hours may from time to time be ex- tended, but not- "(a.) More than three hours in any day ; or " (b.) More than two days in any week ; or "(c.) More than thirty days in any year ; or "(d.) On any holiday or half-holiday. " (2.) On every such occasion a woman or young person shall not be employed more than 