Pere Allen, E. G. Hogg Pirani Kaihau Arnold McGowan Seddon Atkinson Smith, G. J. Mckenzie, R. Carroll McNab Collins Symes Millar Tanner Duncan Ward. Fowlds Mills O'Meara Tellers. Guinness Barclay Palmer Hall Ell. Parata Hall-Jones Heke PAIR. Against. For. Mackenzie, T. Lethbridge. Majority against, 25. New clause negatived. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) moved the following new clause :- "4. The interpretation of the word ' Maori ' in section three of 'The Maori Lands Adminis- tration Act, 1900,' is hereby amended by omitting the last two words therein, 'by Maoris.' " Clause agreed to. Bill reported. On the question, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said, When the measure was in Committee, he stated that whether he was successful in carrying the motions that he had put on the Supplementary Order Paper or not-whether he was successful or not in defeating the Bill introduced by the Government-he would give his reasons for opposing it on the third reading. He thought it was right that he should do so, because he knew that very many members might feel that they had a grievance against him per- sonally for keeping them up all night. He thought, however, that honourable members would agree with him when he said that the only safeguard or prerogative which they had as members of this House was to oppose any measure, and to use any means within their power and within the boundaries of the Stand- ing Orders to show their disapproval of it. He supposed it was natural for members to con- gratulate the Government on putting through Committee these two measures since the pre- vious evening, but he could not congratulate them upon the method of so doing. He ad- mitted at once that no one was more delighted than himself that the Railways Department Classification Bill had now been launched on a safe sea which would lead it into the haven of the statute-book. That mea- sure was creditable to the Government, but where he said it was discreditable to the Govern- ment was that it had been placed on the Order Paper below the Maori Lands Administration Bill. The object was patent. It was, to keep a quorum of the House to deal with the Native Bill. He ventured to suggest that if the Rail- ways Classification Bill had been taken before the Maori Lands Administration Bill, as certain members wanted it, then the latter Bill would He con- not have passed through Committee. the colony that there was this feeling : that the House was diametrically opposed to the Native legislation of last session. Nothing could sup- port this contention stronger than the feeling of the House, as exemplified on the second read- ing, when it was almost impossible to keep & sufficient number of members present to form a quorum. It was not that honourable gentle- men did not take an interest in the question ; it was that they wished to enter a silent protest against unjust legislation. It was regrettable that the protest was not more pronounced, for the measure was one which affected every member of this House-affecting them directly and indirectly, but indirectly, possibly, more seriously than it affected them directly. He held it was a sacred duty to safeguard the in- terests that were intrusted to them-the in- terests of those who had not had the benefits of civilisation and education such as the pakeha had ; and yet, in 1901, they found the Parlia- ment trying to keep these people down instead of elevating them and assisting them along the path of prosperity. The fact was, legislation was being passed that would be inimical to them and to the colony. He wished to place on record the reasons why he had opposed the Native legislation : Firstly, it was not new legislation or experimental legislation-it had been tried for years and failed ; secondly, he wished to state he had no objection to the Bill at all-all he asked was that the Right Hon. the Premier should for once keep his word. The honourable gentleman had visited every kainga in the North Island when he shadowed forth this proposed legislation-the Native Coun- cil portion. In each of these kaingas he said to the Natives, "I feel, after careful study of the question, that this will be a good measure for you. Let us try it. I am not going to force it upon you. I shall bring down a Bill that shall be permissive in its operations, and if a majority of any of the Natives in a district disapprove of it then it shall not come into operation in that district." That was what the Premier told the Natives-it was his sacred promise to them. And now what did he do? He said, "We will not have anything to do with that. I decline to accept what I stated." And the Native Minister had said, " I do not care what the Premier promised ; I am going to force this through." He (Mr. Fraser) had asked the Premier and the Native Minister privately whether they would adhere to the pledge that had been given to the Natives ; but they would not do so, and in the face of numerous petitions and protestations against this legislation it was to be forced on the un- fortunate Natives; that was, of course, if the Bill was ever workable. Without being egotisti- cal he would ask members to look up Hansard of last year, where he had stated to the House that the Maori legislation would be unwork- able, and that at the end of twelve months it would be found that nothing had been done under it. That was just twelve months and a week ago, and had his prophesy not come true ? 