looks at the Agricultural Department-which is practically a bonus -why should we grumble about paying a few pounds in the encourage- ment of this industry ? The bonus is the means of increasing the employment of a large number of fishermen on the coast, and, no doubt, if the industry goes ahead people will have to go fur- ther afield than hitherto. The fishing-grounds are further from the ports than most people believe. I trust the Minister, in Committee, will consent to take out the whole of subsec- tion (2) of clause 2. If that is done the House will, I think, be unanimous in supporting the Bill. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I agree with the remarks of those who advocate the continuation of the bonus. It is a very small contribution that is proposed, but it will be a substantial encouragement that will have the effect of firmly establishing the industry. I shall support the Bill, and trust the suggestion in regard to subsection (2) will be carried out. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - This Bill will be of considerable importance at the present time, because of the fact that Australia has just proposed a tariff which places a serious embargo on a number of the products of this colony. The proposal of the Bill is a mistake in so far as it goes in the direction of wiping out the existing bonus. I shall therefore be disposed to support those members who are determined to move the excision of subsec- tion (2) of clause 2 in Committee. The im- portance of the fish industry to this colony as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 a source of wealth has never been appreciated. I think the member for Dunedin City was quite right when he said just now that it was a some- what anomalous thing that, while the Govern- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero ment have spent money during the last year or so in trawling upon our coast, they should now step in and remove the financial inducement to persons engaged in that industry. I should like to correct the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) in regard to one matter-that is, as to the amount of exports for the purpose of qualifying for the bonus. Clause 8 of the Act of 1885 says that in respect to the first 200 tons exported by each person there is to be the bonus stated, and then, of course, the bonus decreases according to the quantity. It is not the amount stated by the honourable member in the course of his remarks. An Hon. MEMBER .- It ceases altogether at 5,000 tons. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It ceases at 6,000 tons. I do not know whether that means in one year, or whether it means the total. It may mean the total of the exports according to the time. But what I want to point out is this : that as we have upon our statute-book now this principle of bonus for the purpose of encouraging the canned and cured fish indus- try, is it not desirable that the Government should meet the altered conditions set up by the Commonwealth tariff by assisting our other producers in the same way and by the same method ? For example, one of the most im. Mr. Millar time is dairying, and that must be backed up by the pig industry ; and what are you going to get for your exports of hams and bacon if they have to meet the duty of 3d. per pound charged on such exports to the natural New Zealand market -I mean in Australia. An Hon. MEMBER .- There is also London. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Of course, the Lon- don market is open to you now. But this is a broad question, which it is worth while for the Government to look at ; and in the interests of a very large number of producers in the South -those persons who are living now on the potato industry, the onion industry, the oat industry, and industries of that kind-it will be just as desirable that the Government should consider whether a bonus should be given to them upon their industries as it is to maintain the bonus in connection with the fish industry. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- In con- nection with the encouragement of the fishing industry, I should like to bring under the notice of the Minister a matter I consider to be of importance. There is considerable enterprise just now evinced in the southern parts of the colony in the development of fishing. Down at Port Moeraki there are forty boats engaged in fishing, and there are steadily employed in that industry about a hundred men. At present they do not seem to be the special care of any local body, and there are inconveniences they are suffering from, which, I think, the Govern- ment might easily do something towards re- moving. For instance, there is no proper shelter for their boats, and no slip upon which to haul up their boats for repairs and other purposes. The majority of these men are not well off. As a matter of fact, they are much like sailors, living to a great extent from hand to mouth. But the industry is an important one. The Railway Depart- ment is deriving a very substantial reve- nue from the carriage of fish sent north and south. Whether this industry will be ma- terially interfered with by the Federal tariff, of course, remains to be seen. I may mention the fact that an enterprising person, Mr. Hull, has established a small place for freezing there, and I believe he intends to furnish a tug for the purpose of towing the boats to and from the fishing-grounds; but up to the present time very little profit has been derived from the ven- ture. Other enterprising men are also engaged there. I think, therefore, the Ministry might reasonably consider if something could not be done in the direction I have suggested. With reference to the remarks made by the honour- able member for Riccarton, as to finding new markets for hams and bacon, I consider there would be some difficulty in finding markets for produce that may be affected by our ex- clusion from the Australian market. It is a very serious thing for the bacon- and ham- curing establishments in this colony. Of course, there are the South African and the British markets, but the concentration of foods from all parts of the world to the British market is taking place so rapidly that those who think 