them spoken of as they were being referred to that evening by the member for Wellington City (Mr Fisher). He thought that when the honourable member came to reflect on what he had said, and on the course he had adopted he would arrive at the conclusion that that was not the time or place to warrant him in doing what he had done. With respect to the gentle- men in Australia who had been referred to, he (Mr. Seddon) might say he had the pleasure of knowing them, and he had the. pleasure of having their friendship. He looked .upon them as very able men. But he would say that the gentlemen composing the. Commis- sion were men who were quite able to hold their own with any men in Australia. But it was not a question of sending them to meet Australian statesmen at all. They were simply collating evidence, with a view of bringing it before the New Zealand Parliament and the New Zealand people, with the view of giving reasons for or against the change that had been mooted. Taking the report, as based on the evidence given, he thought they could have nothing but the report which was before the House. Whatever change of opinion might take place-and circumstances might occur which would cause a change of public opinion -New Zealand at present, he thought, was not ripe for a change, nor was there any desire at present to seriously consider a change in our Constitution, or to join the Commonwealth. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay had been attacked in his absence. He thought the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Fisher) might have left the words he applied to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay unspoken. It was a question for the member for Hawke's Bay to say whether he would go on the Commission or not. As he had gone on the Commission, he did not think it rested with the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) to say what he had said against the mem- ber for Hawke's Bay. To have overlooked the member for Hawke's Bay in the appointment of. that Commission would have been an act of dis- courtesy which he (Mr. Seddon) would not be a party to. That honourable gentleman had pre- viously represented the colony in reference to the question of Federation. The honourable gentleman decided to place his services at the disposal of the Government on this occasion. He (Mr. Seddon) thought at the time that the Government were under a compliment to the honourable gentleman because he had been ap- pointed to the Midland Railway Commission, and the Government had intimated they would prefer that he should go on the Federation Commission. He (Mr. Seddon) thought, there- fore, that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) would see that under the circumstances he had been unfair to the gentlemen whom he bad criticized. The Commissioners had fairly represented this colony, they did good work, and there was quite sufficient in the evidence they had collated for members to come to a conclu- sion at the present time. He hoped members would come to the conclusion that the amount nise in years to come as having been money that was well expended. While this colony maintained. its present position in relation to its neighbours, they should keep up a friendly relationship with them. He might say that. when in Australia, he positively refused to com- mit himself either for or against Federation -- he stated that a Commission had been ap- pointed, and until it reported he .declined to express an opinion upon the subject. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) . moved, That progress be reported. He regretted that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) should have delivered several successive speeches whilst other members remained silent, and he must complain of the time that had been wasted by the Premier and .the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) in discussing this question at that hour of the morning. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the Hon. the Premier had stated .that he (Mr. Fisher) had made remarks reflecting upon the honourable member for Hawke's Bay in accepting a position on the Commission, be- cause that honourable member was absent from the House. He would have made the same remarks if the honourable gentleman had been present. In fact, he preferred on all occa- sions to speak of an honourable member in his presence. Motion to report progress negatived. The Committee divided on the question, " That the item, ' £3,800,' be reduced by £5." AYES, 17. Pirani Atkinson Hornsby Hutcheson Bollard Rhodes Russell, G. W. Fisher Lang Hardy Lethbridge Tellers. Haselden Massey Meredith Mackenzie, T. Herries Monk NOES, 34. Parata Hall Allen, E. G. Seddon Hall-Jones Arnold Smith, G. J. Heke Carncross Carroll Stevens Hogg Kaihau Collins Symes Laurenson Tanner Colvin Ward Ell Lawry Field Willis. McGowan Fowlds McNab Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Barclay Fraser, W. O'Meara Wilford. Graham Palmer Majority against, 17. Amendment negatived. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) wished to ask the Premier a question in connection with the item "Expenses in connection with consolidation of New Zealand statutes, £100." Supposing next session the gentleman who was compiling the statutes had got most of the work done, would the honourable gentleman take steps to have the consolidation so far put into law, so that Parliament might have the benefit of it ? 