members for Wellington City. I think, if I may say so, with every respect, those honourable gentlemen would have displayed better taste if they had kept silent, because if there are any gentlemen who do derive special benefit from being members they are the gentlemen who have the privilege and honour of representing Wellington and living in Wellington. I say it comes with the very worst taste from those honourable gentlemen, because they have their homes and professions here, and professional gentlemen living in Wellington have a great advantage that other members have not. It is notorious that every one is losing by the four or five months they spend here, but the mem- bers who live in Wellington are not doing so ; in fact, it is enhancing and adding to their business. Again I express my regret, therefore, that they should have taken part in the debate. However, it has been forced on me that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) has discovered that he has made a great mistake. This is the first time I have known him to back down, and when he does back down one can be certain that he realises that everything in the garden is not too lovely. The honour- able gentleman moved to strike out the word "three " and to insert "two," and why has he said he would withdraw that amendment ? An Hon. MEMBER .- It will come in Com- mittee. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The honourable member said he would withdraw it. Now, why is he going to withdraw it ? https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. PIRANI .- Because the member for Lyttelton gave notice of it first. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- That is not the reason the member for Wellington City gave. The honourable gentleman knows if he moved that amendment it would be carried ; and I warn the two honourable members for Welling- ton City opposite not to be surprised if it is carried before the Bill is through the House, because if the honourable gentleman with- draws the amendment I intend to move it my- self, and to add that it should apply to the members for Wellington City only, and I pro- phesy that it will be carried by the House. Mr. ATKINSON .- Rather rough on Mr. Fisher. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, I think Mr. Fisher will live through it. Now, there is another view of the honorarium question that no one seems to have touched upon, and it is this: It is entirely forgotten that there are certain honourable members who, outside the honorarium, have a very good innings indeed every year. I refer to the paper proprietors. Has it dawned on you, Sir, and on the House, that we have opponents to any increase in the honorarium who, as the returns show, receive a substantial amount every year in addition to their £240? Now, if we are appointed upon a Commission, even an important Commis- sion like the Federation Commission, or the Teachers' Salaries Commission, we are allowed the munificent sum of £1 per day. We cannot who have newspapers have their hundreds. Mr. PIRANI .- What about the lawyers ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The honourable member is entirely wrong. The lawyers cannot take a fee from the Government. If the honour- able member will bring to his mind the case of the Midland Railway and Sir Robert Stout he will admit I am correct. Surely the honour- able member, even with his lengthy experience in Parliament and his general information on matters, must now admit he has made a mis- take. Mr. PIRANI .- What did his partner get ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- That is a question I know nothing about. The member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Atkinson) will bear me out that a member of Parliament cannot take a retainer, with attendant fees, from the Government. Mr. ATKINSON .- That is so; but who is the Government Advances to Settlers solicitor in Auckland ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - I do not know or care ; I am dealing with the general question. I cannot go into a matter that the honourable member knows something about and that I know nothing about. However, the honour- able member will support me in saying that a member of the House cannot give services to the Government and receive payment for them. I know this from personal experience. Now, I ask honourable members to look at the matter from a common-sense point of view, and to look at it through other persons' eyes besides their own, and they will see that there are honourable members in the House who are reaping direct benefits from the colony apart from their salary or honorarium, and entirely owing to the fact of their being members of the House. For this reason alone I suggest that they should be the last to attack the pro- posals contained in this Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- Put Wairarapa and Palmerston on the list. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I do not know any- thing about that, but there is the fact. That should not be overlooked when we are discus- sing this question. Mr. PIRANI .- It is not a fact. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I am speaking generally, and I hope members will point out where I am wrong, and I will be very glad to accept their explanation. I do not think the member for Palmerston credits me with making personal references. Mr. PIRANI .- I do not think it, for I know it. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I may say, if the member for Palmerston knows I am doing so, it is more than I am aware of. I do not wish to discuss the matter further than that. I have given as briefly as I possibly can why I am going to vote against this Bill. I entirely support the increase of members' salaries, but I do not support it this year, and I shall certainly oppose it coming into force after the next election, for this reason: that I object to gentlemen who may then be members having 