What reasons they have at present for coming to the decision that the task is practically an im- possible one for them I am not in a position to divine. Like all private members of the House, I know nothing of the proceedings of Com- mittees of which I am not a member till the Committees report, and therefore I am unable to say what may have taken place. But I know that the disposition of the House at the beginning was to pass some simple, straight- forward measure which would have largely reduced the number of local bodies at present exercising jurisdiction in the colony, some of which are overlapping each other's areas, and so falling in conflict with each other. Why the Committee should not be able to achieve that, of course, I am at a loss to say. An Hon. MEMBER .- If you had been on the Committee you would have known. Mr. TANNER .- I suppose I would. The Committee was certainly large enough for the purpose-it comprised about thirty members. But it may be that the Committee was too large and unwieldy, and when a very large Committee takes work of this kind in hand there is always a fear haunting one's mind that the ultimate decision is not the decision of the majority. The fact is that when a Committee is numeri- cally large the attendance is seldom a majority of the membership of the Committee, and it may be that decisions are arrived at one day which are frequently reversed later on by the appearance of members not previously present. Whether that is so or not I do not presume to say. It appears that there has been some https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 entire change made in the line of policy origin- ally laid down in the Bill; and that rather strengthens my assumption. In any case, I can only bitterly regret that the subject which above all other subjects is required to be dealt with in this colony, that of its internal local government, stands a very good chance of being once more relegated to the future, after having been before the House in one form or another since the introduction of the first Local Autho- rities Bill in 1894. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty). - The honourable member who has just spoken was not on the Committee, nor was the honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), and they are both city members. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, no; small farmers' men. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, I think they have more acquaintance with municipal matters than with the methods of County Councils and Road Boards. The Committee that was set up was, I believe, a Committee of experts. All the members of that Committee have been connected with the local government of the country, and we found the difficulties con nected with the Bill almost superhuman, because we found, judging by the opinions of our constituents, that there was not a general desire that most of the local bodies, except County Councils, should be done a way with as was proposed in the Premier's Bill. I trust that the evidence and the replies we received Mr. Tanner If that is done, honourable members will see that it was not the wish of the local bodies to commit the happy despatch which they were supposed to do by this Bill. When ^e consult our constituents and those interested in the Bill, we will find that the majority do not want this change. In that case, what are we to do ? We do not want to give them a change contrary to their opinions and wishes, because that would be unpopular in the country. I think most country members will agree with me that the small local bodies are doing good work, and . there is no good reason shown why they should be abolished. Mr. SEDDON .- Too many of them. Mr. HERRIES .- There may be too many of them ; but it is better to have too many than to have too few. Mr. Martin, the solicitor, said, in view of the amendments that had been made in Committee, the whole character of the Bill had been altered. He said he had drawn up this Bill to do away with all the small local bodies and to make the counties the only work- ing bodies. Now, we altered all that by putting back these smaller local bodies into the posi- tion they occupied previously, and the con- sequence was that the whole understructure of the Bill was taken away. Mr. Martin then stated to the Chairman of the Committee that there was no use in going on with the Bill -that if the Committee wanted a consolidating mea- sure -- since with Road Boards, town districts, and counties simply as they are it would simply be a consolidating measure - it would be better to start de novo with a new Bill. That is the course that was adopted by the Com- mittee. We found that we had to put back in the Bill various local bodies, under pressure from our constituents, and from people whose advice we asked, and from our own inclination. We had to put back those bodies, and our labours ended simply in the direction of making this Bill a consolidating measure. It would be far better, in order to have a good measure, to have a Consolidation Bill drawn up by an expert like Mr. Martin next session, instead of having a consolidation measure thrust into the skin of a Bill of this kind. I must say-and I think the Chairman will bear me out-that, though the Committee was a large one, the attendance very often was very meagre. Other Committees were sitting; and on days when there were morning sittings of the House the Committee could not sit. I think that a Committee like this ought to meet almost every day to get through a Bill of this importance. Of course, owing to morning sittings of the House there was only one day on which the Committee could work in the week, so that it was almost impos- sible to get a good attendance of members to work on this Bill. I trust if the Bill is brought down next session that the Premier will appoint a Committee to go through it. Mr. SEDDON. - Never again will I submit any Bill to so large a Committee. Mr. HERRIES .- I can only assure the right honourable gentleman that if we had had the same discussion in the House that we have 