till Christmas. Mr. SEDDON .- You might be sitting here yet. Mr. HERRIES .-- Lthink the Premier showed his wisdom in sending the Bill to the Com- mittee, and I trust that when the Bill is brought in again, it will be similarly dealt with ; be- cause it is better to send it to a Committee and thus save the time of the House in discuss- ing the details of the measure. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- As a member of the Counties Committee I do not wish to throw the slightest discredit on my colleagues. I admit that they brought their best judgment to bear on the Bill, and that they did a great amount of arduous labour. At the same time I think it will be admitted by members of the .Committee themselves that they acted very well the part of a jibbing horse-they had no incli- nation to make much advance. The result is .that the Bill, with all its amendments, ap- pears in a most imperfect shape. A whole .series of clauses were passed in a most con- venient way, because they were too formidable to be tackled. There are some very good pro- visions amongst the proposals that the mem- bers of the Counties Committee have evolved, .and one of them is to throw as much power as possible into the hands of the people. I believe that a majority of the Committee are adverse to the proposal to strangle any of the smaller bodies, no matter how limited their size may be, if they are well managed and the rate- payers and those concerned have confidence in them. I do not see why these bodies should be taken by the neck and strangled without a fair trial. My wish is to see a Local Government Bill introduced of such a character that the people themselves, whose interests are con- cerned, will be enabled to rectify any things that require adjustment by a simple and convenient process. Where the local bodies are too small the electors should have the power of amalga- mating, and, were it necessary to convert, say, a road district into a county, the people should be able to do that by simply sending a petition to the Governor in Council, without having to come to this House and get a Bill passed for the purpose. One of the most formidable stumbling blocks in the way of passing this Counties Bill has been the question of the franchise; and as this question lies at the basis of all reform, and apparently the Counties Committee does not care to deal with it, then it is advisable that the House should tackle the Bill itself and go through with it. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). - My .opinion is that the country will not receive with much regret the news as to the position of this Bill. I have got communications from .some Chairmen of County Councils, and they say that they think that the present Act works .very satisfactorily, and therefore I think they will receive the fate of this Bill with feelings of satisfaction. There is no doubt that there is a great deal connected with the measure of a good character. I can understand small local bodies objeeting to be wiped out, as was con- matter of very great regret that we did not have the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) and the member for Avon on the Com- mittee. I think if we had had them on the Committee they would have evolved order out of chaos ; and it seems to me that what should be done in future in connection with legislation for country districts should be to appoint a Committee of members representing the towns, as it is evident, in the opinion of our city friends, that country men know nothing of county work. For instance, I venture to say that the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), the authority on naval defence, would bring down a measure which would satisfy this House. The Premier has indicated the possi- bility of our sitting till Christmas. Perhaps he might notify to the House an adjournment for a few days, in order that members might make arrangements to attend the Christchurch Show. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Although a member of the Committee, I venture to say that the labours of that Committee have not been thrown away, and they have done a great deal of good during their sittings. They have inquired from local bodies in their constituen- cies what they wished to do in regard to this Bill, and they have followed their wishes as far as they could ; and if the local bodies are to blame for sending these instructions to the Committee, then we shall know more about it when we face our constituents after the session, and will ascertain how to continue the work of the Bill next session. The member for Master- ton said that the Committee did not face the question of the franchise. We never reached that point. There were several meetings called specially to discuss that question, but in conse- quence of the late sittings at the time the estimates were under discussion, and for other reasons, the Committee never met to consider that matter. That was no stumbling. block, and I believe the question would have been faced as well as any other question had the Committee reached it. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- Sir, 3.0. the honourable member for Masterton has told the House the Committee seemed to have no heart in its work, and there is a good deal of truth in that statement. Why was it so? Because those sitting on the Com- mittee found that there was no intention what- ever on the part of the Government to give the one thing that would make a Local Govern- ment Bill of value to the colony, and that is an assured finance. We were told distinctly that no alteration of the finance that existed in the past would appear in this Bill, and the Premier told us there was not the slightest hope of any more subsidy being available. In the face of that the Committee thought that, although there might be some improvement made with regard to the existing state of affairs in a few minor respects, what the country really wanted was an efficient system of local government with extended powers and an assured finance. But that is not what we are going to get at all by the measure before us. 