magnified to such a degree that those who read the Home papers, and contrast our position as we really are with what we have been re- presented to be, must come to the conclusion that those men who have done this are un- worthy of the power which has been given to them as representatives of the Press of the colony. I may say I deem it my duty, in the interests of the employers and employed in other parts of the world, to give a most em- phatic denial to what has been stated, with the object of preventing a recurrence of what I believe to have been done wilfully and against the best interests of our colony. Mr. PIRANI .- That has already been done. There was another cable two or three . days after. Mr. SEDDON .- I was not aware of that. I regret it should be necessary at all, for we in New Zealand are well satisfied with our labour laws. I say here, in conclusion, that I believe at the present moment, notwith- standing the great activity with respect to adjustments of the last few months, that the feeling between employer and employé throughout the colony is better than in any other part of the world. Contrast that with what is happening in America-I got some letters from America to-day, and from them have ample evidence of the bad blood existing, and the disaster and distress and the evil effected upon both capital and labour in the United States-contrast that with the condition here in our own colony, and I say we should respect the laws we have passed and do our best to uphold them, because they are in the best interests of the Colony of New Zealand. I am very pleased with our night's work, and if all our Bills and legislation were dealt with as we http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero have dealt with the conciliation and arbitration question to-night it would be to the credit of the House, the representatives of the people, and. I believe, in the best interests of the great majority of the people of the colony. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Railways) .- As a matter of personal explanation, I would like to say that, as I was not at the moment able to get the proper Hansard in order to state exactly what I said in connection with the vote of the railway workshops, I think it is only right that I should be allowed to read from Hansard what I stated to the House :- " He might tell the honourable gentleman that, as he had previously indicated, it was not proposed to disturb the classification of the general staff of the Railway Department, but that all the men in the railway workshops throughout the colony who had been more than twelve months in the railway service were to have the opportunity of voting on this ques. tion ; and, in fact, a circular was already set up, in order to be issued, asking them to vote whether they desired to remain under a classi- fication scheme or to come under the operation of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He might say that their convenience in the matter would be in every way considered." I find two other statements made by me to the House on the same subject recorded in Han- sard, and on each occasion I made the distinct statement that it applied to employés of the railway workshops only. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I said at the time I spoke that it was not the Minister's words I was giving. I alluded to the impres- sion that was conveyed to members of the House. He will see that Mr. Smith asked the question whether the whole of the railway servants were included and his answer to that will place the position clear. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member may be right to some extent as to the impression ; but this is what I said on re- porting the vote to the House some week or two after making the statement I have just read :- "I would like to make a statement to the House. Honourable members will recollect that a short time ago I announced that a vote would be taken of the railway employés in the workshops throughout the colony as to whether they desired to remain under the existing system of railway classification or come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act of 1900. A vote has been taken, and the following is the result : 1,407 votes were cast. Of those, 82 were in favour of bringing the employés under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and 1,325 were in favour of remaining as at present. In consequence of that vote there will be no interference with the present system of classification. "Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Will the honourable gentleman lay that on the table of the House ? "Sir J. G. WARD .- There is nothing to lay on the table. "Mr. HERRIES .- I thought the honourable gentleman was reading from a paper. " Sir J. G. WARD .- I have not the official poll. I have simply received an official in- timation from the department containing the results, and I have given the figures to the House. "Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- Were the 1,400 and odd votes cast representing the whole of the employés in the Railways Department ? "Sir J. G. WARD .- The position is that the casuals who have been twelve months and over in the service were allowed to vote, and all the employés from the railway workshops throughout the colony had the right to exer- cise their vote. I do not know whether all have exercised it or not ; they have all had the opportunity. I have simply given the figures I have received from the department." Mr. HERRIES .- Might I ask whether that vote was taken by ballot. Sir J. G. WARD .- I understand it was taken by ballot. Bill read a third time. # ADJOURNMENT. Mr. SEDDON .- I move, That the House do now adjourn. I regret having detained mem- bers so long to-night, but we have been engaged upon very good work, and, I think, with a satis- 