one ? I may assume that he has no reason. except to see them subdividing their lands and seeing them become landlords at the expense of the taxpayer. But I do not see that there is any special advantage in dividing up the lands and making each Native, so to speak, a free- holder. There is an advantage in cutting up a piece of land and putting Europeans on it, or the Native, if he likes to go in for the culti- vation of the land or build a house, and as- siduously improve his land and make a home- stead for himself where he may be sustained for the remainder of his days. Then, again, are we going, so to speak, for a mere experiment to build up a system of administration of the Native lands of the colony at the expense of the whole of the taxpayers of the colony. I speak with some knowledge of the Natives, and I have no personal interest to serve. I am not in- terested in Native land transactions. I have conversed in their own tongue with some of the important Natives, and I know how they fear this Bill. They know that once it is put into operation there will be a con- tinuous expense. They know that as soon as the machinery is set in motion there will be a lot of selfish scheming, that Natives, and Euro- peans also probably, are going to make use of it for their own selfish purposes, in order to enjoy positions of emolument at the expense of the Public Treasury. Now, if the honourable mem- ber had tried this fifty years ago, when the old Natives were here, he might have some chance of doing it without bringing about the trouble https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that is sure to arise to-day. Even when they sell, are they as unselfish or as responsive to the old traditions for the benefit and advantage of their tribes as they were then ? Of course not. I remember when some of the first Native land transactions took place on the Northern Wairoa, a piece of land was sold to Europeans for a con- siderable sum, and the Native chiefs gathered in a ring, and the purchase-money was placed in front of the principal man, and the principal man handed it over to the next one in rank, and he handed it on to the next to him, and so on, until it came round again to the principal chief of the tribe who was selling the land ; and what happened then ? He divided it into por- tions, and put a portion in front of each chief and left none for himself. That was the sentiment in those days. But now, I am sorry to say, I can furnish abundant proofs of Native chiefs, where they have had the opportunity of acquiring large tracts of land, who have become most disloyal to their own people and lost to all the feelings that characterized the old leaders. One case which came before the Native Com- mittee related to a large tract of land which was intended for the use of a certain tribe, but they placed such trust in him that although he was intended to be trustee it was omitted to be expressly stated that he was a trustee, and when he died he conveyed the land to relatives ; and as to the tribe, he ignored them altogether and left them nothing. They took it to the Privy Council in the Old Country, which our Government ought never to have allowed them ! its judgment on the words of the agreement ; but our Government knew very well that originally that land was given to the Native chief to hold in trust for the tribe. I will con- clude, Sir, by saying that I am opposed to this Bill. I feel it will not work satisfactorily. I am sure it will give an opportunity for a posse of schemers. It is far better to let things rest as they are, or to bring down, perhaps, such a system as I propose. But, above all things, let me warn the Government not to take the re- sponsibility proposed in this Bill. They should know by this time that it is not wise to take money from the Treasury and use it on behalf of the Native lands, because the Natives will not give them credit for it. They will take ad- vantage of the system of expenditure and make the State no return. If the Government want to help the Natives, the Native Minister should know very well what ought to be done. He is to place it at the disposal of the Natives, and allow them to use their surveyors, who will mark out the boundary-lines of their papakainga, their tribes, and their hapus, and then throw the re- sponsibility on the Natives to manage the rest of their land. They will make it into small sec- tions for themselves if they like to throw off their lazy moods. If they will not do that they will have to pay taxation the same as Europeans do, excepting those blocks that are set on one side, where they will have ample room to cultivate sufficient for their livelihood, and where they will be able to participate in the labour their European neighbours will afford to them. They are well able to live under such con- ditions. I have been in the districts where Natives work, and they work as well as the Europeans do, and the Europeans are glad to have their services. There is one thing the Natives require, and this Bill will not do it: they require to be made assiduously industrious. As soon as they work for a week or for a month they want to go to their kainga and have a "loaf." If you want to help the Maori race you must make them feel that they must learn trades, and practise industry, and cultivate those habits by which prosperity is secured. As for this large residue of land, let it be given to the young people, if they desire, for their homesteads, and let them work it as the Europeans work land. If they do not like to do that let them sell it, and, as a consequence, suffer, as we have to suffer for doing that which is wrong ; but they will have this advantage : they will still have this papakainga to which they can go, and they will therefore be lifted and sustained above the condition of mere paupers. Mr. HEKE .- Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. I wish to correct a misstatement made by the honourable member for Waitemata in reference to my remark that the claim of the Natives for monetary assistance is entitled to receive some consideration by the House. The reason that statement was made through me is that- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- In making a personal explanation the honourable member 