to sell it, and the Government had chosen to stand by and look on, then there is for sale a line which, without the completion of the un- constructed part, is of very little value. Of course, it may be said, in answer, that a specu- lator might take it and be content to wait for a time in the expectation that the colony must complete the line or purchase his part. That may be so, but even taking that into considera- tion you have the estimate of the Public Works Department, through Mr. Blow, in answer to the allegations in the petition, in which the department says that the outside capital value of the constructed railway on the market is about £135,000. That is the outside value, but the line is at present useless, unless some one will contract to construct the connections and provide the machinery to enable it to be worked at a profit." Now, the members of this House ought to understand, if they do not already understand, that the company, having undertaken to con- struct the line and complete it, have con- structed only the easiest portions, and have left the difficult parts to be finished by the Government or by anybody else. And, while constructing the easier portions of the railway, they took their land-grants from the colony to the extent of £330,000. They complain of having been hardly dealt with. An Hon. MEMBER. - Did they take any dividends out of it ? Mr. FISHER .- What has that to do with us ? It was a commercial venture, was it not ? https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 They expected to make money out of our landed estate - the estate of the Crown. They at- tempted to make money out of the credit of the country. They raised money, and they carried / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero out their work-so much of it as they did carry out-in a most profligate and expensive manner. Then, Mr. Bell goes on,- " As I have pointed out before, there is no obligation on the part of the Government to continue the construction of the railway, and an ordinary individual would wait until the speculator was tired of running his line. The line from Springfield to Jackson's cannot pos- sibly pay by itself. Considering the enormous capital expenses to be incurred, and the enor- mous working-expenses, it is not likely that the Government would construct it. The first way to approach the question is to ascertain the market value. If that is the correct method, then the matter is at an end. We have paid these gentlemen out of the colonial funds over £300,000. Assuming, then, that the market value is taken, obviously it is wiped out at once, for they have actually in their pockets over £300,000 out of the funds of the colony by the sale of their land-grants, and that must not be treated as a mere technicality. I hope the Committee will bear in mind that unless the company had contracted to construct the rail- way from point to point they never would have had an acre of land-grant, nor would they have had the immense reservation over which they could make their selection. So that you may take it that every acre of land they have had which they have constructed is, from the point of view of the colony, so much colonial property wasted." Yet these wealthy and influential gentlemen have the temerity to make an appeal to this Parliament on the ground that they have equi- table rights. They say, " We admit we have no legal right, but we have equitable rights." One would not so much object if it were the poor shareholders of the company who came here in forma pauperis, and asked that some return should be made to them out of so much of their money as was expended in the construction of that part of the line which was constructed ; but it is these millionaires, these heads of banking institutions in England, who have sufficient influence to move the Stock Ex- change to cast injury upon the fair fame and good name of this country -it is they who come and ask that a dole from the public funds shall be handed over to them. I hope the House will bear with me for a few moments while I put on record so much of the history of the company as I think it desirable to place on record now. I am putting these particulars in Hansard so that the people of this colony may understand what it is they are asked by these petitioners to do, and how little right they have to make such a request, after having in- jured the colony to the extent of £400,000 through the representations made to the Stock Exchange, that being the amount we lost in the floating of our loans. I quote again from Mr. Bell's speech regarding the arbitration pro- ceedings and possession of the line taken by the Governor :- "The company then gave notice requiring that its differences with the Government should be submitted to arbitration under clause 47 of the contract of 1888, and appointed the late Chief Justice of Ceylon their arbitrator. In March, 1895, the Government appointed the late Chief Justice of Queensland its arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed as their umpire Mr. E. Blake, Q.C., a member of the English House of Commons. The arbitrators differed as to the terms of the reference, and the whole matter was left to Mr. Blake, who made his two awards in December, 1895. Before I read the part of the awards material to this history, I must go back to the events which had hap- pened in 1894 and 1895 relating to the railway itself, and I can do this best by reading the statement sworn to by Mr. Blow in his affi- davit filed in the late proceedings in the Supreme Court :- "'Extract from Mr. Blow's Affidavit, sworn 10th December, 1898, and filed in the Su- preme Court. "'5. Early in the year 1894 the company practically ceased all work of construction. "'6. The position of the railway was then- "' (a.) The company had actually con- structed only 75 miles out of the 235 which it contracted to construct. "' (b.) The sections of the line which the company had constructed-viz., from 