is inodorous, while other timbers will not do for the purpose, as they taint the butter. Take kauri, for instance : if butter was put into kauri boxes it would be spoiled in a few weeks. Then, with regard to protecting our own work- men, the duty is put on our sawn and planed timber by the Commonwealth simply to protect their workmen at the cost of New Zealand workers, and I think it is only fair on our part that we should protect our own workmen in the same way that they wish to do. Therefore I think this Act is fully justified, and I would put the power into the hands of the Govern- mont to place an export duty on logs up to 3s. per 100 superficial feet, in order to en- courage the shipping of timber in its worked state, and thus extend the demand for manu- factured goods, or any reasonable imposition which may be considered necessary, as it is a well-ascertained fact that the butter-makers of Australia must procure New Zealand white- pine to make their butter-boxes for the export trade. Bill read the second and the third time. NELSON HARBOUR BOARD BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that the Government had endeavoured last year and this year to assist the Nelson Harbour Board as much as possible, and this Bill had received careful consideration this session at the hands of Parliament. The Nelson Harbour had cer- tain natural features, one being the Boulder Bank, and one of the proposals was that this should be cut through and an entrance made https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 through it. One clause of the Bill prevented the Harbour Board from doing anything with this bank unless the Minister of Marine was satisfied it was a safe thing to do. The proper provisions were inserted to allow the Governor in Council to interfere with any work the Har- bour Board was doing if it was considered to interfere with the interests of the harbour. These harbours were some of our biggest assets, and it was in the interest not only of the locality, but of everybody-not only of our- selves and our own shipping, but in the interest of the shipping of the world-that they should be improved and conserved as far as possible. It was therefore quite right that these powers should be inserted, in order to see that the most was made of our harbours, and that the money should not be wasted. He moved the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN wished to know whether there was any member of the Council interested in this matter who could tell them something about it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH understood the Hon. Colonel Pitt, who was not present, was in favour of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER knew he was in favour. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN said it looked like a local Bill, and he certainly wanted to know something about it before he voted for it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said it went before the Joint Committee on Bills, and they Hon. Mr. T. Kelly able gentleman call the Chatham Islands Bill a local Bill ? The Hon. Mr. BOWEN said, No ; but in this case it was difficult for members to get any in- formation on the question. There was no evi- dence taken, and nothing before the Council but the bare words of the Bill. Late as it was, he would like to hear, from some one living in the district who knew, the circumstances of the case. The Hon. Mr. REEVES must confess that, as far as he was personally concerned, he knew nothing whatever about it. It was one of those Bills that might well be sent to a Committee. However, it was a Bill which had come down from another Chamber, where it had been sub- mitted to the usual tests, and he believed the Bill so far was satisfactory. What he took its object to be was that the people of Motueka wanted to be taken out of the Nelson Harbour Board District and have a district of their own. That had been passed through the other House, and he believed that was all that was required. The Hon. Mr. JONES had made some in- quiries about this Bill in order that he might be able to vote on it, and he discovered that Motueka was in the original district, but that the money was going to be spent in Nelson, and the Motueka people naturally said, " If you are going to spend all the money in your district we do not want to be rated." So they would be cut out ; and he believed the members for the district were now satisfied with the arrangements made in the Bill. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY only wished to re- mark that the Bill was submitted to the Joint Committee on Bills to ascertain whether it was a local or a public Bill. It was brought in by the Government as a public Bill, and some members of the other Chamber raised the question whether it was not a local Bill, and the Deputy-Speaker thereupon referred it to the Joint Committee on Bills to determine that question. It was fully discussed there in the presence of the members belonging to the localities affected, and the Committee finally determined that the Bill was in reality a public Bill, inasmuch as it affected colonia! interests with regard to the foreshore and certain Crown lands, and, as the Government approved of the Crown lands being taken for the purposes defined in the Bill, it was deemed by the Committee to be to all intents and pur- poses a public Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. NATIVE LAND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT AND LAWS AMENDMENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it was im- possible for him, at that late hour of the nigh:, to explain every one of its clauses. He was informed, however, that there were good ard valid reasons for every one of them being passed. He could not say any more, except that he trusted the Council would look upon the matters drafted into the Bill as obligations of the Government for which the Bill was, so 10 