to is entirely independent of this General As- | place the laws of this land were in full force sembly. I say that seems to be entirely un- constitutional. Mr. SEDDON .- Why do you not read sub- section (2) of section 8 ? Mr. HERRIES .- Certainly, I will. " In the case of any Federal or local Ordinance which, if the same were an Act of the General Assembly, would by law require to be reserved for the signification of His Majesty's assent, such local Ordinance shall not be assented to by the Resident Commissioner, but shall be transmitted by him to the Governor, who shall deal therewith as by law required." That really makes the position worse than before. The Governor is now put in the posi- tion of His Majesty, and we are forming what is equal to an imperium in imperio. We have powers granted by the Constitution Act for local self-government; but have we power to delegate those powers to any other portion of the colony or to create a colony under us? I do not believe there is this power under the Con- stitution Act; and if there is, I would like the Premier to show me where. There is a clause under the Constitution Act whereby laws may be made for the benefit of the Native race, but these laws must be made by Order in Council by His Majesty-they must be from an Im- perial source, and it would be perfectly consti- tutional if the laws were made from that source. Clause 71 says,- " And whereas it may be expedient that the laws, customs, and usages of the aboriginal or https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Native inhabitants of New Zealand, so far as they are not repugnant to the general principles of humanity "-you will notice the very words used in this clause 2-"should for the present be maintained for the government of themselves in all their relations to and dealing with each other, and that particular districts should be set apart within which such laws, customs, and usages should be so observed." Then it goes on to say,- "It shall be lawful for Her Majesty, in and by any letters patent to be issued under the great seal of the United Kingdom, from time to time to make provision for the purposes aforesaid, any repugnancy of any such Native laws, customs, or usages to the law of England, or to any law, statute, or usage in force in New Zea- land or in any part thereof in anywise not- withstanding.' So that the power of this Bill is plainly exercisable by His Majesty, and no one else, and that is a very important constitutional point in this question. Now. Sir, with regard to these laws that we are about to authorise and constitute-for we are, in fact, constituting these laws, for we are re-enacting them : The Premier raised the constitutional question, re- ferring to the question of ceded land, but that only refers to a sovereign State, and cannot be said to refer to an independent State, as we are in New Zealand. Of course, if the British Em- pire annexes the Transvaal, then the question of a ceded State comes in ; but we are only a portion of the British Empire, and we are not a sovereign State. Directly annexation took Mr. Herries in the Cook Islands, and now we are going to re-enact those laws that were in force before the annexation. I was sorry to find the Premier touch the humorous side of these laws, for in a case like this that might well be left out. We all know that savage tribes have laws that we regard as humorous, and we laugh at them ; but in what he did the Premier drew a red-herring over the scent. He took members away from the most important phase of the laws. For instance, the question will arise as to the position of the European resident in these islands. He is subject to these laws, and yet at the same time he is a subject of New Zealand. Take the important subject of di- vorce. In the Cook Islands a man or wife can get a divorce-and this applies to Europeans as well as natives-if they have lived apart for three years, according to " The Marriage and Divorce Act, 1899." Does the Premier mean to say that that is going to be enforced in the Cook Islands for Europeans? That is one of the difficulties that crop up. Mr. SEDDON .- That is one of the modifi- cations in section 3. Mr. HERRIES .- Now we are getting to know something; the Premier ought to have told us that before, but I doubt if clause 3 gives him power. If this Bill is passed as it is, a European in this colony can go over to Rarotonga, live apart from his wife for three years, and then get a divorce. There is a fur- ther proviso that the cost is to be £1, and in no case shall the costs exceed £1 6s. 6d. So that we will probably get an exodus of people who are wanting to get divorced "on the cheap." Now, with regard to the Courts of Justice. We are establishing a High Court there ; but that is not the same as our Supreme Court. I am as- tonished if the Premier says it is going to be the same as the Supreme Court. It is an anomaly still more to be deprecated. The High Court, of which the Resident himself is Chief Justice, is to be set up as a rival of our own Supreme Court. True, the Premier has put in the Bill a clause giving an appeal from this Court to the Appeal Court in New Zealand, and very properly so ; but if any one looks at the con- stitution of this Court he will see that it has no analogy to our Supreme Court, yet it has a very large jurisdiction. When I asked a question of the Minister of Justice the other day in the House, with regard to the Justices of the Peace appointed there, he informed me that the Jus- tices of the Peace Act of New Zealand was in force in the Cook Group. The Premier might have told us that this evening. He might have told us that some laws in New Zealand had been put in force there; because they must have been put in force, otherwise those gentlemen could not have been made Justices ; although we have heard that in Adelaide or some other place in Australia some gentleman had been invested as a Justice of the Peace of New Zea- land by the Premier as a mark of honour ; but, of course, I never believed that. However, these two gentlemen having been made Justices of the Peace of New Zealand, the Justices of 