wished to be different. I think, with a num- ber of my brother members, the Government should come under the operation of the factory laws, just the same as I think they should come under the operations of all other labour laws. However, I understand the Right Hon. the Premier is willing that the ordinary factory Inspectors appointed by the Government shall be instructed to report from time to time upon the factories carried on by the Government. At the same time, manufacturers and other persons who are brought under the operation of the law have a fair right to ask that the Government shall stand equal with them in so far as they are employers of labour. However, I did not rise for the purpose of criticizing the Bill as it was introduced or as it is likely to be passed. I think it is a good consolidating mea- sure, and I think it is a better measure because it is not as introduced by the Government. My chief object in rising was to point out the large increase in the values of the imports of some of the articles that might well be made in the colony. The time will come when we shall have to watch that the increase of importations is not allowed to grow, because it ought to be our object to try to build up a young nation in New Zealand which will not only be an agri- cultural nation, but will also be, as far as is possible, a manufacturing one, where at any rate, we shall manufacture nearly all that is required for the benefit of our own people. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) .- I would not have spoken on this Bill had it not been for the re- mark of the honourable member for Dunedin City, who insinuated, if I understood him rightly, that the labour unions and the labourers in the country districts would combine, when they would be strong enough, to force conditions on the country settlers which the latter would be unable to encounter. I can tell the honourable gentleman that, if that is his idea of the matter, he is very much mistaken. Mr. HUTCHESON. - Those were only the words of the Premier. Mr. BENNET. - That was the inference I took from the statement, at all events; but I can tell the honourable gentleman that if there is one class in this country who are able to protect themselves it is the country settlers, who, while they may not be so numerous in number as the populations in the towns, still can impose conditions under which the town people could not live, if they felt inclined to do so. The honourable member for Riccarton stated that, if the Bill as brought before the House had not been amended by the Labour Bills Committee and by the House, it would have caused a feeling of great unrest in the colony. But, I would ask, what created that unrest ? Was it not the honourable gentleman's own Bill which, I say, did more harm than all the labour measures introduced into this House either this session or any other session. The last time I was in the South the country people were up in arms all over the Island because under that Bill they could not have carried on their operations. That is the sole cause of the whole trouble, and that is the reason why the farmers Mr. G. W. Russell their own protection. And I may say that the farmers would not be the only ones to suffer if that Bill had been allowed to pass, as the farmers would then have to give over grain- growing, and who would be the sufferers then ? These will now come under the Factory Act, and it will completely hamper employers, be- cause they will have to keep extra hands. Had the honourable gentleman's Bill passed as he desired, so that domestic servants would <!-- PageHeader="\- ----" --> have been compelled to take a half-holiday and leave their places at noon, I would like to know where they were to go to. I suppose there would be nothing else for it but that they would have to walk about the fields until such time as they could return. Now, many of these farmers had contracts for ploughing, and were often prevented by bad weather from get- ting the work done, and during the delay they were paying the men and feeding their horses ; and if they were to be confined to eight hours, and compelled to give a half-holiday every week, how, in the name of Goodness, were they going to carry on the work? That was the Bill the honourable gentleman brought down ; but, still, he tries to throw the responsibility for this un- rest upon the Government and the Labour Bills Committee. I say the country does not care what hours people work in the towns, but the country is determined that it will not be regu- lated by the same rules that apply in the 1 towns, and I hope they will be allowed to carry on their business in the way best suited to their occupation. I would just like to make a remark upon the point raised as to the employment of two workmen constituting a factory. Take the country, and the case of a blacksmith who has got to work all hours in the harvesting. There are often breakages in machinery which have to be repaired. The blacksmiths make their living out of the far- mers, and they have to work to suit the farmers' convenience. Mr. HUTCHESON. - That has been the law for six years. Mr. BENNET .- It may have been the law, but I do not suppose it has been strictly en- forced, because if it had been strictly enforced these people could not have carried on their avocations. If there were two girls in a house dressmaking they would, under the Act, con- stitute a factory. I think all this should be left out, and I am sorry the honourable mem- ber for Dunedin City thought fit to raise any friction between the towns and country districts, which, if followed up, I am satisfied he would be the first to regret his ill-timed speech. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I am almost sorry any debate arose on the third reading of this Bill. It did appear to me to be quite unnecessary, and I should not have spoken at all had it not been for the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton, which speech, I fear, is likely to lead to some misapprehension with regard to what has been done. But I would just remind the House and the honour- able member that we are not discussing the Customs duty nor the tariff revision. I really 