service by the San Francisco service, and that will be proved by the evidence contained in the papers. Members will find that a fight has been taking place between the English Govern- ment and the colony as to whether letters a week or a fortnight after the Fr'isco mail left should go by the Federal service or by the San Francisco service, and it has been decided that letters posted a week afterwards should go by the Federal service, and of those posted a fortnight afterwards only a portion should go by the Federal service and the other by Fr'isco. Of course, I admit a weekly service would be better, but there is no provision made for that. Now, the member for Lyttelton also said that the Federal service was one which was under the British flag all the way. It must be ob- vious, however, to every member of the House that this is a mistake. The Federal service would be under the British flag only so far as Brindisi and no further. Mr. LAURENSON .- I think I said that. Mr. J. ALLEN .- What I took down when the honourable member was speaking is that the Federal line was under our own flag all the way. An Hon. MEMBER .- All the way by sea. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Then, of course, that is misleading a little, because all the way by sea does not take us to Great Britain, but only to Brindisi, and there are certain parts of Europe to go through before you reach the United Kingdom. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- That only takes three https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 days. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Quite so. But his argu- ment is that in case of war it was an all- red line. It is not an all-red line. Mr. McNAB .- You would not go over the Continent in case of war. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Then, how long would it take to get through by continuing the passage by sea. Mr. McNAB .- Another week. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That makes all the differ- ence. Now, the member for Napier, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, said that he hoped to see, and be- lieved it would come about, that the cable rates would be reduced to half a crown a word. I have no knowledge whether that is so or not ; but the honourable gentleman went on to argue, if the cable rates were reduced to 2s. 6d. a word, why should we pay the Fr'isco service €16,000 a year? Now, if he were present I would put the question to the honourable gentleman : If the cable rates are going to be reduced to 2s. 6d. a word, why pay the Federal service anything at all, or why pay any service anything at all? The honourable gentleman's argument is as strong against the Federal service as it is against the Fr'isco service. His argument is that we should not pay a rate to anybody except the Postal Union rate of 2s. a pound. Now, Sir, I propose in a very few words to try and answer some of the arguments that have been put forward against the San Francisco service. The strongest argument, of course, is that which Mr. J. Allen it is a difficult one to get over. I admit it is a difficult one, and no doubt every member of the House, and even the Auckland members, admit the same. The only argument I have to set against it is this : that you have not any- thing to put in its place at the present time. The Government have come down with certain proposals with regard to the Vancouver service, but they are all in the air. Honourable mem- bers may rest assured of this : that there is no possibility of any service to Vancouver, even supposing we pass a resolution in favour of such a service, within twelve months, and I doubt even then. An Hon. MEMBER .- Eighteen months. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Very well ; why not start now and see if we can make any preparation for it? But in the meantime we will have to fill the gap, and the gap must be filled by the San Francisco service. There is no other argu- ment I know of that is so sound as that against the question of the navigation laws. At the present time we have no Vancouver service, and we must provide for a period of eighteen months at least, and perhaps three years, and that is sufficient argument to induce one to vote for the time being for the continuation of the San Francisco service. Then, with regard to the training of some men on board these boats who are to fight us in the future, I may say I have looked through the clause which deals with this subject and I could see nothing to lead one to believe that they are being trained for naval warfare. These cadets are being trained for the marine service, as our own men are being trained in our own ships, but I do not know that the contract includes that the training is for warfare, in the case of a naval war. Another argument, which is aiso a powerful one, especially in a democratic country like this, has been brought for- ward by the opponents of the San Fran- cisco service. It has been said by several members that we are subsidising a line of steamers to carry prison-made goods to compete with our own labour. I do not know whether the members who adduced that argument took the trouble to go into the statistics to see if the allegation is true. I noticed that one member, in dealing with this phase of the question, referred to prison-made wooden doors that were being imported, and I took the trouble to look up how many wooden doors were imported from America into this colony. I find that the whole total of wooden doors imported from America last year amounted to the great sum of £62. And, as the honourable member for Hawke's Bay says, that sixty-two pounds' worth of doors did not come by the Fr'isco service at all : they came from the East Coast. Now, what value is that argument -- that prison-made doors from America are com- peting with our own labour here, and that we are subsidising steamers to bring them ? Why, the Fr'isco steamers do not bring a single door to our colony. In this connection I took out the whole of the imports from America, from the west coast and the east coast, over £1,000 in 