-is it possible for us to afford-to run a direct mail-service by long sea-route at any rate what- ever that will pay us? I unhesitatingly say, in my at a cheaper rate than we can otherwise get opinion a direct quick service vin Cape Horn or Cape of Good Hope to England is out of the question. We could not make the time suffi- ciently quick, and if we attempted to do so, as the steamers must be dependent for their success upon freights, it is impossible that we could afford to drive large steamers, with 9,000 or 10,000 tons of freight in them, at such a rate as would enable them to deliver mails at an ex- tremely rapid rate. Therefore, we may put the question of a direct line out of our considera. tion. The point which most concerns me is this : which line would give us the quickest com- munication with the largest number of people with whom we are likely to do trade-that by Vancouver, which amounts to £21,333; and is Vancouver, by San Francisco, the direct sea- route, or the Federal service? And I unhesi- tatingly say the conclusion to my mind is abso- lutely clear that the San Francisco mail-route will give us the fastest communication with the greatest number of people with whom we do business than any of the other alternative lines. That is, our communication with Europe by San Francisco will be more rapid and more com- plete than by any other line, and, in addition, we shall place ourselves in direct communica- tion with seventy millions of English-speaking people by that line at a more rapid rate than we could by any other means. Thus, not only shall we be brought into more rapid communi- cation with the whole of Europe, but into infinitely more rapid communication with the American people than by any other route. Then, there is another point which presents itself to my mind. We are continually arguing in Parliament, the papers are full of the topic, and public men on the platform continually allude to the necessity for the opening-up of fresh avenues of trade. Should we be acting wisely in helping to close one of the most important avenues of trade by closing the mail- route which connects us with a people with whom we are doing an annually increasing business ? Mr. I'. MACKENZIE .- In their favour, not ours. Captain RUSSELL .- I am sorry to notice that my honourable friend the member for Waihemo has some small heresies on the sub- asia are all served by it. And therefore, ject of free-trade, on which he is usually so sound. A point that has been made by many, and which, of course, echoes in every Britisher's Francisco for letters may seem very great, we breast, is the sentiment of loyalty to our own flag ; but it amused me to-night to listen to low according and in proportion to their members speaking as though it was no impro- bable thing that we may at any moment be on terms the reverse of friendly with the American people. On how many occasions when the opposite arguments have suited have we been told that they are our cousins, that blood is thicker than water, that they are our kith and kin, and therefore there is a natural alliance between us ? I do not think there is anything in the argument about armed cruisers-that we are subsidising an American flag. To my the Americans are subsidising a line of steamers at the rate of $52,000 a year to carry our mails them carried. Then, with reference to the argument that by the Federal route our mails would all be carried in British-owned ships, let us bear in mind this: that by the Suez route, and v a Brindisi, Naples, or Marseilles, numerous letters are carried under foreign flags ; and though they may not be included in the Federal contract to carry mails, yet numbers of letters and papers are sent by the German and French steamers from the Australian Colonies. But by the figures which are put before us, and which I should assume to be correct, it is shown that the cost of transit by Fr'isco-namely, £16,034-is cheaper by about $5,000 than by cheaper by over $3,000 than by the Federal route -£19,417; and therefore upon the grounds of cheapness it would appear to me that we benefit by continuing the San Francisco rather than by the other routes. But there is also this point which I think may be of importance also, and which has not yet been alluded to : that if we close our communication with San Francisco or Vancouver in favour of the Federal route we shut ourselves altogether off from one import- ant line of mail communication without saving any money, for, whatever happens, the Federal route will remain available for us, and we shall get letters periodically via the Federal route whether we subscribe to it or not. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- So you would by the Spreckels route. Captain RUSSELL .- I have grave doubts about that. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- There is no doubt about it. Captain RUSSELL .- I, at any rate, have serious doubts about it. But it is absolutely certain that we shall have the Federal route ; and, when making comparisons between the sums of money which are proposed to be paid per pound of mail-matter to the Spreckels line and the sums of money to be paid as poundage in arranging for the Federal route, bear this in mind : that under the Federal contract there are probably a hundred bags of mails carried for every one carried by the San Francisco service, and that Gibraltar, Malta, Egypt, Aden, Ceylon, India, China, and Austral- though the difference between 2s. per pound by the Federal service and 7s. 6d. by San should remember that contracts are high or magnitude, and that, considering the number of miles our mails are carried and the compara tive smallness of the quantity, 7s. 6d. a pound may relatively be the cheapest, or, at any rate, the less remunerative to the contractor. Then, as an illustration of the cost we may be incidentally committed to should the colony decide to join in the Federal service, I would remind honourable members of the proposals which were put forward by the Union Company 