nerton to Reefton-were the least expensive portions, and the portions left untouched were by far the most expensive portions, of the work, the line constructed being over compara- tively level land, whereas the por- tions between Springfield and the southern end of the constructed line and between Belgrove and the northern end of the constructed line were extremely mountainous, and railway - construction there conse- quently extremely costly. "' (c.) According to the valuation made for the purposes of the contract the esti- mated total cost of the whole line was £2,830,000, and the valued total cost of the portion actually con- structed by the company was £470,300. According to the state- ments of the company's officers the actual cost of that portion had amounted to over £700,000. "' (d.) The company had declared its inten- tion of refusing to construct the portion of the line from Belgrove to Reefton unless considerable further concessions were made to it, on the ground that such portion of the line could not be profitable when constructed, and the cost thereof would be excessive. For example, in 1895 (see Parliamentary Paper I .- 8, page 13) the general manager and engineer-in-chief of the company, after making certain proposals for modification with regard to the line from Belgrove to Reefton, said, " If the Government cannot accept these modifications the alternative is to leave the works at Belgrove in their present unfinished state " ; and at page 14 : "The departure consists in the company excluding the Belgrove line, and completing the East and West Coast line only, and leaving the Reefton-Belgrove Section for future negotiations." "' (e.) The company had either received land- grants or authorities for the issue of land-grants had been executed pur- suant to the contract in respect of the constructed sections of the rail- way, and had sold and disposed of all or nearly all the land comprised in such grants and authorities. "'(f.) The company alleged that by reason of matters which they claimed to have referred to arbitration they were entitled to various concessions, to compensation, and to an exten- sion of the time for completion. "'8. In the month of May, 1895, His Ex. cellency the Governor, in exercise of the powers conferred by " The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881," and especially of section 123 thereof, took possession of and assumed the management of the constructed portion of the Mr. Fisher the traffic thereon, and has continued the con- struction of various sections thereof towards the process of completion of the line, and the Governor has from time to time rendered accounts to the company showing the amounts expended and received by him, and until re- cently the company has paid the sums claimed in the said accounts. The company has re- cently made default in payment of the sums claimed by the Governor, but no such default has yet been continued for the period of one year. "10. The Governor is now in possession of the constructed portion of the railway, pur. suant to and in exercise of the powers conferred upon him as aforesaid. The railway-line from Springfield to Belgrove is a railway which has been recognised by several statutes of the colony as necessary for the public interests of the colony ; for instance, the portion of it between Springfield and Reefton is included in the First Schedule to "The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881." "'11. The Governor has proceeded and is proceeding with the completion of the rail- way-line pursuant to the powers conferred upon him by " The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881." "'12. The Government of the colony has de- cided, so far as the matter is one for the deter- mination of the Executive, that, on behalf of Her Majesty, they refuse to consent to the transfer of a small but integral part of a main colonial line of railway to the permanent con- trol and possession of private individuals, leaving the remainder of the line to be con- structed, worked, and controlled by the Go- vernment.'" Then came the arbitration proceedings before Mr. E. Blake, and the final defeat of the com- pany in every Court, ending with the colony's successful appeal to the Privy Council. The time-limit prevents me going further 3.30. into the matter. To sum up, the posi- tion is this : that, in consequence of default by the company, the colony was forced to take over a line which will be a non-paying line for a great number of years to come. The company and the debenture-holders complain that the Govern- ment or the Governor stepped in and took posses. sion of the line. It is shown by these papers that they were offered any extension of time they might wish to complete the line if they had only given some assurance of their intention and ability to complete it. They have failed in every sense. Sir, your bell tells me my time is at an end, so I will conclude by saying that the Public Accounts Committee has recommended that a sum of £130,000 be paid to these peti- tioners-£110,000 to the debenture-holders, to these wealthy, influential men, and £20.000 to the remnant of the shareholders under the original contract. To summarize what I have said : Firstly, the petitioners have no legal claim ; secondly, they have no equitable claim ; and, having put this country to endless trouble and loss, they now appear as suppliants. They have no right of the payment to them by this 