of correspondence for months past is being regularly received by the Brindisi and Naples routes." That is the Postmaster-General's statement of the quality of this service. Mr. MASSEY .- Paying by the pound. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am indicating to you now how under the Spreckels management the value of the service has fallen completely away, and is not recognised by the English cor- respondents as of value. But now I come to a more important part, two paragraphs further down : - "The papers which are to be submitted to Parliament will afford further information as to the present position of the service. They will also show that any contract entered into by this colony can only apply to the outward service, the inward service and the departure of the vessels from San Francisco being completely re- gulated by the United States Post Office. As a matter of fact, the Postmaster-General, Wash- ington, has made it quite clear that the Oceanic Company has no authority whatever to negotiate or contract with New Zealand for the transport of any mails from San Francisco to the colony." Mr. NAPIER. - But the Postmaster at Wash- ington has consented to the delay of the steamers at San Francisco to await the mails. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The honourable gentleman will be able to explain that, I have no doubt we shall get it from him a little later on. Now, I quote still further :- "Mr. Spreckels is so far satisfied with the strengthening of the vessels' machinery that he has submitted proposals for a five-years con- tract. These are under consideration, and in due course will be laid before the House of Representatives on the question of the con- tinuance of the service coming up for considera- tion. It may be mentioned, however, that the colony is now paying at the rate of £17,000 a year for the use of the service for the transport of its outward mails." Now, Sir, can any one say. after these reports by the Postmaster-General, that he is justified in coming down to this House and saying that, of all the services that are possible for New Zealand at the present time, this one is the one above all others that should be selected ? Now, there is a reference in the course of the resolutions to a British-owned steamer. That may be at once dismissed as mere padding ; putting in that clause is simply an absurdity. Everybody knows that it is not possible under the American maritime laws for an English- owned vessel to be used in that service under any circumstances. I think the Postmaster- General made the suggestion this afternoon that we should invite Spreckels to bring pres- sure to bear upon the Washington Government to relax the United States maritime laws in our favour. That can be taken as an instance of the Postmaster-General's humour ; it cannot be taken seriously. I think if we were to stop the subsidy, then Spreckels might begin to talk loudly to the Washington Government ; but to subsidise him and then appeal to him to bring ment to alter the policy of that nation in our behalf is simply a proposal that is not likely to be given effect to. I would also emphasize the point made by the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) this afternoon -- that the very vessels carrying our mails are all built as auxiliary cruisers, and every mail-boat that comes into Auckland Harbour with the San Francisco mails has six naval cadets, who are being trained for the purposes of the American navy. That is the position, therefore, that we are in. I am not at all sure whether, under his contract with the United States, Mr. Spreckels is not compelled to come to Auckland in any circumstances. It looks to me from the papers, so far as I have been able to read them, and es- pecially from the Postmaster-General's report, that the contract between Spreckels is for a service from San Francisco to Auckland and on to Sydney, and that he will have to carry that out in any case under his contract with his own Go- vernment. Our subsidy is so much found money for him. Now, Sir, let us look for a moment or two at what the San Francisco mail-service is worth to us as a cargo and passenger-carrying service. The return laid before the House on the motion of Mr. Millar, giving the working of the service for the last ten years, indicates very plainly what the result has been. From San Francisco to Auckland during the ten years there were 3,081 passengers and 31,383 tons of cargo-in other words, 300 passengers and 3,000 tons of cargo per year. The outward service from Auckland to San Francisco shows : Passengers, 3,940, and cargo only 8,331 tons in ten years-only 830 tons per year ! It is quite evident, therefore, as a commercial service and passenger service, this line is not a popular one, and is of little use so far as our export trade is concerned. Now, my idea is this : that instead of devoting ourselves to this service, which is really an American one, and paying the large sums of money the Government ask us to pay for this purpose, we ought, as I have already suggested, to spend our money in setting up a fast line of steamers to carry our mails between New Zealand and the Mother-country via the Cape. An Hon. MEMBER .- What would that cost us ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am not in a posi- tion to give an estimate of what the cost would be. But, Sir, what has Victoria always done ? The policy of Victoria has always been to utilise her mail-subsidies as a means of securing low freights for her dairy farmers and other pro- ducers, and that, I maintain, should be the policy of New Zealand at the present time. Surely now, when there is a prospect that we shall be able to enter into competition with the other colonies for the South African trade, we ought to assist our exporters by means of our mail-subsidies. If we cannot do that, my pre- ference will go in the second place to the Vancouver service, in order to maintain an all - red line between New Zealand and the Mother - country. If that is not available, then let us vote for the Federal service. So 