with this matter more fully. I have always urged that the first attempts to assist in go- verning these Islands should be very largely of a tentative nature. Still, I can promise that next year other measures will be brought down dealing with this question. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS DEPART- MENT CLASSIFICATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .-- Sir, I beg to move the second reading of this Bill. The Go- vernment Railway service, as we all know, is a classified department, and experience has shown the department during the last couple of years that certain amendments should be made. The purpose of this Bill is to meet some of the live questions in the service. I therefore beg to move its second reading. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I do not want to delay the passing of this Bill. It is of so much importance to so many men that I think it would be a great pity to in any way endanger its passing ; but there is one question I want to bring before Parliament in connection with the Railway service. Clause 24 of the Bill bears indirectly upon it. It is the question of com- pensation to railway officers on leaving the service. Subsection (b) of that clause deals with it, as I said, indirectly. It says,- "(b.) If the services of any such person are dispensed with through any fault of his own, he shall not be entitled to any such compensation ; but if, without having committed any such fault, his services are dispensed with by the department, or he desires to retire from the service of the department, he shall then receive such compensation for loss of office, calculated up to the date when his appointment and trans- fer to the Railway Department took effect, as he would have been legally entitled to had he ceased to have been in the Civil Service on such date : Provided that no such person shall be allowed to retire voluntarily from the service unless he gives three months' previous notice to the Minister for Railways of his intention so to do." It is on this question of compensation that I want to say a word or two. I am not finding fault with it at all, but the position at present is that, if a railway servant leaves the service, voluntarily retiring, he is entitled to compensa- tion, but in the case of a person dying while in the service compensation is not payable to his heirs. This position has been somewhat pain- fully illustrated in one or two cases. In one case I know, a railway servant was very ill. He was not expected to get better, and he thought for the benefit of his wife, should he die, it would be better for him to resign his position in the Railway service, so that she would be entitled to receive his compensation. He did so, and subsequently got better, and found himself out of employment. It seems to me that it is a wrong position to put a man in, to say that should he voluntarily retire from the service he shall get compensation, Hon. M \~. W. C. Walker I think one or two words in the section would put that all right ; but I do not wish to endanger the Bill. I hope the question will be taken up by the Minister, and that persons dying will have compensation paid to their widows, as it would be paid to themselves in the event of resignation. In the event of the Superannua- tion Bill coming before Parliament and passing this may not be necessary, because then the Superannuation Fund will be available ; but at present it is the case that, while a railway officer can claim compensation if he retires, if he dies his wife cannot receive it. That is the only point to which I wish to draw attention. I give the Bill my hearty support. . --- -- The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. - Sir, I only wish to say a few words. I fully realise the Bill will not reach the full expectations many railway servants have formed with regard to it, but I think the Bill will generally tend in a direction that will ultimately bring good results to the Railway service and those employed therein. I have received communi- cations from persons connected with the Rail- way Department employed in various parts of the colony with regard to this Bill, and, on the whole, they appear to be satisfied with it. It will not please every one-that would be im- possible ; but the general result will be bene- ficial. It will enable us, in another year, to find out what faults there are in the classifies- tion and grading, and we may be able to so amend it as to make it more satisfactory than it is at the present time. I cordially support the Bill. I believe it is entirely in the right direction, and that certain grades in connec- tion with this big public service of the colony will be placed in a better position than they occupy at the present time. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Just a few words in reply. Of course, it is very proper and fitting that the public servants should be ade- quately paid, and therefore that their classicca- tion and position in the service should be secured to them, and that any compensation should be also assured to them. In a large service such as the Railway service considera- tion of this kind is required, because it is not only satisfactory to the individuals who benetis by the provisions, but it is also an assurance to the general public, who are the beneficiaries of their services, that the service is encouraged. and that it is likely to be a good and efficient one. I do not know that I could go quite as far as the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson with reference ic clause 24. No doubt it is a very hard case. bat I think the facts mentioned show how considerate the Railway Department is in endeavouring to meet such cases. According to his statement, they allowed a man who was in articulo mortis to hand in his resignation in order to secure the payment of compensation to his wife. When the man recovered he was out of employ- ment, having received his compensation. There are other cases of somewhat similar character in the public service, some of which I know about. Some of the older officers in the public 