Mr. SEDDON .- Yes; in their hearts they desired and hoped the Bill would be carried, and I am pretty well sure that I was not far wrong when I heard you, Sir, announce the figures- thirty - one votes for and twenty - five votes against the second reading. Some of those who voted with the twenty-five were delighted at there being a majority the other way, and looked much more pleased than those who formed the majority. I also complained, and I think I have reason to complain, of this question of the trip in the "Tutanekai" being brought up, as the honourable member said, for the restoration of my health, although I do not know why that should be repeated from time to time with the view of hurting my feel- ings and creating unpleasantness. My health was certainly broken down; and what had caused that? And in whose interest had the sacrifice been made? The sacrifice had been made in the interests of the colony; and, Sir, I do not know that even the member for Palmerston would say that he would be- grudge something in the way of endeavouring to restore to me that greatest of blessings, good health. I desire emphatically to protest against what has been said in the House and what has appeared in the public Press of the colony, to the effect that there was an arrange- ment made that if the members voted for the amendment of the Public Revenues Act the special allowance would be brought down. I say it is absolutely without foundation. It is a gross fabrication to say that there was an arrangement respecting members and the ses- sional allowance conditional upon the Public Revenues Bill being passed. I say it is a shame and a scandal that that should be brought up on the floor of the House; and I say it is bordering on a gross violation of our Standing Orders, because it is casting a reflec- tion upon members of the House. It is tanta- mount to saying that the members voted for that measure simply because there was something to come to them. I hope we have heard the last of that. There was no connection whatever between the two things. I also say that it was in the interests of the public credit of this colony, and, had it not been for that law, on two occasions this country would have been in a very peculiar position. I say it is necessary to have that law, and no Colonial Treasurer would be safe on these benches with- out that law. It has been a law since 1870, and it is necessary to continue it whoever occupies these benches. The insinuation that the Act we passed last session was passed conditional on an allowance being paid to members is an un- merited reflection on them, and not worthy of the members who thus traduce their fellow- members. They do an injustice to Parliament, because they are lowering the tone of Parlia- ment; and if members who did that studied their own self-respect they would see that in endeavouring to drag down their fellow-mem- bers they were going downhill themselves. Another member stated that this was not the right time to raise the salaries of members, to raise money. Sir, I emphatically deny that. I cannot understand how some members of the House seem to desire to traduce our credit and financial position. I say we are not at our wits' end to raise money. Members will see by the returns I gave to-day that we have been able to devote half a million of money out of our revenues to public works. We have £113,000 in seven months in excess of our last year's revenue, and, so far as I can see, the outlook is brighter than it was two months ago. Sir, it is simply nonsensical to say that a country like this is at its wits' end to raise money. Then, I come to the position again, as to the proper time to pass this Bill. When did we pass the Bill, and in what month, by which £240 was fixed as the salary for the payment of members? I hold in my hand Hansard, and I find the debate took place on the 4th October in the year 1892, exactly a month off the time we are now dealing with this Bill, and in the middle session of the Parliament, as this session is. Now, Sir, the members who voted against that Bill used arguments exactly the same as we have heard to-night, and what was the result ? Some thirty-two members voted for the Bill and twenty-eight voted against it. What has hap- pened to those who voted against it? Why, Sir, of the total of that twenty-eight there are only five members in the House at the present time, and of the thirty-two members there are still twelve in the House. I say that relatively those who voted for that measure have sur- vived ; and I may say, further, of the thirty-two who voted for it five have been called to the Council, and are still in Parliament. In speak- ing on the second reading of this Bill I find we have Sir George Grey, who was an authority on parliamentary and constitutional proceedings, and he heartily supported the Bill. He did not raise the question of the inopportune time, and say we ought to pass it so as to take effect in the next Parliament. On the con- trary, he practically combated that conten- tion, and I say he is your best possible guide. I do not think, under these circumstances, the question as to when the Bill shall come into force will hold water for a moment. The honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) said we were limited to three years, at £240. Mr. COLLINS .- No; I said, I was. Mr. SEDDON .- That may be the construc- tion the honourable gentleman placed on it. But, while he may apply it to himself, he should not apply it to others or deny their right of action. I would say to any member who was of the opinion that the finances of the colony could not bear the strain, let him refrain from weakening the finances of the colony and leave the money in the Treasury. If the member for Christchurch City considers he is bound to receive not more than £240, let him refrain from taking any more out of the Treasury. I, as Colonial Treasurer, will be pleased, as it will help to swell my surplus, and certainly, on that ground alone, I shall respect the honourable gentleman's conscientious action. 