to do the distance in twenty hours. That is what is expected; but supposing it takes twenty-four hours, there will be a saving of twelve hours on the present position. Sir, my time is nearly up, but I want to say this : that, looked at from any point of view you like- commercially, internationally, on any way ex- cept, perhaps, sentimentally -the Fr'isco ser- vice is a long way the best, fastest, and most efficient mail - service possible between this colony and Britain ; and I sincerely hope that Parliament will decide to encourage and main- tain it. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- I wish to rise to a point of order, Sir. I have been asked the question by a good many members of the House whether, if they speak in Committee, they will have their speeches as fully reported as they are now. I believe if you, Sir, were to indicate now what procedure will be adopted in that re- spect it will prevent a good many members speaking twice. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The practice will be exactly the same as that followed on other occasions. In 1888, and again last year, I see by reference to Hansard that Mr. Speaker inti- mated that he would give directions to the Hansard staff to report the debate in Commit- tee. I intend to give the same instructions when we get into Committee. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I have listened with great interest to the speeches of the honourable member for Dunedin City, the honourable member for Wellington City, the Postmaster-General, and others. I did not in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tend to say anything at all to night, but I feel that we want to regard this question on broader lines. We want to look at it in its national as- pect. We want to follow in the wake of one of the greatest statesmen England has ever seen- a man whose advice, if it had been taken, would have saved England from her present trouble in South Africa, and relieved us of the neces- sity of sending our sons to South Africa to shed their blood. There would have been no extra #250,000,000 added to the debt of the British Empire; and we would have had no trouble about pianos and other expenses in connection with sending contingents to South Africa. Sir, after my arrival in England I spent many Sunday afternoons with Sir George Grey. Sir George Grey pointed out to me the mistake the British Government were making in South Africa ; but in spite of that wise man the What I British Legislature got into trouble. want the House to bear in mind is this : that the same wisdom and experience that that saga- cious statesman had displayed in other parts of the world he had also displayed in this divi- sion of the Pacific Ocean. He has said to us here that as the English-speaking race is lining the shores of the Australasian continent, and is lining the shores of the American continent, all these beautiful islands lying between Australia and America ought to be under the domination of the English-speaking race of America and Great Britain. If that were the case, a lot of trouble that has taken place in the past and Mr. Massey One of the chief objects I had in referring to this matter at the present time is that the Commonwealth by its tariff will exclude some of our products from Australia. We are begin- ning to feel anxious, and the farmers are getting anxious that they will lose their price for oats and other commodities. I do not think this should cause great anxiety, for, after all, not the whole of the value of the oats will be lost, but only the difference in price that will be obtained between what would be got with the duty and what is got without it at the present time. But when we look at the other side of the Pacific there is an opening for our pro- ducts there. If the House takes a statesman- like and broad view of the whole position, and approaches the American Govern- 8.30. ment in a broad and liberal spirit, and does not go at them with a pistol at the head of the President-as we are asked to put some measures through here with a pistol at our heads-if New Zealand takes up a statesman- like position, which she could do under the guidance of Sir George Grey, and under the leading statesmen of this Assembly, I believe the greatest impetus could be given to the prosperity of New Zealand that it has ever received. Take one article - wool. At the present time there is an import duty in America of, say, 8 cents per pound on wool, which has to go to England to be taken to New York, and thence goes across the Ameri- can railroad to San Francisco. All these charges and profits take away from the price we would otherwise get in New Zealand. Now, the other day I met one of the leading states- men of America, the Hon. Mr. Eugene Loud, Chairman of the Committee in connection with postal and commercial matters, who has been through the colony to see if in some way it was not possible for the Ameri- can people to meet the wishes of the colonial people, who had always stood so well by the American mail - service. He wished to see if some reciprocal arrangement could not be entered into. Under the Act of 1897 power was given to the President to arrange treaties. At the present time several treaties are before Congress. One is on behalf of France, which wishes to introduce its wines free into America. The Californian people are great wine-producers, and do not want French wines to come into America. Our Australian friends introduce their wines to us now. I do not believe in any reprisals on the Australian people, but if they are determined not to allow our oats to go into their country, and the Americans will take our wool, why should we not take Californian wines as well as Australian wines? Last year we ex- ported from this colony 109,000,000 1b. weight of wool, and if only we had a rebate of 2d. per pound upon that, I ask what it would mean to the farmers of this colony ? It means thousands and thousands of pounds : it means so much that it is a matter of perfect indifference to us whether the Commonwealth pay respect to the regard of New Zealand or whether they do not, because we shall be independent of them. Suppose we 