of Prisons, he noticed that of 188 long-sentence prisoners, there were among them for indecent assault, nine; indecent exposure, nine ; rape, seven ; attempted rape, five. He thought the time had come when the Minister should direct the attention of the administrators of justice to the frequent occurrence of offences against women, and that something should be done in the way of using the lash to prevent their occurrence. He wished to refer to the item mentioned by the member for Wellington, of "Medicines and medical comforts." He found that the cost for each prisoner for the year for medical comforts amounted to, at Invercargill, 23s. ; Auckland, 47s. ; Napier, 32s. ; Lyttelton, 33s .; Dunedin, 41s. ; and at Wellington, 60s. Under the heading of bedding and clothing, he found the cost of each prisoner was: Inver- cargill, 7s. 7d. ; Napier, 15s. ; Lyttelton, 8s. ; Dunedin, 7s. 6d. ; Auckland, 10s. ; and Wel- lington, 30s. He thought the Minister should go thoroughly into this matter, and ascertain why it was this excessive expenditure occurred at Wellington. There was sufficient in the facts he had quoted to show there was some- thing decidedly wrong in the management of the Wellington Gaol. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said that in making his suggestion he spoke from the taxpayers' point of view. It seemed to him that the Gaoler in Auckland made out a very good case when he said there was an unsatisfied demand for road- metal, and an inexhaustible supply of the raw material in the prison reserve there. He said it was the duty of the Minister to send prisoners to those gaols where the cost was least, and where they would be compelled to earn a fair proportion of their own living. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said there were a number of discrepancies in the expenditure in connection with the Wellington Gaol compared with the expenditure in other gaols in the colony. For instance, £344 was expended in gratuities in the Wellington Gaol, as against £155 in Dunedin, and #133 in Auckland. It appeared to him that the Wel- lington Gaoler practically "ran " the gaol. He did not submit tenders for clothing, bedding, et cetera, to the visiting Justices, nor did he submit the tenders for medicines or medical comforts to the Medical Officer. He had heard rumours which made him feel much concerned about this matter. He heard that all sorts of services were rendered to particular friends, both by day labour in the gaol and by warders outside gaol hours. He was told that two warders looked after Mr. J. C. Martin's house when that gentleman was on a visit to England. Mr. Martin was then Public Trustee. Then, a flag-staff was taken down by the warders on one property and re-erected in another place. He was told that the Gaoler could get many advantages in his own private purchases over other private individuals. He thought the Minister should cause a searching inquiry to be made into the management of this gaol. He might tell the Minister that he must look into this matter, and the Com- Mr. Ceredith till they got a promise that an inquiry would be made. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said it seemed to him that the honourable member had made a series of most specific charges against the Wellington Gaoler, and he (Mr. Fisher) would be wanting in his duty if he did not say that these serious charges, laid at the door of the most experienced Gaoler in the colony, ought not to be allowed to pass without protest. He hoped the Minister would be able to give the charges a strong denial. Mr. Garvey was admitted to be the most efficient Gaoler in all New Zealand. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) maintained that it would be a very unwise thing to act upon the suggestion of the honourable member for Franklin, to concentrate the long-sentence prisoners in the Auckland Gaol, because they could be maintained there at a less cost than in other gaols. The obvious remedy was to reduce the cost of maintaining prisoners in the other centres. He (Mr. Napier) had studied the subject of penalogy for many years, and he contended that the Government should reduce the cost of prison management by the profit- able employment of prison labour. This could easily be done without coming into contact with free labour. He had no objection to the employment of prisoners on the fortifications. There were some prisoners employed on the forts in Auckland, and they were doing very excellent work. The Defence Department was charged 2s. per day as the wages of each prisoner. There were many other works of a similar character upon which they could be employed. He maintained it would be a wrong policy to concentrate the prisoners in one particular place. None of the modern autho- rities on prison discipline and management favoured undue concentration of prisoners in any one centre. The reform of prisoners was a most important factor, and such reform would be prejudiced by over-centralisation. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) said that the Auck- land prison authorities were not able to supply one-fifth of the amount of broken metal required by the local bodies. He had known local bodies who had to wait for nearly six months before they could get their order execu'ed. If the Go- vernment supplied stone-breaking machines to the gaol, perhaps that would enable the demand to be met. He thought the member for Frank- lin was quite right in suggesting that it would be a relief to the taxpayers if prisoners from some of the other gaols were sent to a gaol where they could be more profitably employed. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) said, If pri- soners were to be occupied profitably to the State upon any class of work they must have warders over them who knew how to do the work themselves, and those warders should be treated properly. Last year the Minister pro- mised him that in regard to some complaints he had made about the Dunedin Gaol an im- provement would be effected. Well, for six months there was an improvement, inasmuch as a person who, he understood, was employed 