the 10s. 5d. rate, and in view of that fact we made proposals upon a lower basis of 7s. 6d., with the honest desire to do our best to carry them through, believing it to be in the best interests of the country that the San Francisco mail-service should be continued, and that these modified proposals would enable the service to be carried on. I will presently en- deavour to show honourable members why that should be done. Now, I may here say that, in order to do what is fair in the matter, I will sub- mit an amendment to fix the minimum in the event of the first resolution being carried, upon a basis of 7s. 6d. per pound, at $15,000. I think that is only fair, and I will tell members why it should be done. We ought not to place the colony in the position of being entirely at the will or the whim of the owners of the steamers now running to San Francisco, however good that line may be, without a proper agreement, and I will endeavour to explain what I mean by that proposal. The last ten trips of the Oceanic steamers, based upon 7s. 6d. per pound on letters, would give £15,463 to the steamship owners; and when honourable members re- member that Mr. Spreckels's first proposal was £30,000 for Australia and New Zealand, they will realise that a guarantee of £15,000 for New Zealand alone is not by any means an unreasonable sum to offer in connection with the service, if $30,000 from the Australasian Colonies was considered by him to be full re- muneration for the service-because that was his own offer. Honourable members will also https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 realise that if New Zealand were to pay £26,562, the amount which Mr. Spreckels is asking, it would be over nineteen-twentieths of the whole cost of the service, which, in my opinion, is unfair. Under the impression, which I think is unfounded, that those who are anxious for the service will by their action force the colony, without negotiating upon pro- per business lines for the maintenance of the service ; and because we will not yield to unfair proposals, a hue and cry is got up that Govern- ment is hostile, and is not going to allow the ser- vice to come to the colony at all. Honourable members will know that we have had placed before us the fear that the service was going to Queensland-that the Queensland Government would take the service ; but we have seen, upon the authority of the Queensland Goverment, that that is not the fact; and I do not believe that, knowing the development that is going on in the colony, any man of the business acumen of Mr. Spreckels would for a moment drop the service with a guarantee of $15,000 based on 7s. d. per pound for letters, which, as I have said, for the last ten trips would amount to $15,463 a year. Now, it is only natural to suppose that the owners of the San Francisco steamers are being kept well posted up as to what is going on in New Zealand ; and it is only natural to assume that the representatives of the steamers here advise the owners that political pressure can be brought to bear, and it is that which is causing them to stand out in order to get $26,562 from the colony for the Sir J. G. Ward possible to carry any such proposal. The Go. vernment is not favourable to anything like a $26,000 subsidy, but that it is its duty to obtain the service for the colony at a fair rate, and not by paying an excessive sum for it. I venture to express the opinion that a service with a guarantee of $15,000 is a fair proposal, and that the sooner the representatives of Mr. Spreckels and the friends of the service in the northern City and Mr. Spreckels himself realise that we are not going, because of political pres- sure, to pay an excessive sum for the service the better it will be for the maintenance of the service, and for its continuance for some time to come. So long as it is believed that because of the exercise of political pressure the country will be forced to pay more than the service is worth, so long will the people continue to agitate against it. And I say, when we are now pro- posing a renewal upon the basis of a guarantee of £15,000 a year, we are doing that which is fair. Mr. BOLLARD. - Why do you not offer £20,000 ? Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member for Eden says, Why do we not offer $20,000 ? My answer is, because we could not carry it in the House. In the first place, we have never yet had a single indication from the owners of the steamers that they would accept $20,000. Every effort that has been made so far on our part has been met with a negative answer. When we proposed £15,000, what answer did we get ? We got a curt "No," clearly showing that the owners of the steamers thought that by standing out for more and by bringing pres- sure on the Government they would force it to increase the $15,000. If we were to make it $20,000 I have no doubt Mr. Spreckels would again stand out for $26,000; and I say we are not prepared to give it, because we could not carry it. Mr. MASSEY .- You offer £20,000 for a Van- couver service. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes; and I will deal with that presently ; and I will tell the honouraisie member, as he has raised that question, that there has been a change in feeling throughout the colony, and the cause of that change in feeling is because of the exclusion of British- owned steamers from the Fr'isco service. I say, every member of the House knows that. The Government, in making these proposals, are not looking merely at the interests of Auek- land, but at the interests of the colony as a whole. I say the change of sentiment is due to the fact that, owing to the acquisition of the Sandwich Islands by the United States, the application of its navigation laws has made it impossible for British-owned steamers to re- main in the service. This is the great ditti- culty, because that change has made a material difference in this matter, and that is the new position we have to face. I hold in my hand a letter which was sent to the Government on the 28th June last year. It was written on board the s.s. "Moana," ex route to San Francisco, and will be found 