Bill withdrawn altogether than that it should be passed as a mere futility, and only put the Council in a very false position. The ideal site, no doubt, was the Mount Cook site, but it was not worth while discussing that now. The Victoria College Council had hung on to that site as long as possible, and, finally, one member of the Council in the pay of the State proposed, and another member who was also in the pay of the State seconded, a resolu- tion that the views of the Government, which were opposed to the views of the Wellington City and the whole of the Middle District, should be adopted, and that Mount Cook should be abandoned. The Council had selected this as the second best site. It got the consent of the Wellington City Council to an arrangement that the Council would vest this land men- tioned in the Bill in the Victoria College, on the condition that land of equal value was vested in the City Council in exchange, as a public reserve, and that the College buildings were to be proceeded with within a period of five years. The Premier had signified his intention of accepting an amendment to give effect to the latter condition ; but unless the former condition was incorporated also the Bill would be so much waste paper. A sort of triple exchange was authorised by clause 2, which, when analysed, worked out thus : the Victoria College got a big property for nothing; the Wellington College parted with a small property for nothing; and the Wel- lington City got the small property in ex- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 change for the big one. This transaction was facetiously referred to in the margin as : " Exchange of land between Wellington City Council and Governors of Wellington College." An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the comparative value of the exchanges ? Mr. ATKINSON .- We knew that a low estimate of the value of the Salamanca Road site, which the City Council was to vest in the Victoria College, was £10,000. What the value of this reserve along the hilltops was he really did not know, but it could not be a tenth of the sum named. The Premier suggested $5,000, which was absurd ; but, even if it was correct, £5,000 was hardly a fair exchange for £10,000. At any rate, it was not the intention of the Go- vernment, in introducing the Bill, to throw the cost of endowing the College on the City of Wel- lington ; but, on the honourable gentleman's own admission, it had that effect to the extent of at least £5,000. He could suggest a way out of the difficulty if they were to legislate at all this session. Clause 3 empowered the Hospital Trustees to convey some land to the Victoria College Council, and provided that the value should be assessed by the Valuer-General, and should be paid to the trustees out of the Con- solidated Fund. That was fair and reasonable. Victoria College got the land, and the Govern- ment paid the price. The same procedure should be prescribed for the exchange under clause 2. The Valuer-General should assess the values of the two parcels of land, and the City Council should be paid from the Consolidated Fund land over the other. He hoped the House understood that this Bill at present merely gave permission to the Wellington City Council to provide for the endowment of the Victoria College with a 'site at its own expense. This it would not do. If the Bill went through, no charge could be brought against the city for breach of faith after all its representatives had pointed out that the effect of the Bill was to permit the City Council to do a thing which the City had no desire and its trustees had no right to do. Bill read a second time. The DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, In reference to his statement that the Greymouth and West- port Harbour Board Bills were local Bills- which fact the Premier doubted the correctness of-he found, on reference to the Journals of 1884, that, on the motion of Sir Julius Vogel, it was ordered, "That the Standing Orders re- lating to local Bills be suspended in order that the Westport Harbour Bill and the Greymouth Harbour Bill may be proceeded with as general public Bills." It was not often the Premier was found to be mistaken. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that both Mr. Deputy-Speaker and himself were right. What he (Mr. Seddon) said was, that they were not local Bills but Government Bills, and he now repeated it ; but, in order to allow them to be taken as Government Bills, it seemed the Standing Order was suspended. The Bills did not appear on the statute-book as local Bills. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- Short Title. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, To add the following words after the word " Site" : " and Wellington College and Girls' High School and Wellington Hospital Trustees Empowering." Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) moved to re- port progress. The Committee divided. AYES, 26. Lethbridge Arnold Parata Pirani Massey Bennet Buddo Mackenzie, T. Smith, G. J. Mckenzie, R. Colvin Symes McNab Ell Tanner Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Thompson, R. Hornsby Napier! Tellers. Houston O'Meara Laurenson Palmer Willis. Lawry NOES, 30. Allen, E. G. Guinness Rhodes Hall Russell, G. W. Atkinson Russell, W. R. Hall-Jones Barclay Carncross Herries Seddon Hutcheson Thomson, J. W. Carroll Collins Ward Lang Witheford. McGowan Duncan Tellers. Field Meredith Mills Fisher Flatman Monk Fraser, W. Hogg. Graham Majority against, 4. Motion to report progress negatived. 