town on the 22nd ultimo, stating that to meet the request of the New Zealand Government he had ordered the transport 'Tagus,' with Australasians on board, to proceed to Bluff Harbour instead of to Wellington." Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said the fol- lowing were the particulars of the case of Trooper Wilkins as given in the Auckland Herald : Arrived in Dunedin on the 12th July, reached Auckland 19th July, and taken ill on 6th September. Died 15th September. He only took ill on the 6th September, two months after he arrived in Auckland. The death certi- ficate was as follows : " Died 15th September, 1901. Cause of death, cerebro-spinal menin- gitis." This was the result of an accident in the field, when his horse was shot and rolled upon him. From the above evidence it was manifest that the statements of the honourable member for Bruce (Mr. Allen) that Wilkins' death was accelerated by the "Tagus " visiting Otago and the Bluff, and that he was taken ill a week after his arrival in Auckland, were con- trary to fact. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that influenza accentuated the injury which caused the death of the trooper at Auckland, Trooper Wilkins. The Colonial Secretary had stated that the Home Transport Department had changed the destination of the "Tagus " from Wellington to the Bluff ; but who influenced the Transport Department to change the destination of the steamer ? Why, the Agent-General, acting on instructions from the Premier. The Trans- port Department did not do so of their own https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 While he was on this subject he motion. wished to know what pay was granted to mem- bers of the contingents who had come back to the colony and got leave of absence before their final discharge. Mr. SEDDON said, in answer to the member for Palmerston, that the rate of wages paid to the men'was, for the First, Second, Third, and Fourth, 4s. a day; but when the Fourth and Fifth Contingents were in South Africa they received 5s. per day. Amendment negatived, and vote, £30,000, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, £44,088. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) would like to know from the Minister how the vote, "Gymnasiums for Volunteers, £300," was to be expended, and for what particular com- panies. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) would like some information in regard to the large vote of $8,000 for Volunteer camps of instruction, of which £6,022 had been spent last year. He might say they had already passed, under the head of "Permanent Militia and Volunteers," a vote of £6,000 for Volunteer encampments, of which £6,012 had been spent last year. Did these sums refer to the same camps ? Mr. HOGG (Masterton) would like to ask in reference to the vote "Annual grant for rifle- club prizes for shooting, £1,000," whether it had been definitely determined that the rifle meeting in February at Trentham should take : the £2,000 passed in the estimates of the Colo- Sir J. G. Ward in which five Australasian teams would com- <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> pete for the McGregor Cup, would take place in New Zealand, and it was also probable that a team would be selected for Bisley. It was therefore very important that a meeting should be held in February. He would like to know whether the department was going to take charge of the meeting and prepare the pro- gramme, or if it was proposed to allow the usual 66,000 rounds of ammunition and railway privileges, and intrust the arrangements to the Rifle Association. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) would like to know how the " Allowances to relatives of deceased members of New Zealand contingents, £500," was to be allocated. Mr. SEDDON said he intended to exercise discretion in the many claims that came before him, as he had already done. There had been cases where he considered the immediate neces- sities demanded some relief being granted, and he had granted the relief. This vote was to meet contingencies which might arise in regard to those who suffered loss owing to the death of troopers. Mr. MASSEY asked, Was it necessary for the relatives of deceased men to show that they had been largely or wholly dependent on the deceased before they got the allowance. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, they must show necessity. In reply to the member for Christ- church City, he might say this was an open vote of £300, and the principle he should go on in the allocation would be to give assistance to those who had helped themselves in this re- spect. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister of Defence, what it was intended to do with the armourer sergeants who were coming out to the colony from England, and for whose pas- sages it was proposed to vote £160? Could not colonial men be engaged to do the work ? Mr. SEDDON said the work was of a purely technical character, and, although the colonial men very easily assimilated knowledge on the subject, it was necessary to have an experienced official to train them. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister whether he was prepared to consider a recom- mendation that when the new Commandant of the Forces arrived in the colony there should be a revision of the rules governing the forma- tion of rifle clubs. Mr. SEDDON did not agree that such a course was necessary. It was a matter in which he had to use his own common-sense, and it was his intention to popularise the rifle clubs, and to amend the present regulations bearing on the matter. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) wished the Minis- ter to give some details of two items: "Ex- penses of contingents to Australia in connec- tion with Commonwealth celebrations, $5,000" -being much more than was expected hy the country-and " Entertaining and reception of members of the Imperial contingents, $1,000"- in the Defence vote, which was in addition to 