other point I wish to draw attention to. Mr. J. Ford, who was secretary of the Rangemakers' Union, also Lane and Douglass, of the same union, were, according to the list, discharged from Messrs. Scott Brothers'. I must own this was somewhat of a staggerer for me, be- cause I have worked so long and on such amic- able relations with Messrs. Scott Brothers that I hardly thought they would have done such a thing, and I feel convinced that an explanation will be forthcoming. However, I shall be only too pleased to hear that the men were not discharged only because they were unionists. I really feel there must be something behind this, and I wish it fully understood that I only give this as I received it. At the same time, Sir, the impres- sion is abroad that the men did suffer because of the action I have referred to. And that is what is going to damn this clause we are putting in. Is it likely that a body of men will agree to this special Board of Conciliators being set up, or will agree to select, say, Mr. Smith and Mr. Jones from the employ of some- body to represent them on this special Board ? Is it likely they are going to select their fellow- workmen with the impression before their minds that they are making a sacrifice of them, and with the knowledge that the chances of those men remaining in employment after the dispute were very remote indeed ? I do not think it is possible that this special Board of Conciliators will be set up, and therefore this clause, in my opinion, goes far to cut concili- ation out of the Act; and yet this action has been taken despite the evidence given before the Labour Bills Committee against this parti- cular point. Mr. Young, in his evidence regard- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ing it, says,- "I think it is nothing but right, where both parties are agreed, a special Board should be set up, but not on the application of one party only. These special Boards, in my mind, simply mean this : that probably in any par- ticular dispute two parties-who, I dare say, would be the leaders of the union-would be appointed as the special Conciliators on the unions' side, and two parties from the em- ployers' side would be appointed by the em- ployers to act for their side. There you would have a biassed Board, and there would be absolutely no conciliation whatever. You would find that, possibly, in nine cases out of ten the special Boards would be set up. If you carry this clause as it now stands there would be a terrible lot of friction. I think it is far better to let these special Boards stand as at present, the Act providing that on the appli- cation of both parties to a dispute a special Board may be set up. I think that is the best system. So far as I can see, from these special Boards I do not think you would get the satisfaction that the Legislature intends. You would simply have two employers on one side and two workers on the other side. Labour and capital on these special Boards would simply be at loggerheads, and you would simply have a biassed Board. I think it would be far better if you allowed the Act of 1900 to stand as at present." Hon. Mr. Jenkinson I have given the evidence of one gentleman, who, I think, is a fairly good authority on these particular matters, and although he does not belong to the Bootmakers' Union, which I have referred to, he belongs to the Seamen's Union, which, before the Arbitration Act was passed, had recourse many times to this way of settling their disputes. His experience has been that, as a rule, the outcome of the deliberations of these conferences or special Boards was not such as to enable them to go further with it, and was such that he objected to the setting-up of the Board provided by this particular clause. Then, we have the evidence of another gentleman in reference to this clause, and I may say he was the only witness who rather favoured the idea ; but he was somewhat inconsistent. He was asked the question, " Have you had any experi- ence of special Boards ? " And he replied,- "No, I have not. But I cannot see, anyway, why two men belonging to the Carpenters' Union and two of the employers engaged in the trade are not better qualified to fix up an award that will be workable for the whole of those con- cerned than two outsiders." But further on he says,- " If the painters had a dispute before the Board it would be necessary for the carpenters to appoint representatives to see that they did not affect their wages." From this it would appear that every branch would have to be represented. Then, we have another representative of the workers, who says,- " In reference to clause 6, Sir, dealing with these special Boards of Conciliators, the Council is of opinion that this is simply tantamount to & compulsory conference between the parties. It seems absurd to us that, in the case of in- dustrial disputes, it is proposed that the dis- putants themselves should be asked to act as conciliators. It is recognised, I think, through- out the world that if there is a dispute between two nations, or between two individuals, some- body outside of those nations or persons has to act as mediator if the conciliation is to be effected. We certainly think that in indus- trial disputes members of Conciliation Boards should be persons outside of the particular trade affected. They (the Board) have the power to hear the evidence, and the evidence is for the purpose of instructing them in the technical details of the dispute, and informing them as to the whole of the matters relating to the dispute, so that they will be able to under- stand the position clearly, to mediate between the two parties, and endeavour to bring about a satisfactory arrangement. The Council cannot see why experts or persons in the dispute should be asked to come to an arrangement, because the fact that a dispute exists appears to us to indicate that the parties are unable to agree amongst themselves. If they were able to agree amongst themselves, then there would be no necessity to refer the dispute to any tribunal outside their own ranks." Well, Sir, according to this gentleman, if we had passed an Act making it unnecessary that they must be experts in that particular trade it 