mier possibly thinks that the Arikis are child- ren to be played with, and that he may treat them as the king of Tonga, according to this book (" Right Hon. R. J. Seddon's Visit to the South Sea Islands ") treats his councillors. There are two distinguished men in Tonga who bear a close resemblance to the Premier,- " Mr. Seddon," says the writer, "found in the Premier of Tonga a man of spare build and of thoughtful expression-one who might be mistaken for a missionary, as his traits of character seemed more of a spiritual than temporal nature." I need not dwell upon the close resemblance to our own Premier's character. The King of Tonga also presents a striking analogy. I am quoting from page 18 of the book :-- "There is a strong Opposition party in Tonga, and many are obstinately opposed to the policy and person of the present king. It arises from the different conceptions of the Royal power held by the king himself and the leading nobles. The king considers himself as the supreme ruler, and that his Ministers and Parliament are only his advisers, whose opinions and ad- vice he is fully at liberty to reject if he chooses. The chiefs consider the king to be only the head chief ; that he is but primus inter pares, and should act by advice of his peers in coun- cil. Nominally the king does do this, but his opponents say that it only makes matters worse: that they would rather not be con- sulted at all than asked for advice which the king will afterwards utterly flout and treat with contempt." This is the way of kings, and it is cer- tainly the way of our own "King Richard" towards his own Council, the Parliament of New Zealand-it is partly dictation and partly " dickery "-and he is adopting the same atti- tude to the Council of Arikis in disregarding the petition of these islanders on which this annexa- tion took place, as he is doing by leaving clause 3 in the Bill in its present form. I cannot sanc- tion this breach of faith, and once again I shall be one of those to vote against the Bill-as against the motion of last year. The honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) objected to the Premier's aspirations for the conquest of China. I really do not know why he should. China and Peru are both included in his ken, as well as all the lands between. remember making a remark last year to this effect, -- "He has surveyed the world from China to Peru ; he has found it all to be pretty good, but thinks it would be a great deal better if it were under his own immediate sway. His last am- bition is to be the uncrowned King of the Can- nibal Islands." Therefore I think the criticism of my junior colleague seemed somewhat hypercritical, though I am quite prepared to pardon such an indiscretion in a young parliamentary hand. He also gave us a valuable extract from a recent article in the Windsor Magazine on the Pre- mier. The illustrated interviews with the Pre- mier are always charming reading. I recently Mr. Atkinson the Young Man, an article on the honourable gentleman in which it was stated that, not- withstanding his power and fame, he nevertheless continued to reside with his family in a plain wooden building near the Parliament House. This was adduced as a striking illustration of his democratic simpli- city. Everything that is sentimental and romantic is attributed to the Premier in these interviews, barring one thing, and that I have seen attributed by an interviewer to the Hon. Mr. W. P. Reeves, and that was that that gentle- man had " a dreamy far-off look in his eyes." 1 should think that before these illustrated interviewers get much further, even that de- lightful characteristic will be attributed to the Premier also. An Hon. MEMBER .- How far? Mr. ATKINSON .- As far as the Cook Islands -or even Fiji. In conclusion, I would ask, in all seriousness : for how long are we to be tied to the Cook Islands, and the Cook Islands to us? Is it a case of "till death us do part "? There must surely be some means of severing this bond peaceably and without waiting for the parting of death. I think that every New Zealand statesman should approach this ques- tion seriously, and at once, with a view to enabling us to throw off those burdens which we have taken upon our shoulders, and which can bring us no good whatever. It is possible that all sorts of complications and entangle- ments may ensue from the course we have started upon. I shall therefore do all I can to resist the tightening of the bonds which hold the Cook Islands to us and which hold us to the Cook Islands. For the reasons I have given I shall have no hesitation in voting against the third reading of the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I have sat here and listened, and I wondered and almost ejacu- lated, " How long, O Lord, how long," is this infliction to last. We are compelled to listen to this twaddle night after night, and day after day, when we ought to have been doing other business which demands our attention, and business which is in the best interests of the colony. And, Sir, what have we been listening to for the last quarter of an hour from the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) ? Nothing but words. Has anything he has said struck home to honourable mem- I bers ? We have sat here painfully wondering and wishing that the member for Welling- Members would ton City would sit down. like to do the business of the country and get home, and yet we have had another hour of our time taken up by the two Wellington members. They do not show any considera- tion to other members, but obtrude themselves on every possible occasion; and I do not know really what the object is, unless they want to keep members in Wellington all the year round. I say it simply irritates members, and probably when those two honourable members may have something to say worth listening to- I admit that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) does sometimes say something 