industries were not paying. But these em- ployers have been virtually pulling down their barns and building greater year after year, and, I ask, where does the money come from to do this work? Is it likely these men, who are keen and businesslike, and who know per- fectly well what they are about, who never do anything without turning over money, would put their money into large industries if they were not likely to prove remunerative ? Sir, the clause which I intend to move is this :- "The provisions of the last preceding section are hereby modified in the case of woollen-mills to the extent following, that is to say : Women and boys may be employed therein (a) for not more than forty-eight hours, excluding meal- times, in any one week ; and (b) for not more than eight hours and three-quarters in any one day ; and (c) for not more than four hours and a half continuously without an interval of at least three-quarters of an hour for a meal." That clause has been drawn up with the greatest care, and is, I understand, exactly what is required to carry out the object of those who believe that woollen-mills should be exempted from certain provisions of the Act which would hamper them unnecessarily. Sir, I take this action because I think we must be careful that we do not give to the workers a gilded money - box, and deprive them of the means of putting anything into it. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- All that is in the Bill before the Council is whether the number of hours which shall be worked by women and boys shall be forty-five or forty- eight per week. That is the whole thing in the Bill, so far as I can understand it ; that is the only thing that is likely to create any great dispute. The speakers have wandered away from this very discursively in- deed, and I do not intend to follow them, except in one respect, and that is that I want to in- dorse the sentiments of the Hon. Mr. Rigg. It is absolutely certain that unless we protect our industries competition from outside will de- stroy them at the rate we are going on. I will give an instance of it. In Christchurch I was staying at an hotel with an expert from America, who was putting up bootmaking ma- chinery, and he said that he knew a firm in America that made no profit at all except the discounts they got on the purchase of their leather. They bought their leather for cash, and got a discount which was sufficient to pay them. The reason of that is, they were doing such an immense business, and purchasing such an immense quantity of leather, that there was a splendid profit on the discounts alone. It is impossible for us to com- pete with firms doing such an immense trade as that ; without protection it is utterly impossible, more especially when their working-conditions are more advantageous to the employer than those under which we work. Consequently I am entirely of opinion that some protection is absolutely necessary, and that un- less we get it our industries will go to the ground. Well, what happens is this: I believe Hon. Mr. Jones these immense concerns manufactured a certain quantity of boots and shoes, or goods of any kind. They sell at a great profit in the beginning of the season in their own country large quantities of these manufactured articles. They have then a surplus which they can sell cheaply, because they have their profit made already, and this surplus is sent in here, and they sell at less than cost price, and in that way that surplus ruins our industries, because it competes with our industries on unfavourable terms. There- fore, if the present standard of living, the present rate of wages, and the present hours of I employment are to be maintained in this colony, there is no means of saving our industries ex- cept by means of protection. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I propose to approach this question from the point of view of the farmers. It appears to be in accord- ance with the doctrine laid down by several honourable gentlemen who have spoken that the only way to increase the manufacturing productiveness of this country is to impose a prohibitive tariff on the goods that are im- ported. This is very interesting news to the farmers and graziers. Now, who will pay this? It is to be paid by the great bulk of the workers of the colony-that is, by those engaged in the farming and pastoral and dairy industries. Are their productions protected ? Certainly not. Take wool : A few years ago crossbred wool was worth about 9d. in London, and the cost of shearing was £1 per hundred sheep. This last year it is worth 5d. a pound in London, and the cost of shearing is exactly the same-that is, the cost of production is the same in both cases, and the gross proceeds are now about one-half; and yet the producers do not ap- peal to Parliament for special consideration. Now, what does the sheep-farmer do in that case ? He has to face this reduction, improve the cultivation of his land, and fatten more sheep by improving his methods ; and the re- sult has been, owing to more production of wool and a slight rise in sheep, that he has just got about the same price for his output as he did five years ago, when wool was 9d. The farmer has to compete with the rest of the world in wool, and it is the same with butter and cheese, and frozen meat, for the market is in London. You cannot protect the farmer except by giving him cheap transit, cheap goods, and cheap money. This process of protection will not benefit the farmers of the colony at all, as it will result in raising the cost of the goods he consumes. America puts a heavy protection tariff upon the imports which compete with her own manufactures ; but who pays for it! The farmers of America, just the same as the farmers here have to pay for our protection. Farmers in America are three-fourths of the population, and they have to pay for the other fourth. A good deal of talk has been made about cost of production. What is it that enables a nation to manufacture cheaply ? First of all, climate, natural advantages-such as cheap coal and water-power-first-class That machinery, and intelligent workers. 