ber wanted the details he could have them, but he really did not think he would find them interesting. They were very minute and numerous. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) did not think the Premier intended to reflect on the officer com- manding at Newtown Park for the muddle that occurred there, but, as a matter of fact, he had done so. His opinion was that Lieut .- Colonel Sommerville had been very badly used. He was left alone when others were enjoying themselves at the Royal reception, and any recommendations he made in regard to cooking or other camp matters were not given effect to. An attempt had been made to throw the whole blame on his shoulders. He thought this was extremely unjust, and that in fairness they should let the matter rest until time had been given to that officer to reply. He (Mr. Willis) said the military heads of the department were the people mainly responsible, and they should bear the blame. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, referring to the muddle at Newtown Park, and to a smaller extent at Christchurch, he once heard the Premier say that if he had control of affairs in South Africa he would make some of the generals sit up. The right honourable gentle- man was also Defence Minister, and when we had a little show of our own in the neighbour- hood of a large city both the men and horses were starved and the utmost discomfort pre- vailed. He did not know what would happen if a similar gathering was held two or three hundred miles from a large centre. He was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 in sympathy with Mr. Barclay in his endeavour to get details for these items. It was the duty of members to see that money was not im- properly expended, and to know how it was expended, and, so far as this item was con- cerned, he would like to know whether the luncheons given to the veterans in the different centres were provided for in the vote of £20,000 ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. MASSEY said, Perhaps the easiest way would be for the Minister in charge to give the details of this .£20,000, and also of the succeeding item of £12,153. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said he did not under- stand the Premier to blame Lieut .- Colonel Sommerville, because he would be putting the blame on the wrong shoulders had he done so. Lieut .- Colonel Sommerville made suggestions in regard to cooking and other matters in con- nection with the encampment at Newtown Park to the officer commanding the district, and re- peated them, and they were ignored ; but he ventured to say that had the recommendations been given effect to the scandal would not have occurred. This was not the first muddle that had occurred here; there were muddles every time troops were brought to this city. They were absolutely incompetent and incapable of catering for anything over fifty men. It was a marvellous thing that Volunteers brought from the South Island were looked after and fed on the road ; but the Volunteers from the I obvious in that camp: First, that the men day, and were expected to stay there until ten o'clock the next morning without anything to eat ; or, if they did get anything, it was at their own expense, as was done on the occasion of the visit of the Imperial troops. He thought the sooner the head of the department, or the Government, shifted whoever was in charge and got some one who knew how to look after the men, the better it would be for the men and for the colony. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) was one of those who considered that we had spent too much in military display by fully £20,000 or £30,000, and that the balance of the $75,000 could have been spent on behalf of fifty other purposes with much more benefit to the colony. He thought the Premier would remember an instance where some northern troops had been brought down to Wellington, and no provision whatever was made for their accommodation, and they became indebted to the hospitality of the people of a small township north of here for the accom- modation that ought to have been officially provided. It seemed to him the department was incapable of dealing with any number beyond fifty troops without some complaint arising, and he was sure there was no one more con- scious of that than the Right Hon. the Pre- mier. He would prove it, for as he passed by the Premier's residence the other day he saw him flying the Union Jack with a white border, which was the British signal all the world over that a pilot was wanted. He thought flying the Pilot Jack was very significant of our condition, though he should prefer to see him flying the blue ensign with the badge of the Southern Cross. As to the review of troops at the different centres, the Premier had admitted that the season was a bad one, and it was very unwise to risk the moving about of a large number of young people, and subject them to the inclem- ency of the weather in the depth of winter. If a few choice troops had been selected at each of the centres to form a bodyguard for the Royal visitors it would have been better than all the show that had been made. The fact of the matter was the country could not well afford the cost of such a show. The welfare of pos- terity had to be looked to, and there were many other matters that required urgent attention in the interests of the colony, and until they were provided for there was really no money to throw away in useless directions such as much of the displays that were made on the occasion of the Royal visit. For himself, he thought that, in- stead of £75,000) being expended, as the Premier had said would be the cost, not more than $30,000 or £40,000 should have been spent. Such a sum would have done ample justice to the Royal visitors, and at the same time there would have been no feeling that the colony had gone so seriously beyond the amount that he thought should have been squandered. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) wished to say a word or two about the affair in the Newtown camp, more especially as the Minister was concerned in the matter. Two things were 