sterling; so that, if anything, the farming com- munity should have had a' preponderance of re- presentation on the Commission, and the gold- fields should also have been represented. But the towns were permitted to dominate all our works, although the towns were entirely de- pendent on the country, agriculture, and mining for their very existence. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said that . when the Premier was in Australia he dwelt largely on the question of reciprocity, and the affection which one .branch of the colonial family ought to show to another. We were brothers in heart-and much more "folther- iddle.i-do." . But to show how much the minds of members of the Commission were dominated by the minds of the Government, it was only necessary to allude to the proceedings of the first meeting of the Commission held in Wel- lington,. when the Commission, being unin- fluenced by the superior mind of the Govern- ment, decided that its meetings should not be open to the Press. That conclusion evoked a chorus of indignation from the newspapers of the colony, and, in consequence, the Acting- Premier (Mr. Ward) wrote to the Commission protesting against the proceedings being closed to the Press. The Commission quailed. It collapsed. At the next meeting, at Invercar- gill, the question was again considered, and the proceedings of the Commission were thrown open to the Press, as directed by the Govern- ment. If the minds of the Commission could be dominated in that way by the Govern- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ment, it was only reasonable to conclude that on the larger question of Federation the minds of the Commission would again be dominated by the stronger mind of the Go- vernment. As to the composition of the Com- mission, one might with reason have thought it would have been composed of the men most capable intellectually to meet the leading states- men of Australia. Could they imagine some members of the Commission he could name being called upon to argue the question of Federation with such men as Barton, Reid, Deakin, or Kingston-those men of towering intellect ? Why, the colony might as well have sent babes in swaddling clothes to discuss the question, as to send some members of the Commission to discuss such a subject with men of the intellectual power he had just named. If there really was a genuine desire to ascertain the minds of the people of this colony on the subject of Federation, and to contrast that opinion with the opinion of the people of Australia, was this the way to go about it ? He admitted that some of the New Zealand representatives were of equal ability with the Australian representatives. The Hon. Mr. C. C. Bowen was a credit to the colony. Captain Russell was a man who was entitled to represent the colony. Mr. John Roberts and Mr. W. S. Reid were capable men, but at the same time he saw no special reason why Mr. Reid should have been selected. The late Mr. Justice Richmond has placed on record his views on the subject of a federal judiciary, Mr. T. Mackenzie that great man on such a great subject were still available ; but he ventured to say that not one man who occupied a seat on the Commis- sion was able to say where Mr. Justice Rich- mond's views were to be found on that phase of . the .Federation question - the Australian judiciary. There could be no objection to the names he had mentioned, however, but there were others in regard to whom he for- bore to say anything. Over the names of the two gentlemen selected from the City of Wellington he would prefer to draw a veil. If it were intended that this colony should be worthily represented, it ought to have been represented by men who had given some pre- vious study to the question. If the matter went to the vote he would vote with the honourable member for Waihemo. The report and evidence stood as a monument of the most fatuous folly. No more ridiculous mass of evi- dence had ever been put together on the subject of Australian federation. It could only be looked upon with a feeling of pity and shame. It would have been far better to have spent the money in making roads than to spend it in this way. There was no reason for setting up this Commission, for the Government was in a posi- tion to say whether the colony ought to federate or not; and no report from any Commission would have influenced them in any way what- ever. The Right Hon. R. J. Seddon had de- creed ! What more was wanted? He agreed with the honourable member for Franklin, that the question had been trifled with in a most discreditable manner. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he believed this expenditure was one of the worst instances of the useless waste of public money the Go- vernment had ever been guilty of. He had been surprised at some of the men who had taken seats on the Commission, who he had not thought could have been guilty of encouraging the Government in what was plainly an effort to balk proper consideration of the question. The whole idea of the Government seemed to have been to get up a picnic for a few gentle- men. It was a pity they could not strike the amount off the estimates. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) wished to make a remark that he would rather have made if the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had been present-namely, that that gentleman, nominally occupying the position of leader of the Opposition, ought not to have accepted a position on the Commission. As leader of a party he ought to have held himself aloof, so that, if the subject were to be honestly debated afterwards, he would be in a position to express a dispassionate and judicial opinion. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he could not sit there and hear the member for Wellington City, or any other member, condemn gentlemen who had given their services to the colony as Royal Commissioners, and who had performed good service. They might blame the Govern- ment for making the appointment, or setting up the Commission; but he thought it very much out of place, and a grave injustice to the 