its being laid on the table. Mr. PIRANI asked if he could lay on the table the Minister's reply to him, in which he said he (Mr. Pirani) must have referred to the road bridge, and that the iron in connection with the road bridge had certainly been in the position stated. Mr. HALL-JONES said he had pointed out that what the honourable member probably re- ferred to was the Mangaweka Bridge, which was proposed to be erected, the cylinders of which had been on the ground for a considerable time, but, as it had been found necessary to raise the height of that structure the bridge could not be proceeded with. There was nothing buried, nor was any material spoilt. Provision had now been made on the estimates for the work to be done. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked Mr. Deputy-Speaker if, in the exercise of his autho- rity as guardian of the privileges and of the honour of the House, he would rule that neither of these documents to which objection had been taken should appear in Hansard. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Certainly. # CALLIOPE DOCK. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) for Mr\_Napier (Auckland City), asked the Government, If they will reserve twenty thousand acres of land in the Ohura and adjacent blocks as an endowment for the Auckland Harbour Board, to aid in the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 maintenance of the Calliope National Dock, and the further works undertaken by the Auck- land Harbour Board in the interests of the Imperial navy and the mercantile marine ? He would point out that the position of public bodies in the North Island was different from what it was in the South, where large endow- ments had been given in the early days. Some- thing of this sort would be a great advantage to a large national undertaking like the Cal- liope Dock. This dock had cost the Auckland Harbour Board #150,000, and involved an annual loss to the Board's revenues of £7,000. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the lands in the Ohura Block were being surveyed for ordi- nary settlement. If twenty thousand acres of land was reserved for the Auckland Harbour Board, then it would take up, no doubt, the greater part of the valuable lands in the Ohura Valley. # WELLINGTON GRAVING-DOCK AND OTHER WORKS. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked the Government, If they will reserve twenty thousand acres of land in the Wellington Pro- vincial District as an endowment for the Wel lington Harbour Board, to aid in the mainten- ance of the Wellington graving-dock and the further works undertaken by the Board in the interests of the Imperial navy and the mer- cantile marine ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this question of endowments was a very large one, and the Government would give it every consideration. TIMBER. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Pre- mier, Whether that portion of the Sydney tele- grams appearing in the New Zealand Times of 29th October, 1901, is correct which states that "Mr. Seddon had arranged to place an export duty in New Zealand of 3s. per 100 superficial feet on white-pine and kauri balk timbor "? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the statement referred to was absolutely incorrect, and he could not understand how such a communication could have been sent over. There had been a Conference of those interested in the timber industry, and they had made a recommendation which had been conveyed to the Government, and, at the time the statement appeared in the paper that he had come to the conclusion re- ferred to, it was absolutely incorrect. The matter was now before the Government. # ACCOMMODATION FOR WAR-SHIPS AT PORT CHALMERS. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Premier, If he has noticed the announcement in the Press to the effect that the Australian Squadron intends making a cruise around the Australian States and New Zealand, calling at Lyttelton, Wellington, Picton, Auckland, and Bay of Islands, but omitting Port Chalmers ; and if he will make representations, through the proper channel, with a view of inducing His Excellency the Admiral to include Port Chalmers among the proposed ports of call ? He could not understand why the vessels attached to the Australian Squadron were so persistently not allowed to visit Port Chalmers. There was enough water there to accommodate vessels drawing more water than any vessel belonging to the Australian Squadron, both on the bar and inside the harbour. He thought the people of Otago were justified in expecting a fair share of the visits of these vessels. The colony paid a sum towards the support of the war-vessels, of which Otago paid its share, and therefore had a right to expect a share of the benefits, apart from the general protection that the vessels gave to the colony. The paragraph referred to was as follows :- "H.M.S. ' Royal Arthur,' ' Mildura,' ' Wal- laroo,' and ' Pylades' leave on the 3rd De- cember on a cruise round the Australian States and New Zealand, covering five months. They will reach Lyttelton on the 1st March, thence going to Wellington, Picton, Auckland, and Bay of Islands." He admitted that, Wellington being the seat of Government, the war-vessels would naturally come here oftener than to other places in the colony; but the persistent determination not to bring any of the larger war-vessels into Port Chalmers was strange. They had, perhaps, no right to question the Admiralty as to their reasons, but he thought they were justified in knowing the reason, so that, if possible, the objections could be removed. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was a good deal in the honourable member's conten- tion, for they knew that vessels of greater 