only refer to the pictures in which the Premier appears. Mr. SEDDON .- I bow to the ruling of the chair. An Hon. MEMBER .- You have to. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, for the present. I say that in respect to my appearing amongst others in a picture of the welcome at Levuka-at the landing at the wharf-that cannot be said to be a picture distinctly representative of the Pre- mier. The honourable member must strike that out of his list. The honourable member referred to a picture in which I do not appear in a distinctive way at all-it is a picture of the Queen of Tonga, and of some one very nearly related to me. The next picture is the King of Tonga, and some one closely related to me, and myself. Then you come to the King of Niue and Premier Seddon, Niue Island. There are a large number of other pictures with large numbers of other persons shown in them, and they cannot be specially put down to me. I say I never saw the pictures that were sent. I had nothing to do with the selection of them ; and when an attempt is made to connect me with them I have a perfect right to place the corre- spondence on the table. Mr. PIRANI .- I desire to make a personal explanation. The Premier said I referred to a picture in which he did not appear, but in which some one nearly related to him did. I am not in the habit of doing that sort of thing. The picture he referred to is that of the King and Queen of Rarotonga, with Mr. Seddon in a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Panama hat. Here it is for the House to see. Does the Premier mean to say that he does not appear there? Why, he is the biggest man in the picture. Mr. SEDDON. - I did not say what the honourable member has just stated ; so that evidently his hearing, as well as his eyesight, is defective. I said I was in the picture with some one else nearly related to me. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, you gentlemen oppo- site! It does not matter what the honour- able member for Palmerston says. There is not a man on that side of the House but will swear to it, more particularly if it is against the Government. I am surprised that they should be clacqueurs for any honourable mem- ber. The honourable member has again re- ferred to the address of welcome at Levuka, where there was a reception on the wharf. There were a large number of people at that reception, and it is not specially a picture of myself. I should say that the principal people there were the Town Board of Levuka, who presented the address. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - I wish to make a personal explanation. The Right Hon. the Premier has misrepresented me. He said that all members on this side of the House invariably support the honourable member for Palmerston whether he is right or wrong. As one of them, I desire to say that I only sup- port the honourable member when he is right. Motion agreed to. MENT CLASSIFICATION BILL. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton), asked the Minister for Railways without notice, Whether, when the Government Railways Department Classification Bill is going through, he pro- posed to allow members to move increases in the schedule, or whether any proposals of the kind on the part of private members to in- crease the rate of pay would be permitted. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the constitutional procedure would be followed. MAORI LANDS ADMINISTRATION BILL. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved, That the last paragraph of the following order of the House, dated 4th October, be rescinded : That there be laid before this House a Return showing,-(1) The total area of land now owned by Maoris within the North Island of New Zealand, distingushing therein papatupu lands and lands held under any description of ascer- tained title ; (2) the total area of such Maori lands contained (a) within each separate Coun- cil district constituted under "The Maori Lands Administration Act, 1900," (b) within that portion of the North Island for which Council districts under the said Act have not as yet been constituted, (c) within the boundaries defined by "The Urewera District Native Reserve Act, 1896," and amending Acts, (a) within "The Thermal-Springs Districts Act, 1881," and amending Acts, and (e) within "The West Coast Settlement Reserves Act, 1892," and amending Acts; and (3) the total Crown valuation placed upon, and the total Maori population resident within, each of the above- named districts respectively. The said return to be laid upon the table of this House before the debate is taken upon the second reading of the Maori Lands Administration Act 1900 Amendment Bill. The last paragraph stood in the way of the House dealing with the Bill. It would take two years to get the return. Many of the more important details could, however, be provided, and all the available in- formation would be forthcoming. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) opposed the motion. The return, which was moved for by himself, was granted on the 4th October, and the information asked for should certainly be furnished to the House before the debate was taken on the Bill, for the reason that the Bill directly affected Maori lands. It affected all descriptions of lands, whether under Crown grant or otherwise, held by Maoris throughout New Zealand. His object in asking for the return was that the Government might place before the House the exact position of the various districts that would be affected by the Act, and in order to afford an opportunity for members of the House to judge for themselves what was the desire of the Maoris in the Coun- cil districts -- whether they were opposed to the measure or in favour of it. Petition after petition had been presented to the House on behalf of Maoris throughout the North Island strongly protesting against the Maori Lands Administration Act of last year, and his 