breach of duty shall be deemed to be a breach of the award or industrial agreement, and the Court may direct that the whole or any part of the penalty imposed shall be paid to the worker as compensation. " (2.) In any other case the breach of duty shall be deemed to constitute grounds for an industrial dispute, and the provision of subsection two of section four hereof shall apply thereto. " (3.) In every case it shall lie upon the em- ployer to satisfy the Court that the discharge of the worker does not constitute a breach of duty under this section." This clause was lost on division by six votes. Now, these two clauses would have dealt not only with a case like that of Waihi, but also with cases where unionists have suffered in con- sequence of the part they have taken in proceed ings under the Act. In the Bill now before us it is proposed, but in a very much weaker form, to provide something of that sort. I think, therefore, that if the Council has any desire to do justice to the workers they will see that the clause I refer to is adopted. Clause 20 provides certain amendments that are also necessary. It provides for the cancellation of the registra- tion of industrial unions which become defunct, and I think it is all the more necessary from the fact that years ago a number were formed for the sole purpose of returning a certain indi- vidual to the Board of Conciliation. I think the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Council will agree that it would be a wrong thing to oppose legislation to prevent a repe- tition. Sections 22 and 23 simply provide machinery by which a case can be stated for the advice and opinion of the Court. Now I come to another little matter which I should not have referred to had the statement not been made by the Minister of Labour "that the Act was being ridden to death." I say any one who makes such a statement does not understand the principles of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act; and that such a statement should be made by any member of the Govern- ment I regard as most indiscreet. What, I ask, is the object of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act ? To settle disputes by means of conciliation and compulsory arbitration. And that it is settling disputes and preventing strikes by adjusting the conditions of employ- ment no one can deny. How otherwise is it possible to settle disputes under this law unless you adjust the conditions of employment ? We must remember that we have introduced a new law-that there is no law like it in the world-and we must expect that on its first in- troduction, and for a number of years after- wards, the work done under it must be ex- tremely heavy ; but, all the same, it is merely doing the work that it was intended to do. Well, now, who can complain of that ? The divorce law of this colony has been extended recently by the Legislature, and a larger num- ber of divorce cases are coming before the Court ; but can any one say that that law is ' Hon. Mr. Rigg conjugal happiness ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- I do not think so. From what I can gather from the newspaper Press, which sometimes praises and at other times condemns the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, it is a splendid Act so long as you do not make use of it. It is a fine thing to talk about and to boast of as a law which the colony has a right to be proud of. Just let me give an illustration. A father presents bis son with a very handsome gun - let us say fowling-piece. He says to his son, " Now, my boy, here is a handsome present for you." He describes what the gun is to be used for, and what it is not to be used for : and then he winds up by saying to him: "Now, you can go and carry that gun about on the hills as much as you like, but you must not fire it off, because if you do you might shoot something." Well, that is just about the logic we are having served out to us in the Press in regard to the Act. As to what has been said, that the Boards and the Court are not doing their work, I say they are doing their work well. What has been done, and what has been steadily going on, is this : that standards are being set up in all industries, and conditions arranged, so that later on, when dealing with the same industry, it will be necessary only to shift the standard in order to meet the circumstances of the case. It can only then be a variation of movement up or down as regards the wages and other conditions of employment. That is what is being done. Of course, there will be new industries so long Esta- as there is progress in the country. blished industries will be developed and ex- tended, and they may call for special work on the part of the Court and of the Board. But still the work on the whole will become lighter as the years go on. 'that is my firm con- viction; and I believe that it can be shown to be a reasonable conviction if any one will take the trouble to consider and study what has been done in the past. Now, another principle of the law, or what the original Act was intended to perform, is to en- courage the formation of industrial unions and associations. I think that no one would dare to say it has not done that. I think it can be shown that never in the history of this colony were the workers so well organized as they are at the present time ; nor were the em- plovers so well organized ; and I venture to say that before the next election takes place the organization of both parties will be still more perfect, and I believe that the effect of that organization will be to exercise a very great in- fluence upon the destiny of this colony. 1 be- lieve, also, that in a measurable space of time the workers will rule in this Parliament of New Zealand, as they do in the country at the : present time; and I have every reason to be- lieve, from my past experience of them, that when that day does come their treatment of the employers will be very much more generous than the treatment the employers have ever 