A director may do work for his company other than attending meetings, and the company should not be restricted in their choice of a director. (3.) "That the Ngahere Company's claim is not situated where stated in prospectus ": The evidence upon this charge is very much more in favour of Mr. Cook than petitioner; but, even if the charge was proved, the law on the subject has been clearly laid down in the Pro- moters' and Directors' Liability Act, and there- fore the Parliament has provided an ample remedy, which should have been taken if any wrong had been committed. (4.) " That, on the grounds of misrepresenta- tion, Mr. Gray, one of the promoters of the Golden Grey Company, and others, repudiated payment of calls on shares upon which the firm of Cook and Gray had received broker- age " : In reference to this charge, we have the evidence of Mr. Gray, who swears that his partner, Mr. Cook, induced him to take up shares on the understanding that only the ap- plication-money would require to be paid. Mr. Gray and others were summoned by the com- pany in the Magistrate's Court at Dunedin, and defended the actions on the above grounds. Mr. Cook, in answer to this charge, in his sworn evidence, question 35, page 8, says, "The Magis- trate decided there was no misrepresentation, without hearing my side at all." Mr. Cook took this evidence away with him, and cor- rected it and returned it ; yet this statement of his was not correct, for the Court held that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 no agreement entered into between Mr. Cook and the defendants could bind the company, and therefore the issue of this charge was not decided by the Court at all. Mr. Abbott also gave evidence on this charge, and ad- mitted that certain of the companies were formed for speculative purposes ; that Mr. Cook had induced him to take shares on the understanding that the application-money (1s. per share) only should be called up, and that he (Mr. Cook) would have the control of the companies, and they would not be gone on with unless the state of the share-market warranted it. The evidence of Mr. Gray and Mr. Abbott was denied by Mr. Cook, who, it appears, also by writing took over Mr. Abbott's shares, but still retained them in Mr. Abbott's name on the share register. There is also the evidence among the other documents of the company of letters written by other shareholders which corroborate the statements of Mr. Abbott and Mr. Gray, and the weight of evidence concern- ing this charge is against Mr. Cook ; but whether or not these shareholders are to be relieved of their liability on these shares is purely a matter for the Courts to decide in proceedings between them and Mr. Cook. The part, however, of this charge which concerns your Committee is the formation of a company merely for speculative purposes on the share-market. This is against public policy, and is purely a species of gam- bling, and should be stopped by legislation. All parties knowingly entering into such a trans- action are particeps criminis. lative purposes only by promoters and directors at a time when the public were being asked to subscribe money to be used for mining pur- poses " : The only evidence we have of this is what is mentioned in the previous paragraph. It has not been proved that what had been done was kept secret from the other shareholders. If, however, it was kept secret, then it would he unfair to the other shareholders, who would be induced to take up shares on the representa- tion of the names of those subscribing. Legis- lation is necessary to prevent the occurrence of such a case as that alleged to have taken place in this matter. (6.) " Vendors making a profit on liquidation on shares which have cost them nothing" : This has not been proved. (7.) "Shares being ' dummied,' and commis- sion received on them " : If this had been done, then a remedy is already provided by law, and therefore the Committee have no further re- marks to make. V. As to the other charges, we wish to say,- (8.) " One person or firm being (a) the pro- moter, (b) broker, (c) secretary, and (d) director, and (e) the registered offices of companies being in his or their offices ": It has been proved that Mr. Cook-or, rather, the firm of Cook and Gray, of which he was the managing partner in Dunedin, and had the sole control there-was the vendor to the company, also the promoter, secretary, broker, and director, and the office of the company was Cook and Gray's office. It will be necessary to briefly review these different positions held by Mr. Cook in order to ascertain if his duties in one position would conflict with those in another position. As " vendor " to the company Mr. Cook is the seller, and as "secretary " and " director " he is in a position of trust for the other shareholders to purchase from himself, so he becomes both a buyer and a seller. Again, being the "promoter " of the company, he stands in a fiduciary position to the company he promotes : he virtually creates a body to purchase from himself. The promo- tion gives him an unlimited power to make the company subject to such regulations as he pleases ; also for such purposes as he pleases, as well as to create it with a managing body whom he selects, and having such powers as he chooses to give them as managers. Morally, therefore, he who accepts such extensive powers should not be allowed to disregard the interests of the company. The Legislature has given these powers to a promoter, and it is necessary to pass further legislation to prevent these powers being abused. Petitioner alleges that these powers have been abused-e.g., that as promoter Mr. Cook appointed himself broker, and as director and broker he would be both master and ser- vant ; that as director he allowed himself to charge exorbitant sums as broker; and that as secretary he, through his servant (Mr. Hol- sted), actually paid himself brokerage on shares on which no money was paid at all. There is no doubt that Mr. Cook's positions of director, broker, and secretary here came into conflict. It is clear that brokerage was very high, and 