were exported until the State exercised its prior right. Then, in regard to these large private collections which are to be found in different parts of the colony, it will be a very simple thing to deal with them. Sup- posing they were for sale wholly or partially, the State could. examine and ascertain by its officers what was wanted for the national museum, and, the wants of the national museum having been satisfied, they could be given a license to sell to all and sundry for exportation beyond the colony. All you have to do is to see that people leaving the colony are not taking with them to other parts of the world any objects of this nature that are not licensed for export. I referred to the case of Egypt, and I would like to refer again to it to explain to the House the strictness of the law. I have already mentioned that you cannot leave that country without declaring what articles you take with you outside the country. But they go so far there that not many years ago some of the members of the Egyptian scientific societies ascertained that there were being sold in some of the capitals of Europe great numbers of little things that must have come from some new discoveries in Egypt, and imme- diately the detectives were set to work all over Egypt to find out where the discoveries had been made. The result of the search was that it was ascertained that an Egyptian had discovered an old abandoned shaft at Dar-el- Bahari, near Thebes. He had come across a large number of the most valuable mummies ever found-an almost complete collection of the mummies of the old kings and queens of Egypt. As a result of this discovery an im- mense collection of very valuable articles were taken down to the Museum in Cairo, where they may be seen to this day. The member for Waihemo has told us-and he is correct in what he has said-that you can purchase anything you like that is not required in the great museum in Cairo and export it to any part of the world. I do not think that in this colony we would be able to buy up, as they do in Egypt, all those articles and resell them to tourists. In the meantime, with our limited resources, we could, at any rate, satisfy ourselves that we had obtained pre-emption over all articles of value, and in that way the collection in our national museum would be made as complete as possible. After a few years the restrictions on exportation need not be harshly read, he- cause the museum would have become very complete and perfect in its way, and therefore in time we could repeal the whole of the legis- lation and allow free-trade in all the articles. The great object is to buy for the national museum what we can, and to take care that the large collectors, like the Rothschilds of the Old Country, who are in a position to give any money collectors may ask, cannot come into the field and buy out of the colony, and leave no relies belonging to the country. So long as we take care that sufficient money is placed at the disposal of the Minister I do not see that there is any punishment to the private collectors. Mr. McNab should have undisturbed possession so long as they do not want to sell, and that when the time comes when they want to sell there should be a purchaser. The State will always be able to supply a purchaser, and therefore the wants of the private collectors are sufficiently protected. I would suggest, then, that when the Bill is in Committee the Minister in charge should alter clause 4 so that all articles that are not wanted by the Government should be allowed to be ex- ported without or under license, and that all people leaving the colony should be required to declare that they do not carry with them any articles prohibited from export under this statute. That being so, I do not think we can well suggest any other provisions until the Minister has brought the department into operation; and, as the result of a year of its operation, I have no doubt the directors of the institution would be able to give to this House very valuable suggestions on the lines adopted by such countries as Egypt and Italy, and the other countries where they seek to protect their own ancient monuments for their own country. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- Sir. it was at first my intention to oppose this Bill, but the admirable way in which the Minister in charge has introduced it has so far converted me that, so long as we are allowed to alter a few of its clauses in Committee to make them less drastic and less likely to interfere with pri- vate enterprise, I shall support it. The Minis- ter in charge has introduced the Bill in such a genial and lucid manner that I think he should be appointed Introducer of Bills for the Govern- ment. Now, I have a letter from Mr. Eric Craig, who is one of the principal dealers in these articles in Auckland. His opinion, con- tained in the letter, is this :- " If such a law is enacted and made to take effect at short notice it would be a serious and ruinous loss to me, as I have a very large stock of Maori carvings and curios that would become worthless, as colonial people will not buy. I consider curios I have bought my private pro- perty, to do as I like with, as they were bought from their private owners, the Maoris, under the present laws." I feel, Sir, that the admirable explanation given by the Native Minister has removed some of the most serious objections the Bill appeared to have at first sight. Mr. Spencer, another dealer in these relics, states that his capital is chietly invested in curios. He has been for many years building his business, and now suddenly he is to be prevented, except hy regulation under the hand of the Governor.in Council, from carrying on his lawful business. While agreeing with the proposal for the Government to secure a collection of the best. historical relies left in the colony, care should be taken that legislation does not go too far and cripple those who are engaged in the trade, such as the Native carvers at Rotorua. However, all that is required now, as far as I can see, to settle the question is a grant of $50,000 to enable the Native Minister to buy the different relies required from the different tribes. It is 