Government steamers as previous Administra- tions. With regard to his trip in the Govern- ment steamer to the Islands, he desired to say, in reply to a remark made by the member for Ashley, that there were only three persons on board the steamer besides his own relatives and his Secretaries and the officials. As for the use of the Government steamers at other times, he wished to say that at any time he travelled about the colony on a Union boat the colony paid the steamer-fare. That was the rule, and it was a legitimate expense. That being right, then no objection could be taken if, instead of travelling on the Union boats, the trip was made on one of the Go- vemment steamers. He would also like to say that, if members of Parliament or their families were in ill-health, they were entitled to con- sideration, and Ministers had not withheld the use of the Government boats, and he did not think the people of the colony would raise the least objection as long as it was kept within reasonable bounds. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said there was no question but the expenses of the Government steamers now were something like four times what they were under any previous Administra- tion. There was too much use being made of the Government steamers when the ordinary steamers could be used. The cost of taking a trip to Lyttelton or to the West Coast was something like twenty times as much as the passage-money of the ordinary steamer would be. He moved, That the item be reduced by £5, for the purpose of showing the opinion of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Committee that too much money was being spent in connection with the Government steamers. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that the steamers were laid up for a portion of the years 1887-88, and during those years large sums had to be paid to private firms or com- panies for the carriage of sleepers and other railway material, and a large amount for cable- repairing was also paid to the Eastern Exten- sion Company. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said that, owing to the utter unsuitableness of the " Stella," she was frequently laid up, and was regarded as being absolutely unsafe for visit- ing the Auckland, Campbell, and Macquarie Islands. It was that fact that led to the order to build the "Tutanekai." He might mention that on one occasion Captain Fairchild objected to taking the " Stella " to those islands, because be said she was unsafe. He (Mr. Fisher) thought there was abundant work for the " Tutanekai " and " Hinemoa." He thought the two steamers were necessary. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said that nobody would deny that two steamers were necessary ; but the two Government steamers were costing more than they did a few years ago. From the official figures he made out that the vessels had earned during last year nearly $1,500 less than during the year before, and they had cost £2,000 more to be worked. It also appeared to him that the Government of by Ministers for semi-private purposes. Mr. HALL-JONES, in reply to the honour- able member for Palmerston, said it must be remembered that in 1887 the " Hinemoa " was laid up in Wellington for eleven months out of the twelve, and consequently her expense was almost nil, and the following year she was not used for twelve months. On several occasions both the "Hinemoa " and " Stella " were not in commission. Then, again, the Government used to have to pay £5,000, £6,000, and £7,000 every time cables required to be repaired, which they had not to do now; but credit was not taken for these amounts. Surely the amount should fairly be added to the cost of the steamers in previous years. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said, In making a comparison of the cost of these steamers, members must recollect that between 1885 and 1901 the number of lighthouses had been increased by at least 33} per cent. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said it was not possible to make a comparison with a previous Administration, because the same steamers were not running. The only comparison that was of any use was a comparison of the cost under the present Administration last year and this year. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said they had the fact that the maintenance of these vessels cost £2,000 more this year than the year before, and that they earned £1,800 less, which latter fact the Minister said was owing to the vessels being laid up for repairs. He hoped the Minister would explain how it came about that when the vessels were laid up the expenditure for main- tenance had increased rather than diminished. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) thought the Minister ought to give information as to the recoveries, just as he did about contingencies, and he hoped that they would be shown in B .- 1 when it came down. He also hoped that the services rendered by the "Tutanekai " outside the colony would be shown in B .- 1 under a separate heading, as they were last year, so that they might know how much was spent on real work and how much on pleasure-trips. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said, If honourable members saw the real work which was done by these steamers when visiting light- houses and the depots at the Bounty, Snares, Antipodes, and other islands they would not object to this vote, and would reduce the severity of some of the statements that have been made. While members represented every- thing on the ornamental side of the question, as one might call it, it was only right and fair that the other side of the picture should be put. He should feel he was wanting in his duty if he did not, from the experience he had gained of the work done by these steamers, add his tribute to the value of the work they performed and their usefulness to the country. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) would like the Minister to give a statement of the refund of expenses paid by those who accompanied the Premier and his family in the " Tutanekai " to the South Sea Islands. 