House what I mean : it is simply that I have not time to quote from Hansard, but if I had time I could quote to the House what he has said on previous occasions when dealing with Native legislation. The honourable member said that he knew how the petitions had been worked up, and that one person had signed a large number of the signatures. Well, the first petition I presented to the House was brought down to Wellington by the rangatiras of the Manawatu district. They met me in the building here and asked me to present it. These leading chiefs had waited on the Premier, who was much impressed with the view they had expressed, and promised to keep their re- quest " steadily in view." He kept it " steadily in view " for a few weeks ; and the Natives then growing suspicious, asked me to present the petition to the House. I have not seen the petition referred to in the Press, signed by 1,300 persons, but I may say I could bring into the House petition after petition on the same lines. I have not done so, because when I brought one before the Native Affairs Com- mittee the Minister properly explained that, as it touched a question of policy, no report could be made. In that I believe he was quite right. Now, I wish to say that the petition I pre- sented was signed by parties to whom the Colonial Secretary granted a totalisator per- mit, which also authorised them to manage and administer a race-meeting. I refer to the Otaki Racing Club, the officials of which waited on me to say they would not have this Act in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 operation in their district. Surely, if they can be trusted to manage a public institution, they can be trusted to manage their own affairs. Now, if the Native Minister will do as the Premier promised when shadowing forth this legislation at Native gatherings, and say that it shall be for the majority of the Natives in each district to decide whether the Act shall come into operation or not, I shall be satisfied. The Premier said the Natives would have that privilege. I desire now to place on record some statements with regard to Native legislation as laid down by members of the Government-I refer to the views of the Native Minister and the Right Hon. the Premier. We will take the case of Mr. Carroll in 1894. An Hon. MEMBER. - He may have changed his mind. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Wise men cannot change their minds on this point: that the Natives were and are capable of looking after their own affairs, with minor safeguards. If the Native Minister expressed that view four- teen years ago, logically it should surely be his opinion now, when the Natives have had better opportunities of associating with the Europeans and better opportunities of education. The Government, from the initiation of the Native policy, have-unintentionally, possibly-done what they could to pauperise and demoralise the Natives as a body, and it is astonishing to find the member for the Northern Maori Dis- trict supporting the Government now when he so bitterly opposed their legislation in 1894. The Hon. Mr. Carroll in 1894 said the special duty of the Government was to act honestly with the Native race. It would be as well if I put that speech of his on record. On many occasions he has given expression to views that, if supported by his colleagues-and I do not be- lieve that he has been supported by them-would have led to satisfactory legislation and results. Here are the honourable member's views : - "But let the principle of honesty be the first consideration in our efforts to bring about a happy solution of the question. Let us be fair and straightforward with all parties." What did we find immediately after that speech was made? The Right Hon. the Premier said, "We have come to finality at last ; we have evolved light from the chaos of the past "; and, hand-in-hand with the Native Minister, he was going to lead the Natives on to better things. Then, we learn that, though there had been passed in 1893 an Act under which the Natives could have a voice in the management of their land, and set up a tribunal to ascertain and decide a fair price when selling to the Crown, the Native Minister, who preached, "Let honesty be our guiding star," and the Premier, who said, " You are my children, and it is my duty to look after you," proceeded to send their myrmidons round the whole of the North Island, and filch from the Natives their birthright at a price fixed and dictated by themselves under a subsequent Act. That is why I say the whole legislation of the present Government has been inimical to the interests of the Natives; and it makes every one of us in this House, if we realise our duty to the colony, our duty to ourselves, and our duty to the Maoris, watch most jealously any legislation that is brought down dealing with the Native race. When we find this legislation is but an echo of many years past-no originality, an ex- ploded fallacy-we are justified in dictating to the Government the nature of the legislation they should submit to the House, and not that the Government should say what legislation they will bring down. Why should the Natives themselves, with the safeguards I have spoken of, not be allowed to walk on the same footpath of prosperity and civilisation as we do? No; " the powers that be " will not have it. They are still going to wet-nurse them and keep them as children. I sincerely hope that when the division is called for honourable members will realise that, though we may not have said very distinctly what line we should follow in the future, we have demonstrated that the legislation as it stands now and the proposed amendments are injurious, and are a retrograde step as far as the colony is concerned. Honourable members should say, "We will send this back to the Government for consideration," and they can do that by voting against the Bill. I shall call for a division on the committal, and, if honour- able members will support me, an indication will be given to the Government that this House and the colony do not approve of their Native policy. I have the permission of the two Maori members of the Upper House to state that they entirely disapprove of this legis- lation. 