believe that they themselves would be returned they would never have voted for it ; and these are the kind of members you have had ! "-so using this weapon to bring about the defeat of the present members of the House, that they might come to the next Parliament and reap the benefit. I do not use this as an argument on my own behalf, because it matters very little to me whether I come back or not. have a trade at my fingers' ends, and in three years' time I can go back to that trade. And let me say this : Captain Russell mentioned this evening-believing that he was correct, of course-that $200 per annum was as good to a man as £3 a week wages in a trade. Now, I can say this: that £5 a week-that is the ave- rage of £240 a year-will leave a man poorer at the end of three years than £3 a week if he is occupied in his trade during that time. I have had two years' experience, and I know what I am talking about. Now, Sir, if this is to come into force after this Parliament ex- pires, at the next election it would be used to bring about the defeat of the present members of Parliament ; and I do not think we are called upon to place that weapon in the hands of our opponents. Whether we value our position to any great extent-we all do value it as an honourable position-but whether we value it to any great extent, we certainly do not feel inclined to put a weapon in the hands of our opponents that will bring about our own downfall. Then, the question is with re- gard to our constituents, and we have been told that our constituents have not been consulted. Well, several members have stood up and said they had consulted their con- stituents, and in every case the constituents had expressed good-will to the vote in this Bill. But I go further than that, and I say that http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero since the vote was taken last year on the supplementary estimates this vote has been before the country. It was not many days after the last session that the Premier stated on a public platform that he would bring this Bill before Parliament this session, and some members have spoken from the public platform, and stated if it was brought down they would support it. Let me ask honourable members how many of them have received letters from their constituents protesting against this Bill passing. I think it will be found that very few have received notice from their constituents that the question is not a popular one. As far as I am concerned-and this is chiefly what I stood up to say-as far as I am concerned and as far as my colleagues are concerned, for I think they took up the same position when we addressed our constituents in Dunedin-I will quote from the Dunedin Evening Star of the 4th June, which reports my pre-sessional ad- dress, and it says :- " Mr. Arnold was in favour of increasing the payment of members. The members of both Houses of the Federal Parliament were to re- ceive £400, and if the members of the New Zealand House got $300 they would only be placed on the same footing as their fellow- Mr. Arnold were introduced by Mr. Seddon, he for one would vote for it. (Applause.) That was at a large meeting in the Princess Theatre, and at the close Mr. J. P. Armstrong moved a vote of thanks and renewed confidence in Mr. Arnold. and the motion was carried unanimously." From that day to this I have not received a single complaint, and I have not met with a single person who has stated that in I his or her opinion I was doing wrong by voting for this Bill; and consequently, while others may feel that they should not support it because they have not consulted their con- stituents, I feel quite justified, because I have 1 consulted them, and they have expressed con- fidence in what I did last session, and in what I stated I would likely do this session. I will therefore vote for the second reading of this Bill, and support it through Committee. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - Sir, realising that the friends of the Bill can best show their friendship at this late period of the session and at this late hour of the evening by saying as few words as possible, I shall feel it my duty to explain at some length the reasons for the vote I am going to give. At the same time, to show I have no desire to obstruct the Bill or the other business of the House, I wish to intimate that before I sit down I shall move an amendment to the motion now before the House, with a view of postponing the second reading to this day six months. There have been a number interesting speeches in support of the second reading of the Bill ; but, unfor- tunately, the greater part of them were, in my opinion, quite irrelevant to the real issue before the House. The Right Hon. the Premier very cleverly endeavoured to suggest that I was in favour of the course now being taken, because I had said it was preferable to putting an increase upon the supplementary estimates. I am glad he endeavoured to put that interpretation upon my interjection, because it has caused me to look up what I did say on the question of the £40 bonus when it was before the House, and really there is nothing I desire to modify or withdraw of what I then said. Referring to Hansard of last session, members will see that during the debate on the supplementary estimates I said :- "On the face of it, that was simply a mode of increasing the honorarium, which was al. ready fixed by statute. It seemed a most astounding thing, and a most extraordinary position for members to take up, to be in- creasing their own salaries without consulta- tion with their employers-the people of the colony. Were they going to say that, without reference to the people, they were going to fix their salary at anything they pleased! He did not say the present honorarium micht not be properly increased. He had never felt, himself, that it was insufficient, and never considered it so, but he never heard it men- tioned at any time publicly that it was insuffi- cient. He would not say, however, that it might not be properly increased ; but it was utterly improper, and ought to be beyond the 