of the Maoris then was to obtain the founda- tion of a structure upon which subsequent developments could be built ; and the Maoris then knew, and were prepared and contem- plated, that during this session, if there was any part of that Bill requiring adjust- ing or amending, an amending Bill would be introduced to give effect to that. I would have been oppressing us for years ; and I ask ask, Sir, who are the children in mind among honourable members who oppose it to-night, the members of this House ? Perhaps they Is it within their power to suggest anything are my friends Mr. Heke and Mr. Kaihau, that will relieve the pressure? Can Mr. who come down with these strange proposals. If what they propose were given effect to, if papakaingas were cut off from the support of very strong underneath the nose. " What is the present generation of Maoris, that would the use of coming to this House and saying be the first step towards the eventual destruc- tion of the Maori people. The honourable tinually raised ? Simply because they feel member for Waitemata expressed the opinion that under this new proposal the industrious section of the Maori community would be here this same mouth, which is situated just exploited and their efforts frustrated by the rising generation, who know a little more than ourselves. I do not think he can have looked wrongs." into the Bill and its provisions. The Council that is to be constituted under the Act of last way he must be leaning towards representations made to him by Europeans, through whom he year is to have European members, specially selected for their fitness to be members. hopes to receive some personal benefit by-and- Others are to be Maoris, and are to be by. I have only discovered to-night why it was that my friend Mr. Kaihau is opposed to this selected for the qualifications which they Bill, and I found that out by listening to his possess. And the division of money which will be derived from the lands is to be based speech. It was, as he said himself, because the Government had not upheld his Bill. That Bill upon the individual right of each owner, be he industrious or otherwise. The money is not to proposed to constitute Mahuta administrator be taken in a lump and handed over in one of the Maori lands in this Island. I ask him, / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 sum to those young people whom the member Would it be right that he should put his king to for Waitemata fears merely desire to do the be his servant ? I should be ashamed to seek best for themselves out of their brethren, and to put my king in such a position. He called the Government Bill a picbald Bill to-night. I are careless as to what may become of them so say the first and most shockingly piebald Bill long as their own welfare is secured. I say that if a measure was passed giving the Maoris was his own. That Bill proposed twenty mem- bers of the King's Council to be elected by the the sole control and disposal of their lands, and absolutely barring Europeans taking any part Government, twenty by Mahuta, and I suppose another twenty by the Maori people of New in these transactions, we would not hear any of these extraordinary expressions of opinion Zealand generally. Now, supposing the twenty nominated by the Government combined with that we have heard to-night. Supposing we did constitute a Council, whose members were those nominated by Mahuta, what was to Maoris only, does any one mean to say to me become of the desire of the twenty nominated that the Europeans in this country would give by the people? I say it is right to call that Bill a reptile, which would have done nothing them money to carry on the administration of their affairs? They would not, Sir. Or, but destroy and devour the Maori people. It if we did find any European willing to ad- proposed to levy taxation on everything on vance money to the Maoris, he would want which taxation could be levied-cattle, sheep, 10 per cent. interest, and if this interest horses, dogs, fowls, goats, dead people, bodies was not duly paid and all the other condi- that are exhumed, marriages, and births. All tions complied with they would seize and sell the European legislation passed in regard the land on which the money had been to the Maoris never imposed taxation of the advanced. Now, Sir, mention has been made kind proposed by this Bill. The only tax to-night of a certain petition, said to have imposed by the House on the Maoris was a been signed by over a thousand Natives. The halfpenny in the pound. The first tax was 10 per cent .; that only related to the land. history of that petition is this: It was taken There was no tax levied on the dogs of round by one individual, who misrepresented and misled a lot of ignorant people, whose sig- the old men and the old women. The Maori natures he obtained to that petition. There is people throughout my district are in support of the Bill, and also Wanganui and Patea. at present an old man in Wellington sent down by the people who signed the petition, and who Their only desire is that the Act of last year said to him, "Go to Wellington, and if you may be amended through this Bill. The only find there is an amending measure being con- provision in this Bill to which the honourable sidered do not allow that petition to proceed." member for the Western District took excep- number of Maoris, and they are all here in support of this Bill, and not of the arguments that have been made use of by the honourable member for Napier, and those who argue on the same lines as he does. If this Bill is not proceeded with we shall have to fall back under the operations of the old Acts which Kaihau relieve our burden ? There is an old Maori saying to this effect : "The mouth is " Afford us redress"? Why is that cry con- their own personal incapacity to redress their own wrongs. And yet when they come down below the nose, says, " Strike out this Bill, which is for the purpose of redressing our I must say that, in my opinion, when the honourable member argues in that 