library, but he thought the interpretation of the Standing Order by the Government was incorrect. The provision in their Standing Orders was practically the same as that in the Standing Orders of the other House. Now, Standing Order No. 240 provided for dealing with any member guilty of contempt, and for fining him any sum not exceeding $50. The succeeding Order, No. 241, was to the following effect : " All fines shall be paid to the Library Fund." If Order No. 241 only referred to fines under No. 240 it would have provided that "such fines " should be paid to the library. The Order was the same in both Houses. It appeared to him to cover any fine that was inflicted by either House. There was reason for supposing that the idea in the minds of honourable members when making these Stand- ing Orders was that the fines should not go to the general revenue of the country, whose repre- sentatives inflicted the fine, but that the money should be applied to some useful pur- pose connected with the Parliament outside of the amounts voted from public revenue. There was nothing in the Standing Orders to differen- tiate between the destination of fines for con- tempt committed by members and contempt committed by strangers. However, as he had said, from all that one could gather, they would not get the money : that had found its way into the public Treasury. What the Hon. Minister of Education had said was true : they did get $500 last year for the library. He appeared to think that that amount was voted as being the amount of the fine ; but it was not so stated at the time, nor did the Library Committee so understand it. He believed $500 was voted last year altogether independently of any idea of that fine. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said they had no power to enforce a refund of this money. The Library Committee was perfectly justified in trying to get it from the Consolidated Fund, but there was no power to take it, and so they were practically out of court. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said that for this claim he thought there was very good founda- tion. because if the money was derived in the way of a fine inflicted for contempt of Parliament it belonged to the Library Fund, as other fines did. It should not go to the Consolidated Fund. It was not money that was revenue of the Crown ; it was provided by Parliament itself in accordance with the Standing Orders. There- fore he thought it ought to have been placed, if there was any doubt at all, in a suspense fund until Parliament decided what should be done with it. He thought the proper way was to invite Parliament to deal with the fine, and then it might be given to the Library Committee, or to the Consolidated Fund, as Parliament determined. Of course, it was now in the Consolidated Fund, and could not be taken out of that fund except by Act of Parlia- ment. It must be by a tack on the Appropria. tion Bill, or by a special Bill dealing with it. As had been stated, the Library Fund had secured $500 from the Consolidated Fund, and intended to recoup this amount. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, he did not say so. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY thought that was stated ; but, at any rate, it would require an Act of Parliament to deal with it. He should vote for the resolution, as he thought the money should have gone to the Library Fund, although, perhaps, there was no special Standing Order on the subject which gave implicit directions to do so. The Hon. Mr. REEVES would point out that it was six years since the fine was inflicted, and that last year the Government had paid the Library Committee $500. As the Hon. Mr. Scotland had pointed out, the Premier, in an- other place, had said that if the Library Com- mittee required further funds he would be only too happy to supply the funds necessary to carry on the work of the library. That, he thought, was all that was required, and that they were making a mountain out of a molehill to talk about this $500 fine of Mr. Watson. They had already received this $500. Last year they received that sum from the Consoli- dated Fund, and, in his opinion, there was no getting away from that fact. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN thought there was no doubt that the Library Committee had good grounds for their contention. The one Stand- ing Order was not to be read with the other at all. It was not the same section, and each order was complete by itself : and one of them provided that " All fines shall be paid to the Library Fund." It did not say members' fines. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said they were all under the one heading, "Contempt." The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said that Mr. Wat- son's fine was also for contempt. All fines were for contempt. There was no doubt about it-the sum belonged to the library and should have gone to the library. That was his read- ing of the matter. But, with regard to the resolution, he did not know that it was any good beating the air about it. The fine had gone into the consolidated revenue. The question was not raised by the Library Com- mittee at the time, as it should have been raised ; and he was afraid there was no good in raising it now. If the Library Committee wanted funds the better way would be to go to the Government and say they wanted certain funds-that this amount had gone and they did not want to dispute it, but that in future they would say that all fines should go to the Library Fund ; but as they wanted money for books, they asked the Government now to put a sum on the estimates for the purpose. He did not think there was any good to be done by raising a dispute about a matter that had so long gone past, though he was quite clear that according to their Standing Orders every fine for contempt should go to the Library Fund. The Library Committee should see to it that this was done, and they ought to have done so at the time the fine was imposed. The Hon. Mr. RIGG was sorry he could not accept the suggestion of the Hon. Mr. Scotland that he should withdraw this motion, because, 