gain for others the same consideration that he was giving to his own employés. I expressed my regret to Mr. Reynolds that a mistake had occurred; and I took the opportunity of writing to the employer to express my regret that I had been misinformed, and I promised to withdraw as publicly as I had made it the statement to which I have referred. As far as I can gather, my informant got hold of the wrong man ; and it seems that while Mr. Reynolds was not dis- charged on that account, three other unionists were, and among them was one who as- sisted in the conduct of the hairdressers' dis- pute. His name is W. Gilbert. He was an employé of Messrs. Davis and Lamb, Christ- church. Now, when I received the list I refer to, I received it under a pledge that I would not have it published in Hansard, but might use it in Committee ; and as the Press has seen fit to publish part of the list, I am now permitted to place on record the corrected statement. If this list is taken in conjunction with that read by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, I think it will be seen that the total is a pretty formidable one, and I am assured that only time is want- ing to show that in other parts of the colony it I could be added to to a considerable extent. suggested in Committee that, if there is any doubt in regard to the genuineness of the state- ments made, it is the duty of the Government to institute an inquiry, and to give these per- sons, who are officers of unions and men holding responsible positions, an opportunity of proving https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the statements contained in the documents that we have been supplied with. The list of workers discharged, to which I have already re- ferred, as corrected, reads thus :- # Wellington. Painters and Decorators .-- Messrs. Cole, presi- dent, and W. Noot, ex-president, appeared before the Board ; and were discharged. Brick- and Tile-makers .- Robert Mills, presi- dent ; Thomas Diver, Frederick Holmes, Henry Pritchard, members of committee ; and Walter Whiterod, treasurer. All in employ of Peter Hutson. Ironmoulders .- Gourlay, secretary ; Hunt- ingdon, president. Mr. Luke discharged them for conducting case before Board. Carpenters and Joiners .- W. H. Hampton, secretary of the Blacksmiths' Union, conducted .case before Board. Discharged. Wharf-labourers. - Thomas Reynolds, vice- president, conducted case before Board. Dis- charged. Grocers' Union .- W. Hall, secretary, dis- charged for being secretary of union. .Grooms and Conductors' Union. - James Kirk- -wood, tramway employé, took the chair at first meeting. He was discharged, after two years' service. # Christchurch. Bootmakers .- T. Woods, secretary of Canter- bury Trades and Labour Council, conducted .case before Board and Court. Discharged. Otago Bookbinders and Paper - rulers. - Thomas Paul, president, conducted case before Board. Discharged. All those dismissals are recent, and to these I may add three within my own knowledge. W. Miles was president and afterwards secretary of the Bootmakers' Union in Wellington. He was discharged. He can be communicated with by any one who takes the trouble to ascertain the truth of my statement, because he is now en- gaged in business for himself in Buckle Street, Wellington. George Warren was secretary of the same union. He took part in conference with the boot-manufacturers, conducted a case before the Court, and he was discharged. He is now in the employ of the Government as mes- senger to the Hon. Sir J. G. Ward. He also is easily accessible to those who wish to verify the statement. Charles Duff was president of the same union, and was discharged. He is now engaged in managing the boot department at the Burnham Industrial School. Now, what- ever may be the opinion with regard to these statements generally, I will challenge any one to deny that these three last men whom I have mentioned could have been discharged from their employment by reason of their being in any way inefficient, or that they did not return good service to their employers. Now, since then I have received a supplementary list, which I will add : In the Wellington Furniture Trade - Messrs. Robertsons and Cruickshank ; Auckland Furniture Trade - R. Mens; Wellington Bootmakers -W. H. Worth, president ; Christchurch Bootmakers- C. Lafferty. It will be seen from what I have already read that the statement we listened to by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson of there not being one single past officer of the Bootmakers' Union now engaged at his trade in Wellington has some foundation. Well, it seems to me that this is a very serious matter, and one which should not be overlooked when we are dis- cussing a Bill which provides the means to deal with matters of this kind. The only pity is that a good provision like that may have to be sacrificed on account of amendments, to which I will refer presently, introduced into the Bill in another place, and which go in the direc- tion of doing very serious injury to the existing law ; but, while we are dealing with persecu- tion of officials of unions, we must not over- look the fact that there are instances where this persecution has been carried on at the instance of employers in other parts of the colony ; and if it can be shown, as men- tioned in the statement I am now about to read, and which I received from the secretary of one of the most important unions in New Zea- land, that this is going on, it points to the fact that there is an organization throughout New Zealand, or certain parts of it, on the part of employers to persecute all these officials. My informant states :- " After the strike of 1890, and when the Sea- men's Union was in a state of disorganization, the Union Steamship Company, taking advan- 