the South would prove. Any reasonable Minis- ter should have deduced, from the fact that sickness developed on the ship as soon as she left the Cape and got into the colder latitude, that the men should not be sent to a cold climate. Any reasonable person must have known at once that the fact of transhipping these men from the "Tagus" into a small vessel and sending them down to the Bluff was liable to aggravate their condition of ill- health. He had been told that while these unfortunate men were being harangued at the Bluff a piercing wind was blowing, in ad- dition to the snow and slush lying about, in which they had to stand. That was sufficient in itself to induce illness. It seemed per- fectly clear to him that had these men been taken as much care of as we should take care of members of our own family returning under similar circumstances, they would not have been paraded as a peep-show in a southern portion of the colony, nor would the mortality have been so great. He thought, had the Government profited by the lesson of the voyage between the Cape and Albany, they would immediately have taken steps, in the four days between the arrival and departure of the "Tagus " from Albany, to cause the port of arrival to be changed from the South to the North ; or, supposing they could not do that, it would have been perfectly possible, on arrival at Port Chalmers, to divert her to some northern port. He moved the reduction of the vote by £1, to enable the member for Bruce to have an opportunity of replying to two Ministers and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the member for Mataura. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said there was the proof positive of the Transport Officer, and of the men themselves, that all were in good health when they left the front. How could he know that there was malaria lying dormant in their systems, and that through the hardship at Worcester illness would be deve- loped ? His information from the commanding officer was that the men were first-rate. The question of the health of the contingent never cropped up in the decision as to the port of arrival ; and the decision arrived at was that an opportunity should be given to the people of Southland to give a hearty welcome to their sons and returned troopers. He said it had been done from a much superior and finer feeling than political capital : it was done to give encouragement to the people of South- land, and to recognise and appreciate their efforts in sending men to South Africa, and to give the great majority of the officers and men of the Fourth and Fifth Contingents an opportunity of being, with their comrades, wel- comed home by the good people of the South. The Transport Officer, in ignorance of the ar- rangement made by Lord Kitchener, altered the destination of the " Tagus," not because of the health of the contingents, but because it would be more convenient for the ship; and, when acquainted with the arrangements made for the reception at Southland, the Transport Department sent their orders to Albanv. He the information of the Secretary of State for naturally thought the telegram containing the VOL. CXIX .- 29. recommendation of the doctor was sent simply for the purpose of backing up the wishes of the captain in respect to the route. And he said now it was so. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay had charged the Government with negligence. He (Mr Seddon) had proved that the greatest care was exercised. Im- mediately he received intimation on the arrival of the "Tagus " at Port Chalmers that there was something wrong he took steps to see that the men were properly attended to. Mr. J. ALLEN had before him the particu- lars in regard to Nelson's case :- "Nelson got malaria and had a bad attack of pleurisy as well on the campaign. His home was at the Bluff, where he went on arrival of the 'Tagus'; but, finding his health did not improve there, he started to go north, and stopped here (Dunedin), having suffered for some days with headache and slight effects of his former pleurisy. The P.M.O. found him ill at a hotel and put him in a private hospital, where he gradually developed his disease and died therefrom." The following were the particulars of Wil- kins's case :- " Wilkins was injured by a fall from his horse, went to Invercargill; came home to Auckland, and was there about a week when he took a violent attack of influenza. He was attended at his father's home, and the doctor, seeing his case was a very bad one, removed him to the hospital. When he arrived in the hospital he was unconscious, and passed away without regaining consciousness." He had taken the trouble to get those par- ticulars from Auckland. As it had been stated that the "Tagus" was detained at Albany because of the cablegrams about the alteration of the port of call which had been referred to, he would read the official report of the captain of the ship :- "Arrived at Albany 29th June, and while there enjoyed beautiful weather. Unfortu- nately for us a good many vessels had called there for coal, so we could not complete our stock nor get all that was needed till the 2nd July (Tuesday). We left Albany on the 2nd (Tuesday), in the evening, and had fine weather until the 8th, when we began to get sleet and hail squalls, with a strong S.W. wind, the ship rolling about a good deal." He would remind the Minister for Railways that the vessel was first ordered to Wellington. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that originally the Transport Officers had ordered the ship to Wellington without the knowledge of Lord Kitchener ; but before the ship reached Albany the Transport Officers ordered the "Tagus " to the Bluff. To show that the Transport Officers ordered the steamer to the Bluff, he would read the following paragraph from a letter dated the 1st July, from the Ad- miralty, London, to the Under-Secretary of State, for the Colonial Office :- "I am commanded by my Lords Commis- sioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you, or the Colonies, that a telegram was received 