Conciliation Boards in an indirect manner, is inconsistent with and contrary to the policy of this Parliament in respect to labour questions. When I say " indirectly " I mean that under clause 21 either party can now go past the Conciliation Board and go direct to the Arbitration Court. It means practically the reversal of what has hitherto been the policy of the country. This proposal was sprung as a surprise upon the House, and without the slightest warning, in the very early hours of the morning; but still there was a substantial majority, and what I naturally expected would happen was that the revisory Chamber would take this into consideration, and note that this was done without any expression at all from the people most interested-the employers and employed-and that this important departure, before it was allowed to pass into concrete form, would be reviewed by the revisory Chamber. But, Sir, it appears that there has been a com- plete reversal of opinion. Why, Sir, at the time of the passing of this legislation we found that the revisory Chamber would absolutely have nothing to do with the Arbitration Court, and would have nothing whatever to do with compulsory arbitration ; and now we stand in this position : the revisory Chamber has agreed to strike out and do away with conciliation. Well, Sir, time will tell. It is not for me to judge; it is not for me to attribute motives, or. to say anything disrespectful to those who have, by practically abolishing the Conciliation Boards, taken upon themselves a grave responsibility. But what has struck me right through in respect to the amend- ment made in the House, and what has gone on since, is this: I have asked myself this question, Is it a means to an end ? Is the desire to do away with Conciliation Boards and conciliation, and to force us to nothing else but the Arbitration Court, with a view to absolutely and ultimately repeal our labour legislation ? Time alone will solve that pro- blem ; but I do say, with every sense of respon- sibility, and with no desire to provoke debate or criticism, or to say that those who differ from me on this point are wrong, that the departure is of so serious a nature that I am compelled to say that it means causing friction as between the employers and employés of this colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are giving them a lead to think that. Mr. SEDDON .- It may be construed to be a lead, but I simply say I am of opinion that the result will be what every well-wisher of both the employers and employed desires to avoid. If a conflict is provoked, and this compulsory forcing of parties to the Arbitration Court is to be the means of provoking it, then I say the responsibility must go upon other shoulders, and not upon mine, nor upon those who are directly representing labour in this Parliament. That is the view I hold. I know, of course, that the only reason given for this important change has not been that the law has been defective, but that there have been short- Mr. Seddon our labour law. That is the only reason given, so far as I have heard, for this important departure. An Hon. MEMBER .- And it is sufficient too. Mr. SEDDON .- It is not sufficient, and it is not a good reason. I say you might just as well urge, in regard to the administration of our general laws, that any law was bad because in the administration of that law there were short- comings on the part of those who administered it. You cannot logically take up that position. That is really, so far as I can gather, the only tangible reason given for this important de- parture. However, there were two ways : one was to endeavour to have this question reviewed again in this Chamber; but as the Bill went from here with this amendment, and that amendment in clause 21 has not been inter- fered with in another place, as leader of the House, although it is contrary to my own convictions, and what I believe to be in the best interests of labour and of employers, I must observe what is due to a majority of the members of the House. As leader of the House, I have no right under these cir- cumstances to challenge the situation. Sir, this question came on at an early hour in the morning, and was really sprung as a sur- prise upon the House ; but I am convinced a majority of members think the proposal should have a trial. There were two courses to take : One was to bring on the trial now and to allow it to work till next session ; the other was to let the law remain and see between this and next session what the result may be. There was only one of these two courses that was possible. There was a third course-& constitutional one - and that was, for the House to reconsider this point; but I do not think, in the face of the revising Chamber and with the majority there is there, that, even though the Bill had been recommitted in this Chamber for the purpose of striking out the word "both " and inserting "either party," there would be any hope of carrying it in an- other place. That would mean a deadlock, and there would be no Conciliation and Arbitration Act this session. The Government, therefore, with a due sense of the responsibility cast upon them, and, after having carefully weighed the situation, have concluded that they will see between this and next session what the result of giving either party the right to pass over the Conciliation Board may mean. We will see how many cases will be submitted to the Con- ciliation Boards. It may be, as Mr. Frostick has said in Canterbury, that the employers, for self-preservation, will not avail themselves of a law which a majority of members in this House and in another place have given to them, and will still consult the Conciliation Boards. It will be wise for them to do so. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why should they ? Mr. SEDDON. -- I hope they will. My own opinion is that it will be wise and well for them to do it, and I hope they may do it. Mr. G. J. SMITH .- They are going to. Mr. SEDDON .- I hope they will, and that 