ment made in the Legislative Council, and, finally, a further amendment after the passing of the Bill through Parliament suggested by ·Governor's message. It is perfectly clear, look- ing at section 22 as it is set out in section 4 of this Bill, that nobody sitting down deliberately to draft a clause on the subject of alienation would make such a mess of it as we have done in this clause. Yet it was a pardonable thing for the Legislature, passing through the various stages to which I have already referred, arriving at a result that was not exactly shipshape ; but why this clause, which was one of the most signal examples of our bungling last session, should be repeated verbally and deliberately by the Minister in his Bill now I fail altogether to perceive. Honourable members may remember that the origin of the trouble was a misprint, which neither of the two Ministers in charge of the Bill last session nor their draftsman seemed to have perceived. The misprint was that the clause as originally drawn was intended to pre- vent alienation of Maori land under this Act altogether, except through the Maori Council. In the original Bills of both 1899 and 1900 the essential part of the clause ran, " Maori land shall not be alienated, either to the Crown or to any other person, except with the consent of the Council," the object of the Bill being to place absolute prohibition on the alienation of Native land except with the consent of the Council. Then, the second thought was that the alienation of the freehold should be pro- hibited altogether, and it was determined to insert the words " by way of lease," permitting alienation by way of lease only, even with the consent of the Maori Council. The clause was then to read, " Maori land shall not be alien- ated, either to the Crown or to any other person, except by way of lease with the consent of the Council." But by a clerical or printer's error the words "by way of lease " were put in before "except," instead of after it, thus having a directly opposite effect to that in- tended-enlarging instead of limiting. The clause, as it came before us last session from the Native Affairs Committee, accordingly read, " Maori land shall not be alienated by way of lease, either to the Crown or to any other person, except with the consent of the Coun- cil." The effect of this was to impose restric- tion on Native lands by way of lease ; but, so far as this clause went, there was no restriction in dealing with the freehold. Following up the change effected by this mis- print, the Native Affairs Committee proceeded to engraft a proviso dealing with the freehold. On the clause so amended there was a great struggle in Committee on the Bill last year, the general assumption being that the effect of the clause was incidentally and by implication to permit the alienation of the freehold. It was not until the Bill passed through Committee that it was discovered that the origin of the whole trouble was a misprint. The Legislative . Council were apprised of the fact, and pro- ceeded to amend it. They did so by altering the position of the words " by way of lease"; meaning of the clause identically the same as it was before, the words being still left before "except," instead of after it. When the Bill came down to this House attention was called to the fact that the words were still in the wrong place, and the following was a part of our reasons for disagreeing with the amendments made in the Legislative Council : "That the words ' by way of lease,' in line 42, are put in the wrong place ; the same should be placed after the word 'except,' in line 43." It was rather comical that we should have given that reason for disagreeing, seeing that the error was our own, and the Council had merely failed to correct it. The final stage was that, the House having failed to correct it and the Legislative Council having failed to correct it, we received, at the last sitting of the session, a message from the Deputy Go- vernor transmitting certain amendments in the Bill. The Premier, in explaining the effect of the message, stated that its object and effect was to put the words "by way of lease " in the right place. I will just make it clear by citing from the statement of the Pre- mier in reply, where he says (page 500),- " He (Mr. Seddon) had adopted those amend- ments, and now the member for Wellington City said the clause was a bigger muddle than ever. The words 'by way of lease' were put after the word 'except,' which was just what the honourable member suggested." So that the Premier told us that by the Governor's message he was then putting the words " by way of lease " in their right place after the word " except." Now, when anybody asks me a question about a Bill like this, and reminds me that I know all about it because I was in the House, I usually say, " It was about eight o'clock when we were putting it through, and I have a strong impression as to what it looked like then, but I will not guarantee my recollection of it, and will look at the statute- book." Certainly, I was never more surprised in my life than when I looked at this clause on the statute-book and found that the Deputy Go- vernor's message had not altered this clause in the very least-that thewords " by way of lease " still remained before the word "except "; so that while the Premier was telling us-those who objected to the very dangerous form in which the clause stood-that he was, through the Deputy Governor's message, giving way to us and putting everything right, we had only his version of it, and it was absolutely incorrect. The result is that the words stand, after all the negotiations between the two Houses, and after our agreement with the Legislative Council that the words are in the wrong place, and after the Duputy Governor's message to put the words in the right place, and after the Premier's statement with regard to it assuring us they were in the right place, we find they still remain in the wrong place-that they now remain in the statute in the wrong place. Well, the final point is this : It was admitted that the section was the result of obvious bungling, and it was rushed through in the 