agent at Rarotonga, prisoners may be deported to that island, and may there serve a term of imprisonment with hard labour for any period not exceeding three years, under such regula- tions as to diet and hours of labour as may hereafter be made." They were aware that one prisoner had already been sent there lately, and others might have been sent previously, but of that they knew nothing. It was, however, surely desirable, as they had this penal settlement, that the Minister should provide for its periodi- cal inspection. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said it was very satisfactory to see that the honour- able gentleman took such a lively interest in these outlying possessions. In reply to the question, he might say he did not intend to send the Inspector of Prisons to Manuae to report, because he considered the cost of doing so would be more than the report was worth ; but, if the honourable gentleman desired to visit these outlying islands, he would have great pleasure in appointing him a Visiting Justice, so that he might report on this ques- tion. # HUNUA COAL AREA. Mr. MASSEY (Franklyn) asked the Minister of Mines, Whether he will cause a report to be made on the quality and probable quantity of coal available at Hunua, in the Auckland Pro- vincial District, and the best way of getting it to market ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said this applied to a different portion of the country to that previously referred to, and he had an extract from the report of the Government Geologist relating to it. The late Hon. Mr. Chamberlin, M.L.C., interested himself in this matter, and at his instance a geological report on the field was made by Mr. Mckay in 1888. This report, which is part of a parliamentary paper, concludes as follows :- "So far as my observations warrant me in expressing an opinion, these lead me to the be- lief that there is a considerable area of workable coal to the dip of the outcrops examined, and if transit over the range can be effected at a moderate cost the indications warrant the open- ing and working of mines for the supply of the Auckland market. It will also be seen that among the coals of the Lower Waikato and Drury Coalfields this coal takes the second place, being only excelled by that from the Waikato Company's mine at Taupiri." It would thus be seen that the Government was already in possession of information on the subject, and therefore there was no necessity for a further geological report on this part of the district. As to the other portion referred to, as soon as time permitted he would allow the Geologist to inspect and report. DRUNKENNESS AT POOLBURN. Mr. T. MACKENZIE asked the Minister of Justice. Whether his attention has been drawn to a letter in the Otago Witness of the 16th October, page 19, describing an alleged shock- Mr. Herries ing state of drunkenness and open sly-grog selling at Poolburn ; and, if the statements are true, why have the police not taken effectual steps to stop such orgies? Some time ago he had brought under the notice of the depart- ment the question of the prevalence of drunken- ness at this place, and understood that the police intended to take some action in the matter. A letter which appeared in the Witness seemed to call for some immediate action. He would read the letter :- Otago Central Railway Works, Poolburn. "SIR,-Perhaps the insertion of the follow- ing complaint in your widespread paper may assist to alter the deplorable and disgraceful state of things that just now may be seen any Sunday at the above works, casting a cloud of shame and horror over the lives and minds of the respectable workers employed there. As a traveller in Central Otago, my duties took me past and through that neighbourhood, and I was unfortunately detained there on a recent Sabbath day. Hardened as I am, and have been, with the sights and experiences of the world, I was positively appalled with what I was reluctantly compelled to see there as I was examining the works, and I hope never to behold such a sight again. Men and youths fighting, drinking, gambling, and screaming frightful oaths seems the order of the day, and Sunday, of all days, is the one chosen. If this sort of thing is to be re-enacted in Hades, I pity those who will be condemned to go there ultimately. I may add there are three sly- grog shops amongst them, doing a great illicit trade, but the police are baffled and powerless, as the law is against them. Surely decent, worthy, hard-working men can be found who would not abuse this privilege. This work is greatly delayed, I was informed, through the unfitness of fully one-half the present hands employed .- I am, &c., "TRAVELLER." He had had communications from some of the men working there, who deplored the state of affairs. He merely quoted it ; he did not vouch for the accuracy ; but he thought, with the communications he had received, it was justifiable that some action should be taken to prevent respectable men having their feelings shocked in this way. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the letter read by the honourable gentleman led one to infer that little or no action was taken in regard to this matter, while, as & matter of fact, they had had prosecutions for sly-grog selling at this place ; and he did not think there was any reason to believe that any- thing like the condition described existed. If it were so, and if the writer of the letter was aware of the facts, why, in the name of all that was reasonable and fair, did he not communi- cate with the police and aid them in getting a conviction ? Statements of this kind were frequently made by anonymous writers who were not prepared to support the police in case of prosecution. It was impossible for the police to devote the whole of their attention to one 