lucky way of estimating what should be charged against capital account. It has not been done during my time, and I do not think that would be a fair way of doing it. There has probably been some confusion somewhere ; but I do say that, as long as I can remember-and I have the experience and advice of those who have been connected with the railways from their first construction-there has always been a distinction made as to what is charged against capital account and working expenses and revenue. It must be discouraging to the officers in charge of the railways to hear these statements made. I indorse what has been said by my colleague the Minister for Railways. What is a fair and proper charge against capital account is all we desire them to charge. had rather, myself, if there is any doubt at all in the matter, that it should go against working- expenses, because our railways give us a very fair profit. They give to myself, as Treasurer, a considerable surplus each year, and if there is any doubt at all I would rather they erred as against revenue than as against capital account. The officers have full control of the manage- ment, and why should the honourable member for Hawke's Bay and the honourable member for Bruce accuse those officers ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I accused Ministers. Mr. SEDDON .- I say my colleague has never given any such instructions. He has never been a party to any such thing at all, and, as far as I know, all the amounts charged are shown, and it cannot be said that anything is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 kept back. You can take them in the State- ment, item after item, and see the amounts charged, and if there is anything in the items you object to you can do so ; but, Sir, I con- sider this Statement has been one of the most satisfactory that has ever been laid before the House ; and I hope to see this Bill passed, so that we may get to the estimates, and I am sure our constituents will not be at all dis- pleased with the proposals made therein. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- Sir, I must express my pleasure on the occasion of the Hon. the Minister for Public Works laying before us his sixth annual Statement. Had I been a South Island resident I feel that I would have gushed a little more on the subject of the total amount to be expended on the con- struction of the railways in the Colony of New Zealand. If we were now in Committee dealing with a Bill I would like to have added one or two words to the twenty-eighth line of the first page of the Statement to show my sentiments. "The paragraph in the Statement reads, " While this good work has been done during past years, we who for the time being have the welfare of the country intrusted to our charge must not ignore our responsibilities in seeing that steps are taken for the future development of our colony." I should like to add, " and the further development of the North Island." Then, a little further down the Minister says, " We must further improve our existing lines of com- munication ; and this, done with due regard to economy, will result in placing our country Mr. Seddon proper means of communication our settlers are hampered and handicapped." I should like to insert the words "Without proper means of communication our poor North Island settlers are hampered and handicapped." So far as the construction of railways is concerned, it is a matter of indifference to me personally whether the items are charged to capital account or revenue. That may interest South Island mem- bers ; but in Auckland we should be only too glad to get the lines built under any system. We cannot get lines built on any system. I notice here that there are 2,212 miles open for traffic and fully equipped. Of this there are 1,377 miles for the South Island and only 835 for the North Island. Thus there are 542 miles of railway fully equipped in the South Island in I excess of what there are in the North Island. Now, it is not so much the construction of the permanent-way or in laying down light rails or heavy rails, but it is the great impetus it gives to settlement, to agriculture, and commerce in the South Island to have all these locomotives, this rolling-stock, these railway-stations and railway officials ; and all this, in addition to the 542 miles of railway, as compared with what we have in the North, is what I consider hardly fair. I do not wish to draw any in- vidious comparison, but I am going to appeal presently to the sentiment of fair-play with which I know my Southern friends are imbued. Now is the time for them to show their goodwill and charity towards all men, and let the North Island have 542 miles of rail- way before any more railway - construction takes place in the South Island. That is the true statesmanlike attitude. The North of Auckland has been kept back in the value of land, trade and commerce has been restricted, and even politically it has been kept back. Up till recently, when my friend the Minister for Public Works and my friend the Minister of Lands came to Auckland, we were beginning not to know what these particular Ministers of the Crown were like, and if the Maori An- tiquities Bill had been passed some little time ago we should have liked to have put a Minis- ter of Lands or a Minister for Public Works in the museum up there as relics of antiquity and historical records, so as to show the people what Ministers of the colony were like. As regards this vote, if the colony could afford it, I would like to see £200,000 expended on the Otago Central, and I am not going to advocate the taking of one penny off their vote ; but if the Southern people decide for two or three years to do away with these great votes so as to allow the North Island Main Trunk line to be finished, so that the colony can get some return from its expenditure, I can assure them they will have the united and unanimous vote of the North Island members; but we are not going to try and force them. When, Sir, we take into consideration that this 542 miles of railway in excess of the North Island has to be multiplied by its associated interests in every shape and form, it shows under what disadvan- tage we in the North Island have been labour- 