considerable amount of expense ": and I believe that was one of the moving factors in the pass- ing of the Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. HORNSBY .- Sir, I believe that was a factor ; at any rate, it did influence some mem- bers of the House. Let me say, in conclusion, that I hope, when the vote is taken on the second reading of this Bill, that the members will not consider their private feelings in this matter, that they will not consider the sacredness - almost "that divinity which doth hedge a king"-which we have heard so much about in connection with the Go- vernor, but that members will vote accord- ing to the wishes and desires of the tax- payers of this colony. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). - When Auckland is mentioned I feel it my duty to say a word or two. His Excellency the Go- vernor is the representative of the King of England, and we are accustomed to treat His Excellency with respect ; and when his name is mentioned in this House in connection with " a message from the Governor " the whole House rises. Does not that show respect ? Now, I am quite satisfied that the honourable mem- ber for Wairarapa, by the termination of his address, was really not in earnest in what he said, because the greatest authority he quoted in support of his argument was a German authority, and it is well known we are all Britishers here. The money expended has been expended for the benefit of the colony https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 at the request of the colony, and we have benefited in reputation, and have really not lost anything at all; because the money that was spent has all been spent amongst the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero tradespeople and the working-classes of the colony. The consequence is that the money expended has gravitated back again into the pockets of the taxpayers who provided the money; so that, so far as actual cash goes, there has been no cash lost to the colony. Now, with regard to the question of the Go- vernment House at Auckland : Permanent im- provements have been made there. The money has not had to go entirely for blankets, as has been the case in Wellington, because we have such a beautiful climate in Auckland ; so that that was a great saving there. Then, the fit- ting-up of the Government House at Auckland will prove an improvement to our city, and that is why I refer to it. What is to prevent the suites of rooms being occupied by the Ministers, who can now come and reside for part of the time in Auckland? The Hon Mr. McGowan, our Minister of Justice, can give his balls and parties, when in Auckland, with befitting dignity. There was previously no suitable Ministerial residence in Auckland, and that is the reason, no doubt, why we have seen so little of the Ministers there. In future, now that the Government House at Auck- land has been so greatly improved, I do not see that the Ministers could have any excuse for not coming up and staying a time with us. I am not going to detain the House further, Mr. Hornsby except to take the opportunity of saying this : The King of England is represented here, and I do hope we are not going to demean ourselves by entering into a discussion upon this expen- diture, when it is a paltry matter of $2.000. Why, I spent a greater sum of money myself in carrying through negotiations with the British Admiralty to get New Zealand appointed a naval station, and did not cry out for the colony to reimburse me. while this amount under dis- cussion is to be divided amongst seven hundred thousand people. There is no necessity for us to object to it at all, and I trust the House will pass it with a good grace. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City). - I do not think this question ought to be allowed to go without debate, having regard to some of the utterances which we have already heard with respect to the matter. I should say, Sir, that I do not feel inclined to agree with the attitude taken up by the Premier in respect to a discus- sion of this kind on the floor of the House. The Premier seems to display a trepidation and anxiety and nervousness that is quite unac- countable when the name of the Governor is mentioned in connection with a Bill, or on the floor of this House. Sir, I see no reason for that, because I understand the practice of the English House of Commons does not recog- nise any principle of the kind. When the ques- tion of the liabilities of the Prince of Wales, the present King, came before the House of Com- mons ; when the question of the despatch of the "Ophir" and the visit to the colonies of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall came before the House of Commons, there was a frank, It seems to a free, and a full discussion. me the Right Hon. the Premier wishes us to have a new title for His Excellency the Governor. It almost seems as though he would have us call him " His Holiness." It is said of one of the Pitts, the great Ministers, that he never could go into the presence of the King without feeling his knees bend under him. But I do not think it is necessary to true loyalty or patriotism that a man or a Minister should have any feelings of the kind. Nor, it must be remembered, is the position of the Governor or of the Crown now that which it used to be in times gone past. The position of the King now is that he is the instrument by which the Ministry carry out the decrees of the Houses of Parliament and of the people who elect the representative House. That is the position of the Crown now. Without the approval of Ministers, without the approval of the Cabinet, the King, constitutionally, now cannot move even a little finger. What- ever the Cabinet wish him to do he must do ; whatever the Cabinet desire him not to do. that he must not do ; and it is exactly the same with respect to the position of the Governor. The Governor is merely the executive officer through which the decrees of the House and the wishes of the Cabinet or the Government are carried out, and I see nothing especially sacred about that position or that office. Now, I also do not subscribe to this doctrine: that in order to enhance our own dignity it is neces- 