tion of Maori lands, the Act of 1858 did nothing of the kind. Then he came on to the Act of 1883, which gave power to the Natives to elect a Committee to inquire into disputes affecting Native lands ; but this Act of 1883 is nothing at all compared with the Act of last year. It never gave the Maoris any power : it simply armed them to make an investiga- tion, and make a report to the Chief Judge of the Native Land Court. And when he speaks of the failure of the Native Committees in collecting and distributing moneys he refers to the Native Land Act of 1873. There was really no power whatsoever there for solving the Native difficulty. Therefore his comparisons fall to the ground. The system under the Act of last year and under this Bill is an entirely new principle. I do say this : that the only and first real attempt made by Parliament to solve the Native question was made by the late Mr. Ballance in 1886, when he passed the Act which was repealed a year or two afterwards. That Act had not a chance at all to be tested ; and I believe if it had a chance of being tested in its entirety great good would have emanated from it. But what was the cause of the repeal of that Act ? It was entirely brought about by Native agents and people trafficking in Native lands. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- You are rather severe on the Native Minister. Mr. HEKE. - I am only expressing the opinion that if the Act of 1886 had been given a chance great good would have resulted. The honourable member for Napier went on to say https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that the Act of last year was too cumbersome and expensive ; but the most serious point he referred to was that this Council was composed of Maoris, and that Maoris were open to be http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero bribed, and he said that if he had £100 he could buy the whole of the Maori Councils out. You must remember the Councils are also to be composed of Europeans. If we look into this statement of the member for Napier what does it call forth ? It calls forth this : that he must have had previous experience of this kind. Has he been in the habit of going about with sums of money bribing Natives ? Of course, I know that the honourable gentle- man has been employed by Europeans for the purpose of negotiating sales and leases of Native lands; and I also know that the honourable gentleman is entirely employed in acting as agent before the Native Land Courts for Maori clients who have Euro- peans at their back. Under these circum- stances, can the honourable gentleman's speech have any weight with honourable members? Certainly not. Then, the honourable member made another remark with regard to the Act of last year, and it was the only other remark he made regarding it. He said, "Supposing this Maori Council decides to deal with the question of appointing successors to deceased owners and partitioning Native lands, just imagine the ex- pense to the Maori owners." Well, the honour- able gentleman really ought to be fair. He ought to give the House to understand the VOL. CXIX .- 63. to draw the attention of members to this : that the whole power to vest judicial power in the Maori Council is solely and entirely in the hands of the Chief Judge of the Native Land Court. We all know that the Chief Judge knows perfectly well that it is not in the interests of the Maoris to vest this power in the hands of the Maori Councils at present. The Maoris themselves really do not want to exercise this power ; they fully realise the burdens that would be imposed on them if they called for this power to be exercised by the Councils. The whole duty of the Councils, as wished for by the Maoris, is not in the direction to do judicial work, except in one instance-that is, by pana- tupu committees- but solely for the purpose of enabling them to transfer large tracts of land which they are not able to use for their benefit to the Councils, so that they may be able to have them cut up into sections and have them put up to auction for lease. The Native Land Court still goes on and does its proper work- namely, to deal with the judicial work in re- ference to the Maori lands. The honourable gentleman also made this statement : that the Maori cannot lease under the Act of last year. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - Except through the Councils. Mr. HEKE. - Apparently the honourable gentleman has no desire to explain to honour- able members the provisions by which Maoris can lease their lands not through the Councils at all. Under section 5 of this Bill, and under a clause of the Act of last year, it is provided that the Natives may make application to the Council, and by the Council to the Governor in Council, praying that their lands may be exempted from the operation of the Act of last year, and they should be enabled to lease to private persons. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .-- Which section are you quoting ? Mr. HEKE .- Clause 5 of the present Bill ; it repeals the original section of the Act of last year. Read clause 5 of the Bill and you will find it. In the clause now before the House it says the Governor in Council can act on his own responsibility. And if by the removal of such restrictions the land is set free, the Maori owner has the absolute right of dealing directly with private persons to sell, mortgage, or lease. Now let me come back to some of the state- ments made by the member for the Western District. Both he and the member for Napier told the House that a great cry had been raised by the Natives against the Act of last year. This is entirely wrong. I will tell you where the objection comes from. It comes from in- terested persons, who make it their business to deal with Maori lands and the timber on Maori lands, and to act before the Native Land Court. That is where the objections are coming from. So far as the true Native is concerned, their desire is that legislation should be brought down in the shape of adopting a system by which they can lease their own lands through a. 