number of other Bills, among them the City of Christchurch Electric Power and Loan Em- powering Bill, of which he had charge, which he thought should at least be put through their second-reading stage before any of the local Bills were taken into Committee. Some of the Bills he referred to dealt with matters in con- nection with large cities, and were of an ex- tremely important character, affecting not only the well-being of the localities immediately concerned, but to a great extent the prosperity of the colony. He thought it quite unfair that those Bills should be practically shelved now while other Bills of relatively minor importance should be allowed to pass. The Order Paper was being treated in a way it had never been treated before, and he must protest against it. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked if the Premier would give the House an oppor- tunity of taking the second reading of the City of Christchurch Electric Power and Loan Em- powering Bill, which on the previous day's Order Paper was No. 9, but which was now put down near the bottom-No. 25. Neither he nor his colleague Mr. Collins desired to impede the progress of any other local Bill, but he thought the House should agree to have a debate on this Christchurch City Bill. He asked the Premier to afford members an oppor- tunity of hearing both sides of the question. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) would promise that the Christchurch Bill would be placed third of the local Bills on the Order Paper. Mr. G. J. SMITH pointed out that a Bill which was strongly opposed would come before https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 it. Mr. SEDDON said he could not alter that. Mr. G. J. SMITH said the position of other Bills had been altered. AND WAIMATE COUNTIES' LEVELS BOUNDARIES ALTERATION BILL. On the question, That the Bill be read a second time, Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) said that, out of regard for other members who had Bills on the Order Paper, he would not take up the time of the House by opposing the Bill on the second reading, but he would oppose it when it was in Committee. He would move the amendment standing in his name on the Order Paper, and he had reason to believe the honourable member in charge of the Bill would come to a compro- mise. Bill read a second time, committed, and re- ported. On the motion, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) moved, as an amendment, That all the words after "That " be omitted, with the view of inserting "the Bill be recommitted." He would like to ex- plain that the Premier, in moving to commit the local Bills that afternoon, had mentioned this one as being opposed, and, not having heard the Deputy-Speaker's ruling, he (Mr. Rhodes) did not know the Bill was to be taken at such an early stage in Committee. Mr. Collins and at the time he left the sixth Bill on the Order Paper was in Committee. He had only time to go to the letter-boxes and walk to the end of the lobby, and on returning to the House he found that this Bill, which was the ninth on the list, had gone through, showing the rate at which Bills had passed through the . - House this afternoon. On the second reading of the Bill he stated that he was opposed to the Bill ; and the honourable member in charge -Major Steward-then came to him and said the best thing to do would be that he (Major Steward) should agree to the amendment, and, on the understanding that the amendment \--- would be included in accordance with that agreement, he (Mr. Rhodes) did not anticipate that there would be any trouble. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he had 1 called attention earlier in the afternoon to the fact that the Bill was opposed, and ought to to have been put among the other opposed Bills. When the Bills were in Committee they were rushed through at such a rate that he called the attention of the Acting-Chairman to the pace at which the business was going on. He also mentioned to the Committee that the member for Ellesmere had expressly stated to the House that he would allow the motion for the second \-- reading to pass to save time, on the understand- ing that an opportunity would be given to him to urge his objections when the Bill was in Committee. Then, when the measure was in Committee, he (Mr. Fisher) spoke on a motion, not that he had any interest in the Bill, but simply to give the honourable member for Elles- mere time to return to the chamber and urge his objection ; but notwithstanding all remon- strances the matter was pushed on. No one seemed to be willing to extend the usual \- courtesy to the honourable gentleman, how- ever, and, with railway speed, the measure was taken through, although it would have \-- - been only right to give the opportunity to the honourable member, who, in order to facilitate the expeditious progress of the Bills, had missed his opportunity on the second reading to say what he wished to say. The experience was one that would, at any rate, teach the member for Ellesmere that in future he should trust to nobody, and should not absent himself from the House from any cause, however pressing. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) opposed the mo- tion for the recommittal of the Bill. The posi- tion, he would explain to the House, was this : The two upper ridings of the Waimate County. called Upper and Lower Pareora, desired to be transferred to the Levels County, because they were much nearer to Timaru than to Waimate. The whole of the lower riding was unanimous in wishing to go over, but the other riding was divided in opinion. He might add that the weight of rateable value was in favour of those who wished to be transferred. Taking the two ridings together, he found that there were 115 petitioners for and seventeen against, and that in rateable value the totals were #426,000 as against $57,000. The County Council knew what was going on, and had not petitioned 