the details the honourable gentleman asked for. Amendment to reduce vote by £5 negatived. Vote, £13,500, agreed to. Marine : Miscellaneous services, £3,575. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for the details of the vote for " Contingencies, $300." Mr. HALL-JONES said the list was as fol- lows :- Rent, cleaning offices, &c., for Superinten- tendents of Mercantile Marine 123 .. Travelling expenses .. Westport Load-line Inspector Hire of steamer to search for wreckage from H.M.S. " Mildura" Telephones Code-lists (Mercantile Navy) . . Cleaning Nautical Adviser's office . . Two ensigns Expenses of prosecutions for breaches of Shipping and Seamen's Act . . Water-jars for depots for castaways . . Stamps, carbon papers, &c. . . Revising Mr. Ayson's report . . Sundries .. . . $299 Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) mentioned the matter of the erection of boat conveniences for the fishermen at Port Moeraki. It was a work of great urgency. Mr. HALL-JONES said it would be con- sidered when dealing with the public works estimates. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) referred to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the item, "Removing wreck of ' Waipara,' £280." He understood a sum of £72 was ex- pended on the same work last year. Mr. HALL-JONES .- That was so. He would like to explain that the " Waipara " was owned by some men of small means-in fact, all their means were invested in the steamer. When the steamer was wrecked she drifted into the fair- way of the river, and in the interest of the settlers the Government had to remove the wreck. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said that last ses- sion he brought under the notice of the Minis- ter the question of the erection of a light on the Kaikoura Peninsula. Mr. HALL-JONES said that question came under the public works estimates. Vote, £3,575, agreed to. CLASS VII .- STAMPS AND DEEDS DEPARTMENT. Stamp Department, £8,235. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister for the details of the item, "Contingencies, €139." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) referred to the item, "Engraving 12d. die and plate, £105." He presumed that was the horrible dream, the 1}d. stamp-the "khaki." For the credit of the colony he thought it would be advisable to call in any of these stamps that were now out. He would like to know if the engraving was done in the department or outside. said it was engraved in England. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) referred to the item for the penny stamp. He would like to know from the Minister by whom that plate was engraved. Mr. CARROLL said it was engraved by Waterlow. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) said that in certain towns of the colony there were Deputy Com- missioners of Stamps, and there were other towns where stamp offices should be established. 54 He might point out that documents which had 25 to be stamped had to be sent to the chief town of the provincial district in which the Deputy 25 Commissioner's office was established. For in- 20 stance, on the West Coast documents had to be 13 sent from Greymouth, Reefton, and Westport 7 to Hokitika, and a great deal of delay was thus 6 caused. He would urge that the Postmaster in each of the larger towns should have authority 7 to stamp such documents. 5 Mr. CARROLL said, if they granted a con- 5 cession in one particular case they would have 2 to do the same in other cases. If any reform 7 could be effected such as the honourable gentle- man suggested, he would look carefully into the matter. Mr .. PIRANI (Palmerston) said it seemed to him very unfair that the department would not receive documents by post for stamping. An agent had to present the documents for stamping. Mr. CARROLL said it was not necessary to employ an agent in every case. Mr. PIRANI asked if the office would receive documents for stamping from anybody, or must the documents be presented by a member of the legal profession. Mr. CARROLL .- From any one. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) said there was an- other matter which sharebrokers and others complained of. Where there were large num- bers of share transactions, if you wanted to have the transfer stamped-or, in fact, any decd or instrument-you had to send a requi- sition in a duplicate form through an agent to the Deputy Commissioner's office, or else send it by post. That involved a great deal of trouble and delay, which might be avoided. He thought that on the presentation of the document it ought to be stamped. Mr. CARROLL said he would look into the matter. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked for an explanation of the item " Remission of duty on estates of deceased members of contingents, £100." He supposed that in the ordinary way a remission meant simply that duty was not charged. How, then, could it appear as some- thing the Government paid out ? An Hon. MEMBER. - The duty had to be charged, and then paid back. Mr. BARCLAY. - Did he understand the position to be that the Minister had no power to remit the duty under the Act. Mr. CARROLL .- Yes. Vote, £8,235, agreed to. 