tion Act-I mean casual workers, co-operative workers, and so on-that they are old, infirm, and unfit ? He said that the aims of the union were that the best men were to be employed, and that the old, infirm, and unfit would be shut out and would have to be employed by the Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- He said that the only employment they could get would be from the Government. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am quite willing to take that statement, though that is not the one he made. It amounts to the same thing, and there is no other conclusion that one could come to but that the men whom he terms old, infirm, and unfit, are to be cast on the world by the unions, and told to earn their own living as best they can. But I am sure he would not seriously contend that, in consequence of age and infirmity, nothing in the shape of State employment should be given them to enable them to keep themselves and their families. That would not be a fair view to take of the casual and co-operative workers of this country, who are quite able to do their work. The very essence of the co-operative system is that the weak are employed, and are paid by results. What was done in the northern part of the colony in the case of the Waihi dispute? An effort was made by the company to employ only strong men and to reject the infirm and the weak. What was done by both employers and the miners' union there ? They came reasonably and rightly to a decision https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that respecting those who, from age or infirmity, could not give a fair day's work, there should be an arrangement come to between the miners' union and the employers, that a wage should be fixed for the men who were not capable of doing as much work as when they were in the full strength of manhood, and I think it was mutually agreed to pay them 5s. a day. That is a right thing, surely ; and if that has already been done under the Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act, such men are surely provided for by the unions, and they are not driven out to earn their living elsewhere. If the object of unions was to prevent the less fit of the workers from earning a living, I should be exceedingly sorry to know that any member of this House or any people in this country would uphold and sup- port views of that kind. Provision for the weak and infirm has ever been necessary ; it is so to-day, and will be for all time. Then, the honourable member asked another ques- tion. He asked, "What was the reason the Government employés did not ask to come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act?" and he answered it himself. He said it was because the Government brought influence to bear upon them, and let them know that they did not want their employés to come under the Act. Now, in this country there are, speaking from memory, some 11,000 or 12,000 employés in the public service. Does the honourable member seriously suggest that the reason he assigns why they should be brought under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act VOL. CXIX .- 13. the Government that does not want them to come under the Act, because the Govern- ment wishes to influence them, and is able to influence them, at elections, when they are wanted. Amongst the 11,000 or 12,000 men in the Government employ there are many who are just as intelligent, just as independent, and just as capable in every respect of forming their own judgment as the honourable member, and probably some of them more so ; and to suggest, in connection with a Bill such as this, that they are influenced by sordid and unworthy motives is nothing more nor less than an insult. The reason given is a gross reflection upon a large body of men, and also an unmerited reflection upon the Administration that the circumstances do not justify. I ask the honourable gentleman what can he expect to be the result of such a statement as he has made? Surely he must have made it thoughtlessly, and cannot realise its effect upon a large body of men. There are a great many of those men who have not been favourable to, or supporters of, the Go- vernment, but I venture to say that when they read that such reflections have been levelled against them by a leading member of the House opposite, they will seriously consider whether they can support a party whose lead- ing men give expression to views of that kind; at any rate, I feel sure they will resent his making such sweeping reflections upon men who do not deserve such treatment. The sug- gestion is that they are influenced by unworthy motives, and are thereby inflenced by the Go- vernment to stand outside of the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Such an innuendo is a very serious reflection upon an intelligent, independent, and respectable body of men, and therefore I think it is my duty to refer to it. The honourable member expressed astonishment at seeing Liberals get up, he said, in alarm at what he termed the friction that exists wherever the Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act was in force. I think every mem- ber of the House who takes a right view, or endeavours to form an unbiassed judgment to the best of his ability, upon any difficulties that may have arisen in connection with the work- ing of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, must admit that the working of that Act has been most beneficial, and has done incalculable good to the colony; and though a member may, as the honourable gentleman did, take exception to that legislation, reformers through- out the civilised world applaud this country for having placed it upon the statute-book. Well, I say it is a measure that has done an immense amount of good, and that it is not to be wondered at that some friction has arisen in carrying it out. But is the whole system to be condemned because some people say that the composition of the Boards has not given satisfaction to the public at large? I say the men complained of have had a difficult and a thankless task to fill. But even if the stric- tures passed on the working of the Boards were correct, I ask is the whole system to be con- demned because of the alleged want of judg- 