am more astonished to find that the mem- bers for the City of Auckland, with the ex- ception of one honourable member, voted in favour of this measure. Now, Sir, as I have said in the beginning, I agree with a great deal that is in this Bill. I say it is a great altera- tion as compared with the Bill when it was first introduced to this House, and I admit that it is creditable to the members of the Labour Bills Committee to have brought down such a measure as they have. At the same time I consider if they did their duty fairly, or if they had considered these matters as they ought to have done, they would have seen that this is a Bill that acts most injuriously to the country districts. The honourable member who spoke last talked about the report having gone abroad that capital had been driven out of the colony owing to the labour laws. I may say that I was told not later than last night of one employer in Wellington who, the last time he went to draw from the bank for the pay- ment of wages, drew out £112, as against the usual allowance of £225. Why? Because he finds that this Bill would act most injuriously against him. That is the result in one case, and it must be the same in other cases. raise my protest against this Bill, and I hope it will not become law. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- It was not my in- tention to have made any remarks on the third reading of this Bill had it not been for the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 speech delivered by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold). In making an electioneering speech on this Bill, as he did, he ought at least to have been fair to honourable members who were opposed to him. He re- ferred to a section of this House who some time ago predicted all sorts of gloomy results to the colony through the labour laws. He then went on to approve of the provisions of the Bill, and he affected to see that some of us who were opposed to the labour laws at first had come round to think they were a good thing after all. It was something to that effect. Now, let us consider what this Bill was like when it first came down to the House; and who was re- sponsible for bringing it down with the ob- jectionable clauses in it? I say it was the Labour party. The honourable gentleman shakes his head, but he knows as well as I do that was admitted to be the case. It was cor- tainly the Labour party who were the means of getting the objectionable clauses put in the Bill. Now, there would have been a con- flict if these clauses had been left in the Bill. They would, in fact, have been the cause of an industrial war. The honourable gentleman takes credit to himself for the passing of this Bill. Now, there are two factors that he ought to have given credit to for the passing of this Bill. First, there was the extraordinary pressure brought from the outset by the employers. I suppose there has been no Bill-not, at all events, during my time-that has been before a Committee of this House in respect to which there was so much excitement and agitation and so many people attending the Committee VOL. CXIX .- 83. honourable member and other labour members of this House deserve credit for having modified their views when they came to rub shoulders with members on this side of the House ; and it was in consequence of having modified their views that they are now coming round to something reasonable as compared with what they wanted some years ago. The mem- bers of the Labour party, I have no doubt, when they saw the extraordinary pressure from outside in connection with the Bill, had to modify their views ; they saw the effect it would have-that a large number of people would be walking about with both hands in their pockets if the Bill became law as it was first brought down. The Bill now, owing to a few members of the Labour Bills Committee who take reasonable views of labour laws, and are inclined to pass laws that will be to the advantage of both employer and employed, is a workable measure, and the honourable gentle- man ought to give credit for this to those who were instrumental in bringing about this state of things. As the Bill came down, the taking- away of overtime would have caused a great deal of trouble. As is well known, many in- dustries, especially in the case of those con- I nected with perishable goods, could not be worked without great extra expense unless overtime was allowed, and we have provided for overtime with increased pay. When the honourable gentleman gives the Labour party credit for the views they put forward, I think he should be fair to men who are more liberal- minded than himself. I am not referring to the labour members in the House, but to the pressure that is admitted to have been brought from outside by the Labour party. It was ad- mitted before the Committee that they were instrumental in inducing the Premier to bring in the objectional clauses in the Bill. Mr. ARNOLD .- No; one man. Mr. BOLLARD. - Well, is he not president of the Trades and Labour Council? No doubt he was advised as to what evidence he should give in the matter. Then, the honourable gentleman went on to talk about the increase of factories, and the number of hands employed Well, no wonder there is a large in factories. increase in factories and the hands employed in factories when a blacksmith and his boy con- stitutes a factory. It is altogether a misnomer to make a man and a boy a factory ; there ought to be at least three or four. It is not my intention to detain the House, because the Bill has been before me so much the last three months that I hope I am about seeing the last of it. But there is one thing I would say : I hope the Bill will be so satisfactory to both employer and employed that it will be a long time before there is any occasion to bring another one down. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- The mem- ber for the Bay of Islands said he supported the Bill because it gives legal effect to the eight- hours system, and he went on to say that this is the first time legal effect has been given to eight hours as the time a person shall be re- 