interfering in the slightest with the Boards or the Boards' prerogative. As regards the staffing, administration, and control of appointments, everything is left to the Boards, except in respect to the salaries. I say here that the Boards will hail with delight the fact that Parliament has taken upon itself the responsibility, and now they will be able to say that the salaries are fixed by Act of Parliament. They will know where they are, and what they receive. On that ground alone, if for no other, I claim the support of honourable members, and I do not think that the members of Boards will object to the proposal. I stated a short time ago that there were anomalies, and I will proceed to show them. On page 4 you will find this : "In order to make this point clear we give the range of salaries at rates paid in 1899." This is quoted from the statement that forms part of Exhibit 2 :-- Average Attendance. Range of Salary. $70 to $115 20 .. 100 £160 . #225 . . 250 .€203 , 4275 $258 . $375 600 Now, when you find that in a school with only twenty pupils the salary is $70, and that in another school with the same number of pupils the salary is #115, you must say that either the one is considerably overpaid or the other is manifestly and unjustly underpaid. It is also a matter for surprise that in some of the educational districts there should be a difference of $123 in the salaries of the head- teachers of schools with six hundred pupils, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 nevertheless, it is the fact. It is not the case that there is a great difference between the teachers, or that one is more perfect or more competent than the other. It is simply ac- counted for by the exigencies of the Boards. In one district they have large centres of population, few scattered districts, and con- sequently few small schools, and the result is they are able to pay a better salary than a dis- trict that has to a large extent a scattered population. I do not say that the teacher who receives $375 is receiving more than is fair, and more than a living - wage. I do not think they are. There, however, you can see the difference; and when such an astounding difference exists it is our duty, as far as we can, to remove the injustice, and I claim that this Bill does so. Now, naturally, 1 shall be expected to show what the effect of the Bill will be in the various districts. First of all, I think we may take it that the result arrived at has been arrived at after carefully collecting the evidence from those best able to give it : and I take this opportunity of saying I think the Commission has performed its duties in an excellent manner, and that they have placed the position before us in such a way that the House may with confidence follow the lead they have given us. The Commission had the assistance of those connected with Education Boards ; they also had the Inspectors, who were able to give material assistance as far as that branch of the service is concerned ; and they Mr. Seddon also had representatives of the teachers them- selves. Mr. J. G. SMITH .- Where were the female <!-- PageHeader="1" --> teachers ? Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I think we may take it for granted that wherever you meet a Bri- tisher the gentle sex is well seen to, and that he is not selfish, and that he would not place her in an inferior position, even although it might profit himself. I take that for granted, and the report proves it, because, as I have said. there is only one education district in the colony where the salaries of the female teachers are materially interfered with, and there are only a few exceptional cases in that district. I think that may be taken for granted. However, that argument, which I anticipated would come up, I meet in this way : Admit- ting that there are some cases where 8.0. it seems unfair to the female teach- ers, still if you put this question to them. " Do you believe in a colonial scale of pay- ment ? " and they answer you in the affirma- tive; then I say it is much easier afterwards to do the same as we have had to do when the classification of branches of the public service has had to be dealt with-it is much easier later on to adjust matters once the foundation has been laid. I say, Pass the Bill, and, later on, when we come to work it, we shall find out where alterations are ne- cessary. For my own part, I have what I suppose may be called a weakness for the female teachers. I believe in the female teachers. As the Chairman of an Education Board and a member of the Board for many years, knowing the work that has been done by female teachers. even as head-teachers and as first assistants in some large schools, I can say I believe in them. I have known women teachers to be equal to the best male first assistants you can meet with. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not give them equal pay for equal work ? Mr. SEDDON .- Well, of course, exceptions prove the rule, and those are exceptional cases. You do not get them every day ; and physically in many cases, they could not do the work. The cases in which they can do it are excep- tional. An Hon. MEMBER .- When they do it they should be paid for it. Mr. SEDDON .- I have said this is one of the points we should have a difference of opinion about. In the meantime, there is no reason why we should not lay the foundation and get the Bill through. Now, coming to \- the Bill, the total salary in the first scale, with allowances to the Board, correspond to a capitation of €4 on the total average attend- ance in all the schools of the colony. You know, of course, that we were asked to give a further increase. To that recommendation I informed the House -- as I also informed the country-the Government are prepared to give favourable consideration. Under the second scale the salaries and allowances to teachers would be equivalent to a capitation of #4 2s. 6d. on the total average attendance. Attached 1 