a salary of £70, but if it comes down to eight the salary will be only £40. What is to be done to supplement that salary to bring it up to a liv- ing-wage? Is the Education Department to levy a tax upon those two or three families who may have, say, eight children under school age, and eight of school age ? That is not the way to settle the people on the land. I say it is our duty to follow up these people, and provide them the means of giving their children a free educa- tion. It may be fixed in this way : Where the average attendance is not less than eight the minimum salary should be not less than £70 a year. I think that would meet the difficulty, and do justice to our country settlers. Sir, I am pleased to notice in the report of the Com- mission that there is no disposition to abolish Education Boards. I rather feared that ; but the report of the Commission does justice to those valuable local bodies, the Education Boards. It states,- "Noting the good work that has been done, we have endeavoured to so guard the introduc- tion of a colonial scheme that the influence of Boards will in no way suffer. The valuable evidence that was given by members and Secre- taries of Education Boards stands as a monu- ment of their earnestness and capacity in fostering the interests of the primary schools ; so, too, the evidence of teachers shows that Boards have not been unmindful of the im- portance of selecting men and women of intelligence and wide influence for good." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Sir, when the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) was Minister of Education, and was called upon to retrench, he submitted the question of retrenchment to the various Inspectors employed by the Education Boards for suggestions ; and the present Inspector-General, when asked to give his opinion, recommended the abolition of the Education Boards. It is quite possible for the Inspector-General to change his opinion. I sincerely hope he has seen the error of his way, and I judge that he has done so by the altered opinion of the Inspector- General, as reflected in the statement I have just read from the report of the Commission. I hope there is nothing to arouse suspicion-to lead us to believe there is any attempt made to interfere with local supervision. One of the best features of our education system is the efficiency of local supervision. Sir, I hope the Premier will see his way to adopt the B scale- that is, to arrange that the parliamentary allo- cation shall be at the rate of $4 2s. 6d. The Premier distinctly stated earlier in the session that he would adopt the B scale recommended by the Commission, which means only an additional £14,000 a year. The proposal is to increase the salaries by £28,000; and we should go a little further, and increase them bv £14,000 more. We should then have a scale of salaries that would recommend itself to the House, to the teachers in charge of our schools, and, indeed, to the country at large. I hope the Premier will be able to do so. I notice that America, Switzerland, and the colonies spend more than double upon educa- tion what they spend on defence : while, on the other hand, in the United Kingdom I notice four times as much is spent on the army and navy as on education. It is not necessary for me to say anything more in connection with this subject. I hope the Bill will go into Com- mittee, and that, with a few amendments, especially in the direction I have indicated in the matter of providing for small schools in country districts, it will pass through Com- mittee, and that before the House rises it will be read a third time, and in due course pass on to the statute-book. I shall be happy to do all I can to place it on the statute-book. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- This Bill, I feel, is a start in the right direction. There has been a great demand from all parts of the colony, and especially from the district I represent, for a classification scheme. Classi- fication is necessarily a very difficult subject to bring in and perfect, but, provided a little more attention is paid to the requirements of the country districts, and to primary education in the outlying settlements, I think the Bill on the whole will give satisfaction. As regards the expression of opinion of the teachers, I have received from the male teachers of Auck- land the following letter :- " Beresford Street School, Auckland, 2nd September, 1901. "SIR,-Although the proposed colonial scale of staff and salaries is not in every detail just what each teacher may desire, there is no doubt that, taken generally, it is a measure which commends itself to teachers. As a pro- fession we stand to gain so much by this scale that no quibbles over minor points should be allowed to interfere with the immediate intro- duction of this reform. In this teachers are almost generally agreed. At a full meeting of headmaster, assistant masters and mistresses, and pupil-teachers, held in this school on Wed- nesday last, the following motion was carried by a majority of fourteen to one : 'That, in the interests of teachers generally, the wishes of no one class of teachers should be allowed to jeopardize the immediate adoption of the colonial scale of staff and salaries, which by the vast majority of teachers will be viewed as the successful culmination of a long-needed reform.'" That is signed by " E. T. Hart, Headmaster." Now, the ladies, who have already in many cases had the advantage of about 20 per cent. increase, have met, and on the 6th September they sent me the following letter :- " Beresford Street School, Auckland, 6th September, 1901. "SIR,-At a meeting of lady teachers, held in Wellesley Street School on Thursday, 5th Sep- tember, the following resolution was passed unanimously : 'That the women teachers of Auckland, recognising that under existing cir- cumstances the principle of 'equal pay for equal work' is impracticable, are not in sym- pathy with the action lately taken by the Can- terbury women teachers. They also wish to place on record (1) their appreciation of the effort of the Royal Commission to reduce the 