ducted from the £1,000 and the lessee is taxable on the balance of #500 if there is no mortgage on his land, and if there be a mortgage the amount of mortgage is deducted from the tax- able value. An Hon. MEMBER. - No. Mr. NAPIER .- All I have to say is this : that five Judges of the Supreme Court have held that all leasehold or chattel interests are taxable. An Hon. MEMBER .- In what case ? Mr. NAPIER .- In the case of the Commis- sioner of Taxes versus the Kauri Timber Company. An Hon. MEMBER. - That was not a lease in ! the opinion that the mortgage-tax was out of perpetuity. Mr. NAPIER .- The honourable member does not know anything about it. In that case five Judges of the Supreme Court unanimously held that all chattel interests in land were taxable. And not only leases, but mere licenses in the nature of easements are taxable. If a person has a license to do a certain thing upon land, and the value of that license is worth more than $500, he pays land-tax on the excess over #500. All interests of whatsoever kind or nature in land are taxable, provided the taxable value is reached. A right to cut timber, a right to take coal, or any similar right is taxable now as " land." Therefore I say that the interest of lessees in perpetuity in the land is taxable. Of course, I recognise that the value of the fee- simple at the date of the lease escapes taxation because it remains with the Crown. When a large estate is purchased and cut up for settle- ment by the Government, no doubt a large https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 amount of land-tax is lost, because the large estate paid land-tax on the fee-simple value, and to that extent the Crown loses the land- tax, the land being cut up into portions the leasehold interest in which will not for some years exceed as a rule the value of #500. But, as I have said, when the lessee's interest is of a value exceeding $500 it is taxable under the Land and Income Assessment Act. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- I want to throw oil on the troubled waters. I have a return here, dated 13th August, 1901 :- " Ordered, That there be laid before the House a return giving the total amount of revenue collected by way of land-tax from the holders of leases in perpetuity."-(On the mo- tion of Mr. Hutcheson.) "Amount of land-tax collected from the holders of leases in perpetuity in respect of such leases -- Nil. "JOHN MCGOWAN, Commissioner of Taxes. .. Land- and Income-tax Department, Wellington, 21st August, 1901." I hope now there will be no uncertainty in regard to this point. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- The honour- able member for Mataura appears not to have understood my argument, and therefore has unconsciously misrepresented me. I admit that no land-tax has been collected yet from the lessees under the lease-in-perpetuity system, for the reason that the value of their interest Mr. Napier interest exceeds $500-which has happened in the North in some cases-the lessees will have to pay the land-tax on the value of their interest above $500. With the rapid increase of population the unimproved value of the Crown lessees' interest under the 999-years lease will soon reach a respectable taxable value. Mr.GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- Sir, the Premier has on several occasions stated from his place in the House, and also in the Financial State- ment, that he agreed with those who expressed all proportion, and he distinctly promised last year to reduce it. Its inequitable character has been shown both inside and outside the House. On the Financial Statement debate I proved to the House and the country that the mortgage- tax was at least four or five times more burden- some than the income-tax, and I want the Premier, therefore, in his reply, to explain why, in view of his own acknowledgment that it is altogether unreasonable and burdensome <!-- PageHeader="\- - --" --> upon taxpayers, he retains the tax of 1d. in the pound, or 8s. 4d. per cent., on mortgages. It is disappointing that the Premier has not kept \--- --- his promise. There are other ways of making up the amount-some £25,000 - if it is required. It could be made up on the graduated land-tax ; or, in another way, by a reduction of the exemp- tion of the income-tax. That would be far more fair on a large number of people 8.0. than burdening so many poor people, \-- whose necessities compel them to borrow, by making them pay an extravagant mort- gage-tax. As has been stated by the honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) \-- the present exemption from income-tax is £300 a year, plus £50 allowed for insurance. That is \- a very considerable income to have free of taxa- \- tion ; and any person who has got that can \- afford to pay an income-tax of 6d. in the pound on £100 of that $300, if the exemptions were reduced to £200. Then a person who has $300 a year would pay 100 sixpences, which would far more than make up the amount the Trea- sury would lose by reducing the mortgage-tax, and it would be much more fair and equitable. All taxation ought to be equitable and equally \- apportioned upon the shoulders of the tax- payers. In this case the Premier cannot deny that the taxation is out of all proportion un- equal ; and it would give general satisfaction if he would state in his reply that he would reduce the exemption on the income-tax or increase the graduated land-tax, which would make people who can afford to pay bear a fair share of the burden, and proportionately reduce the mortgage-tax. I hope the honourable gentle- man will explain why, under the circumstances, he persists in still levying this unjust tax on those whose necessities compel them to borrow money. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I regret that the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) should quote precedents hap- hazard when those precedents have no relation \- 