the suggestion in the hope that it is worthy of consideration, and I feel sure that if we should at any time establish money-lending establish- ments to lend money on personal security, and set up pawnbroking establishments, we should render very great service to the people of the colony, and especially to a class that deserve to be considered-that is, the working-men and women of the colony. When we speak of in- terest, royalties, rents, and all the tribute charges which are paid, we find they all fall back on the backs of the workers-that is the workers' burden-and they are the people who should receive from the State the greatest con- sideration. Debate adjourned. ## HORSES IMPORTED BY NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER desired, with the leave of the Council, to lay on the table a return of horses imported by the New Zealand Government. In doing so he wished to make one or two remarks, if he might be allowed. The Hon. Mr. Ormond-he was sorry the honourable gentleman was not in the Chamber -- was, he thought, very unfair in what he said some time ago in respect to the horses imported by the Government, because, as an old horse- breeder and an importer of horses, he must know it was very hard to please everybody. The honourable gentleman had, on various oc- casions, made the remark that the horses im- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ported and brought into the country were only worth shooting, and that sort of thing. But still he used the term, and of course he did so with due regard to the responsibility of his position. But he (Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker) did not think they were fair remarks for any man to make, even though he had the responsi- bility of an experienced horse-breeder on his shoulders. The honourable gentleman made an attack on the officer of the department that was sent Home to buy these horses, and en- deavoured to sheet home to the Government through him a serious responsibility and neglect of duty. Well, that was a very serious charge for any man to make. It is a very serious responsibility for an honourable gentle- man to charge that against a man who could not defend himself, and therefore he (Hon. Mr. Walker) thought it was only right that, in placing the return on the table, he should say a few words in explanation of the purchases that were made. Now, the officer who went Home was Mr. Gilruth, whom most of them knew, and the only thing he (the Hon. Mr. Walker) knew against him was that he was a veterinary surgeon by profession, and, perhaps, therefore not likely to know much about horses. How- ever, the Government were sending him Home, and they thought he was a very good officer to select for this purpose, and they had full con- fidence in him. They all knew that when he went Home he went Home just at a time when the remount question was in full cry. It was felt that the horses we wanted to bring here Hon. Mr. Rigg other countries-were horses called "remount horses." We sent some thousands of very good horses of our own breeding to South Africa. The stallions the Government instructed Mr. Gilruth to buy were not the class of horses the Hon. Mr. Ormond wanted. They told him to get remount stallion horses, which would beget weight-carrying, hard-doing, short-legged horses, and asked him to put himself imme- diately into communication with the remount authorities at Home, and he was told that the stallions that he would require to buy were well- bred horses, not more than 15.2 hands, with plenty of bone and substance, short in the legs, and so on. Well, he (Mr. Walker) had no doubt that would not meet the Hon. Mr. Ormond from a racing point of view, and Government was not intending to supply stallions of that kind. The horses that the Hon. Mr. Ormond saw were Malachi, Serapion, and Lupin. He (Mr. Walker) need not read Malachi's pedigree, but it had Hermit's blood in it. He was ex- hibited in a show in London, and was well in the running for a King's Premium, but was con- sidered on the small side. Then Serapion, a good, suitable horse, last year won some good races, carrying heavy weights. He won a steeplechase race, carrying 12 st. 10 1b .- a big weight for a horse 15-2 hands. He was bought for $300. Then, Lupin, Mr. Gilruth said, had strained a tendon, and he bought him lame, knowing that he would recover with proper treatment during the voyage, which he did. The original price of this horse was two thousand guineas, and he was bought for £225. Those were the horses the Hon. Mr. Ormond saw, and he (Mr. Walker) guaranteed they would all give a good account of them- selves. An Hon. MEMBER. - Good wear- and - tear horses. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, Yes ; and, in spite of what the Hon. Mr. Ormond said, he (Mr. Walker) would undertake to get just as emphatic an opinion against his. Then, the other horses were all like the last. There was a horse called Tyranny, which cost $200, and another called Singlestick the Second, a young horse, three years old, one of the best for our purpose, which cost $350. It was hard to get legislators to agree, but to get two gentle- men to agree about a horse was harder still. But he felt quite certain that results would show that the selections made by Mr. Gilruth would justify the action of the Government in sending him Home to purchase them. The object was not to get racehorses. We did not want to get racing stock, but good, well- bred, weight-carrying hacks, and he was in- formed that Mr. Gilruth had fulfilled his duty uncommonly well, and every one would be satis- fied except those who wanted to get racehorses. Of course, they could not be satisfied. He intended to lay the paper on the table, showing the prices these horses cost at Home. He wished to draw attention to the fact that, in quoting the prices paid for the horses at Home, 