he then indicated that the increased expendi- ture of the colony was alarming, and he then prophesied a deficit, I think, of $400,000. His predictions were completely falsified, as, instead of a deficit, we had a surplus of £532,564 at the close of the 31st March last. The actual surplus for the year itself was $427,213. The difference between the revenue, 55,906,916, and the ex- penditure, $5,479,703, and the balance remain- ing after transferring $500,000 to the Public Works Fund from the previous year of $105,351 added to the year's balance of $427,213 gave us the surplus of $532,564 to begin the financial year with. What is the honourable gentleman's criticism as regards the financial position of the colony ? No one denies that the expenditure has gone up. That the depart mental expenditure has increased is admitted ; but where it is possible for the Government to keep down the depart- mental expenditure and the growth of ordinary expenditure it is the duty of the Government to do so. We are fully alive to that. But when considering the expenditure of the colony as a whole you must, as a matter of fairness, take into account whether that expenditure is nor- mal or non-recurrent ; and you should also con- sider the position of the revenue of the colony to ascertain whether the barometer is fair to medium, or is rising or falling. You should sce whether the increase in the revenue is nor- mal also. What did the honourable member say? While he said the quarterly returns pre- sented a ghastly light, he said the increase in the expenditure was $328,000 for the half year ; https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 but he either forgot or would not say that a great portion of that was non-recurrent. The honourable member then went on to admit- what there is no gainsaying-that the colony was prosperous ; and then, owing to the present value of wool, he predicted a possible fall in the revenue and a reverse of the prosperous state of affairs, and that bad times might come to the colony. Ever since I have been in the House there has always been some startling predic- tion of that kind ; our prices for the staple products vary ; one year it has been in con- nection with wool, another year frozen meat is on the downward path, or our grain, or our butter and cheese. But, fortunately, this colony has not all its eggs in one basket ; it has always been in the position that when one of our staple products has been on the downward scale some other one has maintained a high value and filled up the gap. I regret exceed- ingly the fall in our great product wool, and I hope it may not long continue. All we can do is to do all in our power to create fresh markets, and assist in the development of the country in that way ; and it is clearly the duty of the Government to give effect to a policy of that character. No one can say the Govern- ment bas not done its utmost in that direction ; any way you look at it, whether in connec- tion with assisting the producers to get cheaper freights to the Old World or sending men to improve the condition of the markets, the Go- vernment have been doing everything in their power in this direction, and will continue to do sible financial collapse owing to the fall in wool ; but we have a buoyant country, and one that will be able, as it has in the past, to meet its troubles, and the indomitable spirit of the people of the country will assist them to overcome the pass- ing troubles referred to by the honourable gentleman. He further referred to the fact that the increase in the expenditure of the colony was £328,000 for the half-year, and he went on to say there were indications of an evil day arising -- that we might stave it off, but that the present position was marked by grave anxiety. But, in referring to the fact that the expenditure of the colony had gone up, you must realise what the colony is doing, and take into consideration the fact that last year the colony reduced taxation by over $300,000, and that the bulk of the increased expenditure is due to unusual and non-recurring causes. And when you are discussing and talking about 8.0. the increase in the relative position of the finances of the colony you must, I say, keep before you the fact that we made a very large remission of taxation last year, of which the colony as a whole has the benefit. Now, when the honourable member is considering the finances of the colony, how does he do it? Does he go down the gamut of the depart- ments and give the amounts of the large con- cessions made last year ? I think not, for almost every department has shown that, not- withstanding the concessions that have been made or the increases of revenue in each of them this year, they have in the increased volume of business shown that in the gross results of revenue, and in nearly every case in the net results also, they have made up by a long way the $300,000 remissions, and that will favourably affect the future of the colony. Then, the honourable member referred to the fact that the increase in the Colonial Secretary's Department was $42,102 ; in the Postmaster- General's Department, $21,063 ; in the Rail- ways, £92,000 ; in Agriculture, $13,750 ; and, in the Defence Department, $52,540: making a total of about #221,000. Now, I propose for one moment to devote myself to these figures. First of all, the honourable member, and every member of the House, knows that the £42,000 increase in the Colonial Secretary's Depart- ment is not an annual increase. It is an abnormal one, and one to which we have a right to refer to show the unfairness of the strictures about the increase of expenditure, be- cause it is not recurrent. I cannot go through all the items, but honourable members know that included in this amount is a large part of the cost of the Royal visit. That is a disap- pearing item, and is not recurrent, as is also census expenditure, which is also included, and that is non-recurrent. The honourable member says that free criticism is a good thing for the Administration and for the country. That we all admit ; but it is no use of the honourable member presenting only one side of the picture to the country, and that side the worst side, and imagining that we are going to let him misrepresent by only giving the one side. The 