sumer ? Mr. SEDDON .- I have said that we have first to supply ourselves for State purposes, and I have mentioned in the House before that there will be State coal depots in the centres of population, and the people can go there and get coal for themselves. We will fix the price, and the people can go there, after we have served our State requirements, and get coal. There is nothing wrong in that. It is simple enough, and I have thought it all out. The State will not have carts for delivering the coal, but there will be carters; and any householder who wants a hundredweight of coal can get a carter to call for it at the State coal depot, pay the shilling or whatever it may be for the bag of coal, and off it goes. An Hon. MEMBER .- He can take a wheel- barrow. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not care whether he goes with a wheelbarrow or with an express ; it does not matter to me so long as the coal is delivered. Well, of course, gauged by how they do things in the Old Country and in other countries, and gauged by the past, people will wonder how and why we take this departure and go into this thing. Well, I say, they may wonder as much as they like. I will take a practical view of the matter, and I say hun- dreds of people in the winter time in this colony cannot afford it, and do not get coal, and so their children suffer hardships from the cold in the winter. I say the price of coal in some cases in this colony, and in this very https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 City of Wellington, is exorbitant. I know people have got to pay £2 10s. per ton for it. I will tell you another case that has come under my notice : I saw a letter the other day from Auckland in connection with the action of an enterprising individual there, with a small capital, to meet the requirements of the poorer people. There had been an association formed in Auckland and an agreement arrived at not to sell under a given quantity of coal. This man undertook to sell half the quantity stipu- lated in this agreement between these coal- dealers, and I saw the letter that was sent to him intimating that, unless he came to the terms and conditions and agreed not to sell in less quantities than than fixed by the associa- tion, he could get no more coal. Mr. FISHER .- We have had that in Wel- lington. Mr. SEDDON .- It shows there is an endea- your to keep up the price of coal. Although there may not be any direct connection between the coal-dealers and the mine-owners, yet how can the dealers say that from the shipping- owner or from the coal-mine owner " You will get no more coal "? There may be really no direct connection between them, but, some- how or other, in this case the dealer got no more coal. Well, I know another case, and it is this : that when the co operative men took up the Mokihinui Mine, which was sup- posed to be valueless, and would not give any coal at all, they asked the Union Steamship Company what they would charge them for it when I tell them that the price was either Gd. or Od. more per ton to these co-operative workmen to carry their coal from Westport to Wellington than the company charged the Westport Coal Company? Now, what was the reason for that? Why should the Union Steamship Company put on 9d. per ton more to one coal-mine owner than another ? Mr. R. THOMPSON .- How do you propose to carry the coal from the State mine ? Mr. SEDDON .- I say we shall be in this position : we shall be able to say to the steam- ship owners, "We have a given quantity of coal which we wish carried. What will you carry it for?" We can enter into a contract with the Union Steamship Company in this matter. The Union Steamship Company is just as amenable to reason as any other company, be- cause we shall say, " If 5s. is a reasonable price for you to charge the Westport Company we want our coal carried at the same price." Now, that is fair. But, I will say, in this connection, we have to consider the class of vessel engaged in the trade. They have up-to-date coal-carry- ing vessels trading from and to Newcastle. I inquired into this matter when in Sydney, and I got the fullest information in respect to the vessels engaged in the coal trade ; and I say that it could be carried at considerably less than it is being carried here now if we had suitable vessels, and vessels built and fitted for this specific purpose. The reason why the cost of coal is so high at the present time, so far as freights are concerned, is because we have an obsolete class of steamers in the trade. That has a great deal to do, in my opinion, with the extra freight that is now charged for carrying coal. I do not say it is so. I do not find any fault with the 5s. a ton for coal from Westport to Wellington ; but I only use this as an argument in answering the question, " How do you propose to carry your coal ? " I do not propose, unless as a last resource, to have our own vessels carrying coal, so we may leave that out of our calculations. I mention ships in the Bill because you want to be armed at every point, and, at all events, we shall want hulks to put the coal in when it comes to port. I have gone through the reasons for introducing the Bill, and I will now go through the Bill so that members may understand the bearing of each clause. First, certain portions of Crown land are set apart for State coal-mines. An Hon. MEMBER .- How are you going to do- that ? Mr. SEDDON .- You get the Land Board to reserve a piece of land for State coal-mine purposes. Subsection (3) is a precautionary measure. There are people already on the alert, and there will be a number of applications for land carrying coal. Section 4 provides for lands being held as coal-mines. Section 5 is really the Bill. It provides that the Minister working the mine shall be subject to the same laws in respect to mines as the private individual. That is only fair and reasonable. Then there is pro- vision for powers of the Minister for carrying on coal-mining, appointment of managers, engi- 