let us all then unite-as I believe we all should -to put on the statute-book a measure which will place this question upon a better footing than it is at present. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- The Bill now before the House is an outgrowth of the Bill brought before us last year, and to which I shall have occasion briefly to refer. I do not propose to criticize the details of the measure, because there are honourable mem- bers who have been on the Commission and on different Education Boards of the colony. ] do, however, desire to point out to the House the very important effect that this measure may have upon the increase of the educational expenditure. That is a point to which I doubt whether the Premier himself has given the attention that is desirable. It is not, Sir, a question merely of increasing the expenditure on the present basis : it is a new basis that is being set up by this Bill. At the present time a payment of £3 15s. per head on the average attendance is made to the Boards, and upon this basis the Education Boards are compelled, in order to equalise their expenditure, to re- strict in some cases the establishment of schools. They are compelled to exercise this economy, because the amount at their dis- posal is limited by the attendance. Now, I ask, What is going to be the effect under this Bill? All that the Education Boards will have to do will be to pay over to the teachers the money handed to them by the State. You are now going, by this Bill, to say to every Education Board in New Zealand, "Open as many schools as you choose, wherever you choose : the State will pay the salaries." And that inference was clearly to be understood from the remarks of the Right Hon. the Pre- mier, where he discussed the position of the people in the back blocks. Sir, I have every sympathy with the man who goes into the back blocks and undertakes the work of coloni- sation there; but I am not prepared to admit that wherever one, two, or three families have settled, that there the State must establish a school. There is not in the Education Act any limit as to the number of schools that may be established. In last year's Bill the Govern- ment took precautions in this matter. One clause, which was not passed by the House, was this :- "Except within a borough no public school shall, after the passing of this Act, be esta- blished within three miles of an existing public school without the approval of the Minister." There was thus a power-potential, I admit -in which the department took the right to veto the multiplication of schools. When a man chooses to go away from settlement he takes on himself, in connection with his family, certain responsibilities. Why do men go on to the back blocks? In a very large number of cases they do so because the land is cheap, and they can obtain blocks of land at a very much lower price of rental than if they remained nearer the centres of civilisation ; and part of the price they pay is the fact that they dis- that the children should pay the penalty, but I say you are now lessening the responsibility of the Boards in saying where new schools shall be set up. And you will find out how this will operate. There will be an increase in the num- ber of schools that will surprise members ; and as the schools are increased so the building grant must be increased. However, I consider this Bill is a great improvement on the one of last year, under which capitation was to be swept away, and the power of settling the amounts to be paid by the Boards was to be fixed by regula- tion. So far as there is a tendency in the Bill to centralise the administration of education I am opposed to it. I have always been in favour of decentralisation ; and honourable members will find that, following the line of argument I was using, they are now taking the first step-and a very important one-to bring our system of education under the hands of the Central Government, because, if the responsi- bility of the Boards in the setting-up of new schools is taken away, the next thing the Go- vernment will claim will be that they shall have the right to say under what circumstances new schools shall be established. The Government will say, " If we have to provide the finance of these schools, we must have the right to say under what circumstances new schools shall be established." And, when that is given, it is only one step for the Government to claim the right of appointing the school-teachers themselves. While pointing out these things I regard the proposals of the Bill, in so far as they improve the salaries of the teachers of the existing schools, as a great improvement upon what has obtained. But, Sir, I think that it would have been better if we had had a plan by which the Government could have increased the capita- tion in sparsely populated districts such as those mentioned by the member for Masterton - I refer to Westland, Greymouth, Marl- borough, and Nelson. I think that if power were given by which the capitation in such districts could be increased, then we would have all the advantages of this Bill, and what I think may be the possible disadvan- tages, which I have endeavoured briefly to point out, would not have repeated them- selves. There is no need to emphasize the importance of our education system to the colony. A very great and noble work has been done by it up to the present. I think, myself, that many teachers are under-paid. I desire to see their pay placed upon an assured footing, and that they shall be given what is commonly known as an "assured finance"; but I do not want to see our splendid education system brought any more than is absolutely necessary into the hands of the General Government. I believe, as I have said, that by shifting the responsibility for the establishment of new schools entirely from the Education Boards the position will be that the Government, without intending it-I do not charge them with intentionally aiming this blow at the education system, but one result will be that they will claim the right to deter- 