to election time would enable our political op- | in taking part in this debate to-night, for Wel- ponents to raise the cry that we had passed a Bill increasing our own honorarium, and by so doing had really used our positions as members of Parliament to improve our own financial position. I fail so far, and I have listened attentively to what has been said, I fail to dis- cern a single valid reason why this step should be taken at this particular juncture. And when we are told that some gentlemen may be taken at their own valuation, and in re- fusing to vote for the increase to £300 they are practically assessing themselves at a lower figure than that to which they are entitled ; and when it is also added that those members do not think that they are worth £300, and that in this their constituencies will pro- bably agree with them, I say again the ques- tion is not what any individual member may think he is worth, and I decline to argue the question as to whether or not we are worth #300, or more or less. I simply contend that we have no right to put our hands into the public purse for the purpose of increasing our own individual honoraria. I cannot do this. Honourable members who have consulted their constituents, and who have openly declared their intention of supporting such a proposal, ·are in an entirely different position. On & previous occasion, during the discussion last year, I expressed my disapproval of such a measure, but I could not allow this oppor- tunity to pass without expressing my reasons for voting against the proposal. I have not con- sulted my constituents, and have made no such declaration as has been made by other members ; and I do not think I should be doing what is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 right to my constituents or to myself if I sup- ported this Bill. I should be sorry if, because of this difference of opinion, there should be any strong feeling aroused. I should, indeed, be sorry if stronger feelings were aroused over a matter of this kind than have been aroused over matters of more general importance to the country at large. Surely we have no right to import stronger feeling into the discussion of a matter which is purely of a personal character than is imported into discussions of proposals which affect the country generally. I shall oppose the Bill, as I opposed the pro- posal last year. If the matter could be post- poned, to be dealt with by Parliament at the close of the last session, so that it should not come into force until the next Parliament, then my position might be somewhat different, but at present I feel bound to vote against it. Mr. J. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir, the honourable member who has just sat down has in his argument largely put my views on this question. He has argued the case moderately and cogently, and I consider his is about the first speech to-night, with the excep- tion of one or two others on this side of the House, that did not beg the question. The weight of argument adduced by other members did not get us over this difficulty - namely, that we have made a bargain, and that, as we regard the contract as sacred, so must we fulfil that contract. I have felt somewhat diffident Mir. Collins lington members for the last month or so have been subjected to many and varied threats. We cannot, without subjecting ourselves to the pos- sibility of rebuke, occupy any of the time of the House before ten o'clock, because on one occa- sion the Premier said we monopolized 75 per cent. of the time of this House between the hours of 7.30 and 10.30. Of course, that is grossly and obviously inaccurate. Then, from various quarters we have had threats to have Wellington disfranchised ; from other quar- threats that the ters there have been honoraria of the Wellington members will be reduced. We have been told by the Hon. the Premier to-night that the Wellington mem- bers enjoy the inestimable advantage of being si home in the bosom of their families all the year round, can attend continuously to their business, and draw their full salary like other members ; that their elections cost them a good deal less than other members, and all this it sweet and innocent ignorance of the situa- tion. If it is considered desirable that honour. able members should be classified and remune- rated according to worth, and taking the economic view of this question, then, & I suggested by interjection, let us introduce Classification Bill. But who is going to assess the relative value of members of this House ? Now, the proposal in the Bill is to increase the honorarium to £300, and that is either not enough or it is too much. I consider that if this House feels it has the right to augment the salary for which each member of the House has entered into a contract with his constituents, then it is only a question of degree, and I say £300 is too little. I migh: be content with £500 or £600. But if I haves right to increase my salary to £300, then, it being only a question of degree, and I being broad-minded and liberal in my views where my own interests are concerned, I say make it £500. But the fact of the matter is, I do nci consider I have a right to do it at all. My ccl. league for the City (Mr. Fisher) asked, " Why should this vote be referred to the people ; a other votes referred to the people ?"" But i consider it not only my privilege, but my duty to take my part as a member in the disburse. ment of every penny of the public money ; bri, as a trustee of the public purse, I do not en- sider I have any right to appropriate any cf : to myself without consulting those whose tras. I hold. Now, I have never done that, and i have never suggested that ; and the questi! of whether £240 a year is not a sufficieri remuneration for a member of Parliament is not at issue, and it cannot be in iste, according to my way of thinking, until off employers-the people-have been consultec. The Premier told us to-night that no mas ought to be here suffering pecuniary loss that where a man was taken from his emplcs ment at the bench or in the workshop at 13 lik. a week, it was manifestly unfair to put him ia a worse position ; and he drew a very touching and affecting picture of the hardships members of Parliament put up with who were debarred 