Charitable Aid Act, and the tendency of the pre- sent Bill is to go still more in the direction of charitable aid. One of my principal reasons for rising was to bring under the notice of the Pre- mier the great hardships which some old-age pensioners have suffered in not getting their pensions renewed at the proper time. In some parts of the King-country they have had to wait for several months before they could get their pensions renewed. I do not know that that is likely to happen again ; but those pen- sioners have been put to great inconvenience They were not paid for several months. Of course, they were ultimately paid their back money, but there was considerable delay, and they were put to much expense in order to get their pensions paid. Then, in reference to a remark made by the member for Hawke's Bay, with reference to applicants being con- tinuously in the colony for twenty-five years, with the exception of four years, before such persons shall be entitled to a pension, I may say that when the principal Act was before the House I moved an amendment to subclause (2) of clause 8, to strike out the word "continu- ously," so that a pension could be paid to any one who had resided in the colony for twenty- five years, and was sixty-five years of age. I have since then had brought under my notice -and I have mentioned it in the House before- some cases where very great hardships have occurred. For instance, there is the case of a man seventy five years of age, who is helpless from rheumatism, who has been in the colony for forty years, and yet who is not entitled to a pension because he has been out of the colony during the last twenty-five years of those forty years for a period of over four years. I think that such a person is as much or more entitled to a pension than a person who has only lived in the colony for twenty-five years continu- ously. Bill read a second time. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3 .- " (1.) It shall be the duty of every person to make true answers to all questions concerning any applicant for a pension or re- newal put to him by the Deputy Registrar or any officer authorised in that behalf by the De- puty Registrar. " (2.) Every person commits an offence who- " (a.) Refuses to answer any such question ; or " (b.) Makes any answer knowing the same to be untrue. "(3.) This section shall apply to any officer of any bank carrying on business in New Zea- land, and to any officer of the Post-Office Savings-Bank, and of any other Government department which receives investments of money from the public." Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved to insert, after the word "renewal," the words "or any .of the statements contained in any application or a pension or renewal certificate." Amendment agreed to, and words inserted. tion (3) after the word " bank " to insert the words "or other corporation." Words added, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 4 .- " (1.) On the hearing of any appli- cation for a pension or renewal certificate the Magistrate shall inquire into the circumstances of the sons and daughters of the applicant, and if in his opinion those circumstances are such as not to warrant the granting of a pension, or if on such inquiry he finds that any real or personal property has been transferred by the applicant to any such son or daughter, he may in his discretion refuse the application, or grant such reduced pension as he thinks fair and just." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out all the words from "the Magistrate shall inquire " to " on such inquiry he," inclusive, and insert " if the Magistrate." Amendment agreed to. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved to strike out the words, "such son or daughter," with the view of inserting " person." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out the words, "in his discretion," with the view of inserting "inquire into such transfer and." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out "such " and insert "a," in last line, and to omit the words "as he thinks fair and just." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 5 .- " If at any time during the cur- rency of a pension the pensioner becomes pos- sessed of any property in excess of what is allowed by law in respect to the amount of pension granted to him, the Deputy Registrar may apply to the Magistrate, who may on inquiry either contirm or cancel the pension, or vary the amount thereof." Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved, That the words "or income " be inserted after "property." Amendment agreed to. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, That the following words be added to the clause : " But no person shall be disqualified from receiving a pension by the fact that during the previous year his income exceeded thirty-four pounds." Amendment negatived, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 6 .- " If on the death of any pensioner it is found that he was possessed of property in excess of what is allowed by law in respect of the amount of the pension granted to him, the amount of pension at any time paid to him in excess of that to which he was by law entitled may be recovered from the estate as a debt due to the Crown." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to omit all words after "death of any pensioner," and substitute the following : "or of the wife or husband of any pensioner, it is found that he or either of them was possessed of property in excess of what is allowed by law in respect of the amount of the pension granted, the amount 