gusting desire to bask in the presence of great people, this detestable hero-worship, am I to be silent while I am called, forsooth, a turbu- lent rebel, and the insinuation is made that I am nothing more or less than an anarchist ? Despite all the right honourable gentleman may declare or insinuate, I say there is no more law- sinding, peaceful-minded citizen in the whole of His Majesty's broad dominions than I. I will only say, in conclusion, Sir, that the prin- cipal reason for my rising to-night was to again repel the attack the Premier made upon me on this as on a former occasion, when His Ex- cellency's affairs were up for consideration by the House; to state shortly my reasons for voting against the second reading of the Bill ; and also to make it quite clear that I never, by act, word, or deed, gave any indication that I am aware of that I would support the grant if it were embodied in a measure instead of as an item of the estimates. Having done so, I trust the Premier will in future learn to im- pute less unworthy motives to members of the House who differ from him on these questions. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Before the Pre- mier replies I want to have a word or two on the particular phase of this debate alluded to by the two previous speakers. But first I would like to correct an impression current that there Was no precedent in our legislation for the measure introduced in regard to the expendi- ture of local bodies in connection with the Roval visit. In 1887 I find that Sir Julius Vogel introduced a Bill intituled " The Local https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Authorities' Jubilee Expenditure Bill," in which the operative clause reads as follows :- " Every local authority may, if it thinks fit, contribute out of the funds of the body which it represents such sum or sums as may be thought expedient in taking part in the cele- bration of the Jubilee of Her Majesty the Queen in the present year; and such con- tribution may be by way of grant or subscrip- tion to one or more objects of commemoration either in or out of the colony, or in public rejoicings or demonstrations of any kind in the colony." The first member to suggest that the Bill should be dropped was the Right Hon. the Premier. The Right Hon. the Premier, who is now exuding in every pore with loyalty, with the desire for expenditure in rejoicings by both the colony and the local bodies, in his place in the House in 1887 opposed the giving of any such power to local bodies, and suggested to the promoters of the Bill that the best way to deal with such a proposal was to adjourn its consideration and drop it ; and the member for Kumara's advice was taken. Yet we have the Premier reproaching members for taking up the attitude he then prided himself upon, and, for- sooth. they are not loyal citizens. The Premier ha- accused me of making remarks derogatory to the Governor, because I have criticized this measure, so that members will be surprised to see in Hansard of 1887 that the Premier then accused a former Governor of making insulting communications to Parliament. In the same the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), were some remarks made by the Premier that I think were just as à propos as those he quoted, and it is just as well, perhaps, considering the bluster we are getting, that should be added to what was quoted by the member for Wellington City. The Premier said,- " Then, as regards the argument used that because we borrow money from English capi- talists we should not elect our Governor, but should have a representative of the Government of England as Governor of New Zealand, I say it is a perfect fallacy. What connection is there between finance and the election or nomination of the Governor of New Zea- land ? " Compare that with the Premier's utterances at the present time! Why, if we want to go to anybody for expressions which may be inimical to organized society- for expressions which are likely to call up feelings of resentment against the ruling authorities- if we are to look for expressions antagonistic to the King or the Queen, who better can we go to than to the Premier himself? How many times has he made the welkin ring in New Zealand with the words of the song "The Wearing of the Green," -- She's the most distressful country that ever I have seen ; They 're hanging men and women for the wearing of the green. Mr. SEDDON .- You cannot sing it. Mr. PIRANI .- No, unfortunately I cannot sing it ; and I am not like the Premier-I can- not pretend to feel it one day and the reverse the next. And beyond that, take the Premier's speech to the Imperial troops in Wellington : who talks about members as enemies to or- ganized society ? The idea of a Privy Coun- cillor, the Premier of the colony, telling His Majesty's troops in public, as he did early this year, that they were underpaid, and that they had a right to have their "screws" raised ! The Premier's idea of inculcating sentiments of loyalty ! I wonder what would have been said in the Old Country if any Privy Councillor had addressed the troops there in terms like these. Why, he would have been in the guard-room in five minutes. It re- minds me very much of several expressions used by an officer of the Imperial troops when reviewing their tour through New Zea- land. In one case the officer reiterates seve- ral times how tiresome the Premier's windy speeches were to them, and he wound up his letter by saying, "We leave New Zealand, but the Government yacht is following with the Premier on board-he wants to make another speech !" And that is how those whom the Premier wished to impress with his Imperial views and with his earnestness in the cause of the Empire treated the communications the Premier made to them. I say this : that, so far as those who are opposed to this Bill are concerned, it is not a question of loyalty, or of the maintenance of organized society, for there 