If the honourable member has been misrepre- sented, let him state what the misrepresenta- tion is. Mr. HEKE .- I will put it in this way : The system under the Crown right of pre-emption to purchase Native land has materially bene- fited the State. This alone is a direct and . strong reason for the Natives appealing to this House for monetary assistance. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That is not a personal explanation. The honourable mem- ber is now giving arguments in support 10.30. of his assertion, and such a course is not permissible. Mr. PERE (Eastern Maori District) .- Sir, I propose to deal with the remarks that have fallen from previous speakers in this debate. It seems to me that up to the present we have had a very difficult matter to deal with. Now, this is the first time you have had a man who has arrived at mature years stand up to speak on the question, and the sign of maturity is this : I ask honourable members to look at me, and they will see that I have no hair left on my head now. Sir, I felt very much ashamed at the remarks that fell from the member for the Western Maori District with regard to Mahuta. Mahuta is away at his own place ; the honourable member is here speaking, pro- fessedly, on Mahuta's behalf. Sir, that, to my mind, is a reason for feeling ashamed ; and the Maoris throughout the Island will no doubt see a report of the honourable member's remarks. With regard to one statement he made I wish to say this : He spoke of Te Kani-a-Takirau as belonging to Rotorua; but the fact is that man never belonged to Rotorua. Te Kani-a- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Takirau was an East Coast chief, hailing from the district about Gisborne, Tolago Bay, Waiapu, Te Wairoa, and the neigh- bourhood, including the Te Whanau-a-Apunui Tribe. When it was first proposed to establish a king the person who originated the idea was Matene te Whiwhi. He proposed to set up as king over the Maoris either the chief Te Heuheu or the chief Potatau te Wherowhero; but, when Potatau and Te Heuheu discussed the matter together, Potatau said to Te Heubeu, " The tribes throughout the country will not listen to what you or I may have to say, for the reason that both you and I are men whose hands are soiled with human blood." Then Potatau proposed that Te Kani-a-Takirau was the proper person to be made king, as his hands were unsoiled. Te Heuheu then sent his own brother to Te Kani personally to ask him to agree that he should be king. This gentleman came to the East Coast district, saw him, and laid before him this proposal that he should be king. Te Kani-a-Takirau replied, "No, I will not agree to be made king"; and went on to say, " My chieftainship is hereditary ; it is handed down to me from my ancestors ; but if I agree to allow myself to be made king I shall then put myself in this position : that I have allowed myself to be called a rangatira huahou, or new creation. My proposal is this : Go back to Te Heuheu and say to him, Friend, Mr. Deputy-Speaker the result will be bloodshed." That, Sir, was why the tribes of the East Coast refused to sanction the setting-up of Potatau as king. If Te Kani-a-Takirau had agreed to the proposal when it was put to him, then his tribes under him would have supported him ; but he said that he was sure that if this new idea was per- sisted in trouble and fighting would result, and subsequent events proved him to be right in that prognostication. What do we see now? The Maori people, as the result of this move- ment, were slaughtered, and their lands taken away from them ; and I say, Sir, that this new idea was the direct cause of the trouble which subsequently befel the Maori race and their land. I say that that movement did more than that ; the movement was the immediate cause of the legislation which oppressed the Maori people and their land. I say, if the movement had never taken place, the affairs of this coun- try would have been administered under the provisions of the Treaty of Waitangi. I say that this House of Parliament belonged to the Maoris under the Treaty of Waitangi; but through this movement this House has be- come a European House, - the European people represent the majority of the mem- bers in the House,-and you see us with a small minority of only four Maori members. Sir, I have been very much astonished at members of this House. There has never been a single Bill brought down dealing with ques tions affecting the Native lands that has been duly considered by the House. Whenever 3 measure has been brought down dealing with Maori matters, Maori lands, and Maori affair. the European members of this House have ever made it their business to obstruct it. Now, the honourable member, Mr. Kaibat, quoted Scripture. I also will quote Scripture to establish my argument. Sir, the position. with regard to the Maoris and their land is this-it is borne out by the Scripture, which says : " Wheresoever the carcase is, there will the vultures be gathered together." Therefore. I say, do not let members for a moment suppe» that the Maoris throughout the country are ignorant of the effect of the measure that 's now before this Assembly. I say that the desire of the majority of the Maori residents is that the measure now before the House shall be passed. I heard some members cf the House, during the course of the de- bate to-night, say that it had been distinctly found that the Act of last year was a bad one; otherwise where was the necessity of bringing down an amending measure this session. The honourable member further stated that, in his opinion, it would be better that :ba! should be repealed. Now, that is a most el. traordinary proposal to my mind. Because a !: Act does not turn out to be altogether satis factory, must it therefore be repealed ? As i understand the position of European Acis passed by this House, should it subsequentis transpire that any part or portion require amendment an amending measure is suiee quently brought down. Now, when the Act of 