whereby our mails are run under our own flag and by our own steamers to Australia, and that there they connect with British steamers -- the P. and O. and Orient line-and on the whole of their way to England the only time when they will not be under the British flag is when they are going across the Continent of Europe from Brindisi. They will be under our flag all the time they are on the sea. For those who make so much of the sentimental aspect of the question I should think that is a matter for consideration. In subsidising Messrs. Spreckels's line we are subsidising a foreign line as against a British line. Another important point I would like to bring under the notice of honourable members is this : that if we carry the resolutions we would be actually putting ourselves in the position of going to Mr. Spreckels and asking him to accept our terms as a favour. What do the despatches say which have been submitted to us by the Postmaster-General ? On the 10th September last the following wire was sent to Messrs. Spreckels's agent, and to it the following replies were received :- " The Secretary, General Post Office, Welling- ton, to Mr. Dunnet, Auckland. " General Post Office, Wellington, 10th September, 1901. "FR'ISCO service and Mr. Spreckels's pro- posals : Cabinet has again considered matter, and has now decided to recommend Parliament to approve of payment of $15,000 (fifteen thou- sand pounds) per annum for three years. This is final." "Mr. Dunnet, Auckland, to the Secretary, General Post Office, Wellington. " Auckland, 11th September, 1901. "WIRE to hand. Am wiring to San Fran- cisco." "Mr. Dunnet, Auckland, to the Secretary, General Post Office, Wellington. " Auckland, 13th September, 1901. " HAVE received reply from Mr. Spreckels. Offer declined." I would let him decline the offer, and say, " If you will not take our terms you can do the other thing. We will acquire a line that will take our mails to London from New Zealand at a speed only four days and a half slower than you take them, but at $106 cheaper every time. and at the same time we will be subsidising and supporting our own lines of steamers, and also improving and backing up our own trade and commerce in a way which will be of infinite benefit to our whole colony." I think this is the logical and only deduction which we can come to in this connection. Several honourable mem- bers have said that we should subsidise our own line to Great Britain. Briefly put, at present that is an impossibility and beyond our means. If we subsidise a company for a thirty-five days service from here to London, the lowest price as yet which any one has offered to entertain our proposals at is a ten-years contract at £100,000 per annum. That kills a direct service from the jump ; so for the present, direct service. But we have alongside of us one of the best mail-services we could get, and that is the Federal service, and I only trust that we shall adopt the alternative proposals contained here in the Postmaster-General's resolutions - that is, that we should subsidise the Federal service on a population basis, and pay a subsidy for the intercolonial connection to our own steamers. Then we would have our mails going home to London by Australia, and have a line suited to the requirements of the colony for many years to come. At the same time we would have them running under the British flag, and not under a foreign flag, re- taining the benefit to our commerce of all our subsidies, whilst we should also retain our self- respect, which, I think, we shall not retain if we accept the proposed San Francisco pro- posals. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier). - I did not intend to speak on this question till I heard the remarks of the honourable member for Wakatipu. He said that the logic of the honourable member for Ashburton was out- weighed by his sentiment, and he joined issue with him for allowing sentiment to outweigh logic. I would ask the House, if this resolution is carried, whether it will be carried by logic or sentiment ? By sentiment, and owing to the popularity of one or two Auckland members of this House. I challenge honourable members to deny it. For a competent business-man like the member for Wakatipu to tell me that this is strict business is absurd ; it is just sentiment. And I say sentiment should be put aside, though I admit it does influence some of us ; possibly at the bottom of my heart it is dic- tating slightly to me. But my sentiment is of a different sort. My sentiment is that of the flag ; but the sentiment which will ultimately carry this motion by one or two votes is a friendly feeling, not so much for those who have been hysterically agitating for the San Fran- cisco mail, but for the members who have shown a diplomatic and discreet silence. This is not a party question ; it is not an Auckland question ; it is not an Empire question, as has been stated by one of the members for Auck- land : it is distinctly a colonial business ques- tion. It has been amusing to me to follow a number of honourable members who have spoken in favour of this motion; and, what- ever the difference between their facts and phraseology, it comes to this: that the San Francisco line is the most expeditious for pas- sengers and mails. For this reason we are to enter into a compact with a foreign country- to subsidise an antagonistic company-for the sake of what ? In ten years they have brought in 31,383 tons of cargo and taken out 8,331. A great deal has been made of the passengers. Is it so beneficial to the colony that we should have a fast line for passengers and mails ? It is said we are going to have a huge tourist traffic in New Zealand. It has been pointed out by the Postmaster-General that it is to our interest to encourage tourists. That is so. But if we cannot in ten years' time get 