The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH moved the addition of the following words : "The door shall be locked during each ballot." The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said he wished to protest against members being locked out when a ballot was being taken. That was not a system that should be adopted in a democratic community. A member might be in the library or some other part of the building, and if he desired to record his vote he would be pre- sented from doing so by being locked out. Would the bell be rung on the occasion of such an election ? The Hon. the SPEAKER thought it would be the duty of the Speaker to order the bell to be rung before the doors were locked. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said that no reason had been given yet why the doors should be loewed. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON thought, if the doors were to be locked, some intimation should be given to members who might be about the buiding that an important question was about to be decided. It seemed to him the bell ought to ring a certain time before the doors Were locked. The Hon. the SPEAKER said he would put the amendment originally proposed by Mr. Smith first, That the words "the doors being locked " be added to the paragraph. If that were carried, then, with the permission of the Council, he would redraft the clause. The Council divided on the question, "That the following words be added to the paragraph : ' the doors being locked."" https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 AYES, 17. Barnicoat Kelly, T. Swanson Bolt Tomoana Louisson Walker, L. Feldwick Montgomery Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Rigg Williams. Jennings Smith, A. L. Jones Smith, W. C. NOES, 13. Kelly, W. Arkwright Ormond Kenny Baillie Pinkerton Pitt Gourley McLean Taiaroa. Harris Morris Johnston Majority for, 4. Words added. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH moved to add the words "and strangers shall withdraw." There was no necessity for these proceedings being reported, as it was not done in the case of the Speakership. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND wanted to put in the words "provided that before the locking of the doors the usual notice be given by ringing the bell." Paragraph as amended agreed to. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH moved the addition of the words "that strangers with- 1 draw." The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON hoped this amendment would be negatived, because he did not see why strangers should be excluded. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER did not know why honourable gentlemen should blow hot one minute and cold the next. He had been told that open nomination was absolutely adverse to the principle of voting by ballot, because no man should know what his next neighbour did, for the very good reason that there should be no possibility of any intriguing or any personal canvassing, and that the day after the election members should be as they were before-abso- lutely ignorant of anything that had been done. He thought the motion that strangers should withdraw was only part and parcel of the understanding. They did not want to treat this as anything else but a sort of Masonic function which they set up for the election of the officer who was to preside over members. The honourable gentleman had precedent in his favour, because in the rules agreed upon for the election of Speaker he found the first t one was, "The Speaker shall be elected by ballot, and during the election the doors of the \-- Council Chamber shall be locked, and strangers shall withdraw." Words added, and paragraph (b), as amended, agreed to. Question put on paragraphs- " (c.) No member shall vote in any ballot for more than one member. " (d.) If any member receives a majority of the votes of those present and voting he shall be declared by the Speaker to be elected. " (e.) If no member receives such majority another ballot shall be taken, omitting there- from the name of the member who received the least number of votes at the preceding ballot ; and this process of balloting shall be repeated until some member receives a majority of the votes of the members present and voting, and that member shall be declared by the Speaker to be elected." Agreed to. On the question, That " (f) Where a question arises, owing to equality of voting, as to which member shall be omitted from any subsequent ballot, such question shall be determined by an independent ballot," be agreed to, The Hon. Colonel PITT moved to omit the words " an independent ballot," for the purpose of inserting the words "the Clerk by lot " in lieu thereof. It appeared to him that this was a much simpler process than what was proposed in the resolution of the Committee. Probably the difficulty provided for by the Committee might have arisen from several ballots, and he did not think that another ballot would help the matter much. : The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER must say that he agreed with the Hon. Colonel Pitt, as the object was not to select the successful candidate, but to run out the outsider. The Hon. Mr. JONES said this clause dealt with a position in which there were more than two candidates, and there was an equality of votes between the two lowest candidates. The equality of votes might be the result of voting for the candidate just balloted out. If the candidate who had just lost the ballot had not been voted for, in all probability one of these <!-- PageNumber="1" --> 