pass this session. He did say that, though the House had been sitting for a long time, they had not done nearly enough, nor had they done what he thought the country demanded; and he thought it was the duty of the House-in fact, it was no sacrifice on their part-to do their work, and he thought members ought to go on until they had done their work, and then they could go back to the country and say the work of the country had been performed. That was the view he took, and he hoped members would go on doing the very good work that had been done during the last few days ; and, if members did, he thought they would be able to clear the Order Paper. He would do his best. He had some more Bills to introduce yet, and there were some very important measures now on the Order Paper. # RETURNS. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Govern- ment, When they intend to lay before the House the following returns, ordered on the motion of the member for Franklin : 10th July, three returns ; 16th July, one return ; 31st July, one return ; 14th August, two returns ; 18th Sep- tember, one return; and 4th October, one re- turn ? He asked this question because, as the Premier knew, it was most important that returns should be furnished during the session in which they were ordered. But in this case some returns referred to had been ordered the second week of the session, and, though the session was rapidly coming to an end, they had not yet made their appearance. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) could only say that effect would be given to the order of the House in each case. Mr. MASSEY .- When ? Mr. SEDDON .- As soon as possible. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL APPOINT- MENTS. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Premier, If, when making appointments to represent the farmers in the Legislative Council, he will give an opportunity to the Agricultural and Pastoral Associations throughout the colony to nominate qualified persons in the same manner as Trades and Labour Councils nominate labour represen- tatives ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was sorry there was this difference between the member for Waitemata and the member for Eden ; probably it was a case of great minds moving in the same groove. This question also asked the Government to nominate farmers for ap- pointment to the Legislative Council. Con- sidering that he had given this question an answer in the affirmative a month ago, he did not know why it was now on the Order Paper. However, the honourable member was prac- tically justified in asking again for the views of the Government. He (Mr. Seddon) had said that the Trades and Labour Council did not nominate labour representatives, and they never had ; but for many years prior to the Liberal party coming into power in 1891, labour Mr. Seddon cil. They had rectified the injustice, however, and called labour representatives to the Coun- cil. Those who had represented labour in the Council since that time had really done credit to themselves and honour to the labour cause. With respect to agriculture and the farmers, he thought the pastoralists were very well re- presented, and, in fact, were over-represented in the Legislative Council. What really was short in the Council at the present time was a representation of the small-farming class. Those were the class of men they wanted in the Council, and that class of men would, when the opportunity offered, be nominated to the Council. CHATHAM ISLANDS. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori District) asked the Native Minister, Whether the scope of "The Maori Councils Act, 1900," will be ex- tended so as to include the Chatham Islands within the operation of its provisions? His reason for asking this question was that he had received a communication from the Maori residents of Wharekauri, the principal island of the Chatham Group, asking that the pro- visions of "The Maori Councils Act, 1900," might be extended so far as to bring their islands under its operation. He was informed that a petition to that effect had been pre- sented to the House by the Native residents of the Chatham Islands ; and he hoped to see -in fact, he would see after the close of this session-the Maori Councils Act of 1900 brought into operation throughout the South Island Maori District which he represented. He was under a misapprehension last night in attempt- ing to obstruct another Bill which he then thought was the matter referred to in this question. But he had found out since that he was mistaken. This question referred to the Maori Councils Act, and had nothing to do with the Counties Bill, which he understood last night to bear on this question. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said the Government would consider the application that had been made by the Native residents of the Chatham Islands for the Maori Councils Act of 1900 to be put into force there. He thought, himself, it was a very good thing to have the Act brought into force on those islands. It was just what the Maoris there required. All the purposes and objects of that legislation would have there a fair field for operation, and would, he was sure, be to the advantage and benefit of the Natives. He was glad also, to judge by the remarks of the honourable member, that the Maoris of the South Island would make efforts to avail them- selves of the Act, and that they would apply for districts to be defined and gazetted in the South Island in which the operation of it would be invoked. He thought it was a very good Act, and the Maoris in the North Island who had already availed themselves of it were doing a great deal of good thereunder, from a sanitary point of view especially. And not only that, but it empowered them, under regulations, to 