colony, and not as a constitutionally governed colony, I feel quite certain. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- Sir, I do not think there is sufficient information before us to enable us to say distinctly that this proposal will turn out a success or otherwise. We must just live in hope. I think the union might be a success, but it would very greatly depend on good management. The honourable gentleman who has just resumed his seat says that the only way the proposal can be a success is to treat these possessions as a Crown colony. The British Resident who is there occupies rather a singular position. He is not like the Governor of a Crown colony, for if he were he would be the chief law-maker. He is rather like the Governor of a self-governing colony, but with- out a responsible Ministry. There is, though in a very humble way, a Federal Parliament, and every island apparently has a local Parlia. ment. We may therefore expect that there will soon be plenty of laws. Both the Federal and the Island Parliaments will be making laws. I think it would have been better if we had kept out some of the clauses that are now contained in the Bill. There is one clause pro- viding that we may apply some of our laws to these Islands. I think there was no neces- sity for that, nor was there any neces- sity for providing that there should be an investigation as to the titles to lands. They hold these lands under native cus- tom, and I am sure it would be very much better that that and the making of reserves should be left to the natives themselves. My opinion is that, if this scheme is to be a success, there must be very little interference on our part with the natives. That, I feel sure, is the secret of any success that may attend the pro- posal. Let us keep on the spot a British Resi- dent of good sound sense, who will always be giving them good advice. If we do this they will rise to the occasion. I feel certain that, if this scheme is to be a success at all, it must be by giving good advice to the natives, and not by interfering with them. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- Sir, I do not propose to discuss the policy of this Bill, as some honourable members have done, on this occa- sion-the House affirmed the principle of the Bill on the second reading-but at the same time I think I should take the opportunity of explaining why I am voting for the third read- ing. By section 14 of the Bill it is provided that it shall remain in force until ten days after the expiration of the next session of Parliament, and no longer, unless further by Act of the Gene- ral Assembly extended. I therefore regard the measure as a mere transitional expedient while the Islands are passing more effectually under our control. But it cannot be disguised that the Islands are now a part of the territory of New Zealand, and that the whole of our laws are in force in those Islands at the present moment, just as they are in force in the Chatham Islands or in the Great Barrier. We should rather consider what laws of ours should not apply to the Islands in future. Captain Russell the native race here, and there are many of our laws which would be quite inapplicable to the circumstances of those Islands ; but I do not see why our common law and the major portion of our statutes should not apply there when, as a matter of fact, the law of Eng- land is in the main now, or was until re- cently, administered in the High Commis- sioner's Court. If members would read the Imperial Western Pacific Order in Council they would see that English law-practically the same law as we are living under-is now administered in those Islands by the Judicial Commissioner, who is the Judge of the High Commissioner's Court. I mean to say that the function of Judge was exercised by the Judicial Commissioner in the High Commissioner's Court until the time of the incorporation of the islands with New Zealand ; and it is a question, I believe, as to whether the High Commissioner's Court has even now ceased to exist, inasmuch as the Cook Islands are mentioned in the schedule to the Western Pacific Order in Coun- cil. I think honourable members who have not visited the South Sea Islands have naturally a false idea as to the kind of people the islanders really are. For instance, take the honourable member for Clutha, who spoke just now. I feel sure if he had visited the Islands, and had lived among the people there, he would not have thought that all those institutions with high- sounding names have any vital existence. They are really so many fictions or shams. All those institutions are, as a matter of fact, simply Lieutenant-Colonel Gudgeon, the present Bri- tish Resident. The natives themselves are a simple people, with the most primitive habits ; they do not care either for elaborate laws or grand institutions, or parliamentary Govern- ments. All they want is to be allowed to eat their oranges and their cocoanuts in peace. They live their simple form of life, and really one white man, even with the powers of an absolute monarch, would scarcely ever require to interfere with the people in any of those islands ; the people are so peaceful and their ideas of civilised life are so limited. Therefore I think, as I have said in this House before, that if we had appointed a Resident Magistrate as sole functionary-a man who would know how to act with discretion-that would be all the government you would require for some time to come, coupled with a provision to enable the Natives to manage their own affairs in sanitary questions and other village matters, just as is done in the case of the Maoris in New Zea- land under the Maori Councils Act. The na- tives of these islands are virtually children, and the main error that Mr. Moss, the former British Resident, made was to attempt to force high- sounding institutions upon people who were really not prepared for them, and would not be fit for them for many generations. Mr. HERRIES .- Colonel Gudgeon did the same. Mr. NAPIER. - Undoubtedly. Of course every official loves power. Colonel Gudgeon desires to obtain as much power as possible in 