time is not far distant when the Premier will be compelled, whatever his feelings may be, to face this question of having a land-tax that goes over the whole of the lands of the colony, instead of a large part of the lands of the colony being exempt. Mr. NAPIER .- So it does. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The honourable gentleman is utterly wrong. There is no land- tax upon leases in perpetuity. Mr. NAPIER .-- There is. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The honourable gentleman does not know what he is talking about if he says there is. The Government have time after time on the floor of the House admitted what I say to be the case, and if the honourable gentleman asks the Premier whether the land-tax is being paid on leases in perpe- tuity the Premier will tell him it is not ; and if the Premier does not tell him that, he is stating what is not correct. An Hon. MEMBER .- No lease in perpetuity for taxation purposes has amounted to £500. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - The honourable gentleman says the value of no lease in per- petuity for taxation purposes has amounted to .$500. I could tell him of cases within the last six months of persons on the Cheviot Estate who have sold their leases in perpetuity for £1,600-£1 per acre of their holdings being thus paid for good-will. Mr. MILLS. - Including their improve- ments ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Well, that was the good-will of what they sold. Surely the honour- able gentleman knows there are persons who are occupying blocks of land, in some cases worth thousands of pounds, under lease in perpetuity who ought to pay their fair share of land-tax. Take the Elderslie Estate, in the north part of Otago. That property was bought from Mr. Reid for somewhere about $70,000, and cut up amongst about twenty-four settlers, the average value of the sections in that estate being over $3,000, and not one penny of land- tax is coming in from that property since it was purchased by the Government and taken over. Mr. NAPIER .- That is incorrect. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- If the honourable gentleman applies to the Commissioner of Taxes, or to any responsible person in connec- tion with the Government of this colony, he will find that what I am stating is correct, and it is what every member of the House who knows anything of the subject is aware of- namely, that no land-tax whatever is paid on any leasehold in perpetuity -that the law holds that the person who occupies land under that tenure has no interest in that land that could be taxed. And yet we all know that, while he may not have according to the legal idea an interest in that land which can be taxed, he has a precious good interest in the land, which he is able to sell. Now, Sir, the effect of the shrinkage of the land-tax through these large estates being taken over by the Government has been that the valuations throughout New ment during the last few years in order to try and keep the land-tax at its normal level. I have for a number of years past in this House been pointing out that the land-tax was shrinking as compared with the in- crease inland-values, and in 1895 the Govern- ment brought down an amended Land Valua- tion Bill and set up a Valuation Department for the purpose of endeavouring to force up values. This has been done in order to try and make the direct taxation keep somewhere level with the tremendous increase of indirect taxa- tion through the Customs. Thus the amount lost by the non-taxation of the leaseholders in perpetuity is endeavoured to be wrung out of the freeholders. Such a position is unfair and inequitable. Everybody knows that the taxa- tion of the people of the colony through the Customs has enormously increased during the last eight or ten years ; while, on the other hand, comparing the land- and income - tax which is returned now with what was returned under the property-tax, which was repealed in 1891, the increase is comparatively small. And, of course, that must obtain where you have a policy going on under which large and valuable estates are being taken from their present owners and relieved from taxation. I appeal to the Premier to consider this question. I do not ask him to consider it now, but the time must come when, in fairness to the freeholders of this colony, he will be bound to say that the men who hold this land for 999 years, in some cases at 4 per cent. and in some at 5 per cent. on the present land-values, and are escap- ing taxation unfairly, must, in justice to the rest of the taxpayers, be made to pay their fair share on the value of the lands they are hold- ing. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- The honour able member who has just sat down is entirely unacquainted with the state of the law with regard to the taxation of leasehold interests in land. "Land " is defined, for the purpose of taxation, in " The Land and Income Assess ment Act, 1891," as follows :- "' Land ' means and includes all lands, tene- ments, buildings, and hereditaments, whether corporeal or incorporeal, and also includes all chattel interests in land." Now, a Crown lease in perpetuity is a chattel interest in land, and lessees under that system of tenure are taxable when their leasehold in- terest acquires a taxable value-that is, when it exceeds $500. But what the honourable member is confusing is this: The interest of the Crown lessee is not the value of the fee- simple : that is held by the Crown, and is not taxable, and the lessee in perpetuity does not pay any land-tax on the value of the fee-simple ; but his interest in the land is taxable as a chattel interest, and when, as in many cases has already happened, the unimproved value of the lessee's interest amounts to a sum exceeding $500. which is the universal exemption, then it is taxable on the sum in excess of $500. There are, to my knowledge, cases in the North where the unimproved value of a Crown lessee's inter- 