paid to the Native owners in accordance with their interests as defined by the Native Land Court. He moved the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) assured the House that the question was an old-standing one. The position had been fully described by the Na ive Minister. It was a subject that had been urged on some members of the House by the Native owners, and the Bill was a necessary one to enable the Na ive Land Court to ascer- tain the beneficiaries and the owners, and also to allocate the different interests that each Native owner was entitled to. It also gave a means by which the Public Trustee would at any time be able to pay over to each owner his proportion of the rents. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) had no doubt the explanation made by the honourable gentle- man was in accordance with fact, and that the Bill simply fulfilled a promise made by Sir Donald McLean. It seemed rather late in the day, however, to fulfil a promise made so long ago. Though the Bill seemed innocent enough, there were, he considered, some clauses that demanded more explanation than the honour- able gentleman had given. There was a new system of land-tenure stated in the Bill, called an " occupation license." It did not state how long that license was to last, or whether it was in any way transferable to any one. There was a provision that on the death of a Native owner the license held by him might be renewed to such successors as the Public Trustee might see fit ; but he (Mr. Herries) did not see https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 what standing the holders of these occupation licenses could possibly have, because the whole of the land was vested in the Public Trustee in fee-simple, and apparently the holders of http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero the licenses were simply tenants at will. He hoped that when the Bill was in Committee some further clause would be added express- ing what was meant by "occupation licenses." The clauses seemed to him to be very crudely drawn, and not at all to express perhaps what the Minister intended. He had never heard the term " occupation license " before, and believed it was never used in the colony ex- cept in connection with mining matters. He looked at clause 3 with great suspicion. That clause said that all rents that had ac- crued in respect of the lands were to be paid by the Colonial Treasurer to the Public Trustee, and by him paid to the beneficiaries. It seemed to him they were getting the whole of the money that had accrued beforehand in rents. Why were not they informed of what the rents were, whether they were owing by Natives or by Europeans? It seemed to him not in accordance with the general trend of Go- vernment legislation with regard to Natives to hand over a sum of money, which the Minis- ter had stated at £600, to the Natives. was generally held that any sums of money that were owing to them should be kept in reserve by the Public Trustee for their benefit. Now it was proposed to hand the cash bodily over to these Natives. He believed the Natives were competent to handle money; but that Mr. Carroll was not the general idea of the Government, and the sudden accession of this £600 of money to a few Natives might cause trouble. He trusted the Minister would explain why it was intended to hand the money over to the Natives. Why was it not given to the Public Trustee for the improvement of the property, or invested for the benefit of the Natives? Then, it seemed to him that clause 3 was an ap- propriation clause. Of course, after the ruling just given, that the Minister could at any time bring down a Governor's message, all he would do was to call attention to the fact that they were appropriation clauses, and ask whether they were brought down by Governor's message. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he would give the same ruling on this Bill that he had given previously. As the Bill had not been brought down by Governor's message, he would look into the question, and, if he found it necessary to do so, would intimate the fact to the honourable member in charge of the Bill before the Bill proceeded a further stage. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) had only one or two remarks to make in connection with the Bill. He would like the Minister, in replying, to state whether the promise made by Sir Donald McLean was on record, and what evidence there was of the promise. He concluded that it would be something more than a verbal promise, and that some record of it would be found in the department. It would be very satisfactory, when the House was asked to vest a valuable block of land in certain Natives, that the record of the promise should be given to the House. The honour. able member for Marsden suggested it should be attached to the Bill, but he would not go so far as that. Still, when twenty-eight years after a promise was given the House was asked to legislate to hand over lands in this way to certain persons, authorising the Land Court to ascertain who the beneficiaries were, and to hand to them moneys that had accrued from rental, the House should be assured absolutely and definitely of the nature of the promise ; and the record of it, if there were any, should be given to the House. He had nothing further to say excepting to emphasize what had already been pointed out by the member for the Bay of Plenty, and that was that it seemed a very undesirable and a very loose way of doing things that an important Bill of this kind, which clearly dealt with the lands of the colony, and which also contained appropriation clauses, should not have been brought in in the proper way and introduced by Governor's message. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) desired to ask the Minister if this money had been appropriated out of the consolidated revenue, or whether it was money already in the custody of the Public Trustee. It Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said there was one subsection in this measure that might point a moral and adorn a tale. They found that for twenty-eight years past this question had been, like Mahomet's coffin, floating in space. If the Pariroa Native Reserve had been 