for a division even though he were the only one to vote against the present Bill. The House divided on the question, "That the Bill be read a third time." AYES, 23. Monk Fraser, W. Allen, J. Palmer Arnold Hall Rhodes Herries Atkinson Russell, G. W. Hornsby Barclay Russell, W. R. Hutcheson Collins Tellers. Fisher Lang Lethbridge Colvin Fowlds Field. Fraser, A. L. D. Massey NOES, 20. Tanner Allen, E. G. McGowan Thompson, R. Mckenzie, R. Carroll Meredith Ward Duncan Millar Witheford. Ell Mills Tellers. Heke Buddo Hogg Seddon Laurenson. Symes Lawry Majority for, 3. Bill read a third time. FLAX GRADING AND EXPORT BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting a draft of this Bill, and recommending the House to make provision accordingly. The message was referred to the Committee of the Whole, and the resolution was agreed to, reported to the House and agreed to, and the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Bill read a first, a second, and a third time. VICTORIA COLLEGE SITE BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Amendments before the Committee in clause 2 withdrawn. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved that the following clause be substituted for clause 2 :- "(1.) The Mayor, Councillors, and Citizens of the City of Wellington are hereby empowered to convey or transfer to the corporation of the Victoria College the land described in the First Schedule hereto in exchange for such part of the Wellington College Site Reserve, or of any other lands within the City of Wellington vested in the Governors of the Wellington Col- lege and Girls' High School, as may be agreed upon between the said Governors and the Mayor, Councillors, and Citizens of the City of Wellington as of equal value to the land firstly before mentioned. " (2.) The said Governors are hereby em- powered to convey or transfer any part of the said reserve, or of any other lands vested in them, to the Mayor, Councillors, and Citizens of the City of Wellington." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved the following new clause :- "Any land conveyed or transferred to the corporation of the Victoria College under this Act shall be held by the said corporation upon Mr. Laurenson buildings and as grounds appertaining thereto. and upon condition that the said buildings shall be commenced within two years, and completed within five years, from the passing of this Act, and that the said land shall be inalienable by sale, mortgage, lease, or other- wise: Provided that, upon breach of any of the said trusts or conditions, the said land shal revert to and be revested in the Mayor, Coun- cillors, and Citizens of the City of Wellington as a public reserve, and that any land which may have been conveyed or transferred to the Mayor, Councillors, and citizens of the City of We- lington by the Governors of the Wellington College and Girls' High School under this Act shall thereupon revert to and be revested in the said Governors." Clause read a second time. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to omit the words " and completed within five years," and to omit the proviso to the clause. Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended added to the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " Section eighteen of 'The Wellington Col- lege and Girls' High School Act, 1887,' is hereby amended by inserting, after the words ' the said buildings or either of them.' the words 'or such other buildings as may from time to time be deemed necessary."" New clause added. Bill reported, and read a third time. DUNEDIN CITY AND SUBURBAN TRAMWAYS BILL. Clause 5 .- Corporation deemed promoters cf tramways. On the motion of Mr. MILLAR (Dunedir City), the following proviso was added to the clause :- " Provided that no such power, right. of privilege shall be deemed to permit the Cor- poration to construct any tramway through that part of the Town Belt of Dunedin known as the Botanical Gardens, and being all that land on the east side of the Main North Road. and between the aforesaid road and the Op ho Road." On the motion of Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City), clauses 6 to 13, 17, and 19, and the First Schedule, were struck out, and the following new clause was added :- " All such further sums as may be required for the purposes of the said Act or this Act. of any of them, may be borrowed under the pre- visions of 'The Municipal Corporations Ac :. 1900.'" On the motion of Mr. MILLAR (Dune hin City), the preamble was amended accordingly. Bill reported, and read a third time. NORTH OF AUCKLAND RAILWAY. On the motion, That the House go into Cem- mittee of Supply, Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) moved. That the estimates be taken back, with s direction that the Government should mate 