all the numerous bodies. The revenue of many of these Road Boards does not amount to more than £100 a year. Mr. W. FRASER .- I quite agree that it is a very difficult question ; but I say, if you are going to deal with this question of local govern- ment, you ought to deal with it as a whole, and not piecemeal. We should have a comprehen- sive measure which would embrace all the salient points, such as finance, the franchise, and the size of the local bodies, and also the powers to be given to the local bodies. What I am afraid of is that the House will be asked to express an opinion upon all these points separately. The question should be dealt with as a whole, and not piecemeal ; and if this Bill is forced through now it will simply be the old Counties Act with one alteration, possibly, and that is the question of the franchise. So far as I am concerned, I have no hesitation in saying I am prepared to extend the franchise very considerably. Since local government has been granted to this colony, at any rate, in the county in which I lived for a great number of years, and in the local government of which I took part, the franchise was a very wide one. Under the miner's right a man, by paying 5s. or 10s. a year, could exercise a vote, and I may say I never saw the slightest desire or attempt on the part of any of those persons to do any- thing which would be in any way inimical to the best interests of that county. Hence I have no fear of results that may accrue from extending the franchise. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- Sir, as a member who attended regularly at the various delibera- tions of the Counties Committee, I should like to say a word or two upon this measure, not that I can throw any fresh light on the matter, but merely to give reasons why the Committee report against the Bill. The weakness of this Bill, I consider, is the apparent attempt to make larger local bodies more popular. There is a strong feeling amongst the British public, both at Home and in the colonies, that Home Rule is desirable. Every Road Board feels that, with the economical administration that has been exercised in the past, they have done very good work indeed, and they do not consider that matters would be improved by throwing in their lot with amalgamated Road Boards or County Councils. I do not see any hope in the near future of a Bill on the same lines as this Counties Bill being passed, unless there is an attempt to get it along easier lines. Owing to the peculiar features of some of the Road Board districts, which are divided by rivers or moun- tain-ranges, there is not sufficient community of interest to warrant a general desire for amal- gamation, and unless some advantages are to be gained there is no reason why they should. A more general form of local government, I believe, is desirable ; but I do not think it will be obtained by amalgamating local bodies, such as Road Boards, water-supply, or drainage dis- tricts. There is apparently a strong inclination on the part of the Road Boards to remain as they are under any name, believing that the best Owing to the rapid increase of population in our counties many of these bodies will become almost unwieldy in the near future, and the government of such a local body must be situate a consider- able distance away from some parts of the county, and, I feel certain, unable to give the same close attention to local requirements as can be obtained from a Board administering a smaller area. I agree with the report that the Bill should not be proceeded with. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- I do not think, Sir, the fault lies with the Committee, but with the Premier, because of the form in which the Bill was brought before the Committee. That is where the whole trouble has arisen. The Premier sought to force the County Council system of local government upon the ratepayers, and endeavoured to wipe out the Road Boards. If honourable members will take the trouble to read the evidence placed before the Committee they will see that in the colony there are a large number of Road Boards, some of them in districts in which the Counties Act has not been brought into operation. These have been in existence for a number of years, and have been administered to the satisfaction of the people concerned, and they naturally resent any attempt to wipe them out. About eight or ten years ago the Premier promised to bring in a Local Government Bill, to provide an assured finance and reduce the number of local bodies, but nothing to speak of has been done, so far as this Bill is concerned, in providing an assured finance. Now, I think the Premier should have faced the matter boldly by bringing down a Bill to wipe all the existing local bodies out of existence. He should then have recon- stituted the local bodies in the different localities, and stated what size each local body should be. It would not matter whether they were called County Councils or Road Boards. Per- haps it would be wiser neither to call them one or the other, so as to do away with the feeling of jealousy that exists between these local bodies. If that were done it would enable people in some parts of the colony, where it is desirable, to have small local bodies, and in other parts of the colony, where it was suitable, to have larger local bodies. Now, the Premier made some remark about the small Road Boards, where the revenue was under $100. Sir, in many cases these local bodies are worked more cheaply, and with better results, than a great many of the large ones; and I think it would be more satisfactory to the people con- cerned to leave them as they are, rather than force them to accept a particular form of go- vernment that they do not require. I do not think, myself, that the work of the Committee has been thrown away. It has opened the eyes of a large number of members to the existence of a state of things in parts of the colony they had no idea of before, and, if this report is brought down, and the evidence published, not only members of the House but the people generally will understand the position better than they did before ; and in the meantime I think members will agree that the matter should be left as it is. 