likely to materially interfere with the timber direct by regulation, and such notice shall be industry of this colony. The Government given not less than twenty-four hours prior to therefore called a Conference of the sawmillers shipment. "(2.) If any such timber is shipped without -the men who had the necessary experience we all wish to acquire-and they were unani- such notice being given, the master shall be mous that the day had arrived when an export liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty pounds." I intend when in Committee to ask the duty should be placed on the raw material- Committee to make an alteration in subsec- that is, on the round logs that have not passed through the mill, or logs squared with the axe tion (2) of this clause. I intend to ask the Com- I think many honourable members mittee to strike out the word "shall." and or saw. will be well aware that during the short space insert "and agent shall each," and to strike of some fifty years, which is only a small item out the words "exceeding fifty " and insert in the history of a young nation, a great quan- "less than ten." In reading it over finally I tity of our timber has been felled, or burned came to the conclusion that it would not do through bush - fires, the forests are being to fix a maximum amount of penalty, for this quickly devastated, and the day is rapidly ap- reason : We could not possibly tell what might happen. If a large ship called into any of the proaching when we shall find there is very little timber suitable for sawmilling purposes northern ports or bays and loaded up with left in this colony -- that is, at any rate, timber timber, the captain might leave the colony, of a certain class. I may say in this con- preferring not to pay any duty, but simply to nection that last year we exported nearly pay the penalty imposed by the Bill. There- 60,000,000 ft., besides there being a very large fore it was thought advisable that it should read as I have indicated. Clause 4 refers to home consumption. Now, the effect of the temporary measure passed by the Common- the passing of export entries. Clause 5 con- wealth would be, under such a tariff, to take tains provision for making the necessary all the raw material in the form of logs from regulations, and in the last line I intend New Zealand over to Australia and have it to ask the Committee to strike out the words sawn up there, which, no doubt, would be a "exceeding ten " and insert "less than five," so that the minimum amount will be the great injury to our timber industry, and throw out of employment a very large number of our fine, unless under circumstances respecting working-classes. Last year a fairly large im- which the Magistrate, or whoever may ad- port of timber was noted through the Customs, judicate on the matter, considers the offence but it is timber of a different class from what would necessitate a larger penalty. In regard we have here, all hardwood, and it is a matter to the Schedule, we have had great difficulty in of necessity to import it. Honourable mem- arriving at what we wanted to define, because, bers will have seen that a resolution has been as those interested in the trade are aware, it is passed by the Commonwealth Parliament, and difficult to define what is a log, especially when will understand what the result of their deli- you know that a saw has touched it. If you berations mean to the timber industry of the go to a sawmill and find large pieces of sawn timber, some 12 in. by 12 in. or 12 in. by 20 in., colony. I need not detain the House any fur- ther, although, as I have already remarked, the Customhouse officer might naturally say it there are many items of importance I should was a log, while the sawmiller might say it like to have placed on record in reference to this was only part of a log; so that it is difficult to arrive at a proper definition. There is also great industry, because it is one I have always some difficulty in arriving at the definition of felt a personal interest in, and I believe there "flitches." In conversation with those saw- is no greater question that could occupy the millers who attended the Timber Conference attention of this Parliament than the judicious working and conservation of our forests. The I found that there was a division of opinion Bill as introduced is not a very lengthy one. in regard to this matter, while they were In clause 2 it says, - unanimous in asking the Government to bring in a measure to provide an export duty of "The Governor may at any time, by Order in not less than 3s. on the logs. Members Council, cause to be levied, collected, and paid will therefore see the matter is left an open at the Customs to His Majesty, previous to question, to be fixed later on by regula- exportation from New Zealand, the duties upon tions. Some of the northern sawmillers who timber as set forth in the Schedule hereto." had large interests, such as Mr. Gibbons and It was deemed by the Government not to be Mr. Mitchelson, have written saying they advisable at the present time to ask the House think this ought to be done, and the Govern- to fix a certain amount of export duty. It was ment wish to meet them in a reasonable way. considered in the interests of the industry, that At the same time we have to study the effect of as at present the tariff passed by the Australian the Commonwealth tariff, which at present is Commonwealth was merely a tentative measure, almost prohibitive. In the first part of the it would be better to have an elastic Bill in this Schedule, where it says, " Or such higher duty, form. Clause 3 is as follows : - not exceeding 5s. per 100 superficial feet, as the Governor by Order in Council determines," I in- " (1.) The master or agent of every ship in tend to move that that be struck out, and the which it is intended to ship for export timber same proviso as in the second part of the Sche- liable to duty shall give notice to the Collector dule inserted-namely, " Or such lesser duty as or other proper officer of Customs of such in- ! 