before the declaration of war. Although they did not turn out in uniform, they had been drilling for years previously. The Volunteers of New Zealand gave to the colony a large amount of their time, and also of their money, because the capitation grant did not nearly pay the cost of running a company. Nearly every company in Christchurch had spent from #200 to $300 on orderly rooms and equipments for themselves. If the colony did not maintain a permanent force the costly fortifications which had been erected, and the guns with which they were manned, would be useless in a very short time. If they wanted men to give their time in the service of the country they must provide them with efhcient instructors, and at the present time there were not enough in- structors to do the work. Mr. SEDDON rose to a point of order. According to the Standing Orders the discussion must be confined to the first item. The ACTING.CHAIRMAN said there was no doubt about that. Under the present amend- ment nothing more could be discussed than the question of reducing the salary of the Under-Secretary of Defence by $5. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked whether the Under-Secretary for Defence had under his con- trol the pay of the men who returned from South Africa; and also whether the officers of the Fourth and Fifth Contingents brought com- plete pay-sheets signed by each man with the balance owing to him shown ; and whether the details that were now being prepared were in effect copies from those pay-sheets. He wished to know whether this was correct; and, if so, why the men were not paid immediately on their arrival ? Mr. SEDDON said he believed the Under- Secretary for Defence to be one of the most efficient and capable officers in the service. He kept a very strict hand over the £ s. d., which was very necessary. In respect to the contingent accounts, the delay in payment that had occurred was not owing to the department at all. It was quite true the pay-sheets had been made out on board ship, but it was neces- sary for the Government to comply with the rules of the Audit Department. It was not likely that the officers of the contingents would have been employed in making out new pay- sheets if the Government could have got the payment through. The Under-Secretary as- sured him that it was impossible to pay the men on the sheets they brought. If the men had been paid at the Cape there would have been an end to the matter, and he was sorry that had not been done, as he had been very much annoyed to think that the men, on their arrival here, should have had to wait for their money. In point of fact, every account had to be recast, which was due to the system of audit. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said they were now told that the officers of the Fourth and Fifth Contingents had brought complete pay-sheets ; whereas when the question was brought up Mr. G. J. Smith could not be paid because the amounts owing were not known. He did not believe, himself, that there was any difficulty at all in connec- tion with the audit. He had no desire to re- duce the Under - Secretary's salary, but he objected to the way in which the contingents had been treated in this matter. He would ask whether any British money had been brought back from South Africa. Mr. SEDDON said that he found he had been in error when he said that the Fifth Con- tingent had brought back their pay - sheets. They had not done so. He believed that one of the officers, Captain Jackson, had brought some money with him and had paid most of the men. At any rate, he was informed that it was impossible to work under the accounts brought back with the men. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) wished to know whether each man had signed a pay-sheet showing the balance owing to him; and whether such accounts had to go before the New Zealand Auditor ? Mr. SEDDON might state that the Auditor- General had taken charge of the Imperial money, and was guarding it as jealously as he did the money of the colony. Some of the men had signed their pay-sheets, but he could not say that they all had done so. In respect to the Fourth Contingent, some of the accounts had not yet come back. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said the Under-Secretary was not overpaid. He was one of the best artillery officers they could get, was thoroughly competent, and, during the last two years, he had had four times the ordinary quantity of work thrust upon his shoulders, under which his health had broken down ; and yet, in spite of this, he had carried the work out in a very efficient way. To do what was proposed would be to cast a slight on a very deserving officer. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) had no wish to see the Under-Secretary penalised, and thought that £475 was a low salary compared with other salaries for heads of departments which had been agreed to. At the same time, he agreed with the object for which the mem- ber for Ashley moved the amendment, and ac- cordingly was compelled to vote with him. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) disclaimed any intention of casting a reflection in any shape or form on the Under-Secretary for Defence. The object of his amendment was to affect the whole of the vote, and not this particular item. The real issue was the reduction of the whole of the Defence vote by $50,000, and that posi- tion was well known to honourable members. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item, ' Under-Secretary for Defence, €475,' be reduced by £5." AYES, 8. Tellers. Hornsby Ell Fowlds Pirani Meredith Hall Thomson, J. W. Russell, G. W. 