expressly explained to the Committee by the Chief Judge of the Native Land Court that these amendments were entirely necessary. The amendments in regard to the amendment of the Validation of Titles Act were also entirely necessary, and the Judge of the Validation Court, Judge Batham, explained to the Com- mittee the necessity of those clauses being passed. The validation clauses in the Bill only dealt with questions where doubt had arisen in the minds of the Validation Court as to whether they had any jurisdiction to confirm the decrees made by that Court. There was really nothing very serious in the whole of the clauses. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) said this Bill was the result of a considerable amount of deliberation on the part of the Native Affairs Committee in years gone by. There were some clauses which embodied recommendations made to the Government on petitions presented to the House, and he thought it was only a small mede of justice to the Natives who had so per- sistently brought their grievances to the House in years gone by. On investigation by the Com- mittee it was found absolutely necessary to give some redress to those Natives, and that could only be done by legislation. The various mem- bers of the Committee, and himself personally, from his position as Chairman of the Committee, had represented to the Government for the last four or five years that something should be done. It was not a fair thing for the Natives that they should be kept waiting year after year. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 This Bill contained many clauses rectifying errors which had been committed in the past. The Bill had received the careful attention of the Native Affairs Committee. That Com- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero mittee had the benefit of the evidence and advice of the Chief Judge of the Native Land Court, the Judge of the Validation Court, and the chief officer of the Native Department, who explained the Bill clause by clause. The Com- mittee saw that some clauses required amend- ment. The necessary amendments were made, and, after careful consideration, the Bill was reported to the House. He thought it would be only justice if this Bill were allowed to go through. The various clauses could be ex- plained in detail in Committee. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said it was true what the honourable member for Hawke's Bay stated, that the various clauses embodied in this Bill dealt with a variety of cases which had arisen many years ago -- cases affecting judgments given by the Native Land Court, the Native Appellate Court, and also in con- sequence of reports from the Native Affairs Committee on petitions from the Maoris. It .was true that they were asked by these clauses to validate certain imperfect transactions which were left over as a result of investigations in the past by different tribunals. It was true, also, that they were giving effect to the recommendations of the Native Affairs Com- mittee upon certain petitions. It was true, also, that the measure touched upon incom- plete performances under the Special Powers Careful inquiry into each case, however, had been made by the Native Affairs Committee and by Government officers, and everything now in the Bill was justifiable. The ex- planation of clause 2A was that it was the subject of a petition by the Natives in the North, who, it was stated, lost some of their land as a result of the operations of the old law, which took away their land that was in excess of what they had sold to the Europeans. Those claims were now known as the " old surplus land claims." Formerly the settlers bought land off the Natives, but did not have it surveyed. The selling Natives, who were not always the rightful owners, indicated the boundaries by certain hills and streams, and said, "We will sell that to you, pakeha." A rough deed was drawn up, and the estimated area stated, leaving the survey to make the area definite afterwards. Many Europeans settled upon Native land in that way. The law in force at the time provided that no European could hold more than a certain area of Native land, and if the land purchased from the Natives was in excess of that limit, then anything in ex- cess went to the Crown, and did not go back to the Natives. This led to many injustices being done to the Natives. The true owners some- times found themselves minus their land, which was given away by a neighbouring tribe to a European ; and whatever was in excess of the limit required by law, instead of being returned to them, went into the hands of the Crown. Clause 2 dealt with one of those cases which the Government thought should be set right. Clause 3 affected a piece of land that was in- vestigated by the Native Affairs Committee, about which it was asked to restore a right of appeal. The Committee reported as follows :- "I am directed to report that, in the opinion of this Committee, petitioners have a just claim for consideration ; and it is recommended that the Government should bring in the necessary legislation to give the relief prayed for." Now, this was against a decision of the Native Land Court. The ground set up was this : that they were not present when the Court investi- gated the matter and gave judgment thereupon. They showed good reason why they were not present. The Committee had reviewed the evi- dence of the petitioners, and had come to the conclusion that in all justice a rehearing should be ordered. He might say generally that all these cases were the subject of reports and re- commendations from the Native Affairs Com- mittee, and the Government departments had made careful inquiry as to their merits, and, being satisfied, had drawn these clauses to enable the Legislature to give effect to what was re- quired. He would not say any more just now, but would give explanations in Committee upon every clause if questioned by any honourable member. Bill read a second time. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 9 .- Extended time for notice of appeal by Natives in succession to Wahanui Huatere. 