appreciate the conciliatory power of the mailed fist of a united people." I wonder where this unanimity is they are going to display. We shall see when the divi- sion takes place the enormous amount of unani- mity ; there will be thirty-one in one lobby and thirty-two in the other -- that will be the amount of unanimity. "For thirty years our province has been plundered, and if it is necessary to prevent further humiliation we must allow party poli- tics to slumber for a period, and fight as one man for our rights." It has been advocated by some of the most intelligent Auckland members - Mr. Massey amongst them-that there are enormous advan- tages to the colony from our connection with the Mother-land. The Auckland members are thoroughly loyal, and if there is anything I appreciate in a man it is loyalty. They show their loyalty even when fighting for a bad cause. It has been said by the Auckland mem- bers that a large quantity of the imports and exports come and go by way of San Francisco. What are the facts ? Nearly the whole of the tonnage is due to the Minister for Railways. On the occasion of the despatch of the Fourth Contingent from Dunedin the Premier spoke under the heading, "Rally Round the Flag." He spoke on that occasion at great length about rallying round the flag. But he has now fallen away from that. There were no stars and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 stripes in Dunedin at that time. Last session the grand old flag was hung all round these galleries-there were no stars and stripes; but the Premier now asks us to consent to a con- tract with an alien Power to carry our mails in steamers that are manned by foreigners. Sir, I do not agree with that. Now, speaking as the representative of one of the most import- ant constituencies in the colony, I wish to say that I came here to faithfully represent my constituents, and, with the view of doing that, I shall not encourage aliens to come to our shores to participate in advantages that should go to our own ships. If I went to the people of Ashburton, and used my most persua- sive eloquence to get them to give a contract to a Japanese firm to carry our mails, they would never give me another vote. Well, what is the difference between the Japanese and the Yankees? Neither is in accord with us-in- deed, they are rivals, especially in a maritime sense. I may say I have much respect for the genius and the enterprise of the Americans, and, as one who has often seen the advantages to be derived from their agricultural machinery, I say there are no people on the face of the globe who are to be more appreciated than the Ameri- cans. They give us the result of their inventive genius at the lowest cost. Therefore I am not antagonistic to them as far as their inventions are concerned, but I am antagonistic to this combination when they do not give us fair-play. The member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) will be in accord with me, I am sure, when I say we should have fair-play. to have fair-play. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- Well, he sometimes says things he does not mean. The poet says,- Lassies innocently young, Say often what they dinna mean. At any rate, I wish to say this : even if Mr. Spreckels will not carry our mails temporarily at a reasonable price, and if we cannot enter into negotiations with the Vancouver line, and if the Federal line reject our proposals, we still have the high seas at our command-the high seas that, three miles from the shore, belong to no one. We also have our splendid lines of steamers that arrive and depart every week, and a fortnight more or less in the trans- mission of the mails would be only a small item. If my honourable friend Sir Joseph Ward, the Postmaster-General, would use his great latent energy - because it is not half- developed yet - to induce the cable people to make some reasonable or large reduction on the cable rates, that I believe would satisfy the commercial community, and the people here would be pleased to send Home any spare money either to subsidise or to give poundage rates to our Direct steamers. That would meet the approval of the great bulk of the people of New Zealand much better than foisting upon us Spreckels-a foreign company. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- If I had been in any doubt as to how I should vote on this oc- casion, I think the speech of the last honour- able member would have settled my mind. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- It would have convinced you. Mr. W. FRASER .- Oh, yes; it would have convinced me completely to vote in the oppo- site way to what the honourable member says we will do. And I will tell the honourable gentleman why. He told us at the beginning of his speech, and towards the end also-for he seemed rather proud of repeating it-that he was swayed by sentiment. In fact, he said he was sorry to have to say he was swayed by sen- timent rather than by logic. What is the natural inference from that? It is that the logical aspect of the case-and the honourable gentleman is endowed with a large amount of strong common sense - that the logical aspect of the case, as presented to him, was entirely different from that by which he is going to allow himself to be influenced. He says that he is swayed by sentiment. Well, Sir, sen- timent is a very good thing in its place. Sentiment, no doubt, plays a very large part in many of our actions throughout life, but there is one thing in connection with which senti- ment is entirely out of place, and that is when we are dealing with a strictly business trans- action. I venture to say that wherever in business transactions you allow sentiment to dominate, to become the prevailing influence, the decision arrived at is one which there will be cause to regret. I was rather amused at the tenor of some of the speeches. There are those who have sneered somewhat openly at the sentiment displayed by this House on a former occasion -- namely, when we were sending 