logical gods of Upper India, and it was notice- able that the work of this carving and the work of the Maori gods or heroes were very similar. The Maori gods have three fingers only on each hand-a fact for which no one has so far given me an explanation-and it is an interesting fact in that the Indian gods are similarly delineated. It shows that our Maoris may in some way have originally strayed from India, or were in some way connected with that country. Sir, I shall be very glad to support the Bill, and I hope that good may be derived from it. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, the Maoris have a saying, " What is the use of the body when the man's head is cut off ?" This Bill is somewhat late in the day, but still it is one that will go in the direction of keeping a num- ber of Maori relics from being taken out of the country. A friend of mine in Taranaki, who is a collector of Maori curios, has sent me & catalogue of a collection of no less than 381 Maori curios which were to be sold by auction in England in July of this year. It is rather amusing to read some of the descriptions of these so-called curios. For instance, under antique black heading, this is stated of Lot 171 : "The axe that helped to construct the first sawmill in New Zealand ; had been fifty years under water ; found in a well that had not been emptied during that period." How that article could come under the heading of a Maori curio I do not know. Another, set down as Lot 165, reads : "Object-lesson : Never leave a horse in a paddock with a rope round its neck. This horse got the rope fixed in the shoe, and was not discovered until it was starved to death ; hoof, with rope attached." How that could be called a Maori curio would be a problem. Gruesome details are also given of some of the articles catalogued. For in- stance, Lot 268 is the mat of the Maori Tuhi, who murdered Miss Dobie at Te Namu. Sir, I welcome the Bill because it will stop to some extent the Maori relics from going out of the country, and also prevent imposition such as this catalogue shows. I was struck a few months ago, when in the neighbourhood of the Mokau River, with the similarity there is be- tween the people of the Celtic races and the Maoris with regard to some of the peculiar tra- ditions and ideas they have of old relics, et cetera. For instance, there is the Atua, which is supposed to have come to New Zealand in the "Tainui." It was afterwards thrown into the Mokau River by the Maoris, as a sort of charm to entice fish. Some white vandal hooked it out of the river; and, as a con- sequence, there was a good deal of consterna- tion among the Natives. It is stated in the district that during the time this stone god was out of the river the Maoris could not catch a single fish. The Government, I am told, took the matter in hand, and, as a result of their action in the matter, the god was put back in the Mokau, when the Maoris got their supply of fish as usual. Another matter -- one that does not come under this Bill-is this : Three years ago, in Wellington, a large number of Hon. Mr. T. Kelly London and sold here by an auctioneer. Now, I have often been struck with the paucity of books on New Zealand in our public libraries. I hope, if my honourable friend the Chairman of the Library Committee succeeds in getting the $500 Watson fine from the Premier, he will be able to persuade the Library Committee to devote some portion of it towards getting books appertaining to New Zealand for the library ; the Parliamentary Library, at any rate, should have a better selection than it has at the present time. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- Sir, one sug- gestion thrown out in connection with this Bill I would like to impress very forcibly upon the Minister, and that is that the building for Maori relics should be erected in Wellington, somewhere adjacent to Parliament House. I trust the Government will not lose sight of that excellent suggestion, despite the wily efforts of the Hon. Mr. Taiaroa to have the building placed in the South Island. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER -Sir, I am pleased that the Council recognise the pro- priety of this Bill, even though it is a little late in the day. The Government recognised that fact. They regret that it is too late to ! prevent certain relics from having gone out of the country, but at the same time there are still 1 plenty in the country to-day that are worth 1 keeping, and worth putting into some central place, but whether in the South Island, where the Hon. Mr. Taiaroa would like to see it, or in the North Island, is a matter for dis. cussion. I am afraid there is no occasion to take so much trouble with regard to the South Island, because Christchurch has a very good Maori museum at the present time, <!-- PageHeader="1" --> and, if the Hon. Mr. Taiaroa does not think it good enough, he and his Maori friends have only got to hand into it for caretaking some of their heirlooms and family treasures, and I am quite sure the Christchurch Museum authori- ties will only be too happy and too proud to take care of them, and there they will be a credit to the South Island and a pleasure to all who go to see them. The honourable gentle- man rather tried to draw us away at first, be- cause he attempted to take us back to the days of Captain Cook. Well, that was before his time and before mine. Now, we are desiring to get Maori art of the old days properly pre- served, and exhibited, and protected from ex- portation. The Hon. Mr. Scotland has referred to the fact that the Maori art to-day is not quite so good as it used to be. No, it is not. But he will find fault in the same way with the work of a European stonemason or woodcarver. We have not got to-day the patience or the love of the subject which made stonemasons into architects, and out of those architects produced cathedrals which are absolute poems in stone. We have not got the art or the devotion to-day to do that. And, in the same way, the Maori has had put into his hands tools which in an easier way enable him to turn wood into implements or copy the old patterns that have come down from his an- 