mining, and also original discoveries in relation thereto. Only a short time ago they paid for an original article on that particular matter written by Mr. McLaren, a New Zealand boy born and bred, who had obtained a scholarship at Home. With regard to the Inspectors, he considered, himself, that since the development of the dredging industry, and in view of the increased areas taken up for hydraulic sluicing, and so forth, it would be necessary to appoint some additional Inspectors of Mines. With regard to the pay, when he took charge of the department he instituted a system by which the Inspectors would work up to a salary that he thought was reasonable. It was the same with regard to the Sub-Inspectors. Owing to the greater demands now, and the great de- velopment that was likely to occur in regard to coal-mining, it would be necessary to have an increased number of Inspectors. During the past year he had appointed an additional one in the South, but some more were needed. He was going into the matter during the recess, and would see what was best to be done. He believed in having the best possible men, and in paying them a reasonable remuneration. In reply to the member for Masterton, he might say the Under-Secretary for Mines had forty- three years' service, and was one of the best officers in the public service, and ought to have a reasonable remuneration for the posi- tion he held. He had earned this increase, and it was justly due to him. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked what the Go- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 vernment intended to do about the State coal- mine. It was mentioned in the Speech from the Throne that the Government intended to start a State coal-mine in some suitable dis- trict for the purpose of supplying their own http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero requirements. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) understood early in the session that the Government intended to do something in the way of working a coal- mine in the interest of the public service, and also in the interest of the public at large. In the face of the coal-deposits in New Zealand, it was simply monstrous that the people of Wel- lington and Christchurch and other parts of the colony should be paying such high prohi- bitive prices for coal as they were now paying. He asked, therefore, had the Government de cided on any scheme with a view of opening up coal-mines ? He had understood a Bill was to be introduced dealing with the question. Per- haps the Cabinet was considering the question, and they might have some scheme in hand which was not fully enough evolved to bring before the House at the present stage. He thought the Minister of Mines should make some statement as to what the Government intended doing in the matter. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) wished to point out that last year a concession had been made in the carrying of coal on the railways, but the people had not got the benefit of it. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) said that a large coal-bed of very excellent coal existed in his district, the quality of the coal being equal Mr. McGowan should arrange for a report to be furnished as to the coal-measure in the Mount Somers dis- trict. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) wished to know what were the duties of the three Assistant Inspectors, and where the Inspectors and Assistant In- spectors are located. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) thought tho Govern- ment should pay some practical attention to the increased price of coal in the colony. At present it appeared to him that coal increased four times in value from the time it left the West Coast till it reached the East Coast. Mr. COLVIN said, In regard to the point raised by the last speaker, that screened coal realised in West port £1 2s. a ton, and unscreened coal could be bought in Wellington for £1 7s., delivered from ship's side. He noticed there was provision for six Inspectors. He thought four of this number were for the inspection of coal-mines, and the other two for the quartz and alluvial mines. He would like to know if these Inspectors received travelling-expenses, because he thought from £200 to #300 a year was a very small salary to pay men for such important work. He hoped the Minister would consider the advisability of increasing the sala- ries of these officers, and also increase the num- ber of Inspectors. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked if there was any appropriation provided for a State coal-mine ; and, if so, where was the item to be found ? Mr. McGOWAN said, with regard to the State coal-mine, this was a large question, and it would be very foolish to enter into an enter- prise of this kind without due inquiry. In- quiry, however, was now being made by the Inspecting Engineer, the Government Geolo- gist, and others best qualified to guide the Government in this matter. They were ex- amining coal districts with a view to advising the Government, and would report as to the best coalfield for them to open up for their own requirements, first of all. In regard to in- spection, he might say, in reply to the honour- able member for the Buller, that the Govern- ment employed Inspectors well qualified to inspect both coal-mines and gold-mines. In Otago they had Mr. Green, who was a very excellent Inspector; and on the West Coast there was an Inspector who was an old coal- miner, and who had been at the business for a lifetime. He also had an Assistant Inspector with long experience in quartz-mining. In the North, one Inspector had a knowledge both of coal- and gold-mines, and the other had more particularly a knowledge of gold-mining. He might say, in Otago, where there was not so much quartz-mining, Mr. Green and his assis- tant were able to thoroughly cope with the work. The Government intended to appoint some additional Inspectors as soon as possible. though he was not as yet able to give the exact number. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the Premier had told the people of Wellington that they were being robbed by the coal-dealers 