of bringing the horses here-that is to say, the shipping and landing in New Zealand. He moved, That the paper do lie on the table. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at three minutes to five o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 4th October, 1901. First Readings-Bills discharged-Loans to Local Bodies-Duty on Agricultural Implements- Maori Land-Police-stations-Monday Sittings- Springbank Estate -- Coolie Labour at Colonial Sugar Company's Fiji Mills-North Canterbury Volunteer Officers-Old-age Pensions Act-Legis- lative Council Appointments-Manawatu Rail- way-Borough Council Officers' Retiring-allow- ances-Mrs. James Mackay-Appointments to Legislative Council-Appointments to Legisla- tive Council-Federation Commission-Appoint- ments to Legislative Council-Ministerial In- terest in Meat Companies-Rifle Clubs-Lyttel- ton Forts-Appointments to Legislative Cour- cil-Appointments to Legislative Council-Hıku- rangi Volunteer Corps - Christchurch Drill- hall-Auckland Drill-shed - Auckland Rifle- range-Sir George Grey's Papers-New Zealand Troopers' Horses-Permanent Artillery Pay- Supplies for Royal Visit-Waitaki Mounted Rides-Returned Troopers' Medical Examina- tion-Waimate Courthouse-Commissioners of Education Reserves - Recreation and Forest Reserves-Oeo Native Land-Maori Hostelries- Hohaia Patuone-Railway Concessions to Maoris -Con-table Parker - District Courts - Super- annuation of Judges-Inspection of Coal-mines- Paeroa River-Aubrey's Case-Waitekauri Public Battery-Land and Live-stock Auctions Bill- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Sheep-dip-Education Board Reserves-Lime- Public Abattoirs - Boilermakers at Addington Workshops-Mrs. L. J. Nutt-Railway Rates for Timber-Produce Markets-Volunteer Capita- tion -Adjournment-Royal Visit Expenses Bill -Maori Relics Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. # PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Land Bill, Products Export Bill, Cook and other Islands Government Bill (No. 2). BILLS DISCHARGED. Cook and other Islands Government Bill, Shipping and Seamen Bill, Cook Group and other Islands Laws Extension Bill, Law Amend- ment Bill. # LOANS TO LOCAL BODIES. On the motion of Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The total sum raised since 1886 under the Loans to Local Bodies Act ; (2) the total amount advanced out of such sum to local bodies ; (3) the total amount expended on roads and other works out of such moneys ; (4) the total amount received from the local bodies as payment to the sinking fund under the Act ; (5) the total amount of sinking funds now in the hands of the Sinking Fund Commissioner ; (6) the amount of deben- fund ; (7) the total amount of interest paid by Government on such loans ; (8) the total amount of interest paid by the local bodies in payment of interest on loans ; and (9) the year when debentures were first issued against such sinking fund. DUTY ON AGRICULTURAL IMPLE- MENTS. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing separately the articles now on the free list which have been placed on the free list under the headings of " Agricul- tural Machinery " and " Agricultural Imple- ments," from the passing of the Customs and Excise Duties Act of last year up to the present date. # MAORI LAND. On the motion of Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The total area of land now owned by Maoris within the North Island of New Zealand, distinguishing therein papatupu lands and lands held under any de- scription of ascertained title ; (2) the total area of such Maori lands contained (a) within each separate Council district constituted under "The Maori Lands Administration Act, 1900," (b) within that portion of the North Island for which Council districts under the said Act have not as yet been constituted, (c) within the boundaries defined by "The Urewera District Native Reserve Act, 1896," and amending Acts, (d) within "The Thermal-Springs Districts Act, 1881," and amending Acts, and (e) within "The West Coast Settlement Reserves Act, 1892," and amending Acts; and (3) the total Crown valuation placed upon, and the total Maori population resident within, each of the above-mentioned districts respectively. The said return to be laid upon the table of this House before the debate is taken upon the second reading of the Maori Lands Administra- tion Act 1900 Amendment Bill. # POLICE-STATIONS. On the motion of Mr. FISHER (Wellington City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the num- ber of police-stations now open in the colony as compared with the number open in Major Gudgeon's and Colonel Hume's last year of administration as Commissioner of Police respectively ; also the number of officers, non- commissioned officers, detectives, and men now in the Police Force of the colony compared with the number of such officers, non-commissioned officers, detectives, acting-detectives, and men in the Police Force of the colony during the last year of the administration of Major Gudgeon and Colonel Hume as Commissioner of Police respectively. MONDAY SITTINGS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That after Monday, the 7th October, on Mondays, for the remainder of the session, the House do sit at 