Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked if the Minister would issue instructions from the Head Office as to the charge to be made by School Committees for the use of school-build- ings in connection with elections. Mr. HALL-JONES said the charge was de- fined by Act-namely, for cleaning and lighting. He would direct the attention of the Minister of Education to the question. Vote, $25,000, agreed to. Government domains, £1,300. Mr. HALL-JONES said the item of " Con- tingencies " was made up as follows : £ Flower-pots, tools, &c. 35 . . . Coal 12 . . .. Bulbs, plants, and seeds 23 11 .. Freight and rail fares 6 18 . . 38 Wages . Gravel, &c. 12 . . . Manures 4 11 . . .. .. 1 9 £133 Vote, £1,300, agreed to. CLASS XV .- POLICE DEPARTMENT. Police Department, £121,563. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked for the details of the vote for "Contingencies." Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the amount was made up as follows : - 8\. Ambulance instruction 31 12 .. .. Assisting police .. 6 13 . . Bicycles, allowance for use of, on 135 police duty. .. Clipping horses .. 0 10 Compensation for damage to uni- forms 5 15 .. Driving and grazing stolen sheep .. 13 17 Exhuming and searching for bodies for inquests 8 0 Greytown Fire Brigade: gratuity for saving police premises 5 .. Insurance on Cheviot property 3 . . Legal expenses re land at Spit leased from Napier Harbour Board 4 17 Long-service medals, engraving of 8 0 Newspapers and advertising 29 12 .. Photographing prisoners\* 88 12 Rates on land leased from Napier Harbour Board 5 Rent of office for Inspector of Ex- plosives : police proportion 0 0 5 Repairing damages to trap hired by police, Timaru 8 19 Repairing police wagon, Christ- church 2 Repairing property damaged by pri- soners 3 Repairing typewriters, clocks, and sundry articles 5 11 Rewards for arrest of E. W. N. Hol- loway, charged with theft of 50 ... money (NOTE .- This amount was recovered from the Pubhe Trustee, and credited to Police vote.) £ s. d. no female where stations, searchers are appointed 7 6 0 Telegraph Department, registering 0 10 0 code address .. Washing blankets for lock-ups 11 19 3 £433 5 0 · Special items have been taken for these services in estimates for 1901-2. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) wished to know if the Minister was aware whether Mr. Tunbridge, the Commissioner of Police, had applied for the position of Commissioner of Police in New South Wales. s. d. Mr. McGOWAN said, as far as he knew, that 2 4 was not a fact. 8 10 Mr. FISHER asked if it was a fact that Mr. 0 Tunbridge had applied for the position of Com- 7 missioner of Police in Victoria. 3 8 Mr. McGOWAN said, Not as far as he was 0 4 6 aware. Mr. FISHER asked if it was the intention of the Government to increase Mr. Tunbridge's salary next year. Mr. McGOWAN was not able to say what the Government would do next year. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked if Mr. Tunbridge had applied for any position in South Australia, or Queensland, or elsewhere. Mr. McGOWAN was not aware that Mr. Tunbridge had applied for a position anywhere else. d. Vote, £121,563, agreed to. 9 Miscellaneous services, £695. 0 Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister for details of the item, "Expenses 7 3 attending the detection of sly-grog sellers, 0 £541." Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) pointed out 6 that, in addition to the sum of $541 so ex- 4 pended, £462 was spent in rewards for con- viction in sly-grog cases. He would like to know 0 what parts of the colony had received this money. 0 0 Mr. McGOWAN said the amount had been 7 6 distributed all over the colony. He could not tell from memory the number of people to 0 whom the rewards had gone. In some cases 9 they were given to persons for information 0 supplied, and for time taken up in obtaining 4 that information. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) asked in 0 10 what district or districts had the sum of £541 been expended for the detection of sly-grog He did not know that any of the sellers. money had gone to the Napier district. 0 Mr. McGOWAN said the money went to those districts where convictions had been 0 2 obtained, but he could not say whether any convictions had been obtained in the Napier 6 3 district. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) wished the 0 Minister to explain on what principle persons were rewarded for securing convictions in sly- grog cases. 0 0 Mr. McGOWAN said, If a man had given up time to assist the police in obtaining evidence, that man was paid for his services. 