pared to submit a reason for every one of the clauses so far as he could. He begged to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN had no desire to put unnecessary difficulties in the way of even this hurried legislation, but they should have full information, especially in the case of Special Powers and Contracts Bills, for this was one of that species. It ought to have been sent to a Committee, considered clause by clause, and understood. It was impossible for anybody to find out without special information what the meaning of all the clauses were; they had to take them blindly on trust. The provisions might be just and necessary, but he was bound to say that he thought the present proceedings a most unfortunate way of doing business. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY might state that this Bill was carrying out the recommenda- tions of the Native Affairs Committee of the other House, and some of the recommenda- tions of the Native Affairs Committee of the Council as well. He had looked over the Bill and found that many of the clauses had been recommended a number of years ago. He thought, as far as he could see, that there was nothing wrong with them. He had looked over the clauses which he knew something about, and supposed the others were inserted on the recommendation of the Chairman of the other Native Affairs Committee, who had told him (Mr. Kelly) that he had been over the Bill, and that practically all the clauses had He been recommended by the Committee. (Mr. Kelly) was personally acquainted with https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 some of the claims, and did not think there was any necessity for much explanation from the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JONES said, As far as be could see, one could only take this Bill entirely on trust. He did not and could not pretend to understand anything at all about it, and he did not think there was sufficient time left, even if the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill thoroughly understood the clauses, for him to give a proper and sufficient explanation of them ; so that he (Mr. Jones) supposed that the only thing the Council could do, if they could not reject the Bill, was to accept it in good faith that it was all right. He was quite prepared to do that under the circumstances. The . Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said, In regard to this Bill, the usual course was to send such a Bill to the Native Affairs Committee ; but that was impossible now, as it would delay the whole work of the session. The only way in which they could deal with the Bill at the present time was to get an assurance from the Minister in charge that the clauses had been carefully looked over by the officers of the de- partment and by the Minister, and that they ought to be passed. He would like to get an assurance that these clauses had been properly investigated and that they ought to be passed by the Council. The Hon. Mr. TOMOANA wished to say a few words with reference to the Bill now before sary to say a great deal on this subject. As the Bill was in English he could not tell exactly what was in it, but he could see the names of the Natives mentioned, and he knew what they referred to. The Bill as a whole, referred to the petitions which had been sent in by the Natives, and which had been dealt with by both branches of Parliament, and he thought it was time some of these matters were settled. The Natives in most cases simply applied to be allowed to have their cases heard in the Native Land Court, and some of these applications had been dragging on before the other Chamber for some ten or twenty years, and they had never yet been settled. He thought they should pass the Bill as it was now. There were a great many reports on petitions which were originally embodied in this Bill, and which should have been left in, but they had been struck out in another place. He himself had a clause in which he was interested, carrying out the report of the Committee, and the Hon. Mr. Taiaroa had one also. These had been struck out, but they could not help that. They must put up with it for the present. He thought they should pass this Bill without making any amendments in it, because in each case the matter would go before the Judges for investigation. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER desired to say a few words in reply. In the first place, he wished to draw attention to the fact that a great many of these clauses were embodied in a Bill that the Council sent to the Native Affairs Com- mittee in- the year 1899. He had got a copy of it in his hand. It originated in the Legislative Council with his own name on the top of it. It was investigated by the Native Affairs Com- mittee, and it contained eighteen clauses, and these were now embodied in the present Bill. The Bill of 1899 never eventuated any further ; the other Chamber did not pass it. It was a fact that during five or six years these Native claims had been accumulating; and he only asked honourable gentlemen to look at the way in which these claims were put forward and the wording of them. There were very few of them which did more than this : to say that a Court might investigate the questions at issue. It would be wasting the time of the Council to read the Bill right through, but he would take a few of the clauses. The 3rd clause said that the Go- vernor might confer on the Court jurisdiction The next to inquire into certain matters. clause provided that the Appellate Court was empowered and directed to deal with any appeal which had been lodged against the de- cision of the Court in making the partition as if such appeal had been lodged in due time. Clause 5 stated, "The Court is hereby em- powered and directed to investigate and decide the claims of certain Natives." Clause 6 said, " It shall be lawful for the Governor, by Order in Council, to appoint a Royal Commis- sion to investigate and decide the claims of Wiremu Karaka te Aho and others " as to a block of land. Clause 7 provided that the 