of lunatics under remand, often of a violent character, being sent to the prison is very detrimental to discipline. There are no sur- gical conveniences for such cases, either in effective supervision or qualified attendance." The Lyttelton Gaoler said the same thing in almost the same words. In the report from Napier appeared the following remarks :- " Three male lunatics were received : of these, two were certified to by the doctors as being of unsound mind, and committed to the Lunatic Asylum ; one was discharged at the local Stipendiary Magistrate's Court, the Prison Surgeon, after a few days' medical treatment, under close observation, certifying that the prisoner was suffering from an over-indulgence in alcohol, and not from any permanent form of insanity." From the gaoler at Wanganui :- " I feel that I should be leaving a duty un- done if I neglected to draw attention to the old-fashioned cruelty of sending lunatics and prisoners suffering from delirium tremens to prison. There is no proper accommodation for them, neither are the officers experts in lunacy or medicine, and it is a great injustice to both the officers and other prisoners, who are fre- quently kept awake for two or three nights in succession by the noise made by these un- fortunates." Mr. Garvey, of the local prison, used these words :- "Two prisoners were received on remand- ore for drunkenness, the other theft. Both were sent to the District Hospital, where they / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 died. These persons should not have been sent to a prison." In the face of these strong recommendations he hoped the Minister would see the necessity http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of some reform in this particular direction. Now, in reference to the comforts, so-called, supplied to prisoners, he had a talk with three of the principal gaolers of the colony, who all concurred in what had been advocated by Major Arthur Griffiths, at one time Governor of the Milbank Prison - namely, that a small allow ance of tobacco should be supplied to the prisoners in the gaols at regular intervals. The experience of these gaolers went to show that the very fear on the part of a prisoner that his allowance of tobacco would be stopped would be quite sufficient to make him toe the mark and conform to the discipline of the gaol. He himself believed that such a reform would be conducive to good discipline in the prisons of the colony. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) pointed out that there had been six avoidable deaths during the year in the prisons of the colony, and ac- cording to Inspector Hume none of those per- sous should have been sent to prison at all. Inspector Hume said a reference to the Gaolers' reports would show that the men who had died were not fit subjects for a prison, but should have been sent to a hospital or some similar institution. He (Mr. Napier) thought that, as power had been given to Magistrates to send persons of this class to hospitals, some institu- <!-- PageNumber="." --> and a gaol should be provided in which deten- tion would be compulsory, and at the same time curative treatment could be applied. The sug- gestion made by the member for Wellington Suburbs, as to market-gardening, had been sug- gested by the Gaoler of the Wellington Prison in his report ; and it was a suggestion which he (Mr. Napier) supported. He had always thought that the present system of employing the prisoners on non - productive labour was a vicious one. He thought prisoners ought to be employed on remunerative work, and, further, that prisoners, and long - sentence prisoners particularly, ought not to be dis- charged incapable of afterwards earning an honest living, but that they should be taught some trade during the period of their incarcera- tion. He believed the tree-planting at Rotorua by prisonsrs was going to be profitable to the State, and the work already done there was surprising. He hoped that still further efforts would be made, so that the whole of the Kai- 1 ngaroa Plains might ultimately be planted with trees. He did not entirely agree with the re- port of the Auckland Gaoler with regard to the completion of the new prison, because he be- lieved that a time would come when it would be condemned as being in an unsuitable site. It was contemplated, apparently, that prisoners would for all time be employed in stone-break- ing by hand, which was most unprofitable work. The prison should be in the country, and have a large area of land attached to it. He thought all stone-breaking should be done by machinery. He agreed with the suggestion of the honour- able member for Waitemata that the services of many of these prisoners should be lent to the local bodies in the country to help in road- making. The prisoners could be taken out by rail, and be employed in road-formation, and returned to the prison each evening. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said he noticed by the report that the number of prisoners in the gaols last year increased by two as compared with the previous year, and he noticed also that it was proposed to increase the number of offi- cers from 127 to 129, from which it appeared that, although there was only an increase of two prisoners, there was a necessity for two additional officers. He noticed an increase in the expenditure of £135. He noticed also that it was costing almost double to maintain the inmates of the gaols than it was to maintain the inmates of lunatic asylums. As all the male prisoners in gaols were able to work, it appeared to him that their labour was not suffi- ciently utilised at the present time. He thought all gaols should be self-supporting, and it ap- peared to him that so long as the gaols were kept in the large centres this was not likely to \--- be brought about. He thought the time had arrived when a block of between one and two thousand acres of varying quality of land should be obtained in the North and South Islands as \----- --- -------- sites for gaols, by which means long-sentence prisoners could be made self-supporting. He had brought this question up on previous occa- sions, and he hoped something would be done. 