had been on the Commission it would have greatly added to the usefulness of the Commis- sion, and I believe the information that might have been obtained through their influence would have been greater than is now contained ' in the report of the Commission. Sir, I believe a majority of the teachers of the colony are in favour of the Bill now before the House for second reading, and in favour of the scale of salaries contained therein. A number of teach- ers, however, have petitioned the House, not only on the scale of salaries, but on a number of other matters affecting primary education, referred to in the report of the Commission. Fourteen of those petitions came before the M to Z Public Petitions Committee, and in support of those petitions seven women teach- ers attended and gave evidence; and I venture to think the members of the Committee have been most favourably impressed with their in- telligence, capability, and grasp of education questions. The finding of the Committee was that the Committee recommended,- " 1. That the principle of equal pay for equal work is more nearly attained by the proposed colonial scale of salaries than under the exist- ing circumstances ; but at the same time the Committee is of opinion that, without increas- ing the cost of primary education, the proposed scale of teachers' salaries for assistants should be so adjusted as to bring about a nearer ap- proximation of equal pay for equal work. "2. That the separate schools for girls, at present established, be retained, and the prin- ciple extended at the discretion of the Educa- tion Boards, a minimum average attendance for separate schools to be fixed by regulation or otherwise. "3. That the system of classification for the issue of teachers' certificates, which has been so long in operation and has worked so satisfac- torily, be retained. "4. That the minimum salary of certificated teachers in charge of aided schools be fixed at not less than £70 a year." The Premier and honourablo mem- 11.0. bers may not be acquainted with the report that was brought down by the Public Petitions Committee. Hence I have read the findings of the Committee. Sir, from 1878 to 1887, in addition to the statutory allowance of £3 15s. for each child in average attendance, there was a special capitation allowance varying from 4s. to 10s. for each child in average attend- ance ; but when retrenchment was insisted upon in 1887 this special capitation allowance was dis- continued. That brought about a shortage of finance with Education Boards throughout the colony, and, not having sufficient allowance for incidentals, the Boards were forced to in- trench upon the statutory allowance of teachers' salaries ; hence, since 1887 teachers' salaries have been reduced in the colony, while during the same time teachers' salaries have been raised in the United Kingdom from 35 to 48 per cent. It is true, last year the vote of $8,000 was divided amongst the various Educa- tion Boards to supplement teachers' salaries, the average increase being $2 5s. for each VOL. CXIX .- 41. teacher in the colony. It is proposed by the present Bill to increase salaries by the sum of $28,000. I hail this increase with considerable satisfaction. The Government should approach this question in a liberal spirit. I may, how- ever, point this out to the House and country : that during the eleven years of Liberal ad- ministration of the present Government the primary schools of the colony have been prac- tically starved. At length tardy Justice opens her doors and comes to the relief of the public school-teachers of the colony. We have had the salary of the Governor increased by 40 per cent., of the Ministers by 25 per cent., of the Premier by 60 per cent. ; the Railway, Postal, and Telegraph Departments, under the Classifi- cation Act, have increased by annual incre- ments; the salaries of officials in every de- partment of the public service have gone up year by year ; skilled and unskilled labour has gone up by 50 per cent. : but the salaries of teachers throughout the colony, instead of going up, have actually gone down. It must be obvious to every member of the House who knows the power of the Premier that, if he had felt disposed at any time during the past eleven years, it was competent for him years ago to have made the statutory grant £4, or even £4 5s., for each child in average attend- ance. Such a proposal would have been gladly accepted by the House and country, and no money would have been voted with greater pleasure by the representatives of the people. The proposed scale now embodied in the Bill has been referred to as a liberal one. I should like to point out that, under Scale A, the highest salary possible for teachers to obtain is $374 a year. A teacher who has spent a lifetime in his profession-perhaps twenty-five or thirty years-may consider himself lucky if he gets £374. Under Scale B it is possible for him to obtain £380. How do these figures compare with the inducements held out in connection with other departments of the public ser- vice? In the Prisons Department an officer can reach $700 a year, in the Police £600, in the Lands and Survey Department £750, and in Lunatic Asylums £1,200; while it is not possible for a teacher, however devoted he may be, or however high his qualification, to obtain a higher salary than £374. If we are to hold out inducements to the best talent in the colony for high aspirations -- for men and women to qualify themselves in a high degree to take charge of our schools- we should be more liberal in the inducements we offer in the shape of salary. Sir, the Commissioners re- commend the abolition of the present system of issuing certificates, and reducing the number to two. I emphatically assert that such a pro- posal would be injurious. The present system, which has obtained for a number of years, has given great satisfaction. There are nine ranks, five grades, and five classes. The class shows the degree of scholarship attained, and the grade shows the degree of efficiency, so that when both go together you have a teacher who not only commands the respect of all those in- terested in public education, but one who is 