no honourable gentleman in this House should take up. Then, he says there are only eleven hundred men on these works. Well, I think The that is a very generous contribution. Otago Central Railway has not a third of that number. Mr. FOWLDS .- The North of Auckland line ought to have as many as the Otago Central. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The Otago Central has about 350 men working on it at the present time. An Hon. MEMBER .- 650. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- It has never had 650 men working at one time. Mr. MONK .- 623 men and forty artisans. Mr. FOWLDS .- It is like all the honourable member's statements : you can discount them by 50 per cent. There are 663, according to the Journal of Labour for this month. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Not at one time. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Mr. Fowlds is in error. Now I shall deal with the honourable member for Waitemata, who wanted some re- ference. He said the Government should take into consideration the population, and the con- tributions that population made to the revenue of the country, in allocating the expenditure of a particular district. That was the 12.30. honourable member's contention, and until I looked up the figures just now I was under the impression that this Provincial Dis- trict of Auckland was dreadfully treated in every https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 respect ; but I find, after all, that it is not so dreadfully treated. I find there has been spent on roads £1,268,000-that is, spent and liabili- ties contracted up to the present time. They have also had for the opening-up of roads to gold- fields, liabilities and expenditure, £193,000-ac- tual expenditure #164,000, and liabilities in- curred up to the end of last financial year, bring- ing the total up to $193,000. And, then, consider what they have had in water-races. I am not saying it is too much, but I think it is a fair share. They have had over $80,000 spent on water-races for gold-mining. Then, on rail- ways I find that they have had close on three millions of money, if you take into considera- tion the share they have had in rolling-stock and other incidental expenses. I will give the exact figures. I make out close on two mil- lions and three-quarters has been spent on rail- ways in Auckland, exclusive of their share in the rolling-stock. The total spent on railways in the colony, exclusive of rolling-stock, is less than sixteen millions, and, as Auckland is only one out of ten provinces- An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the popu- lation ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I am coming to the question of population if the honourable mem- ber will permit me. The population of Auck- land is 165,000. I say that less than sixteen millions has been spent on railways, and, as Auckland has about a fifth of the population of the colony, I do not think that in the matter of railway allocation Auckland is so far out. But Mr. T. Mackenzie a very fair share ; and let us contrast it with Otago. Otago has had spent on roads £280,000. Why, Auckland had a million more spent on roads alone than Otago. Canterbury only had $87,000 spent on roads, and Otago had spent on goldfields $50,000 ; and, if we consider what was spent last year on roads, I do not think Auck- land can complain so very much, for there we find that no less a sum than $92,255 was spent on roads ; and here is the honourable member for Waitemata, with his loud voice, declaiming against the share allotted to the Auckland Provincial District. Otago had $15,000, and Canterbury had £8,000, and yet here is Auckland always crying for more. One would have thought that after getting the Fr'isco mail-service they would have been done for a time. Mr. NAPIER .- They still owe us three millions. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I suppose the honour- able member has computed it in some way ; but I am going on the figures at my command in the Statement under discussion, which honour- able members cannot get over, no matter how they cry out. I therefore think in the matter of roads Auckland is not so bad after all. I think they have had a very fair contribution. The Premier, in discussing the Statement, said we had really departed from the consideration of the estimates. He said we were not showing where the money was allocated. Well, I can say, for my part, that the money certainly is not allocated for the constituency of Waihemo. I feel we will have to persuade the Government to give us something like the same propor- tion expended in some of the districts that have been complaining so bitterly. I think those who complain so bitterly ought not to be treated perhaps so generously, and those districts whose members have not said much about it ought to be more considered. I find that the Provincial District of Westland comes in for a splendid slice-£3,000 for this work, and £2,000 for that, and so on; so that if Westland, through the agency of the Pre- mier, comes in for so much, I think more should be extended to Otago. I am come now to an important point, and it is this : There are certain West Coast districts where the roads are like gentlemen's drives, and yet in districts in Otago that have not been complaining so much the roads are in a state which is a perfect disgrace to the colony. I was some time ago in the Tuapeka district, represented by my honourable friend Mr. Bennet, and, although that part of the colony contributes so enor- mously to the revenue-I think it produces gold worth something like £400,000 annually- the main roads there from Lawrence to the interior are in midsummer 2 ft. deep with mud. It is a perfect disgrace. If that road were situated in the Provincial District of Auckland or on the West Coast it would be magnificently metalled, especially if it were on the West Coast. What we want is a combined Otago. They have a combined Auckland, and the con- sequence is they are going to have more than 