the Government. The inmates were at present housed in a wooden building. Mr. HALL-JONES said he had made a note of the request. He believed a grant was made some time ago, but not sufficient to enable a start to be made. He would look further into the matter. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) trusted the Minister would consider this not as an Auck- land, but as a colonial business. It was abso- lutely necessary that a fireproof building should be erected, and he hoped that a substantial sum would be placed on the supplementary estimates to assist private generosity. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said the build- ing was needed. Was the Minister prepared to put a sum on the estimates for the purpose ? Mr. HALL-JONES said he was not prepared at present to say that that would be done. Mr. ELL thought the House could find the money for the purpose. It was a most desir- able object. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, At present the blind people were housed in a wooden building, and if a fire occurred it could be easily imagined what would happen. The people of Auckland had done wonders in con- nection with this institution, and the Govern- ment should assist. Mr. HALL-JONES said the institution had been subsidised by the colony ; and the Manager had a considerable sum collected for the new building. Mr. MASSEY thought the House felt that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Government ought to do something to supplement the efforts which had already been made by private enterprise. Vote, £410, agreed to. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Technical instruction, £13,950. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said he must enter his protest against this vote. He believed in technical education ; but under the present system this was simply so much expenditure for class purposes wasted. Under the existing law not a farthing of this money would go to the benefit of children in the country districts, for such children would not have a chance of acquiring a trade if they desired to do so. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) hoped the Boards of Education would arrange the manual and technical instruction expenditure in such a manner that the benefit would reach the country children, and that technical instruc- tion would be extended to country districts. He might mention that the North Canterbury Education Board had started several technical schools. After much consideration they de- cided to acquire a central site in the City of Christchurch, and build, under the provisions of the Manual and Technical Instruction Act, a building that would meet the requirements of the city. After giving permission to the Board to sell a disused school-site, with instructions that the money should be applied to the purchase of a central technical school-site, that permission was withdrawn by the Education Department. The North Canterbury Education Board now wanted to know what the Government proposed sufficient to purchase a central site, and take over the South Belt ground and building for other public purposes, or was it intended to force the Board to carry on their manual and technical school on the Town Belt, away from the centre of the city, and inconvenient for pupils ? He hoped that the Minister would give him an explanation of the position. Mr. HALL-JONES said the permission had been withdrawn on account of representations having been made that the site was undesirable. The matter had been referred to Cabinet, and would be duly considered. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) would like to ask if it would not be much better to reduce the vote, and increase the salaries of teachers in country schools. If they passed the Bill which would bring the teachers' salaries scheme into force they would have a large number of schools in which the teachers would only have salaries of from £60 to £70 a year. Mr. HALL-JONES said the organization of these technical schools had only just been started, and even now the effects of the new system were becoming far-reaching. He be- lieved'that, with the assistance of the Boards, they would make such a system as would be for the general good, and what was desired by the House. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) would like some information with regard to the two In- spectors at £350 each-as to their qualifications and where they came from ? Mr. HALL-JONES said their qualifications were very satisfactory. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) moved to report pro- gress. The Committee divided. AYES, 11. Barclay Massey Tanner. Meredith Collins Tellers. . Herries Monk Buddo Hornsby Russell, G. W. Hardy. NOES, 29. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Mills Arnold Heke O'Meara Bennet Kaihau Palmer Laurenson Carroll Stevens Colvin Lawry Symes Ward Duncan McGowan Mackenzie, T. Witheford. Ell Fisher Tellers. Mckenzie, R. Carncross McLachlan Fowlds Hall McNab Wilford. Majority against, 18. Motion negatived. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) wished for informa- tion in regard to the two Inspectors. Mr. HALL-JONES said their names were Mr. Isaacs and Mr. Brown : one was educated at Edinburgh University and the other at the London University ; they were both practical men, and one was an engineer-Mr. Isaacs. Mr. MASSEY asked if it was not a fact that Mr. Isaacs was a Nonconformist minister, and 