His Excellency. But there it is, and I quote it because it shows in what sense the Audit Office desires its present objection to be under- stood. It is fully dealt with in my reply of 17th September, and, so far as concerns the legality of the present debentures, I have nothing to add to my reasons as set out there in my previous minute of 12th August." The Committee has not reported upon the original documents, and I will not, therefore, refer to it further. I think it should go to the Public Accounts Committee to be dealt with by them. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, the only issue that is raised here is this : the Law Officers have advised that in the case of debentures exactly similar to these there is nothing illegal in what the Treasury had done. And the con- tention of the Controller and Auditor-General was wrong, or otherwise his interpretation of the law was incorrect. Then, that being so, it was urged that there was no necessity for a further reference, and for reference to the Solicitor - General, and for another warrant from the Governor upon the same question. However, the correspondence would show this. It is only necessary to remark that I say here, -- "The Treasury has all along been of opinion that the charges were in accordance with law, and such opinion was confirmed by the Solicitor- General, who interprets the law. For this rea- son the Treasury could not be expected to point out something which had no existence, nor to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788261 attempt to foresee what the judgment of the Audit Office might be in this or any other case." That is the reply to the Auditor's contention after he had notified us that he would refer this -that he could not see his way to countersign the debentures. Now I, myself, think there ought to be an alteration of the law. I think that when the question arises this is on all-fours with that in which the decision of His Excel- lency the Governor has been given. In that case the Controller and Auditor-General should be bound to countersign or issue his warrant for any matter that has been so adjudicated upon. It would be the case in any question heard before the Courts. Once a decision had been given upon a given question, that decision would, of course, be upheld all through, and that is why I did not in the first instance ask that these papers should be sent to the Public Accounts Committee. The Solicitor- General, I think, is very clear. He says :- "(1.) The question in this case is the same as the one determined by His Excellency by warrant of the 14th August. The difference pointed out by the Audit Office is one of detail and not of principle. The Acts do not in any way fetter the Treasurer's discretion as to the mode of selling the debentures ; and it is mani- fest that concessions which would be legal if granted by public tender do not become illegal legality of the present debentures, I have merely because they are granted by private con- nothing to add to my reasons as set out there tract. The Audit Office appears to recognise in my previous minute of the 12th August." this, for, whilst mentioning the difference, it issue. "(2.) In this case, as in the previous one, I am of opinion that on the true construction of the section limiting the yearly rate of interest which his purchase-money is to yield to the purchaser, the limit is not exceeded, and conse- quently the Audit objection is not sound, and the debentures are legal. " (3.) My reasons are set out in my minutes of the 12th August and the 17th September, to which I beg to refer you, as they apply fully to the present case. You are aware that the latter minute was rendered necessary by the Control- ler's minute to you of the 26th August, which varied the form of his original objection, and did not come to my notice until I saw it in the Parliamentary Paper B .- 19A." Then, he goes on,- "But as to the objection itself, the debentures have been purchased at the price of £100 for every £100 named in them, and they are to yield as interest to the purchaser on the pur- chase-money the amount that the rate 4 per cent. per annum would so yield if the purchase- money had been paid for three whole years. The question thus is simply whether the de- bentures which so yield that amount of interest do not yield a higher rate of interest than 4 per cent. per annum to the purchaser whose pur- chase-money is paid for a period of less than three whole years-whether, in short, the amount of interest at the full rate of 4 per cent. per annum will not be greater for a period of three whole years than for a shorter period. "It is not to the point to refer to any loan such as that of 1879, or that of 1899, where the loan is issued to bear interest at a rate lower than the rate to which the purchaser is limited by the Loan Act, and the concessions are not calculated to result in a sale at a price that could yield to the purchaser more interest than such limit would allow. There may have been one case, or even more than one, of the limit having been exceeded. But the Audit Office does not know that what has been done in the present case is in strict accordance with esta- blished usage and practice either in New Zea- land or in other countries, limited, like New Zealand, by statute as to the rate of interest, and cannot but object to any such limit or degree of concession as may be beyond the limit of the statute. If the sale of the present debentures at the price equal to the nominal value had been a sale at that price of deben- tures bearing interest at the rate of 3} per cent., or even 3% per cent., per annum, instead of 4 per cent. per annum, the concession made as to payment of the price would not have resulted in the debentures yielding so much as the rate of 4 per cent. per annum to the purchasers on their purchase-money." He winds up by saying,- 3.0. "It is fully dealt with in my reply of 17th September ; and, so far as concerns the 