ever happen in this world, because as years go by the Americans have such an enormous num- ber of the English-speaking race in America that no federation would be acceptable to them that did not shift the commercial and the finan- cial centre of the federation on to American soil ; and that is a position which would never be tolerated by those colonies which are under the British flag, and I do not think myself that the Americans are going in that direction. I believe that is one of the points that brought about the greatness of America : that when she severed from Britain it was a complete sever- ance, and that enabled her to bring under her sway States on the American soil that never would have joined hands with her if she had been a colony of the Mother-country. That policy, I believe, will be carried on always. However, that is taking me away from the point I wanted to refer to, as to what proba- bility there is that any approaches of this colony to the Federal Government of America will being about an amendment of her naviga- tion laws. It was mentioned-and I expected the honourable member for Bruce also to refer to it-that an amendment had taken place with regard to Canada. That amendment applies to the Dominion of Canada ; and outside that amendment there is absolutely no provision in the navigation laws which allows the carriage of goods between American ports to vessels not flying the American flag. I may point out that until the Spanish-American war vessels had to be built or largely refitted in America in order https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to secure American registry, and that when Hawaii was taken numbers of vessels were regis- tered under the Hawaiian flag by companies like the O. and O., trading to Hongkong, in order to become American when Hawaii would be an- nexed, and so to be in the position that they could secure an American registry. Quoting from the revised statutes of the United States, section 4347 :-- "No merchandise shall be imported, under penalty of forfeiture thereof, from one port of the United States to another port of the United States in a vessel belonging wholly or in part to a subject of any foreign Power; but this section shall not be construed to prohibit the sailing of any foreign vessel from one to another port of the United States, provided no mer- chandise other than that imported in such vessel from some foreign port, and which shall not have been unladen, shall be carried from one port or place to another in the United States." That is the law which has caused all this difficulty in connection with Hawaii. An Hon. MEMBER .- Canada obtained some concessions ; why should not we ? Mr. McNAB .- I am going to deal with Canada, and what I have stated is an intro- duction to that. Canada is the only exception under this section that has been enacted by the United States, so far as I have been able to trace on an examination of the statutes. And what was the position of Canada? A great number of difficulties were raised between Mr. McNab which were natural, owing to the position of the two places. Honourable members will re- member, in regard to the St. Lawrence, the upper reaches of the river have British terri- tory on one side and United States territory on the other ; but when you come down to the mouth of the St. Lawrence you find that it flows through British territory only, and is bounded on both sides by British territory. Now, it was the contention of the British authorities that American vessels trading in the upper reaches of the river, where there was American territory on one side and British territory on the other, could not come down the St. Lawrence and out to sea, because there was British territory on both sides of the St. Lawrence towards its mouth, and it was a British river. The British would not allow the American trade to go down the river. When it was afterwards discussed that this should be relaxed, and that American boats should have free access from the great lakes right out to sea, it was pointed out by the Canadian authorities that right down the St. Lawrence there were great numbers of rapids, and it was only by utilising the canals that had been built by the Canadians-constructed by the enterprise and the money of the Canadian settlers-that the trade could be carried from Lake Michigan and through the other lakes right out to sea. At the very same time there was another lot of difficulties which had arisen between the United States and Canada. There were the fisheries. I will just enumerate them : there were nine in all :- "1. The fisheries. "2. The free navigation of the River St. Law- rence, and privilege of passage through the Cana- dian canals. "3. The transit of goods through Maine, and lumber trade down the River St. John. "4. The Manitoba boundary. "5. The claims on account of the ' Ala- bama,' 'Shenandoah,' and certain other crui- sers of the so-styled Confederate States. "6. The San Juan water boundary. "7. The claims of British subjects arising out of the Civil War. "8. The claims of the people of Canada on account of the Fenian raids. "9. The revision of the rules of maritime neutrality." All these questions were at one time in dis- pute between the statesmen of Britain and the United States, and advantage was taken of this to refer all to arbitrators for decision. By the Treaty of Washington, in 1871, a decision was come to in regard to these questions. Note carefully the questions which had arisen before the Americans made these amendments upon their navigation laws. It was not merely a. question of trade between the Canadians and the Americans. It was a question of the fisheries, and the question of the boundaries of Canada. There were the old Alabama claims, and the question of claims arising from the Civil War, and one and all of these claims were referred to arbitrators for decision. 