self had discussed the point. Mr. PIRANI .- But they did not communi- cate it to you. Mr. SEDDON .- They did not communicate it to me, but it is quite evident to me that this matter has been discussed by vory many mem- bers of the House, and I say it is to their credit that they have discussed it; and it is to my credit and to the credit of the Government that, seeing how a difficulty may be obviated, I should do it in a way that prevents an acri- monious discussion, and enables members to support the grant who would otherwise have objected to the reimbursement by vote on the estimates on the ground that such a vote would militate against His Excellency the Governor assenting to the Appropriation Bill. I say, by bringing in this Bill, which removes a difficulty from the path of many honourable members, the Government are doing a wise thing. Now, there is another point which would have been raised, and which it is my duty to avoid. When we came to the end of the session, and the Appropriation Act had to be passed and receive the assent of His Excellency the Go- vernor, what would have been said ? There are some lawyers holding the opinion of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson)-if he is still of that opinion-who would say that if the Governor gave his assent to the Appropriation Bill it would be a wrongful act, because he was personally interested. Well, by taking the course I am adopting now I remove that difficulty and contingency, and I prevent also, probably, ad- verse criticism in the Press. Very well, if I can do all this by this course-which, of course, is not in any way a reflection on the Government-surely I am not to be blamed for doing it. That is the reason why I have brought the Bill down. Now, I regret that there has been a misapprehension in respect to this question. The member for Riccarton asked a question very fairly in these words : " Does this include the extra cost entailed upon His Excellency during the visit of their Royal Highnesses ? " That is exactly what it is for, and nothing else. I may say at once that .in these charges is the extra cost entailed at Government House, Auckland; Government House, Wellington; and the Fernhill Club, Dunedin. The tradesmen's bills that were sent in to His Excellency the Governor are all in this, and I may say His Excellency, out of his own pocket, has disbursed already, in the pay- ment of these accounts, a sum of €1,100. Mr. MEREDITH .- Are you in possession of these bills ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. I say His Excellency sent a list showing the disbursements he had made, and the bills were sent to us in which considerably more was shown in excess of the disbursements than the amount we are asking for ; but some of these accounts which were in the name of the Governor we considered should be paid direct by the Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the £2,500 we gave him last year ? Mr. Seddon salary last year has nothing whatever to do with this; this is the extraordinary cost entailed outside his ordinary salary and allow- ances. I will put the position in this way: If we take His Excellency's expenses at Auck- land, Wellington, and elsewhere, and take from them his ordinary monthly expenditure, the colony is called upon to pay the balance, because it was caused solely on behalf of the colony in the entertainment of their Royal Highnesses. Sir, that is the actual posi- tion ; and, in respect to the exception that is apparently being taken by some honourable members, I have only this to say, and I say it with authority : that the visit, notwithstanding the promise to the contrary made to the Gover- nor, is going to entail upon His Excellency an expenditure outside this altogether. Now, I will give another case in point to illus- trate my argument. An individual holding a public position gives up his house entirely to the Government and to the colony ; all the bills come in to him, because they are in the first instance his liabilities. He pays these accounts, and then sends them on to the Government. Now, what course do the Government take? We take a grant from Parliament to reimburse him for the amount he has paid on behalf of the colony, and I do not know that there is any other way in which we could do it. Mr. PIRANI .- We are going to knock that off too. Mr. SEDDON .- You should not do that, be- cause it is the only way we can possibly meet the liability of the colony. Mr. FISHER .- Who gave him carte blanche to spend the money of the colony ? Mr. SEDDON .- There is no such thing as carte blanche at all, and, so far as the expendi- ture is concerned, the proof of that is shown in the small amount the Royal visit has cost this colony. The entertainment of their Royal Highnesses in the four centres of this colony was equal to the entertainment of their Royal Highnesses probably in four of the other colonies. For instance, Auckland may be said to be the same as Melbourne, Wellington the same as Sydney, Christchurch the same as Adelaide, and Dunedin the same as Western Australia. I say that, practically, we entertained in four centres, and when members take that into consideration, and the cost of removing our troops, and the cost of travelling, it will be seen that the ex- penditure submitted to Parliament is not at all 1 excessive. In fact, we have been asked the : question why the expenditure is only £50,000, 1 and members say it must be more. But we only come to Parliament with the accounts that we have received. . - Mr. MASSEY .- Will two sums of £50,000 pay it ? Mr. SEDDON .- In my opinion £70,000 will pay for everything. There were really 4.30. five centres - there was Rotorua as well-and there was no squandering at all, for His Excellency the Governor and Ministers were all very careful to prevent extravagance of any kind. The Government are not in any 