of his party to make the simple acknowledg- ment that I think the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) deserves in this matter. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I think it only right at this juncture that those who desire to speak on this matter should say now what was intended to be said when we came to the portion of the estimates dealing with this item. I was rather surprised to hear the Premier say that he deprecates bringing the Governor on the floor of the House, and then straightway pro- ceeding to do it himself. Surely we, as the people's representatives, have a right to criti- cize any payment that may be made to the Governor out of the coffers of this colony. Now, we were told by the right honourable gentleman that the Governor was the host for the colony of their Royal Highnesses, when here on their visit. Sir, he constituted him- self not only their host, but he went round the colony and took the whole thing out of the hands of everybody else; he created a feel- ing which, I dare venture to say, has never been created in this colony before by any Governor who has had the honour to represent royalty in this colony. He interfered in every Way and shape with the arrangements of the people and the local bodies, and created a feel- ing throughout the colony that was very very ditheult to overcome indeed. More especially did he do so here in the City of Wellington, and I say this, that if in the course of these peregrinations of the Governor he expended certain sums of money, he did so without any https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 warrant whatsoever from the people of this colony. We have no right to be asked to pay that money, and I for one say distinctly and decidedly that I shall oppose every effort on the part of the Government to reimburse His Excellency the Governor for that expenditure. He expended the money himself, with his eyes wide open, and without the authority of this House in any way or shape. Sir, this is only bearing out what was said by myself last year when the question of the Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill was before this House. I say distinctly that we are paying too much money for the glitter and the show. I do not object to a fair and reasonable amount being paid to the representative of royalty in this country ; but I said, when I divided the House last year on the question, that the sum of $6,000 a year was sufficient for His Excel- lency the Governor. And what is the result now? Why, in about twelve months, we are called upon to pay something like #11,000 to His Excellency. His salary has been raised, and we were told when we did it that he was to get no allowances after the raising of his salary ; yet here are the expenses and extras being piled up hand over fist, and this colony has to pay them. I say the time has come when the members of this House ought to cry " halt " in this matter and put a stop to it. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Sir, I think it is a pity upon an occasion such as this for the question of the general salary of His Excellency the Governor to be discussed. gentleman a fact which he may not be aware of. He says that His Excellency went round the colony and interfered in connection with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Corn- wall and York. Mr. HORNSBY .- He did so. Sir J. G. WARD .- Very well ; His Excellency was fully justified in doing so, for this reason : that upon him was cast the sole responsibility by the responsible authorities in England for the tour of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York in this colony, and he was therefore bound to personally see to and control all the arrangements in all parts of the colony. Sir, I think it would have been better if the discus- sion had taken place upon the second reading of the Bill ; but, as the honourable member has made a reference to it, it is only fair and right to the representativo of the King in this coun- try, whose name usually is not discussed on the floor of the House, that the position should be put before honourable members. Now, I say that the Executive-that is, the Minis- ters-had a full knowledge of the position which His Excellency occupied in relation to the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, and which honourable members could not be expected to have. In all the colonies and all the countries visited by the Royal pair the sole responsibility-Ministers, of course, as His Excellency's Advisers, co- operated, as everybody with responsibility in the colony, I am happy to say, did also-but the safety of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York during their visit devolved upon His Excellency the Governor, as the representative of the King in these colonies. His Excellency was so advised by the British Government. That being so, would His Excellency the Go- vernor not have been wanting in his duty if he had not gone round the colony and super- intended the arrangements ? Would His Ex- cellency not have been wanting in his duty if he had not refused to do that which he believed to be inimical to the safety or the comfort of the Royal pair when in this country? I say that undeniably he would have failed in his duty if he had not carried out the instructions he had received, and which all the Governors of the respective countries covered by the Royal visit received. Now, the honourable member laid stress on the fact that His Excellency the Governor went round the colony and interfered. Mr. HORNSBY .- He did. Sir J. G. WARD .- Ho was only doing his duty. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was not done in any other colony. Sir J. G. WARD .- It was done in every other colony ; it was done in Victoria and New South Wales. I was in Victoria, and I know that the whole arrangements in connection with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York there were personally superintended by Lord Hopetoun, and the whole of the detailed arrangements were referred to him ; and he was fully cognisant of everything that was intended to be done, and nothing was done without his 