is distinctly a non-party question. The voting will show that. One portion of the speech of the Postmaster-General reminded me very much of speeches delivered in this House twenty years ago on this same question. It was that part in which the honourable gentleman said that if we kept in the stipulation that one British-owned steamer should be employed in the service it would enable Mr. Spreckels to endeavour to induce the United States Government to alter their navigation laws, so that the colony should have a greater What nonsense ! interest in the service. The House may at once dismiss the idea. The tale is old. It takes us back to the old days of the San Francisco service, when those curiosi- ties in naval architecture, the "Nebraska," "Dakota," and the "Colima " came painfully lumbering along the coast with their old beam- engines cocked up in the air, above deck. We had then the same inducement held out : that efforts would be made to induce the United States Government to come in and subsidise the line. The United States Government never will recognise the line. The suggestion is transparent humbug. Mr. FOWLDS .- They do it now. Mr. FISHER .- They do not do it now. The honourable gentleman should read up the sub- ject. New Zealand is utterly unknown to the United States Government in the matter. The Postmaster-General was very laboured in his effort to prove that the San Francisco service was a faster and a cheaper service than any of the others, but he urged us to keep the other services in view, so that we should have three strings to our bow. There was the Vancouver service, in regard to which there is a contract with Queensland for three years, which would prevent the boats coming to New Zealand. The honourable gentleman talked of having the Vancouver service as a means of establishing a trade with Canada; but what is the use of speaking of that service if we could not get the boats for three years. Then, there was the Federal service, which would cost more than either of the others ; the relative amount being a minimum of £15,000 for the San Fran- cisco service, $21,000 for the Vancouver ser- vice, which we cannot get, and $25,000 for the Federal service. Now, why should this country pay for a fast service, meaning by those words the fastest possible service ? I remember when the service was twenty-five days, then twenty- three days, then twenty-two days, then twenty days. It is now seventeen days, and if you made it fifteen days to-morrow the merchants of the colony would immediately ask for a thirteen - days service. The thing is absurd. It is pure craze-almost a mania with some people. What would it matter if the mails were a week longer? We have the cable. Why should we contribute to a costly mail- service-costly because unnecessary-while we have the cable, which is now used by every merchant. I would rather apply the £15,000 asked for the San Francisco service to a reduc- tion of the cable rates, so that the mercantile I vice, on the score of economy. cable service. I object to subsidise a foreign company which refuses to employ an English ship or an English man. Now, Sir, I would not have referred to the speeches made by the Postmaster-General in 1888-89 but for the fact that he specially requested us to do so. In endeavouring to explain why he proposed to abolish the San Francisco service in 1888 he said, " If honourable members will look at the proposals made by me in 1888 they will see in reality what it was I proposed." I will look at what he proposed. It will be remembered that in his article in the Review of Reviews. for February, 1901, the Postmaster - General told us that the penny-postage scheme was "my first political ambition." The honourable gentleman is, of course, aware of his error. He came into Parliament in October, 1887, and on the 17th August, 1888, he moved and carried in this House the motion for the abolition of the San Francisco service. That was his " first political ambition." The penny-postage pro- posals-the Post Office Bill of 1891-came three years later. As I have said, the honourable gentleman asked us to look at his proposals of 1888, and it is interesting to do so, for in the article on the penny-postage scheme in the Review of Reviews the honourable gentleman says, " It is instructive to quote the comments of some of them [his critics] as expressed nine or ten years ago." At the honourable gentle- man's request, that is exactly what I pro- pose to do now in regard to the proposals which he has submitted to us to-day. On the 16th August, 1888, in this House, he said,- "The Premier [Sir Harry Atkinson] is no doubt an advocate for the continuance of the San Francisco service. I am not ; and there are a number of members of the House who are anxious to have a straight issue as to whether the San Francisco mail-service should continue Now, I hold that or be discontinued. what the House has first to decide is, whether or not the San Francisco service is to be con- tinued, and thereafter it will be easy for the House to say whether we are to have two fort- nightly services, and by what routes. We shall then have a plain and fair issue put before the House." He then put the plain issue before the House by moving, "That the subsidy to the San Fran- cisco mail-service should be discontinued." In speaking to the amendment, he said,- " It has been understood to-day that a pre- concerted arrangement was to be submitted to the House to-night with a view of stifling the action that the opponents of the continuance of the San Francisco service are taking. I do not know whether this amendment is the result of such an arrangement, but I conceive it to be nothing less than an attempt to burke the plain and straight issue as to whether the San Francisco service should be discontinued. They are pledged -myself for one-if possible to dispense with the subsidies that have hitherto been paid for the San Francisco service, and to try and dispense with that ser- . I shall 