result was that a feeling grew up in the breasts of the workers in that district that the only way to remedy this sort of thing was by legisla- tion, and the people rejected the representative of this free labour association, and returned a Liberal to Parliament, and that constituency has since been represented by a member on the Liberal side of politics. That bears out to some extent a point that I alluded to in a speech as to what might happen. Therefore I think it would be well that time should be given to the honourable gentleman and others to inform themselves in regard to all these matters, and the result might be that they would change their opinions. At any rate, I am sure they would get sufficient information to enable them to throw a little light upon this Bill from their point of view. I shall support the motion of the Hon. Mr. Reeves. The Council divided on the question, " That the debate be adjourned." AYES, 6. Rigg Bolt Jones Smith, A. L. Jenkinson Reeves NOES, 20. Kelly, W. Pitt Barnicoat Shrimski Kenny Bowen Taiaroa Feldwick McLean Gourley Montgomery Twomey Walker, W. C. Ormond Harris Peacock Williams. Jennings Kelly, T. Pinkerton Majority against, 14. Motion for adjournment of debate negatived. The Council divided on the question, "That the Bill be read the third time." AYES, 20. Bowen Kenny Reeves McLean Feldwick Shrimski . Gourley Montgomery Taiaroa Ormond Harris Twomey Walker, W. C. Peacock Jennings Kelly, T. Pinkerton Williams. Kelly, W. Pitt NOES, 6. Barnicoat Jenkinson Rigg Smith, A. L. Bolt Jones Majority for, 14. Bill read the third time. OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. On the question, That this Bill be read the third time, The Hon. Mr. JONES moved, That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of adding the follow- ing words to clause 4 : "or, if the Magistrate finds that an applicant has any near relatives in the colony who are able to wholly or partly main- tain such applicant, he may accordingly refuse his application or grant a reduced pension." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER would oppose this, because, although he believed there was a good deal to be said in its favour from a senti- mental point of view, it would be destructive Hon. Mr. Rigg trusted, therefore, the Council would not agree to the recommittal of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN did not think this would be destructive to the Act by any means, and he considered it was a great blot in the Act that this provision was not included in the first instance. Surely it was a proper thing that people should be compelled to support their aged parents. He was not one of those who think that because people have merely a moderate living they should be called upon to do so, but there were a large number of fairly well-to-do people who would not " shell out." He thought this was quite in keeping with the Bill, and it should be included if they wanted to see the Act properly administered. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY objected to the recommittal of the Bill for one reason, because the amendment the honourable gentleman had given notice of was very difficult to understand. He would like to have the words " near rela- tives " defined, whether it referred to nephews, cousins, or aunts, or what, before agreeing to an amendment of this sort. On the whole, he thought it better to pass the Bill as it stood. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said, In his opinion, the addition of these words would act in a most cruel and oppressive way in some instances. It was within his knowledge that there had been cases where men had been sued for the maintenance of the worthless and intemperate parents of their wives, and this clause, if added to the Bill, could be abused to almost any extent. It would be possible for per- sons absolutely unknown to the parties taking action to be sued through the instrumenta- tion of the Charitable Aid Board or some other body for maintenance. In fact, if these words were added, the Bill could be made an organ of very cruel oppression to perfectly innocent persons. The Hon. Mr. REEVES, though sympa- thizing with the Hon. Mr. Jones, thought he should give some definition of "near relatives." The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I intend to do that. The Hon. Mr. REEVES agreed with the Hon. Mr. Feldwick that the insertion of these words might lead to a great amount of hard- ship. If when he received a definition of " near relatives " it was compatible with his ideas he might vote for it. The Council divided on the question " That the words proposed to be omitted-namely, 'That the Bill be read the third time,'- stand part of the question." AYES, 12. Feldwick Kelly, T. Smith, A. L. Gourley Kelly, W. Smith, W. C. Harris Pinkerton Twomey Walker, W. C. Jennings Rigg NOES, 12. Jones Peacock Barnicoat McLean Pitt Bolt Reeves Bowen Montgomery Jenkinson Ormond Williams. 