page 34, a distinct census of the Islands, giving the population of each separate district, and the total amounts to 4,578, including 500 or 600 away as mariners on ships. That is a de- crease of several hundred in the course of thirty years. It is the same with Rarotonga and one or two others which I have mentioned, so I consider it proved that, after all, some decrease is going on in the number of the inhabitants of these islands. Various reasons may be as- signed : that numbers of them go on long voy- ages, or leave one island and proceed to an- other, either for labour or fishing. Whatever the cause may be, they sometimes go entirely outside the New Zealand sphere of annexation, consequently, for the time, they are lost to the population comprised in the jurisdiction of this colony. However, all this goes to show that some of the statements which have been made in the House in the absence of reliable informa- tion have been inflated, and it has not been possible for members to arrive at the truth so readily as it ought to have been. The total population of the Islands, according to the figures which I have given, does not reach 15,000, and it does not appear that the total of the Cook Group ever did reach 15,000 within any recent years. As an instance of the difficulties one has to encounter in dealing with a subject like this, I may say I have searched the House from end to end, and there is no map of the islands within "the annexed sphere " which is equal to the one in my hand, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 which is a manuscript one made by myself. We may get Admiralty charts of islands or harbours separately, but they do not give the general information which we want. They may give a mass of detailed information re localities. For instance, here is an Admiralty statement which perhaps may throw a little light on what the honourable gentleman (Mr. Napier) has just said. We had a statement by the Premier, by way of interjection, some time ago, to the effect that Suwarrow is uninhabited. I do not say that it is not. But here the Admiralty publi- cation on the Pacific Islands, page 84, states the lighthouse on Suwarrow is in 13.13 south latitude and 163.9 west longitude. You would hardly have a lighthouse unless you had people arriving at and departing from the islands. British enterprise achieves some preposterous things, but it does not generally put light- houses where they are not wanted, and it does not put them in a waste of waters for the fun of doing so. All this information should have been available for us last year, and a great deal more. I cannot help blaming the Premier for the manner in which this matter has been overlooked or suppressed. Mr. SEDDON .- It was all in the despatches. Mr. TANNER .- Yes ; but the work of sifting the despatches is like going through a sackful of chaff in order to find two or three grains of wheat. And we should have a decent map of the Pacific. It is a discredit to the House that beyond the atlases we have nothing but maps based on the Admiralty chart of 1854. Last session I called the Premier's attention to this, information available would be collated and compiled down to the most recent date. That promise was not carried out, and I reminded the honourable gentleman of it earlier in the session, and again I got a verbal promise ; but nothing has been done up to the present time, though so much needed. Mr. SEDDON .-- All the documents will be laid on the table. Mr. TANNER .-- It is a pity that was not done a couple of years back. It is not my wish, however, to find fault or flaws in matters of this kind. The Premier has had a difficult task to do, and he has done it in a somewhat heroic manner, investing in the Governor in Council the powers over all these Islands. In that, per- haps, he has done too much. But this must be said : that the House has not improved this Bill in Committee in any way to recommend it. The House has deliberately committed itself to the policy, and I think the House was right in doing so. I think it is a wise policy, and I wish that years ago the Parliament had been in- spired with the same spirit to secure many of the leading points in the Pacific when it was possible to do so. I shall support the honour- able gentleman in the third reading of the Bill. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I think the honourable member for Avon has been un- just to the Premier. It is not my usual mission to defend the Premier, but when the honour- able member accused him of not supplying this House with the information necessary to the debates and speeches on the incorporation of the Fiji Islands, I think he forgot that he him- self was particeps criminis-that is to say, he may possibly remember that last year, when this question was unexpectedly forced upon the attention of the House, I rose in my place and protested that the subject was brought in un- expectedly, and that honourable members, or I myself, at any rate, was not properly posted for a debate on the subject, and urged that the order of the day should be postponed. The Premier said that we need not think about the matter-that the time had come for action, and there was no necessity for thinking at all. I therefore said that I regretted my unfortunate position, inasmuch as I was compelled to de- bate a question I was not thoroughly posted up in. I regretted being placed in that position. And yet it is astonishing to me, on reading my speech of last year, to find how prophetic my words have been, and how nearly every- thing I then predicted has, unfortunately, come true. But no sooner had I sat down than my honourable friend the member for Waihemo -Mr. Mackenzie-moved the adjournment of the debate, with the express reason that we should be supplied with the information the lack of which the honourable member for Avon now deplores. On turning up the division-list I find that those who were anxious that there should be mature deliberation before so im- portant a step was taken -- those who voted for the adjournment-were only fourteen, as against thirty-eight who were prepared to 