tion for the complaint. He had a full report of Mr. NAPIER asked if it would not be pos- the matter here, and he thought there was sible to abolish the local bureau at Devonport, little reason for those who complained. On so that they could communicate through the the contrary, the facts before him showed the central bureau. duties were of the lightest possible character, Sir J. G. WARD said that in the case of averaging about five hours to eight hours and Devonport it was necessary to have a bureau twenty minutes ; and after careful investigation there. he had come to the conclusion that apparently Vote. £19,300 agreed to. the men had been put on the wrong track by Miscellaneous services, $51,945. somebody. There were from time to time Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) would like the minor matters that required attention, and he Minister to say if the department could do was always ready where real grievances existed anything to assist settlers in the case of tele- to remove them. He would be very glad to phones necessary to go long distances where the show the honourable gentleman the result of requisite number of subscribers was wanting, the investigation. owing to gaps along the route. Sir J. G. WARD said, In these cases some regulation was necessary to insure a start. No matter what limit was fixed, there must be a minimum to apply to the whole colony. This past twelve o'clock p.m. minimum was absolutely necessary to insure something like a return on the expenditure necessary to connect telephones with outlying places. He had gone into the matter carefully several times to get the minimum as low as possible, and he was sorry it could not be re- duced at the present time. Second Reading-Third Readings- Coupons in Tea Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said the item, " Rent of premises for Post-Office Savings- Bank. Wellington, nine months at $900 per annum," seemed an enormous rental. He would like to know where the Post-Office half-past two o'clock. Savings-Bank was to be removed to when the nine months were up. Sir J. G. WARD said the rental was for the premises formerly occupied by the Bank of New Zealand. The department had to transfer en- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tirelv, owing to want of room in the existing building. To meet the future requirements of the service the Government had authorised the ment Bill, Smoking by Youths Prohibition purchase, under the Public Works Act, of the Bill. whole of the remaining block behind the Post Užice, and the moment they got clear of the existing people they were going to build and mike provision for the whole service. The recommendation contained in the report of the rent of $900 appeared to be high, but it was not Public Petitions Committee upon the petitions of David Anderson and Son and others and George high in this city. He might say the depart- Payling and Co. and others, brought up yester. m-nt got $250 from the School Commissioners day, be agreed to. This petition was to the effect for the upstairs portion. The department had of asking Parliament to pass such legislation as got the right to occupy the premises for three would prevent the issuing of coupons with tea, Fears if necessary. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would like the and the Committee had reported that the matter should be reported to the Government Minister to explain the item "Overtime, for favourable consideration. $1.700." He saw £2,183 was spent last year, and he would like to know who got it. peared, from the evidence taken before the Sir J. G. WARD said it was owing to the Committee, that the Act passed last year was increased business, and the amount was paid to not sufficient to prevent what he could not help the whole of the officers who were called upon thinking was an evasion of its intention. He to work overtime in the department. believed there was a decision of the Supreme Mr. PIRANI said he understood the depart- Court which supported the position of persons ment did not pay overtime. who dealt in coupons, very much to the detri- Sir J. G. WARD said, Yes; overtime was ment of the quality of the tea supplied. He paid right throughout the colony. would represent the matter to his colleagues to Mr. PIRANI would like to ask the Minister see if it was advisable to alter the law. what had been done to remedy the grievance complained of by the Wellington operators, of having to work overtime without payment. He knew nothing about the merits of the case laid on the table of the Council a return show- beyond what had appeared in the public Press. ing,-(1) The total amount contributed to the Sir J. G. WARD said there was no justifica- VOL. CXIX .- 8. Vote, $51,945, agreed to. Progress reported. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes # LEGISLATIVE .COUNCIL. Wednesday, 2nd October, 1901. -Land Transfer Assurance Fund-Shops and Shop-assistants Bill-Statutes Compilation Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at PRAYERS. SECOND READING. Rabbit Nuisance Bill. THIRD READINGS. Counties Act Amendment Bill, Law Amend- COUPONS IN TEA. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved, That the The Hop. Mr. W. C. WALKER said it ap- LAND TRANSFER ASSURANCE FUND. The Hon. Colonel PITT moved, That there be 