tained by some department of the State, and supplied to the fishers and canners in the North, I believe it would result in very great advantage to the colony. Sir, I am sorry that the Go- vernment have thought fit to introduce the provision contained in the 2nd subsection of In Committee I shall section 2 of the Bill. oppose that subsection. I think the Govern- ment made a promise that the bonus would be retained for from three to five years, and if that promise were given effect to it would be quite possible for the industry to stand alone after the expiration of that period of time. I cer- tainly do not think its existence ought to be cut short in this summary manner by only getting a t elve-months bonus. The circum- stances have recently entirely changed. We must recognise the effect that the new duties will have upon the export fish trade. I refer to the duties imposed by the Commonwealth. Under the existing circumstances, and consider- ing the altered conditions, I think we ought to amend the Bill so that the bonus should be continued without fixing any specific date for its discontinuance. Fishing is a necessary industry. There is as much wealth in the sea as probably there is in the land of New Zealand, and all the industry wants is a little encourage- ment. I regret that, owing to the pressure of a few people, or societies, not representing any large proportion of the population, an effort should be made by the Government to throttle this growing industry. I hope better and wiser https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 counsels will prevail, and that in Committee we shall see that the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill will agree to leave simply the 2nd section and expunge subsection (2)-that is, the subsection referring to the diminishing of the scale of the bonus. If that be done I shall give the Bill my cordial support, and I hope the honourable gentleman will see his way to adopt my suggestion. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I am very 3.0. glad the Government have brought down this Bill. The understanding was, when the last Bill was passed, that at the expiration of the period during which it made provision to pay a bonus on the fish exported from the colony, that it would cease. But I think cir- cumstances have arisen which show the neces- sity for continuing the bonus. The question affects a considerable number of people. Mullet has become a very attractive article of diet, and I believe the Australians will find that they will have to pay the duty the Commonwealth tariff is threatening to impose. It has found its way into the Australian market to some extent, but I believe the largest market is in the Sandwich Islands, a very large quantity finding its way to Honolulu. I am not going to jeopardize the passing of the Bill by moving in the direction of having the full amount of the bonus assured for five years ; I would rather trust to the generosity of the Government that in the course of a year or two, when it is found necessary, they will continue the bonus. Fish are not as abundant as one would desire. The localities where mullet are plentiful are the northern rivers. They are not distributed throughout the colony, and the mullet in- dustry of the North has to compete with the large importation of salmon. For my own part, I am surprised that people should eat salmon when they can get mullet. I would rather give 25 per cent. more for mullet than salmon, which, compared to it, I regard as a tasteless fish. If the Minister will accept, with- out delay or difficulty, the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) I do not think the charge would be very great on the country, and I hope ere long the industry may prove sufficiently re- munerative to prosper without State aid. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- I brought up the question of the continuance of the bonus on the export of fish last year at the instance of settlers in the Chatham Islands, where there is a growing industry of this kind and where they are very anxious that the bonus should be con- tinued, because more capital is likely to be ex- pended in the development of the industry. I think, with the honourable member for Auckland City, that it will be quite sufficient if the Bill stops short with the main provision of section 2. We need not concern ourselves for the present as to what is going to happen after 1902. If we were to delete the subsection which relates to succeeding years, we shall have done well enough by fixing the bonus up to 1902. But members will notice a peculiar date in the Bill. The 31st August is not the termination of any financial year. The origin of this is due to the fact, no doubt, that the original Bill is dated 31st August. The House will probably be in session on that date next year, but we may not by that time have had time to deal with the extension of the bonus. I would suggest that "August " be struck out, and " December " substituted. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City). - Like the previous speaker, I think if the Bill were to end at the latter part of the Ist clause I should be in accord with it ; but I regret to see that the Government propose to do away with the bonus. The amount paid during six or seven years has been infinitesimal, and if the Govern- ment would give the names of those who have received a bonus it would be seen that they have been almost always new men every year, because, under the original Act, as soon as five hundred pounds' worth has been expended the bonus ceases, and the consequence is that the largest exporters are beyond the bonus. If the bonus is taken away it will injure a great many younger men who have grown up to the trade, because the factories would not have any market to export to. The export of fish is not confined to the North Island, because in Southland and Otago there is a large ex- port of fish. And another new industry that has grown up very lately is the canning of whitebait. I think it is unfair of the Govern- ment to propose to stop the bonus when for the last three years they have been paying for a trawler to show where fish are to be found. What was their object in doing this unless to induce people to invest capital in the nshing industry ? I fail to see why it is right to 