of the two Boards. Bill read the second and the third time. # PATEA HARBOUR BILL. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said he had been asked by the Chairman of the Patea Harbour Board and by the then member for the district to give this measure some assistance. The position was that owing to the great increase of trade the Harbour Board had found it neces- sary to provide facilities to cope with it. The Board, under this Bill, asked for power to bor- row £10,000. The annual return for the Patea Harbour Board last year showed that in 1891 the amount received for wharfage was only $557, and last year-1900-the amount was $1,658. Dumping and tonnage dues showed proportionate increases. The number of vessels visiting the harbour in 1891 was 118, and last year the number was 166. All through the re- port there was shown a proportional increase in everything, such as to warrant the proposal to borrow £10,000 for the purpose of giving better harbour facilities. The finances showed ample power to pay interest and to provide for a reasonable sinking fund. He moved, That the Bill de read the second time. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER regretted that he had not been present to move the second reading of the Bill, but would second it. This Bill was one that ought to be passed in the interests of Patea. He indorsed every word the honourable gentleman had said. Few things were more essential than that they should give encouragement of this sort to all ports to which railways run. Although he was a member of the Government, he must say he considered it a good thing for the Rail- way Department that the railways should have harbours competing with them. Therefore he had every satisfaction in supporting this Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. ## DUNEDIN WATERWORKS EXTENSION BILL. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON said this Bill was very much wanted in Dunedin to enable the City Council to supply water to the high levels. What was proposed to be done was to have storage at higher levels than at present, so that they would be able to supply water to the high levels in Dunedin and the suburban boroughs. In order to do that, power must be taken to borrow money. The money would be well spent, and its expenditure would do good all round. There was, so far as he knew, no objection to the Bill, and he would therefore move, That the Bill be read the second time. Bill read the second and the third time. # KIWITEA COUNTY COUNCIL OFFICES BILL. The Hon. Mr. ARKWRIGHT said this Bill was intended to remedy a mistake made a few years ago. The Kiwitea County Council had found it necessary to get a section of land in the Township of Birmingham to build offices on. They had an acre of land outside the VOL. CXIX .- 57. section in the township, upon which they had built their offices. They had been advised that they had power to make the exchange, but the Land Department was of a different opinion, and consequently they could not give a title. This Bill was intended to remedy that mistake. There was no opposition to it, and he moved, That the Bill be read the second time. Bill read the second and the third time. # MASTERTON PUBLIC PARK MANAGE- MENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said the purpose of this Bill was explained in its preamble. The park comprised about twenty acres close to the town. It had been managed by trustees ap- pointed by the Colonial Secretary, and had been very much a neglected child without adequate means of support. The Masterton Borough Council was quite willing to adopt and maintain it, and the whole of the residents had decided that it ought to be taken over. This was simply a transfer from a nominee to an elective board of management. He moved, That the Bill be read the second time. The Hon. Mr. RIGG thought the Bill re- quired a little more explanation than the honourable gentleman had given. In fact, the information with regard to all the local Bills that were coming before them was rather of a meagre character. The park referred to in the Bill had hitherto been vested in trustees, and now it was proposed to transfer it to the Borough Council. The reason for the transfer seemed to be that the income was entirely in- sufficient to enable the trustees to manage the park properly; but what guarantee had the Council of an improvement if the change were made? He wanted the honourable gentleman to say how the position would be altered for the better by merely transferring the property from one party to another. So far as they could judge, it meant the same state of things would be continued. He hoped a little further ex- planation would be given. The Hor. Mr. W. C. WALKER could only give his own experience, but from that could assure the honourable gentleman who was objecting to the proposal that one of the most satisfactory matters he had ever had anything to do with was when, in his own locality, they had been able to make the Borough Council the trustees and guardians of the domain ; because then they had a body able to deal with the domain in a liberal way. The Council was able to appropriate out of the borough funds a cer- tain amount of money, and naturally felt that the burgesses would support them in anything that would make the domain of real value to the community. He must say that he had every sympathy with anything which would make the Borough Councillors, or the County Councillors, or the Road Boards in any part of the colony the custodians of public re- serves. It was very much better they should be ex officio members of Domain Boards in every part of the colony than that we should have irresponsible members of Domain 