Europe vin Brindisi." On this question of the Vancouver service, the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) told us it was not an all-red service- only that part of it between Auckland or New Zealand and Vancouver was all-red ; that it was carried over American lines and thence by American steamers. 1 join issue with him there, and I know Canada fairly well. I want to call his attention to the fact that the Canadian Government have finally decided to make Sydney, in Nova Scotia, the point of con- nection for a rapid trans-Atlantic mail-service for more improved steamers than we can hope to have in the Pacific for years to come ; so that when the mails are taken on at Vancouver they will be conveyed over Canadian lines and be carried by Canadian mail-steamers, and we may expect in a very short time to have a service which will compete favourably with the Fr'isco toute. Do we want a rapid mail-ser- vice? No; we want a regular and a frequent one. We want also a reduction of the cable rates. Because the fact of shipping our mails by Fr'isco does not expedite the goods one hour ; they must come by the cargo steamers direct from Home, and it is only the time gained on the outward trade that is of any advantage to the trader. Any trader who urgently requires goods to be sent out at once never dreams of writing; he telegraphs ; he pays the cable rate. And the exorbitant rate of 5s. a ord is really the cause of the grievance the traders of New Zealand have against the Government. Why do the Government not take steps to reduce by half the cable rate? Provided a mail goes weekly, and there is a reasonable time between mails to look up stock and pre- pare mail-lists for goods before the sending of the order, it would be a matter of in- difference to merchants in New Zealand if the mail occupied forty days or thirty days. A matter of even five or ten days is a matter of minor importance to the commercial man in New Zealand, provided his mails are regular and frequent. What is really wanted is reason- able cable charges. First, I would suggest this : the honourable gentleman ought to con- tinue the negotiations with the Federal Post- master-General to secure our inclusion in the Federal mail contract on a population basis, and make arrangements with the Union Com- pany or some other line to run at dates suitable for connection with the Federal mail, and so give us a regular fortnightly mail of something like thirty-seven or thirty-eight days. That, for the trading community of New Zealand, is all that is required for the present ; and in the immediate future, perhaps contemporaneously with the ending of the present contract with Queensland, there will be such conditions in Canada as will practically revolutionise the Canadian route, and give us in reality an all-red British mail, offering all the advantages that the present San Francisco mail does at the present time, and put us on equal terms with the Spreckels Brothers, and so that we can maintain our dignity and be a high contracting Mr. Hutcheson pliant, dependent upon the good graces of a foreign Government, and, at the same time, paying sweetly for the privilege of getting what we ought to demand as a right on equal terms. I am sorry the time is so short, because I have scarcely touched the fringe of the argument I could adduce why we should in every way stand on our dignity at this juncture, and say to Spreckels Brothers, or any other company, "Unless we can make terms with you on an equal footing as high contracting parties we decline to treat, and we are now going to make our own arrangements elsewhere.' Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- I may say at once this is an awkward question, and I do not wish to make it appear in any other light ; at the same time it is a matter of great im- portance to the whole colony. I had made up my mind not to speak on the question, and would not have done so had it not been for the injudicious and, to my mind, insulting articles that have appeared in some of the papers in- structing the Auckland members and my- self how we should act. Before seeing those newspapers and telegrams referring to this par- ticular service, I had, as I have already stated, made up my mind not to say one word on the subject. I have nothing to thank the news- papers for personally, and I object to being in- structed by newspapers as to how I shall act on any question that comes before the House. If I am not capable of forming an opinion for myself, that is a matter for my constituents, and not for the Auckland City or the Auckland provincial newspapers. It is a matter for the colony as a whole, and it is only right that I should do what I consider best for all concerned with reference to a service of this kind, and I believe I have arrived at the right conclusion. Now, I have listened to the whole of the speeches upon this subject, and I may say many of them have been somewhat wide of the mark. The speech made by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was one of the most reasonable and sensible speeches we have heard in this House during the debate. The whole of the arguments from those who are opposed to the service and those who are in its favour, and from those who perhaps have too high an opinion of it, lead to one conclusion only- namely, that it is the best service the colony has I believe it is indisputable that it is ever had. the best mail-service New Zealand has ever had. It is the cheapest, the quickest, the shortest, and the most regular. Now, taking all these things into consideration I think it is reasonable that the colony should endeavour to maintain that service. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why ? Mr. McGOWAN .- Because it is the quickest, the cheapest, and most advantageous. These are the conditions that any community would consider in regard to a mail-service, and no one who has spoken to-night has proved that these conditions do not exist. Comparison has been made of the different routes, and this San Francisco route has held its position in that comparison. Now I want to say just one or 