original enactment, saving only as to anything heretofore lawfully done under the same sec- tion or any rights heretofore created thereby." Well, it seemed to him there ought to be good reason given for proposing to amend the section in the direction indicated. If the next of kin could not be found, surely the residue of the estate should be paid to the widow. Mr. SEDDON said she would only get her share, her third. Mr. G. J. SMITH said, If no other next of kin could be found- Mr. SEDDON said, That was the difficulty. As far as the widow was concerned, they could deal with her, but unless they found the next of kin the whole thing was hung up. Mr. G. J. SMITH said, As he read the Act, if they could not find the next of kin the Trustee was to pay the residue of the estate to the widow. Mr. SEDDON said, No ; the Court would not issue the order. Mr. G. J. SMITH said that was the effect of the section proposed to be repealed by the amendment. Then, section 27 of the Act of 1894 dealt with the general powers of the Pub- lic Trustee, and the proposed amendment would have to be carefully considered. The Bill was a technical one, but he thought it would be well that some of the members of the legal profession should give members information on the point. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said he was, unfortunately, unprepared to make a speech https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 on the Bill. The honourable member for Christ- church City spoke of the Bill as a purely technical Bill ; it seemed to him to be quite the reverse. He had before him the provisions of clause 27 of the original Bill, which they were invited to repeal, and he would ask the House to remember that the right honourable gentle- man in introducing the Bill gave no reason whatsoever for the alterations. There was a mere alleged necessity, but members had not heard any special cases which were so hard that it was necessary to introduce legislation to effect a change. Now, he found that the pro- viso to clause 27, which was to be repealed, gave ample power to deal with an estate by order of a Judge of the Supreme Court, which could be granted on the application of the Public Trustee. By this Bill, so far as he had been able to understand it after a most per- functory reading of it, the Public Trust Office Board might order an estate to be sold, and apparently there was no procedure to especially safeguard the interest of infants the beneficiaries of the trust. That was, that, without any appeal to the Supreme Court, the property might be dealt with. Surely in dealing with a trust property there could be no great hardship when so little delay was involved as an appeal to the Supreme Court, and before the Supreme Court good reasons could be shown for dealing with the estate. Mr. SEDDON .- That is the trouble ; there is no power to do so. Captain RUSSELL said that was a question Mr. G. J. Smith would appear to him that where there was power given to the Supreme Court to deal with a question, surely it was unwise to take that power away from the Court and vest it in the Board of the Public Trustee. He should pre- fer very much to have the sanction of a Judge of the Supreme Court after the case had been argued, if there was any necessity for argu- ment, rather than that the Board which was administering the trust should have the power itself to dissolve the trust. He thought a great principle was involved in the departure from sound principle by superseding the Supreme Court and placing absolute power of sale in the hands of a comparatively irrespon- sible body. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) said he was surprised that the House had displayed such equanimity in the approval of this Bill. It was a most important departure. The Act which they were working under said distinctly that the Public Trustee should not exercise the powers under section 27 without an order of a Judge of the Supreme Court. The House was going to repeal that, and to say that in the future the Public Trustee should not exercise these powers without being authorised by the Public Trust Board. Well, he might be wrong, but he did think that a Judge of the Su- preme Court would be a far better person to decide a question such as this than the Public Trust Board. When an order of the Supreme Court was required there was an opportunity given of going into the matter thoroughly, and publicity would be given to it ; but, if it was left to the Board alone to decide, no one would know anything about it. The Public Trustee would refer to the Board, advising that it was necessary to sell the land in question, the assent of the Board would be given authorising it, and the thing was done. When a property was placed in the hands of the Public Trustee it ought to be conserved better than that, and one should know that the Trustee could not at any time deal with it by way of selling the land belonging to the trust without the authority of a Supreme Court Judge. That was a great safeguard, and yet the House was quietly going to allow an Act to be passed removing that safe- guard. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member knew perfectly well that the Court only sat periodically, and that there might be an interim during which it was material something should be done. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Court sits twice a week. Mr. SEDDON said there were times when the Court did not sit. He was not one who wished to take any power away from the Court, but, when it was reported that it was in the best interests of an estate that the Board should have power to dispose of an estate or property, why should they sacrifice the best interests of those concerned ? The law as now interpreted was that they must consult the Court, or obtain the consent of the whole of the bene- ficiaries. This was impossible, as many of 