gave particulars. Why did I give particulars ? Because there was an undercurrent going on that had reached me, to the effect that there had been extravagance, and that the amount in the Bill under the circumstances was excessive, and I wished to show by giving these items that it was not all incurred purely for enter- taining at the Government Houses of Auckland and Wellington, but that there were other ex- penses included, which under ordinary circum- stances would be charged against furnishing the unofficial portions of the Government House at Wellington and the Government House at Auckland, and those items came to some hun- dreds of pounds. I mentioned that for the pur- pose of taking away objections that I thought would be raised to the amount that was men- tioned in the Bill, and because I did that I was toid by one member I had degraded the House, and that I had lowered the tone of the debate. I always understood that when members sought information it was right and consistent with our dignity that we should give it to them. I thought I could give these items to them ; and I say it was unjust and unfair that it should be suggested that extravagance had taken place when members had not asked and were not aware what the money had been spent on. That is unfair criticism, and is not usual with members representing an intelli- gent people like New Zealand. I admit I was cautious, and for the reason that I have stated. Then, Sir, another reason. Why was the Bill brought down? The member for Wellington City has given us as his reason for speaking https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that I said representations were made to me by him in respect to withdrawing the item from the estimates. Now, Sir, if anything I said would even infer that, the inference would be http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero wrong. The honourable member never spoke to me. I never said he had done so ; but what I said, and I repeat it, was this : it was repre- sented to me that if I withdrew the item from the estimates and put the amount in a Bill, that that would do away with the objections on the constitutional point being raised as to whether His Excellency could sign the Appro- priation Bill, and it would disarm to a great extent hostile criticism that otherwise would take place, and for peace' sake, and so that there should not be this adverse criticism, and to prevent the name of the King's representative being bandied about on the floor of the House, I withdrew it from the estimates. And after that was done, what was said ? I had fallen in, et cetera, and that it would enable greater latitude and opportunity of speaking on the second reading, an opportunity of having to give full particulars in Committee, and that on the third reading the Government would know all about it. It almost makes one feel inclined never to give way in any case-never to care what representations are made ; and if, later, when requests are made I refuse them, it will be because I fear that underlying there may be something detrimental. The majority of the members will understand, after one had done his best to meet the few that were ob- took place, that one would naturally feel sore at being treated in the course the debate took, not only as to the representative of the King but to myself, for both of us were unfairly and unjustly treated. Will members say that no offensive references were made? Did not the member for the Wairarapa say that he had been invited to Government House, but, said he, "I never put my feet under His Excel- lengy's mahogany "? What sort of spirit is that? If the hospitality of the King's representative has been offered to an honour- able member, is it a proper way to show loyalty to parade the refusal of that proffered hospitality ? I believe all the honourable gentleman has said as to his loyalty, but I say actions speak more loudly and strongly than words, and it is not the action of a loyal person to refuse invitation after invitation. That is not what I understand as being con- sistent with good manners and the rules of organized society. I have been accused of using rather strong language. I do not believe in strong language; I only use it when it is absolutely necessary : just as your medical adviser gives you a strong mixture, when something mild and palatable would be of little use for remedial purposes. There was every reason for strong language the other evening. But I do take exception when the member for Palmerston or the member for Wairarapa takes me to task for using strong language. I am quoting now from the " black book "- from a speech that was delivered by Mr. Hornsby. He says :- "A whole fortnight had been consumed in discussing what was first of all called the ' Marine scandal,' but what had since come to be called the 'Marine conspiracy,' set on foot by Mr. Pirani, Captain von Schoen, and others, to get at Ministers, and, if possible, belittle them and injure them in the eyes of the people. They had failed. (Applause). Mr. Pirani had posed as a purist, but he was now proved a political mouchard, a political eavesdropper, a political keyhole and a door- jamb 'conspirator.' That little man got in- formation from heads of departments, and then rushed into the House to use it against Ministers." Mr. HORNSBY .- That is not there. Mr. SEDDON .- I will lay this paper on the table of the House. It is an address delivered by Mr. J. T. M. Hornsby at Carterton in 1899. Mr. HORNSBY .- Read it all. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman takes exception to my statement when I simply used the words "that the views held by some of the members of the House were inimical to organized society," and yet, speaking in respect to the member for Palmerston, he calls him a conspirator. Mr. PIRANI. - That was before he was elected. Mr. SEDDON .- And I presume. per se, it was by using this language he succeeded in getting elected. Then let me go a little further. The 