Coast overland through Canterbury by rail, in- stead of, as now, entering the bar harbours. And therefore, I say, so-much money having been spent, the colony must make up its mind to complete the railway, and the sooner the better. I do not say it is the most urgently required railway in the colony. Speaking from a Canterbury and a Christ- church point of view, the importance of this line is fully recognised by the people of that part of the colony ; and though of late years their agitation has somewhat slumbered, that has been because of the position the company has got into, and because they have been wait- ing for events to settle themselves. At the present time large sums of money are being expended in pushing the line through, and, that being the case-I do not like to use a strong word and say it would be dishonour- able-but I certainly think it would be a bar upon our escutcheon if we were to say that, the company having expended so much money, the colony was going to take advantage of their expenditure and refuse to give them the small sum of £130,000 to wind up these unfortunate transactions. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- After the remarks that have been made by the two previous speakers, who seem to be pretty evenly divided in opinion on this subject, there is not much for other members to say on the matter. While I cannot excuse the Midland Railway Company for doing all they possibly could to injure our credit in the London money- market, still, at the same time, I have a feeling that some little sum should be paid to the share- holders as a solatium in return for the Govern- ment having taken over the line owing to the unreasonable delay in construction. I have not got beyond this consideration : that we can penalise a contractor to the whole cost of his work if we only make the penal clauses stringent enough ; but I do not think, as a colony, we should enact penal clauses against them with- out paying them something for the property taken. What I principally rose to reply to was a statement made by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), when he said that the Stout-Vogel Government floated into power on the strength of the West Coast Rail- way. This was practically repeated by the member for Riccarton, who said that it was a united Canterbury that, coming into power, put the Stout-Vogel Government into power ; but it was not on the strength of this Midland Railway Company. During the harvest season of 1883-84, the Atkinson Government was in financial difficulties, and it occurred to them that the easiest way to raise £100,000 would be to raise the railway rates on Canterbury pro- duce, and the result was the imposition of 1d. a bushel on grain principally grown in Canterbury and Otago. One of the previous members for Ashley-Mr. William Pearson-wired to the then Premier, " Imposition penny per bushel on Canterbury grain is great injustice to Canter- bury farmers ; see and have it repealed." The I far as could reasonably be expected, the com- stand a tax of 2s. 6d. on their land let them clear out." It was an injudicious reply, and the result was a united Canterbury against the Government, and when the elections came on, later in the year, every Canterbury member was 1 returned pledged to turn out the Government. It was after this date, in 1885, I think, that the agitation sprang up for the East and West Coast Railway, and it was not the Province of Canterbury alone that took part in that agita- tion, but Nelson also shared in it, and the West Coast joined in as a very good third, and great credit is due to our old friend, John Matson, for the way he urged the construction of this rail- way. I will say this : that although I deprecate very much the action of these debenture- holders, I cannot agree to paying this claim in full, because I do not consider the company are entitled to it ; yet at the same time I think they are entitled to something, and in fair-play to them, and as an act of justice by the colony, I say we should not ignore the fact that our putting into force certain penal clauses in the Railways Construction Act of 1881 has had much to do with putting this company out of possession of the railway, and the colony has not only the benefit of getting into its hands the whole line, but also of recovering the Crown lands of the colony which were placed at the disposal of the company for sale, for payment of 50 per cent. of cost of line. Now, that posi- tion has been owing greatly to the penal clauses, and I do not think the colony should now ignore the fact that there is some claim against it. But I oppose any idea of granting in full the amount claimed by the petitioners, and if this motion goes to a division, I shall vote against paying the £130,000 in full, as I am of opinion it is not due, nor is it deserved. I am not prepared to say what is reasonable com- pensation, if any; but if the claim is acknow- ledged, it should be fully met by a payment of half the amount claimed. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Mr. Speaker, it is with some diffidence that I rise to speak at this stage, seeing that if effect is to be given to the Committee's recommendation, it means that a Bill has to be introduced, and I think there are many things to be said that would be better said on the second reading of the Bill than in a debate on the report of the Committee. I would not like what has been stated by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) to go forth to the world without something being said in explanation and extenuation. It will be generally conceded that, if I do not know, I ought to know as much with respect to the Midland Railway question as any man in this House, or in New Zealand, and I say that the Government have from point to point vindi- cated the honour of the colony, and proved to the world that we were within our legal rights ; and that the attempts that have been made to place the colony in a false position by the com- pany were ill-founded ; that the company kept demanding alterations in the contract, and that when Parliament met them time after time as 