ways equally he would equalise the charges on the line between Lyttelton and Christchurch. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was sorry to say that he was unaware of any penal rate being charged between Lyttelton and Christchurch, and, so far as the present Adminis- tration was concerned, they had already reduced the rates on four occasions. If the honourable gentleman referred to the practice that the carriage of ship goods was by measurement, that was the same on all the port lines. He should be very glad, if possible, to see his way to abolish that, and to have the dead-weight sys- tem introduced ; but they had not yet arrived at the position when that could be done. They had made general reductions, many reductions, on the products of the settlers, and affecting many other matters on the railways throughout the colony, but unless they could see their way clear to stop these concessions it would be some time before they could apply it to goods over the port lines; but so soon as they were in a position to do that he should be very glad to do it. It would, however, involve a good deal of money, as the change would apply to the Bluff -. Invercargill, the Port Chalmers - Dunedin, the Lyttelton-Christchurch, and the Onehunga-Auckland Railways. The honour- able gentleman had said that the line between Lyttelton and Christchurch was penalised. That was not so in a strict sense of the term, for it was similar to the other lines to which he had referred. Mr. G. J. SMITH would like to be allowed to explain what he meant by "penalised." If they compared the rate charged on the port lines mentioned with those charged on the Lyttelton-Christchurch, and took into account the distance, it would be found that the Christ- church people were charged a heavier rate per ton per mile. That was the penalising he alluded to, and he would like the' Minister to look into the matter. Sir J. G. WARD said he should be very glad to go into the matter, and was always most happy to give relief where possible. # RAILWAY SERVANTS SUPERANNUA- TION BILL. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he intends to proceed with the Government Railway Servants Superannua tion Bill this session ? He was aware that similar questions had been asked this session, but the Minister was not then in a position to reply to them for reasons he explained at the time. He hoped he would now be able to say that this Bill was going to be proceeded with. There was no opposition, so far as one could tell. from members of the House, and he believed the Minister was in favour of it, so that it was hard to see what stopped the Bill from being brought before the House. The people in the department were particularly anxious for this Bill, and therefore he hoped the Minister would be able to say that he would proceed with it this session. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said Mr. G. J. Smith him concerning this matter that morning, and he had told the deputation that he hoped, with the consent of his colleagues, to be able to circulate the Bill, at all events, so that it might be considered ; but it was doubtful whether they could do more than circulate it this session. It was necessary, as he had stated before, that those immediately concerned should have an opportunity of looking into the matter and examining the whole scheme. If it could be done he would be exceedingly glad to do that, but that was the only answer he could give the honourable member. MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS ACT. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Colonial Secretary, When the regulations which are required before section 176 of " The Muni- cipal Corporations Act, 1900," can be put into operation will be gazetted ? He would point out to the Minister that, under the provisions of section 176 of the Municipal Corporations Act of last session, before the Act could be put into operation, regulations must be made providing conditions under which a petition for amalga- mation could be promoted. One portion of the Act could only be given effect to providing they petitioned in accordance with the regulations, and the regulations had never been issued. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said the following Gazette notice, which, he thought, bore on the matter, had been published on the 20th June : - "(1.) For the purposes of section 175 of ' The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900,' the term ' district electors,' and for the purposes of sec- tion 176 of the same Act the term ' electors,' mean and include all persons who are entitled to vote at the election of a member of any local authority within the area to which those sec- tions respectively relate. "(2.) Clause 34 of the regulations made under . The Municipal Corporations Act. 1900,' and dated the 14th day of January, 1901. shall, with all necessary modifications, be read and construed subject to this regulation." He thought that met the question put by the honourable member. Mr. ELL said he had turned up these regula- tions and examined them before, but they did not meet the case. Sir J. G. WARD said, If they did not meet the case he would be glad to extend the regula- tions. Mr. ELL said he had studied the matter carefully, and believed they did not do so. Sir J. G. WARD said he had been advised that they did, but he would be very glad to go into the matter. # MUNICIPALISATION OF PUBLIC SERVICES. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Colonial Secretary, If he will have compiled and printed a handbook on local government, giving. in addition to the particulars furnished in the "New Zealand Official Year-book," a concise account of the work done by each local 