member attempt to accuse His Excellency the is that the cost of all the entertaining done by Governor of making distinctions. The honour- able members complain-at all events, judging by the utterances of the honourable member for Warrarapa-of the absence of entertainments and balls this session. Why, Sir, the honour- abie member must know that there have not been, unfortunately, for some time past in certain circles the usual entertainments, owing to circumstances entirely beyond the control of the representatives of the King, not only in this but in other colonies. An Hon. MEMBER .- There have been several dances. Sir J. G. WARD .- I say that these enter- tainments to a very large extent have been cur- tailed by circumstances entirely beyond the control of those who occupy this high position, not only in this country, but in the adjacent countries. Now, Sir, honourable members ought, I think, in a matter such as this, to make comparisons, and if they make com- parisons they will find the evidence greatly against the advocacy of such views as those to which we have just listened. What has been the experience in Australia? The Governor- General there, who was referred to by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisheri, has a very large salary compared with that paid to the Governor of this country. An Hon. MEMBER. - What does he get ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I think it is £20.000. An Hon MEMBER .- No ; £10,000. Sir J. G. WARD-Well, say £10,000; and he is a millionaire almost. I think that is so. Very https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 well, I understand there was a sum of £8,000 allowed to him to entertain the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York while they were in Australia. An Hon. MEMBER. - In all the colonies. Sir J. G. WARD-Well, the Government of Queensland entertained the Royal party in Queensland ; the South Australian Govern- ment entertained the Royal party there ; the State Government of Tasmania entertained them in Tasmania ; and the State Government of Victoria entertained them in Victoria. I say that the whole general expenses of the respective States were borne by the State Governments. But it is the fact, and I think it has been re- ferred to before, that this country invited the Roval party to come here, and I am very sorry . indeed, -I do not feel called upon to go into details, - but I know that, while honourable members are endeavouring to make out that the whole of the cost to His Excellency arising from the visit of the Duke and Duchess are bring put upon the colony in this £2,250, that is absolutely contrary to fact. An Hon. MEMBER .- I did not say that. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, some honourable members have endeavoured to create that im- pression, for we have been told that other people hare privately spent large sums of money, as though that were especially to their credit. An Hon. MEMBER .- They do not ask it back again. Sir J. G. WARD .- Clearly, then, the inference the Governor is put upon the colony. It is not so ; and the personal expenditure connected with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York incurred by the Governor is enormous compared with his normal expenditure in this colony. The point is that the Royal guests were invited here by the country, and therefore the country should pay the cost, and do so without grudge. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- You have said that half a dozen times. Sir J. G. WARD. - And, knowing how strongly opposed you are in the matter, I will tell it to you half a dozen times more. How- ever, the honourable gentleman has made up his mind, and, I am sorry to say, without exer- cising that sound common-sense which usually characterizes him, and I suppose he is going on this occasion to oppose us. I shall be sorry to see that ; but still I say the colony is not prepared to have imposed upon the Governor expenditure which he has no right to be called upon to pay, and which would virtually mean a repudiation of the debts incurred by the Go- vernment for entertaining the Royal parties while they were in New Zealand. There is no getting away from that. I am not going to take up the time of the House further upon the matter. I rose merely for the purpose of expressing personally my regret that there does certainly appear to me to be an effort made to reflect upon the present representative of the King in connection with this matter. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is unfair. Sir J. G. WARD. - I will do the honourable member the justice of at once accepting his statement that he does not mean that ; but all that I can say is, considering the statements that have been made as to the Governor's in- crease of salary and allowances last year to £7,000, and the statement made by the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), that His Excellency ought to have provided for this extraordinary expenditure out of his salary, and the observations made by each of the three speakers, that conclusion was well- nigh inevitable. I say that this expenditure has not been incurred in connection with any- thing to which his ordinary salary should apply. That is, therefore, not a right proposi- tion to make. Then, honourable members have suggested that this Bill should be with- drawn. If they can tell me of any other way in which the expense can be provided for that has been incurred by the Governor with the consent of the Government, the Government itself admittedly having the authority of the House to do so, I shall be surprised. I say, that being so, the attempt to prevent the payment of this money to His Excellency the Governor is practically asking the House to repudiate a just liability which has been incurred by him on behalf of the colony. All the talk I might indulge in on such an occasion as this, I am quite sure, would not influence those honourable members who apparently have made up their minds to do what in their calmer moments they will realise was a great mistake and a very 