was practically impossible. Mr. SEDDON replied that he considered it would be much cheaper for the officers to go to different parts of the colony, and he intended that the school should go to the four centres. In this matter he was using his own judgment, and which was opposed to the views held by the Commandant. He believed this was the proper course to adopt. The Committee divided on the question, "That the vote of £11,557 be reduced by £1,000." AYES, 14. Russell, G. W. Hanan Arnold Herries Thomson, J. W. Collins Ell Hogg Tellers. Flatman Laurenson Hornsby Pirani Gilfedder Meredith. NOES, 31. Hall Allen, E. G. Mills Palmer Allen, J. Hall-Jones Heke Rhodes Bennet Bollard Seddon Kaihau Buddo Lang Thompson, R. Carncross Ward Lawry Willis. Massey Carroll Colvin McGowan Mckenzie, R. Duncan Tellers. Field McLachlan Napier Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Smith, G. J. Majority against, 17. Amendment negatived. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Vote, £11,557, agreed to. . Permanent Militia and Volunteers, £121,297. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked, with reference to the item, "Medical attendance, medicine, &c., £350," whether the Health Officer could attend to the duty now imposed upon him of examining returned troopers from South Africa ; also whether the troopers who became sick shortly after returning to the colony could not get before the Medical Board for examina- tion unless they first got a certificate from an outside medical man. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved, That the vote be reduced by £20,000. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) moved that the item, " Officers commanding sub-districts at £100 per annum," be reduced by £1, as an indi- cation that Southland should be constituted a separate Volunteer district. Amendment negatived. The Committee divided on the question, "That the vote be reduced by £20,000." AYES, 12. Arnold Thomson, J. W. Hogg Gilfedder Lang Tellers. Hall Monk Hornsby Hanan Pirani Russell, G. W. Herries NOES, 29. Allen, E. G. Carroll Ell Allen, J. Field Collins Colvin Bennet Flatman Buddo Fraser, A. L. D. Duncan Smith, G. J. Heke Mills Thompson, R. Napier Laurenson Willis. Lawry Palmer Tellers. Rhodes Massey Carncross McGowan McNab. Seddon Majority against, 17. Amendment negatived. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked for particulars of the two separate items of con- tingencies that were included in this vote. Mr. SEDDON read out the particulars as follows :- No. 1 List. d. 3 8. Hire of lathe 1 10 0 .. .. Washing bedding 6 12 2 . . Chimney-sweeping 3 14 6 .. Linoleum for library, &c. 18 15 0 Repairs to typewriter, ribbons, &c. 6 5 0 Towing s.s. "Ellen Ballance " off slip, targets, &c. 11 16 3 .. Cab- and express-hire 9 0 2 Glass and glazing, &c. 0 3 18 . Fire-range for barracks 12 3 3 Lavatory repairs, &c. 3 6 4 Boiler certificate 10 0 0 Stationery, &c. .. 2 17 3 Chloride of lime, &c. 5 18 11 Timber, &c. 14 17 8 Fittings for rifle-ranges, &c. 5 15 6 Fire-bars 14 2 0 Firewood 8 19 0 Extra working-pay 33 10 6 .. Extra pay, &c. .. 9 6 87 .. Straw for beds .. 0 9 1 . Stove-pipes 30 12 0 . Crane. power, &c. 0 1 1 . . Alterations 18 0 0 Tubing and cartridge bags 6 9 0 10 0 0 Settlement of Burbery's claim Expenses, repairs to guns 1 12 6 .. Total £329 16 4 . .. No. 2 List. £ đ. 8. Fidelity guarantee premiums 0 7 10 .. Black for draping arms 0 12 5 .. 1. Repairs to range-finders . . 1 16 6 .. Repairs to telephones .10 1 . Drafting agreement re Samoa 2 2 0 Stabling, &c. 2 5 0 Medical examination of officers 16 8 9 Marking medals, prize-firing 4 0 0 Hire tents 2 12 11 Removing guns . . 16 2 6 Making cartridge-bags 14 11 1 Compassionate allowance 31 10 0 Brake- and cab-hire 2 10 0 Caretaker, Christchurch Drillshed 18 17 6 Boiler certificates 0 0 2 Cyclostyle, paper, &c. 3 10 0 Ambulance-hire 1 10 0 . Funeral wreath .. 0 15 0 . . . Repairs to brushes 0 1 17 .. Rent of letter-box 0 0 1 12 Repairing conveyance, rifle-range . . 9 6 Mess tins, &c. .. 0 14 5 