the inclusion of " agricultural labourers " last year, he would this year bring down the Imperial Act and have it incorporated in our legislation for the purpose of extending the benefits of the Act to agricultural labourers in New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON .- I did not say so. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Here it is-Chapter 22 :-- " An Act to extend the Benefits of 'The Workmen's Compensation Act, 1897,' to Work- "[30th July, 1900. men in Agriculture. " Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Ex- cellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and Commons, in this present Parliament as- sembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows : - "1. (1.) From and after the commencement of this Act, 'The Workmen's Compensation Act, 1897,' shall apply to the employment of workmen in agriculture by any employer who habitually employs one or more workmen in such employment. " (2.) Where any such employer agrees with a contractor for the execution by or under that contractor of any work in agriculture, section four of 'The Workmen's Compensation Act, 1897,' shall apply in respect of any workman employed in such work as if that employer were an undertaker within the meaning of that Act : " Provided that where the contractor pro- vides and uses machinery driven by mechanical power for the purpose of threshing, ploughing, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 or other agricultural work, he, and he alone, shall be liable under this Act to pay compen- sation to any workman employed by him on such work. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero " (3.) Where any workman is employed by the same employer mainly in agricultural but partly or occasionally in other work, this Act shall apply also to the employment of the workman in such other work "The expression 'agriculture' includes horti- culture, forestry, and the use of land for any purpose of husbandry, inclusive of the keeping or breeding of live-stock, poultry, or bees, and the growth of fruit and vegetables. "2. This Act may be cited as 'The Work- men's Compensation Act, 1900,' and shall be read as one with 'The Workmen's Compen- sation Act, 1897,' and that Act and this Act may be cited together as . The Workmen's Com- pensation Acts, 1897 and 1900.' "3. This Act shall come into operation on the first day of July, one thousand nine hun- dred and one." This, Sir, is the whole English Act, and I have taken the opportunity of reading it in order that there may be no misunderstanding throughout the colony as to what the English law is. If words mean anything at all, the Premier promised that, after it had passed through the Imperial Parliament, he would be prepared to have the Act extending the Workers' Compensation Act to agricultural labourers re-enacted by our Parliament in this session. Mr. G. W. Russell Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It is no use the honourable gentleman saying "No," for his speech is on record, and honourable members. who heard him give the promise, like myself, will remember perfectly the position the honourable gentleman took up. He pledged himself as surely as any man could do that he would bring down legislation on the lines of the Imperial Act this session for the purpose of affirming the principle, if the Imperial authori- ties included agricultural labourers in their pro- posal. Now, I suppose we have all noticed that. the Farmers' Union at Ashburton the other day passed a resolution that the inclusion of agri- i cultural labourers was not desirable; and what is now the effect? This very courageous Pre- mier, who is not an opportunist at all, runs away from his guns at the very first shot fired by the enemy. He has no objection what- ever to bring in an Act applying the prin- ciple of workmen's compensation to the cities, the factories, and so on. All these. classes in the community are to be brought. under the Workers' Compensation for Acci dents Act, and the Premier has nothing to say to that; but when slow-going, Conservative England passes a law in favour of bringing the agricultural labourers under the operation of the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act, then, simply because during the last few weeks a Farmers' Union was set up, our great, brave, i courageous, but opportunist Premier scuttles away from his guns and leaves the agricultural labourers to look after themselves as best they can. All I can say is I should be very sorry to occupy the position the Premier occupies after the absolute promise he gave in that speech of last session. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- I would like the Premier, when he is replying, to state whether it is his intention to amend the prin- cipal Act so as to give the mortgagee first pre- ference. It is rumoured that the proposal of the Government was to bring down a Bill to amend the principal Act, so that the mort- gagee should have first claim under the clauses of that Act. I would ask the Premier, there- fore, whether it is his intention to amend the Act as at present. At the present time it is the widow of the man who really has the first claim on the property. Under the alleged amendment it is proposed to give the mort. gagee a prior claim. I would like to know, therefore, whether that is so or not. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- We have often seen the Premier in a difficult position, but now he is in a cleft stick. If my ears are to be trusted, and I trust to them rather than to any printed report, the Premier said in this House in August last that it was intended that the Act should apply to farm-labourers. Here are the words - I am not quoting from Hansard of this session : "It will be our duty to alter the law and make it consistent with what we intended." "Will you do it ?" asked an honourable member, and Mr. Seddon re- plied, "I will, certainly." Surely we can go I back twelve months ago, to the night of the 