the more mail-services you can afford to have the better it will be for the colony. I shall show presently, by a comparison between the three services, or the four services, that have been mentioned-namely, the Direct service, the Federal service, the Vancouver service, and the San Francisco service, that upon every ground the San Francisco service is the best in the general interests of the colony and of the Empire. The honourable member for Dun- edin City (Mr. Millar) « axed very eloquent on the patriotic line, and he said that we were dragging the flag in the mud by these resolu- tions. Well, we know, under existing circum- stances, how very easy it is to arouse prejudice when you touch the patriotic spring; and no doubt the honourable gentleman, with an amount of ingenuity that does him credit as a special pleader, touched the chord which he knew would evoke the strongest response. But I contend that there is not the slightest justifica- tion for the suggestion that these resolutions necessarily exclude British ships from the San Francisco service ; nor is it a fact that under the existing American law it would be im- possible for a British liner to carry the mails between New Zealand and America. There is not a word in the United States naviga- tion laws which prohibits a British steamer from trading between New Zealand and San Francisco. I, personally, would go 80 far as to say,-so strong is my desire that there should be a British ship, or even two British ships, engaged in this service,-that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 I would be prepared, if it were possible, to vote for a very much larger subsidy than the one we are now discussing if British ships alone could be employed in the direct traffic between here and San Francisco. It is true that there is a very profitable trade between San Francisco and Honolulu, and that is the trade that the mail-steamers endeavour to secure. It is the protit arising out of that trade which enables them to carry the mails at the present rates. Honolulu is a fashionable American watering- place, and there is a large passenger traffic between the Western States and the Hawaiian Group, "and no doubt under the present law British ships are excluded from participating in that traffic. But our own law gives power to the Governor in Council to exclude foreign ships from our coastal trade in the same way. Now, take the Imperial law, "The Merchant Ship ping (Colonial) Act, 1869," and section 180 of our " Customs Laws Consolidation Act, 1882," and you will find that there is power given by the Imperial Parliament to the Legislature of any British possession to deprive a foreign- owned ship of any right to participate in the coastal trade. Section 180 of our Act of 1882 says this : - "If it shall be made to appear to the Governor that British ships are subject in any foreign country, either directly or indi- rectly, -- " (1.) To any prohibitions or restrictions as to the voyages in which they may en- gage, or as to the articles which they country : " He may, by Order in Council, impose such prohibitions or restrictions upon the ships of such foreign country, either as to the voyages in which they may engage, or as to the articles which they may import into or export from any part of the colony, as he may think fit, so as to place the ships of such coun- try on as nearly as possible the same footing in ports of the colony as that on which British ships are placed in the ports of such country." It will be seen, therefore, that there is power under our existing law to place foreign shipping companies under a similar disadvantage to that which our ships are placed in, as far as the United States navigation laws are concerned, in trading along the American coast. But, Sir, I believe that if our present Government had taken time by the forelock, and used a sufficient amount of energy three or four years ago, when the Act of Congress was passed which precludes our ships touching at Honolulu and taking up passengers and cargo there, that Act would not have been passed, and the general navigation laws of the States would not have been con- strued so as to exclude our ships from Honolulu. It has been possible for the neighbouring Do- minion of Canada to obtain exemption from this restriction, and I believe, with a sufficient amount of diplomatic pressure, the restrictions would have been removed so far as this colony is concerned. The honourable member for Dunedin City also, with a melodramatic air, said, "Why subsidise a foreign flag?" I say, why do you buy goods from foreign countries ? But we are not subsidising a foreign flag. There is not a syllable in these resolutions to sub- sidise a foreign flag. We do not give a subsidy at all. What we are offering is payment for ser- vices to be rendered. We shall get value for the services rendered if these resolutions are carried just the same as when we buy foreign goods. Do not the constituents of the honourable member for Dunedin, and do not the farmers of this country, buy hundreds of thousands of pounds' worth of foreign goods? You might just as well at once erect a Chinese wall around this colony and say we shall not trade with the outside world at all, and that we shall not purchase foreign goods. It is too late to do anything of that kind now. The dissemination of economic truth has rendered such a thing impossible. The whole world is practically one country for trading purposes, and these hostile restrictive laws and narrow views of the laws of commerce should be swept away. Now, Sir, I want to comment upon a remark of the honour- able member for Riccarton, as I see him in his place. The honourable member said there was no guarantee that the steamers would wait at San Francisco in order to carry the inward mails. I interjected a remark that there was a letter from the Postmaster-General at Washing- ton on the subject, and I want to show the honourable member for Riccarton that he is in error in supposing that there is no arrangement 