ment made in section 6 of the Bill was made on a motion of the member for Palmerston ; but what about the amendment made on the motion of the member for Wanganui in sec- tion 21? It was a new clause, which read as follows :- "Either party to an industrial dispute which has been referred to a Board of Conciliation may file with the Clerk an application in writing requiring the dispute to be referred to the Court of Arbitration, and that Court shall have jurisdiction to settle and determine such dispute in the same manner as if such dispute had been referred to the Court under the pro- visions of section fifty-eight of the principal Act." He feared in this case the honourable member had had an amendment placed in his hand. That was the amendment he had just read. It came as the voice of Jacob, but it was the hand of Esau. There was no doubt it was as effectual in sweeping away Conciliation Boards as though that were stated in so many words, because either party to a dispute, if this were carried, could go to the Ar- bitration Court. He preferred, himself, to have a straight-out issue rather than to have the Con- ciliation Boards done away with as this clause proposed. Section 6, to which the honourable member's question referred, provided that ex- perts must come in, but they sat as a Concilia- tion Board. It did away with the present Con- ciliation Boards dealing with every case. The present law was that both parties could call in experts. The alteration made by the member for Palmerston was that either party could decide to have it tried ; the Conciliation Board to consist of experts, with the President. That was not an unreasonable alteration ; but, as to the honourable member's amendment, he was pleased to find the honourable gentleman had repented before it was too late. He was glad the honourable member had brought the matter forward now, so that atten- tion might be called to it. The honour- able member now, at least, understood the position ; and it was to be hoped, when a fur- ther opportunity was given, as it most likely would be, to review the matter, the honour- able member would be the one to move the repeal of this particular clause. # . COMMONWEALTH TARIFF. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Premier, Whether the Government will, at an early date, state what steps they propose to take to meet the altered position of our small farmers as resulting from the Commonwealth tariff ? He did not know what course the (Government proposed to take in this matter, but he hoped the Premier would give some idea of what course he might be disposed to take, as, if a statement were made on the question, it would be gratefully accepted by the country. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) was not in a position at that moment to give a definite reply to the question. He had been asked that day whether the Government would take the opinions of farmers and others interested in this ques- Mr. Seddon tion, and he had answered in the affirmative; and if he now stated that the Government intended to bring down proposals or otherwise he would be stultifying himself. He would therefore ask the honourable member to await further developments. WAIMATE HIGH SCHOOL CADET CORPS. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether the services of the Waimate District High School Cadet Corps have been accepted ; and, if so, as from what date ? There appeared to him to exist an extraordinary state of things in connection with this matter. Seeing that the policy of the Defence Minister, of the House, and of the country was to encourage Volunteering and the training of cadets, it seemed a remarkable thing that a cadet corps formed by this High School eighteen months ago had not yet been accepted. A year ago he (Major Steward) asked in the House for the reason of the delay, and the reply was that the application had been sent to the Defence Department, when it should have been sent to the Education Department. Well, a fresh application was sent to the Edu- cation Department, and, though the promoters of this corps had thus been sent about from pillar to post, up to the time he had placed this question on the Order Paper a fortnight ago no definite reply had been received. Surely eighteen months was too long a time to elapse between the making of an application and the sending of a reply thereto. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the difficulty had not arisen in respect to this par- <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> ticular corps. The matter at issue had been whether these school cadet corps should be under the Defence Department or under the Education Department, and it had now been decided that they were to be under the Educa- tion Department. That being the case, the various corps which had offered would, he hoped. in a very short time be accepted and notified, and would be able to proceed with their duties. DRILLSHED AT FAIRLIE FOR MAC- KENZIE MOUNTED RIFLES. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, Whether he has received any recommendation from Lieut .- Colonel Bailey, commanding the South Canterbury District. with reference to providing a drillshed at Fairlie for the Mackenzie Mounted Rifles, and what assistance the Government will be prepared to give towards the cost of the same ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the Commandant of the Forces reported that no action could be taken in the matter pending the receipt of a report which had been called for from the Officer Commanding the district. Major STEWARD said his question was. Whether any recommendation had been re- ceived from Colonel Bailey. This matter had been pending for a good many months, and surely the Colonel could be ordered to send a reply at once. Mr. SEDDON said the Officer Commanding the district had been asked to report, and until 