are giving it freely. We are sometimes im- portuned to subscribe to all sorts of charities, and yet we part with our money because we hope we are propitiating some of our con- stituents, although we may not have the pluck to say so. Are we to argue, therefore, that the colony is to pay for our being so faint-hearted as to be afraid to say "No" when we might like to do so ? Surely that is no argument for urging an increase in the payment of members. Mr. HORNSBY .- What about the honour- able member who takes the money and hands it over to his constituents ? Captain RUSSELL .- It is much the same thing. Every one of us almost does, directly or indirectly, give money away for political con- siderations to propitiate the electors. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Captain RUSSELL .- Well, I admit my con- science is not so tender that I cannot say I have never done so. Then, there is the argu- ment that is brought forward so continually- and I admit it is a true argument-that there should be no man so poor, if he has sufficient ability, who should not be able to take part in the government of the country. That is a principle that I thoroughly admit, and I am prepared to say that therefore we should pay a certain amount of honorarium ; but if we base our argument on the ground that no man should be so poor that he cannot take part in the government of the country, is it to be said that it is essential he should be paid £300 a year? Certainly not. The whole force of the argument is that the man who is the poorest shall be able to take part in the government of the country ; and therefore, if we fix the remuneration at a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 little better than an artisan's wages, I certainly say you meet that argument with a moderate amount of money, which is fairly arguable ; and therefore, if we fix the payment at £200, I should say we fix a very ample sum for the poorest man to be able to enter the Parliament of the country. That brings me to another point. The Right Hon. the Premier said that the circumstances and environment of Parliament are such that an artisan who once enters it cannot return to his bench, and that he must, in occupying the position, subscribe to any calls that are made upon him in his district. Well, now, if the circumstances and environment are to prevent him returning to his avocation, I say it is a most deplorable condition of things. If we were to say that every artisan-that every working-man-entering Parliament is to debar himself ever afterwards from returning to his trade, we should in every case be losing a good artisan, and making possibly an indifferent poli- tician. I feel that many a man who is a good artisan when he comes into this House, is here for three years, is re-elected, and remains in the House for six or possibly nine years, ceases to be a good artisan, however good a politician he may become ; and when the day comes when he knows that the giving of an unpopular vote, though he is aware in his conscience that it is the proper one, will turn him out of this House And deprive him of the means of providing Captain Russell thinking first of his duty to his family, and giving a vote although he knows it to be against his conscience. That is not a right position to put a man in. Then, we are told that a mem- ber must be recompensed for the loss he sus- tains in coming into this House, and that brings me to the question of the professional man. <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> Where are we to draw the line, and what consti- tutes a recompense for the men who come into this House? A man who has a small farm and is making a very poor living out of it may come to this House and be recom- pensed very well by £200 a year, and an artisan may be recompensed by £200 a year; but a professional man, who is making £2,000 or £3,000 a year, how would you recompense him ? Is that £200, or £300, or £400 a recom- pense for him ? Undoubtedly not. You cannot fix the amount of recompense for a man abandoning temporarily a professional career. In endeavouring to fix the basis of remunera- tion for men coming into Parliament, there is no safer rule than that which says that the poorest man shall not be debarred by poverty from being a member of Parliament. That does not necessitate the payment of high salaries. It is undesirable to place a member in the position that we know a member of this Legislature was placed in ten years ago. It was currently re- ported, and I believe it to be true, that an artisan was elected a member in 1891. We had a short session of a fortnight, and then he went back to the city from which he came, and was anxious, as I think an honourable man should be, to re-enter the ranks of his trade, and go on with his old work ; but he was told at once : "You are a member of Parliament, you know, 'one man one run,' 'one man one vote'; so also it must be 'one man one job."" " You are a politician, and we are not going to allow you to do any other work." Mr. ARNOLD .- That applies to-day. Captain RUSSELL. - I have no doubt it does. Well, then, I ask, Is it desirable that we should make such a payment to members that men will be induced more and more to compete to get into professional politics, and abandon for ever the position as an independent worker ? It is a most unfortunate position for any man to occupy, because we, many of us. know by experience that all will, sooner or later, be defeated. Take the Parliament of ten years ago, when the last increase in payment of members was made, and there are very few left in the House who were in Parliament then. Are we to say, then, that when once a man becomes a member of Parliament he is to be maintained by the State until his death? It appears to me we should not, though the Pre- mier, when speaking of the £150 a year paid to members in another place, said that such a sum was only keeping a man in genteel poverty, and that he could not return to his work. Surely that is a very unfortunate position. Mr. SEDDON .- He could not work whilst holding the position. Captain RUSSELL. - Excuse me; the honourable member said that a payment of 