did not know where the House would arrive, be- cause the Standing Orders stated distinctly that a local Bill referred to a locality. This Bill was no doubt characterized by all that pertained to a local Bill. His desire was to let the people in- terested know what was in the Bill before it was dealt with. At present they did not know. The Premier had read a letter showing that the people knew already what was in the measure. That was true only to a certain extent; but there were important matters in the Bill of which the people of Nelson knew nothing. He did not feel competent to take the responsi- bility of agreeing, on behalf of the Harbour Board and the people of the district, to some of the provisions of this Bill. If the Hon. the Premier would alter clause 7 so that it would include only the foreshore fronting the Borough of Motueka, as was agreed to by the Motueka people, he would agree-because that was what the Harbour Board agreed they should have, because they did not want to re- tain people in the Nelson Harbour District who did not want to be included. In addition to that, however, the foreshore proposed to be taken in excess was a considerable portion of the Waimea County foreshore, and the Waimea County Council objected to being taken and handed over to Motueka Borough. They had also objected to the wharf being handed over to Motueka. It appeared to him as if, when the Premier made up his mind to do a certain thing, that he would attain his object notwith- standing the Standing Orders. If it had suited the Premier to decide the other way, it would have been decided right off that this was a local Bill. He (Mr. Graham) still believed that it was a local Bill, and his object was to give the people of Nelson an opportunity of knowing / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero what this proposed legislation was before it was passed. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said all the Govern- ment desired to do in reference to this matter was to further a harbour for Nelson, and he thought if the member for Nelson City did what was just he would admit that following his advice had given them the machinery and opportunity of getting a good harbour. It was under his advice that, instead of taking the Railway Wharf or interfering with them, that legislation took place which enabled them to raise the rest of the money. If the Govern- ment had asked the House to vote another £1,000 for a harbour at Nelson it would never have passed the vote; but under his advice they had practically made, in cash and endow- ments, a present to the City of Nelson of £90,000. Now, two members of the four on the Committee had said that this was a mixed Bill-that was, that it was both a local Bill and a public Bill. He hoped the question raised by the honourable member would not prejudice the position of the Bill. One of the clauses in the Bill provided that, before tenders were accepted under the Harbours Act, the plans had to be submitted to and signed by the Governor on the advice of the Minister of Marine. The other question outside that Mr. Graham to be sent to the Minister of Marine. There was nothing wrong in that, and in fact he was not so sure whether there should not be an Order in Council before the plans were accepted, but that was open to doubt. He was only now try- ing to put himself right ; otherwise it might ap- pear that he had said in Committee something prejudicial to the Nelson Harbour, when he bad done nothing of the kind ; but considering that, according to the last report, a vessel had touched on the bar, and that the bar was silting up. something required to be done immediately. Then, as to the stoppage of the works. which was a most important work, it was on that point that he had said the Nelson Harbour was of national importance, and it was that, he held, that went to make the Bill a public measure. He repeated that there were three districts interested in the Bill-namely, the Borough of Motueka, the Waimea County, ard the Borough of Nelson. One mistake that had been made last session was in taking in the Motueka Wharf, and in taking over the Motueka responsibility. The local body was not con- sulted, and it was taken for granted that they would accept it. The member for the district took that responsibility. Now they wanted to be relieved from the responsibility ; and the honourable member would admit that the Harbour Board said by resolution that that should be done. The honourable member had written to the Government saying that it should be done, and it was embodied in the Bill. He did not think the Motueka people should be placed in a better position, but te thought they were entitled to a reserve or endowment. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that question could not be discussed at this stage. Mr. SEDDON said Harbour Bills which af- fected localities only had been passed through the House as public Bills on previous occasions. The New Plymouth Harbour Bill was one of them, and as this Bill affected three districts, and dealt with public reserves, that was sufficient to make it a public Bill. However, he did not think the financial position of the Harbour Board should be prejudiced any more than that they ought to give back to Motueka a portion cf the foreshore, and leave to the Nelson Harb ur the remainder. He trusted the Bill would be allowed to proceed, and when they came to the Schedule let them adjust the question. The Government did not wish to injure the Nelse Harbour project-quite the reverse: and the honourable gentleman could take that assur- ance from him. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said he knew nothing about the merits of the Bill, but it seemed to him that the last remark of the right honourable gentleman, suggesting cori- promise, showed that, whatever might be the technical position, substantially this was s measure entitled to protection by the Standirz Orders. The right honourable gentleman said the Government had no desire to injure the Harbour Board, and that, if any clause d:d injure the Board, he would be glad to have the 