us we would find that, in nearly every case where an agreement was not arrived at, still the Board was enabled to take out of the ques- tions at issue two-thirds or three-fourths of the whole of the questions, and narrow the issues down to perhaps three or four. And then, Sir, more than that, the sparring -if I may use the word in reference to a Conciliation Court- which may take place before the Board, gives the two contestants a certain amount of know. ledge of the methods and arguments likely to be used. They know exactly the arguments which they might originally have been disposed to use, but have found them to have no value at all ; and therefore it has occurred that the Courts were able to reduce to a minimum the amount of evidence that has had to be brought before them on the reduced number of counts as compared with the number of counts threshed out by the Boards in the first instance. Now, I am not prepared to say that the present constitution of the Boards is perfect, but I do say it will be a great pity to give up conciliation as the essence of the Act. It would be a very great pity indeed if we were at this time of day to abandon conciliation as the first principle which the Act endeavours to enforce; and I should be very sorry, therefore, to think that this Bill might be carried in any shape or form which would enable either its friends or enemies to say that this Parliament was going back from what it established in 1894. For that reason, therefore, I do not like clauses 6 and 21. They are both directly hostile to the original intentions of the Act, and if reference is made to the mind of the original proposer-the Hon. Mr. Reeves-I am certain that it is quite hos- tile to what he intended and what he hoped, and therefore I should be very sorry to give up conciliation out of the measure altogether. It is possible better Courts might be devised than the Courts we have got at present ; but I am quite certain of this : that the refer- ence to the special Board of Conciliators will not do unless both parties agree to accept it. And in the same way, in regard to clause 21, if .both parties desire to go to the Court of Arbitra- tion I have no objection to their doing so, but I would not like to see either party enabled so to .do. Supposing-I do not think that it is an impossible case-an industrial association of . employers, who are almost keener politicians than they are keen business-men-of course, it .is almost impossible to conceive any body of . employers so keen as that-still we do know . some employers are very keen politicians, and : they do things sometimes in a way that astonishes one : supposing these keen politi- cians and keen business - men were parties to a dispute, from past experience it is im- : possible to conceive the lengths of obstruc- tion to which they might go. I think I should now say a word or two on a matter that has been referred to by more than one speaker, and that is the possible effect upon our trade which they say comes from the com- petition, especially in relation to the new tariff .that is in contemplation in the Australian meanest way to look at any large question that I know of. If we are an independent nation, if we are a country that can stand upon its own bottom, we have no reason to go elsewhere to get our politics from, and our laws should be regulated not from what would suit other countries, but what will suit ourselves; and if our laws suit ourselves we have no reason to consider what other people think of them, or how they will frame laws from their own point of view. As regards the proposed tariff of the Australian Commonwealth, I consider the argument as regards this Bill a bugbear of the very meanest description. If we had thought from the beginning, or had any reason to think, that we should make peace with our enemy in the gate, to save our own existence, then we ought to have done all we could to go into the Federation along with others. But, Sir, after looking at it carefully, I am perfectly certain of this: that every man with a square head on his shoulders, the longer he looks at it the more convinced he becomes that federation would have been the greatest mistake New Zealand could ever have made. We have got to paddle our own canoe, and fight our own battles, and make our own laws, regardless of what the Australian tariff can do to us ; and we can be perfectly safe and sure that what suits ourselves and our trade will keep us to the forefront in any fight of tariffs or any other controversy we have got to enter into with our friends on the other side. I do not advocate -- I do not for one moment suggest-there should be a war of retaliation, or anything of that sort take place ; but that our home policy-our domestic policy -should be in any shape or form influenced by what may happen as regards tariffs or laws on the other side of the water is a consideration which, I believe, is absolutely beneath con- tempt. We can fight our own battles. I do not know what we have got from the other side that is worth thinking of ; they never take any- thing from us that they are not compelled for their own necessities to take; and, if they put tariffs on, it means that their people will have to pay all the more for those commodities when they cannot do without them. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- You have got as big a tariff as they have: why object to them ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am not objecting. I am objecting to certain arguments that came from honourable gentlemen that, in the presence of the Australian tariff, we should be very careful what we do in what they call hampering our trade. I believe, if the Austra- lian tariff does hamper our trade, that is no reason for altering our domestic policy. I go further, and say that this Bill in no shape or form hampers our trade. ' It enables us to make a country where peace and honour lives, and where all our trade difficulties can be solved without any intestine war or strifes such as have occurred in other countries. Therefore I say, do not let us destroy conciliation, and let us remember that the first motto of these 