cessions to the Board were perfectly reason- able, and would not in any way be found to militate against the object of the principal Act in dealing with this reserve. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said he would have liked to have seen some special provision in this Bill to prevent that form of vandalism which had taken place in various parts of the colony, and which had caused the disfigurement of mountains, owing to the removal of gravel and stone. Particularly was it regrettable that some of those small beautiful mountains around the City of Auckland had been completely spoiled from a scenic point by scarves being put into the hills for the removal of stone and gravel for ballast and other purposes. This vandalism had all been done under the authority of Road Boards and County Councils. There was nothing specific in the Bill to prevent the grand old mountain of Taranaki being cut about and disfigured. No doubt the Scenery Preservation Society of Taranaki-a real live body-would see that nothing of the kind would take place. There was no necessity for the hills to be cut down ; by putting in tunnels as much metal could be obtained as was required. He thought the provisions of the Bill should go further and embrace the Mokau, one of the most beautiful rivers in New Zealand, which, if preserved with its charming bush growth, would remain, as the poet said, "a thing of beauty and a joy for ever." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER wished to direct the attention of the Council, and of the honourable gentleman who last spoke, to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 constitution of the Board. It would be seen it was very representative of all interests, as follows :- "2. The lands described in the Schedule hereto are hereby constituted and set apart as a reserve, to be called ' the Egmont National Park,' and shall be managed and administered under this Act by a Board, to be called 'the Egmont National Park Board ' (hereinafter re- ferred to as 'the Board'), consisting of ten persons, of whom- "(1.) One shall be the person who for the time being holds the office of Com- missioner of Crown Lands for the Taranaki Land District, and he shall be the Chairman of the Board ; "(2.) Two shall be appointed by the Go- vernor ; and " (3.) One shall be appointed by each of the seven following local authorities, that is to say,- " The Hawera Borough Council ; "The New Plymouth Borough Council ; " The Taranaki County Council ; "The Hawera County Council ; "The Stratford County Council ; "The Stratford Borough Council ; and "The Opunake Town Board." The Bill proposed to give powers as regards by-laws, and the by-laws under the principal Act were subject to the approval of the Go- Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker 1 proposed to do anything to militate against the beauties of the scenery there was an opportunity for the Governor in Council to refuse their proposals and protect the scenery. As re- gards tunnelling into the mountain, he did not know whether it was necessary, as he believed there was a tremendous quantity of debris carried down which was available for road purposes, and which could be removed with- out the destruction of the scenery. It would be hurtful to the district if any provision were included in the Bill which would prevent them getting the material which nature had placed at their disposal for the maintenance and con- struction of roads. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at a quarter to three o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 22nd October, 1901. Counties Bill - Excessive Drinking by Maoris - Eleanor Ward-Commonwealth Tariff-Public- school Teachers' Salaries Bill-Despatches be- tween Governor and Home Authorities-Mrs. Charity W. Gauntlett-The Federal Tariff - Land Boards-Members of Parliament in Pnl- lic Positions-Forest Gate Estate-Clive Rifle Volunteers-Principles of Warfare-Export Duty on Balk Timber -Steamers between New Zea- land and South Africa -Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act-Commonwealth Tariff- Waimate High School Cadet Corps-Drillshed at Fairlie for Mackenzie Mounted Rifles-Per- manent Militia Uniforms-Legislative Council Appointments-Order of Business - Returns- Legislative Council Appointments - Chatham Islands-Alleged Excessive Drinking of Tara- naki Maoris-l'upuke Lake-Rangitoto Island- Torotoros and Taurutu Lagoons-Drunkenness at Taihape - State Coal-mines - State Coal- mine-Inspector of Prisons-Hunua Coal Area- Drunkenuess at Poolburn - Frechold - Native Timber-Pariroa Native Reserve Bill-Order of Business-Public-school Teachers' Salaries Bill -Public Works Statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. COUNTIES BILL. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- Sir, I wish to bring up the following report on the Counties Bill from the Local Government Committee :- "The Local Government Committee, to whom was referred the above-mentioned Bill. have the honour to report that they have passed the following resolutions, namely :- "1. That this Committee proceed no further with the Counties Bill, and that this decision be reported to the House. "2. That the Bill as amended, and the above resolution, be reported this day. "ROBERT MCNAB, Chairman. "22nd October, 1901." I move, That the report, with the evidence taken by the Committee and the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee, do lic on 