farmers in an uncertain state, and do not give them the relief the English. Act affords with regard to persons using machinery, and those who mow, sow, plough, and thresh, you should include the agricultural labourers in the Bill, and the measure will go no further. My opinion has never varied on the question. It have expressed the same views at all times. is always my wish to be just in any legislation, and at the present time there is an uncertainty that ought to be removed. As to casuals-well, you get on to dangerous ground at once, and I never touch casual labour by legislation. It is not necessary. But what are the latest judg- ments in the cases brought in England ? The latest judgment was this: The Appeal Court in England decided that on a daily wage you could not define the average, and, therefore, legally or equitably, fix the amount payable. The case went to the Privy Council, which reversed the decision of the Lower Court and said it was as easy to take a day's wage and from that day's wage to strike an average as it was to strike an average from the week. Con- sequently, you may follow that out, and say that the average is as easily ascertained for an hour as for a day. At the same time, there are such cases as that of a person employing a cab to drive him to and fro, or an express to take his luggage. There is a contractor and a con- tractee, but it has never been intended that our law should apply in a case of that kind, and if there are doubts existing on the point the sooner they are removed the better. If a case https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 were to be tried to-morrow, the result would be just as I have indicated. However, my desire is to perfect the law and to remove difficulties that I feel exist. If the House is not prepared to assist me, and the matter is made a bone of con- tention as between town and country, then there will be no alteration of the law; but I wish to say to my friends representing the workers in the towns that they will be wise if they follow the lead I am now giving them in respect to the matter, and bring the country people with them. They will not do any injury or take away any privilege from any one in the coun- try, but the result of the present position is that there is friction and ill-feeling engendered, and the people of the country miss no opportunity of waging war with the workers in the towns. And there is no corresponding advantage at all. I therefore say to the workers in the towns and to the friends of this law, " You have got this law, hold fast to it, and I will help you "; but where there is a doubt as to the interpretation of the law in respect to others, and there is fric- tion, I say remove this friction in the interests of all concerned. That is what this Bill is in- tended to do. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I rise to make a per- sonal explanation. The right honourable gentle- man accused me inferentially of having been untrue to the trust of the workers in the cities, and with a malicious intent to introduce an amendment at that time to make the Bill so unacceptable to another place that it could not Mr. Seddon the Bill; and then he said, in answer to the member for Wakatipu, who asked him whether he meant to drop the Bill, "Yes." And the Premier did drop the Bill, and the Bill never went out of Committee of this House, and never went beyond clause 3 or 4. It never went back to the other House at all. I Mr. SEDDON .- The same Bill was intro- duced by the Hon. Mr. Walker in the Legisla- tive Council, and the very clause the honour- able member alludes to, to include the agricul- tural labourers, was thrown out. The Bill was introduced in the Legislative Council. The honourable member is again wrong. Leave granted, and Bill read a first time. # REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS EXTENSION BILL. On the question, That leave be granted to in- troduce this Bill, Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked if the right honourable gentleman would tell the House the object of this Bill and the necessity for introducing it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this was a Bill introduced periodically-at about intervals of ten years, he believed -to enable people who had failed to register their children within the statutory limit to register them. Leave granted, and Bill read a first time. # LOCAL BILLS. On the question, That the House resolve itself into a Committee of Ways and Means to consider a resolution in connection with Im- prest Supply Bill (No. 5), Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he wished to move as an amendment, That, before the House resolves itself into Committee of Ways and Means, it is desirable that a day should be set apart for the consideration of local Bills on the Order Paper. He regretted very much that the Premier had forced this course of action to be taken in regard to local Bills on such a measure as an Imprest Supply Bill, but there was no opportunity given to the House to assert itself against the will of the Premier except on a motion such as this. So far as the majority of the local Bills on the Order Paper were con- cerned, he knew the members of the House thought it was desirable that an opportunity should be given to those in charge of the Bills to bring them before the House in a consti- tutional way. What had been designated, with very great truth, the "dodgery " of the Pre- mier had prevented - Mr. ATKINSON wished to ask, as a point of order, if the honourable gentleman was in order in using the term "dodgery" as applied to a member of the House ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER did not think it was a desirable word to use, and should be withdrawn. Mr. PIRANI said he would withdraw the word, and would substitute the word " dickery," a word which the Premier suggested a member should use the other day instead of " dodgery," 