the Government agreed to put the house in order, and that certain accounts were de- frayed by the Government. But there were these accounts which had been sent to Mr. Rhodes, and which probably were chargeable to Mr. Rhodes in the ordinary way, but which the Government accepted the responsibility of. He thought the colony was indebted to Mr. Rhodes because he had exercised supervision in re- spect to these accounts ; and he (Mr. Seddon) would have been very glad had the same care been taken in respect to some other accounts. Mr. Rhodes's friends had themselves brought on all this trouble when there was not the least necessity for it. His Excellency the Go- vernor was in exactly the same position in this respect, because the words "for and on behalf of the Government " did not appear opposite the item of expenditure incurred by His Excel- lency. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said, although in the estimates exactly the same wording was used in connection with the items for His Excellency the Governor and Mr. Rhodes, he would point out that in the Bill which had been before them that afternoon it was stated that there should be paid to His Excellency the Governor the sum of $2,250, being the amount of expenditure incurred and disbursed by him "for and on behalf of the colony." Why should not the same words be put in the estimates in respect to Mr. Rhodes. The honourable gentleman could by Governor's message have the words " for and on behalf of the colony " inserted. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Sir J. G. WARD asked if the honourable member wanted those words inserted opposite all the other items. Mr. J. ALLEN did not think there were any other items in the same position, but if there were they should be all treated fairly. The wording of this item might be used against Mr. . Rhodes later on, when this debate was for- gotten-in the event of Mr. Rhodes contesting an election, for instance. Mr. SEDDON pointed out that at the head of all these items which were now being dis- cussed there appeared the following wording in the estimates : " Expenses connected with the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, any Act to the contrary notwithstanding." Then, under that heading there appeared among the other items, "Grant to Mr. Rhodes, Mayor of Christchurch, in reimbursement of expenses incurred by him." Under the circumstances he did not see how people could think that the expense was in- curred otherwise than for and on behalf of the colony. And, even if they did think so, any one who turned up the estimates would naturally refer to the debate as published in Hansard as well. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the arrange- ments in connection with the Royal visit were a muddle from beginning to end, simply because there was no one person in charge. The Pre- mier had stated that there were other items of expenditure in this connection which would have to be placed upon the supplementary esti- Mr. Seddon tion to striking this item out and including it in the supplementary estimates ? He would point out that there was another item on the estimates for expenses connected with the resi- dence of the Mayor of Christchurch, and that might lend colour to the story that was going about that this first item was not an expense which had been incurred in connection with the residence. Now, the Premier had quoted some words at the heading of these items in which the words " any Act to the contrary notwithstand- ing" were included. Those words could only apply to the vote to His Excellency, and to no other item. Mr. SEDDON said they applied to Ministers as well, because they received a certain stated salary. Mr. PIRANI said it was made to appear in the estimates as if they applied to a grant to Mr. Rhodes. It was ridiculous to state that such words were necessary to enable the payment to be made to Ministers, in face of the payment made to the Premier from the Cook Islands vote. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said the Go- vernment had been blamed, he thought by the member for Waitemata, for these invoices being made out in the name of the Mayor of Christ- church ; but he would like to know how the Go- vernment could be blamed for that. After very generously lending his house for the entertain- ment of the Royal visitors, surely it was most natural that Mr. Rhodes should be present to supervise any alterations that the representa- tives of the Governor might suggest were neces- sary ; and, as it had been admitted by the mem- ber for Ellesmere that the Mayor of Christ- church recommended the labour that should be employed, surely it was most natural that the accounts should be sent to Mr. Rhodes. He understood, with regard to all the houses en- gaged for the Royal visitors, that it was under- stood the Government were to pay the expenses ; but it was only natural to assume that the owners should superintend and supervise any alterations that were necessary. He would like to know how could the Government prevent tradesmen from sending their accounts to Mr. Rhodes ; and yet the whole debate on this ques- tion had been because these invoices were sent in Mr. Rhodes's name. The member for Elles- mere had exonerated the Government from any blame, and he asked why not let the matter drop now ? The Mayor of Christchurch had re- ceived kudos all over the colony for his action, and a misapprehension that had existed in the minds of the people of the colony, that the Royal visitors were the guests of Mr. Rhodes, had been cleared up by this item. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) said the altera- tions to the residence of the Mayor of Christ- church were not extensive, and anything of a. permanent nature was paid for by the Mayor himself. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) hoped the suggestion made by the honourable member for Bruce would be adopted, and that the Pre- mier would allow this item to come off the 