amount was increased in subsequent cases as time went on, and it generally, as it grew larger, had the desired effect. But he had no hesitation in saying that if this Act was passed it would mean that it would not be possible to prove that rabbits were on a man's land, and the rabbits would overrun the land as they had before Sir John McKenzie took the matter in hand. He should have no hesitation in voting against the Bill. The Hon. Mr. L. WALKER thought, so far as the penal part of this Bill went, the saving clauses were in both clauses 2 and 3, which provided that the infliction of fines was de- pendent on the opinion of the Magistrate ad- judicating. Now, surely we had a right to expect that a Magistrate would give a just decision, and, if necessary, he would call evi- dence for the man about to be fined. Therefore he did not think the Magistrate need take the Inspector's evidence as gospel, even supposing, as he did, that the Inspectors were good men. He should like to see this Act a little more par- ticular, because in his case he had river-beds near him that were full of gorse, and, of course, rabbits lay there all through the winter. They had beautiful shelter and plenty of feed, and they never came out and troubled him at all. The duty of cleaning these river-beds belonged to the County Council or Road Board, as the case might be ; but the local bodies would not do it, and the settlers were not particular about in- sisting upon this duty being carried out, because they knew they would be tremendously rated https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 for it. For his own part, he was not sorry to have a few rabbits about. He thought they paid better than sheep, and they had not to be shorn, which cost money in the case of sheep. Otherwise he thought the Act would be a good one. The Hon. Mr. GOURLEY said he was as anxious to see that rabbits were kept down in this colony as any member of the Council. There was no one who did not admit the fact that rabbits were a very great nuisance, and that they were overrunning the country. At the same time he would be no party to encourage the keeping of any law on the statute-book such as the Rabbit Nuisance Act. As to the Rabbit Nuisance Act, he ventured to say that there was no such Act in force in any other country in the world-not even in Russia. Under that Act a man could be accused on the simple evidence of an Inspector, and he was bound to be convicted. There was practically no defence which he could offer. In respect to the most common or trivial offence, or the most serious offence that could be committed, if there was no one but a policeman, or one witness, to give evidence for the prose- cution, and there was the evidence of the defendant against such evidence, then the case would be dismissed ; but to allow an In- spector to be all-powerful was absurd. Tho Inspector at present had simply to state that a settler did not take proper steps to keep down rabbits on his run, and on that statement of the Inspector the settler was convicted and fined. if there was any law on any statute-book in the world such as that. We in New Zealand boasted of being the most democratic country in the world ; we boasted of having passed the most liberal laws in the world, and rightly so ; and we boasted that our laws were being copied by other countries ; yet, in the face of that, this Act remained on our statute-book. He could not find language sufficiently strong to express his disgust that such an Act as that should remain on our statute-book. He would vote for the amendment of the Hon. Mr. Feldwick. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK, in reply, said, in the first place he wished to say that this Bill did not originate from Southland at all. It was introduced by an honourable gentleman in another place who represented a district in the North Island. Of course, it did not matter where an injustice existed-whether it existed in Russia, Prussia, Austria, England, Germany, Australia, or in New Zealand -- if that injustice did exist. As regarded statistics, they were not going to be beaten down by statistics, how. ever accurate they might be. Figures could be used or abused for all purposes. Those sub- mitted only proved that the rabbits had been a very valuable export, and from his point of view, and from the point of view of the district he came from-which was represented by four members in another place-from that point of view poisoning had now become absolutely un- necessary. The "vermin," so-called, could now be kept down perfectly well by trapping. To keep the rabbits down by that means-in con- nection with the consequent export-only in- dicated that a very large number of people earned a very good living out of it. As to their being rabbit-farmers, they were not rabbit- farmers at all. It was the farmers of the coun- try and the runholders of the country who gave these men and boys leave to roam over their land and take the rabbits, and these men and boys made a very valuable article of export out of the rabbits. The Minister of Education made an allegation to the effect that rabbits were being "farmed." They were not being farmed ; but people would sooner see them turned into a valuable export than be turned to waste. However, let members of the Council come to the Bill, and they would then come to the first elements of justice. They could not get over the wrong contained in the Act of 1882. The Hon. Mr. Jenkinson said something about there being no fine. Why, there were fines provided for in the statute. There were fines of £5 and up to £20, renewable every month so long as the Inspector said the nuisance was permitted to exist under the Act. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said he stated that the question of the amount of fine was a matter for the Magistrate to decide. The In- spector brought the evidence, but the Magis- trate had the right to fix the amount of the fine. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said the Magis- trate was simply an automaton in respect to this Act, and it was a very disgraceful state of the law that a Magistrate should have to take 