a pension. # OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- " On the hearing of any applica- tion for a pension or renewal-certificate, if the Magistrate finds that any real or personal pro- perty has been transferred by the applicant to any person he may inquire into such transfer and refuse the application, or grant a reduced pension." The Hon. Mr. JONES moved, That the fol- lowing words be added to the clause: "or, if the Magistrate finds that an applicant has any near relatives in the colony who are able to wholly or partly maintain such applicant, he may accordingly refuse his application or grant a reduced pension. For the purposes of this section 'near relatives' shall be deemed to include wife, husband, father, mother, child, brother, and sister of the applicant." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words be added." AYES, 14. Peacock Barnicoat Johnston Bolt Pitt Jones Scotland McLean Bonar Williams. Bowen Montgomery Jenkinson Ormond NOES, 17. Kelly, W. Arkwright Swanson Taiaroa Feldwick Kenny Tomoana Gourley Pinkerton https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Twomey Reeves Harris Walker, W. C. Jennings Rigg Kelly, T. Smith, A. L. Majority against, 3. Amendment negatived. Bill reported. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- In moving the third reading of the Bill, Sir, I simply desire to state, for the information of the Council, there was a desire to know how the operation of clause 9 would come in. On the one hand, if all the Maori pensions are to be secured out of the Civil List the Civil List would have a heavy drain on it. On the other hand, it was urged there was no reason why a Maori should not get his pension out of the ordinary Pension Fund. The reason for keeping in this clause is this: that Maori registration of births in the case of very many Maori ap- plicants was not very well attended to in the dark ages, and therefore Maoris are very often unable to present a properly authenticated life- history to enable the Magistrate, according to the Act, to grant them a pension; and it is to meet this difficulty in cases where the Government feel & pension should be granted that the Civil List is invoked. It will not be a very large expense, and I think the Council will agree that it is only fair to our Maori brethren that they should have the advantage of the Act. Bill read the third time. Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said,-This Bill may seem to be a new Factories Act, but really there is not very much in it-that is to say, the contentious matter can be reduced to a very small compass. It is a consolidation Bill ; and, judging from the opposition to the Bill, it was opposition mainly on two or three points. The first point is the limitation of the hours of men. That, of course, is a good point, and relates to clause 18. Then, there is the limita- tion of the hours of women-as to whether factories can run at all when women and young persons are not to be allowed to work the same number of hours as men. Well, if a forty-eight hours working-week is supposed to be enough for a grown man, I do not think any one can doubt but that it is too much for a woman or young person; so I think forty-five is a fair compromise, especially as we have found by evidence that in the clothing-factories particularly, where the work is hard, con- stant, and trying, forty-five is virtually the number of hours the people are engaged during the week. There is another question that is also involved-as to whether boys are to be con- sidered boys up to the age of sixteen or eighteen. The Bill as originally brought down stated they were young persons up to the age of eighteen. The Committee relaxed that, and virtually said that, in their opinion, after the age of sixteen boys could look after themselves. With regard to that, I think Parliament ought to be very jealous over the health of the young people. and 1 that, considering what the public conscience is now, and how it is always ready to protect the health of those who labour, we should consider that question very well. I am not prepared to agree with the arguments of those who maintain that, unless the age is raised, and unless boys are allowed to work after the age of sixteen, certain trades would suffer. This style of argument I listened to with a greal deal of doubt. It is the sort of argument we have had ever since the hours of labour have been attacked on every occasion during the last fifty years, and therefore I am not pre- pared to take all the evidence with regard to this question without a considerable amount of doubt. But I think, after that, there is hardly anything in the Bill which is new matter, and which the Committee could not very easily settle. It will be noticed in the schedules that the Committee struck out the schedule of ex- emption. Well, that is certainly the more scientific way of dealing with that question .. The weak point in a Bill always is if exemp- tions are brought in, because it shows it will not work universally. But apparently the Com- mittee thought that the exemption clause was being worked too far, and sooner than bring other industries in under the exemption clause they preferred to strike all the exemptions out. That is a matter entirely for the Committee of the Whole to consider. I beg, Sir, that you do leave the chair presently. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Sir, this Bill, as my honourable friend says, although a long Bill, 