the question of expenditure account must be taken of expenditure of time and money of both employers and employed in attending the Courts, and of those who are dragged up as witnesses before the Boards and the Court. I think if all this is considered it will be found that the expense is very much greater than appears in a mere return of Court costs. On the whole, there is a good deal in this Bill which will improve the present state of the law, and I feel sure it will receive a fair consideration in Committee. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - The honourable gentleman who has just sat down has men- tioned, among other things, which I, on the whole, have every sympathy with, that in reckoning the costs of the Conciliation Boards we must include the expenses of those who have to go to attend the sittings of the Board, which will amount to a very considerable sum. Well, if we are going to do that, we must go back also to the days before arbitration and conciliation and reckon the cost of the strikes that have taken place. I am very glad to see that this debate has been remarkable for the friendly feeling that has been shown towards the legislation which we are now seeking to amend. Strange to say, the most discordant note which has been struck has come from my honourable friend the Hon. Mr. Rigg. But we all know that that honourable gentleman is thorough in one thing at least, and that is with regard to his attitude towards labour questions. And I do not wonder at it. is his end-all and be-all. He has from the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 first taken up the position of an ardent reformer in regard to labour matters, and, like all other reformers, he is more or less an extremist. But I cannot agree with the honourable gentleman when he expresses an opinion which seems to imply that what we are now doing is going to injure the law of conciliation and arbitration. I believe if we amend the law, as we are now asked to do in the measure before us, we shall very considerably improve it. We would afford the widest choice of tribunals to any person concerned in a dispute, and give the Court the fullest liberty in regard to the limitation or extension of its awards. So far as I can see, these are the two main points we have to deal with in the measure before us. I am one of those who believe that the Arbitration Court might be implicitly trusted to do its duty. It may be regrettable that it is necessary to alter our laws occasionally, if only for the rea- son that it is difficult to know sometimes how we stand in regard to the law upon any particular subject. But, Sir, laws, like living organisms, must justify their existence. They must be adapted to altered circumstances ; they must be changed with changing conditions. They must aim at the highest developments which are possible of attainment. But, for- tunately, we have no very serious task here before us. Our conciliation and arbitration law has operated so satisfactorily in the past that it has elicited the admiration not only of our own colonists and of those more particu- Hon, Mr. Bowen the disputes which have been settled, but also of people in all parts of the civilised world. The Hon. Mr. Ormond, however, in my opinion, indicated a blot in the existing legislation. His criticisms of the Wellington Conciliation Board were warranted by appearances, although there are some in the Council who seem to think they were not. They were not, indeed, based upon mere gossip. And, if the honour- able gentleman was wrong in his opinion in reference to the Wellington Conciliation Board, so were the whole of the public, for I must say from what I have read and heard con- cerning this body I think that its operations have not been such as to elicit the admiration of those who desire things to be done decently and in order. Sir, whilst certain members of the Wellington Conciliation Board have been conscientious men and fair partisans, obviously they have been associated with others who were not of that description ; and I think that such a tribunal, in order not to bring itself into con- tempt, in order not to be of the inferior quality which was depicted by the Hon. Mr. Bowen when he contrasted the Boards and the Court- I say that, in order that these things may not take place, the Boards should consist of men of large views and of sober judicial capacity. Well, I do not think it can be said that with regard to some of the members-I am obliged to put it in that way, because I do not want to be rankly personal-I do not think it can be said with regard to some of the members of the Wel- lington Board that they are of that high cha- It racter. As to the Chairman-well, I think he is more to be pitied than blamed. I do not envy him his task ; it has been a most unsatisfactory and difficult one to perform. Sir, it is not often that I have to agree with the Hon. Mr. McLean in the views he expresses in this Council, nor is it often that I have heard the honourable gentleman say that he believed the Govern- ment was right, as he did when he said that the Government had good reason for inserting the word "trades-union " in clause 2. It is strange indeed to hear the honourable gentle- man express an opinion that the Government has been right in anything. Then, there was another amendment with which the Hon. Mr. McLean agreed-that is, clause 3 including farmers, and making the law practically uni- versal in its application. I entirely agree with the honourable gentleman's agreement in re- ference to that clause. I think it is justified by the policy which we had in our mind, and which the country had in its mind, when this law was first instituted. Farmers are entirely in error in thinking that their inclusion in this law will act to their detriment in any way. Labour laws are not passed for the benefit of labourers merely-they are passed for the benefit of the whole of the community ; and it has tran- spired, and it has been clearly demonstrated, that the law is as advantageous to the masters as it has been to the men. An Hon. MEMBER .- More so. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- The honourable gentleman says " More so," and we find, in con- 