and expenses of that class, and they cannot un- derstand that it would cost anything like this amount ; but included in some of the accounts are the furnishing of Government Houses at Auckland and Wellington, amounting to some hundreds of pounds. Whilst the furnishing of Government House at Auckland, for instance, might be suitable for His Excellency, it would not be so for the Royal visit ; and we had to obtain furniture and other things for both places, and the accounts for these are sent to the Government. Mr. MASSEY .- Are they included ? Mr. SEDDON. - Yes, they are included. There is no harm in my giving as an illus- tration the account from Kirkcaldie and Stains, blankets, et cetera, £91 ; then, for other fur- nishing items, there is another account from Kirkcaldie and Stains for £81 ; so there are two items making £172. Mr. HORNSBY .- There was £700 voted last year for that. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member is a year out in his recollection. The extra fur- nishing for the unofficial rooms at Government Houses in Wellington and Auckland was voted two years ago. I do not think members would ask me to give other articles of a similar character, where the colony has received good value. There remains in hand the goods to credit. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where are they now ? Mr. SEDDON .--- In Government House at Auckland, and in Wellington. I have many a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 dozen vouchers for articles which are still the property of the colony. Mr. ATKINSON .- There is an item of £350 for lighting later on, for Government House. Mr. SEDDON .-- I have got an account here for $29 18s. from the Electrical Syndicate for extra lighting, and which is charged to His Excellency. What the honourable member points out will be in addition to this. At all events, those were the liabilities, and, after carefully going through the items, I have come to the conclusion that you cannot with self- respect question the payment. There are the items for glassware at Wellington and Auck. land which amounts to nearly $100, in addition to what I mentioned before. We have the goods still to the credit of the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- What will you do with them ? Mr. SEDDON .- They will remain at Govern- ment House, I suppose, or we may take and use them on our steamers, or, if necessary-al- though it would be at a sacrifice-we may sell them. If members were to look at the list sup- plied they would find that there was a very large amount of these items which at the present time are good value for the colony. The same, of course, applies to Christchurch and Dunedin. At all these places we have articles which were necessary for the visit, and which now remain to the credit of the colony and can be disposed of, and in some instances we have disposed of them. Members will see on the estimates that we have taken credit for $5,000. I would not Mr. Seddon an earnest desire to prevent either suggestions or statements being made that would detract from the course I think is in the best interests of the colony. I believe, myself, the colony would desire that we should pass this Bill through all its stages, relying upon the fact that the representative of the Crown has done his duty, and has not incurred more liabilities than were reasonable and right, and in our interests, and to promote the comfort and plea- sure of the Royal guests. It would be to me painful, and I should be greatly disappointed if what was threatened in respect to the esti- mates should now take place after we have changed the vote from the estimates and taken the course that is now before members. I say. under the circumstances, that the Bill should without lengthy debate be read a second time and be passed into law. \--- Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa). - I cannot understand the attitude of the Premier with regard to this matter. He says that when the \-- vote was removed from the estimates it was : so removed in the belief that it would go through without any difficulty. Why, I can tell the right honourable gentleman that if that vote had been kept on the estimates, or had there been an attempt to pass it in its original shape, there would have been a very strong show of antagonism, and it would have been con- tested step by step. We have heard from the Premier about the purchase of sheets, blankets, <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> glassware, and that sort of thing in connection with the reception and providing for the Royal visitors. Why, the whole of the money for that purpose was voted last year. It will be found on the estimates of last year; and surely, that being the case, we should not now be told that this £2,250 is for furnish- ings. There was a sum of £700 voted for refurnishing certain portions of Government House, Wellington, and prior to that there had 1 been a very large sum of money spent on Co- vernment House, Auckland ; so that the whole of this alleged expenditure was provided for in the estimates of last year. Sir J. G. WARD. -- The money was not spent. Mr. HORNSBY .- Whose fault was it if that money was not spent, and that this question is dragged on the floor of the House to-night ? But let us see if the money was or was not spent. I will give some figures : At Govern- ment House, Auckland, there was spent in re- pairs and improvements in 1899-1900, $1,149; and in refurnishing. $1,190: $2,339 altogether. The sum total of the amount voted for Auck- land Government House in repairs and re- furnishing in 1900-1901 was £2,449; for Govern- ment House, Wellington, there was spent in additions, restorations, and renovations in 1900, $740 ; and last year, as I have already stated, $700 was voted, making a total of #1,440 ; or a grand total on the Government Houses in the two cities of $3.889. Sir, in reply to the mem- ber for Riccarton, the Premier stated that this £2,250 was to be voted to cover expenses conse- i quent upon the feeding or provisioning of the 