man leave the chair. Motion negatived. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, That pro- gress be reported. Motion agreed to. Progress reported. TOUR OF THE DUKE AND DUCHESS OF CORNWALL AND YORK. A message was received from His Ex- 7.30. cellency the Governor transmitting the draft of the following cablegram from the Right Hon. J. Chamberlain, Secretary of State for the Colonies, dated London, 5th November, 1901 :- "Your telegram of the 2nd November has been laid before His Majesty and His Royal Highness the Duke of York, who desire their cordial thanks to be conveyed to both Houses of the Legislature for kind congratulations, which are warmly appreciated." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the message be recorded in the Journals of the House. Motion agreed to. # PUBLIC HEALTH BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor, transmitting the draft of a Bill to amend "The Public Health Act, 1900." On the question, That the message be referred to the Committee of the Whole, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Minister of Public Health to explain the pro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 visions of the Bill. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) said the Bill was necessary to provide certain amendments to allow of the proper adminis- tration of the Health Department, particularly in connection with the arrival of ships from foreign places, and other matters. Mr. HERRIES .- Nothing about vaccination in it ? Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked if the Minis- ter was making provision in this Bill so as to allow persons having conscientious objections to vaccination to get certificates of exemption, and proper notice being given, especially in country districts, of the extension of the provision with reference to certificates of exemption from vaccination. No proper notice had been given last year-especially in the back-blocks-of this privilege. Sir J. G. WARD said he proposed to take the necessary authority to have that done. He thought it was provided for in the Bill, and if not he would be glad, with the concurrence of the House, to insert such a provision in Com- mittee. Resolution agreed to, reported to the House and agreed to, and Bill read a first time. # OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. A message was received from the Legislative Council, intimating that the Council do not insist on its amendments in this Bill. A message was received from the Legislative Council, forwarding the following reasons for insisting on its amendments in this Bill :- " Definition of ' young person ' in interpreta- tion clause : The alteration in the age from eighteen to sixteen is made because if the age of eighteen is retained the working-hours of men will be seriously affected, whilst no hard- ship will accrue from boys over sixteen being allowed to work forty-eight hours. "Clause 18, subsection (1) (c) : While no hardship is inflicted by extending the hours in subsection (c) of clause 18 to five hours, the re- tention of four and a half hours would in many instances cause inconvenience both to men and employers. "Clause 19A : The restriction of boys' and women's work in woollen-mills to forty-five hours would necessitate the loss of three hours a week for all hands. " Clause 20 : The reason for this amendment is that there seems no necessity that men engaged in sawmills should be treated dif- ferently from men engaged in other mills. "Clause 32: It seems reasonable that, for the purpose of publishing a weekly paper, this privilege should be granted." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the House does not agree with the reasons, and that a Conference be asked for; and that Mr. Millar, Mr. Hutcheson, Mr. McNab, Mr. Tanner, and Mr. Seddon be appointed Mana- gers on behalf of the House. Motion agreed to. NELSON HARBOUR BOARD BILL. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) brought up the re- port of the Joint Committee on Bills on this Bill, to the effect that the Bill was a public Bill. He moved that the report do lie on the table. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) said that when the Bill was moved this afternoon by the Hon. the Minister for Railways he asked Mr. Deputy - Speaker's ruling whether the Bili was a public or a local Bill, and Mr. Deputy. Speaker said he was disposed to think it was a local Bill, but he would refer it to the Joint Committee on Bills for a report. There were nine members of the Joint Committee on Bills out of ten present at the meeting, and the Premier, although not a member of the Com- mittee, was present, and spoke very little as to whether the Bill was a local or a public Bill. but a great deal on the merits and objects of the Bill. The Premier said it related to the Bill passed last year constituting the Nelson Harbour Board, and he said that Bill formed part of "The Harbours Act, 1878." He (M: Graham) pointed out that the Act of last year was a special Act, and should be read subje! to the Harbours Act, but it was not an amend- ment of the Harbours Act at all. The Hon. the Premier then said that cutting through the Boulder Bank was a matter of grave national concern, and that this Bill was in the interest of the colony. The Premier also said that tenders for the work of cutting through 