persecuted for expressing opinions or for taking action in trade disputes. I have in my hand a list of officials of unions who have been dis- charged during the last six months. I am not going to give the names, because I do not think it would be an advantage either to one side or the other, but, as this document is signed by a responsible officer of a society, it may be taken as a document of value. First of all, Mr. A. B., Kaiapoi Woollen-mills, he was discharged. An Hon. MEMBER .- That has been read out twice already. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, I do not wish to take up the time of the Council. There are seventeen in this list as having been discharged during the six months, and the curious thing is that they are all officials of unions. Now, I admit the Bill goes so far as to protect these people during the currency of the strike, but is it not reasonable to suppose that they should be protected still further ? Why should they be in the position of being placed on a Board of Conciliators, and obliged under clause 6 to stand in the forefront of the battle, and if the battle goes against them, or if the employers think they are too strong, render themselves liable to be turned adrift ? Then, as to the Court of Arbitration, I have already said that Court is doing good work. One Judge now is able to do the work, because the work is prepared for him by the Boards in each district of the colony ; but I engage to say that if the Court has to do all the work it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 will take three Judges to get over the ground. The Boards in every part of the colony now pre- pare the ground for the Judge and his Court. They clear the ground. They get rid of twenty out of twenty-five points in each case. They settle some of them, and even in those that are not reached they induce the contestants to see reason even in each other's arguments, and that means when they go into the Court before the Judge they know exactly how much argu- ment they have got to rely upon; and if the Judge is able to settle a matter in three or two days, or in half a day, that has taken the Board a week or a fortnight, so much more to the credit of the Board, because it has cleared the ground and enabled the Judge to do the work in so much quicker time. But I am quite cer- tain, if you put all the work which this Bill in the shape in which it is now is going to put on the shoulders of the Court alone, you are going to require the colony to set up certainly two Judges, one for each Island, and I do not think that the two Judges will be able to keep the work going. Sir, I can only say I think the passing of this Bill will be a most retrograde step, although I am obliged through my posi- tion to move the third reading. I do not think the discussion to-day at all out of place, because it will place on record the opinion on this Bill of those who I believe are the best friends of the original legislation. I would be glad to think that this Council or Parliament could not be in- duced to pass the Bill we have now before us ; but still, as I say, it is my duty to move the third reading. my intention to say anything this evening, only some statements have been made-particularly by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson-in regard to the dismissal of some men employed in Christchurch by an employer connected with the tanning and curriers' industry ; and when I give a statement to the Council with regard to the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson's statements, I also wish, very briefly indeed, to refer to some names indicated by the Hon. Mr. Rigg. In regard to the latter honour- able gentleman, I merely wish to say, as he made a personal reference to me, those who- have gone to the thermal districts of Taupo and Rotorua will have witnessed the geysers there. At times these geysers are quiet and peaceful, and nothing at all comes out of them. Then, all at once, there is a terrible rush and great noise and explosion, and, after emitting a lot of disagreeable things, these geysers sink back again to the normal condition. My honourable friend Mr. Rigg can be compared to these geysers. He will come to this Council and make a special effort on one or two occasions, saying disagreeable things, and he will then sink back to his usual peaceful state, and you will hear nothing more from him for a considerable period. Now, I simply make that remark about geysers because he says he is going to make this question now before Parliament the means of rousing public opinion, and he is going amongst the farmers and others, and we do not know what he is not going to do, to bring the people to realise a sense of their responsibility. I say the honourable gentleman is one of the extinct volcanoes he spoke about ; he will really do nothing at all, but he will sink back to quietness and to the condition we generally find him in in respect to business before this Council. Now, Sir, the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson gave us the names of some people who were dismissed from their employment in Christchurch. The names mentioned by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson were : Messrs. Murphy (president), Goftow, Corlett, Newton, Wells (secretary), Cooksley (president), Wilson, Barnett, J. Milne, J. Milne (son), P. Hare. My honourable friend stated these men had been dismissed for being members and officials of unions. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I said I was told so. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Well, I say it is entirely wrong for any honourable member to make a statement in this Council-and more especially so in the case cited by him, which may prove very damaging, because the em- ployer happened to be in political life-before he is sure of his facts. I say the honourable member should, at any rate, ascertain the facts before he gives expression to his opinions. Sir, these men were not dismissed at all for being officials of the union. It was owing to this fact : that the business had to be rearranged owing to the case going before the Conciliation Board and Court of Arbitration, whereby the employers found that their expenses were be- coming too great, and that it was necessary to substitute machinery for the purpose of keep- ing their business together. The result was 