had been done," he alluded to the public in- terest taken in it, and also to the fact that an improvement was to be introduced by bringing the election of Hospital Trustees more in touch with the public, and giving the public a more direct voice in the management. He had here the correspondence he had received upon which he based his assertion that an improvement had taken place, which he would submit to the Minister. He might say, too, in connection with all letters he had received, that he always quoted these letters, and left the public to judge This is what he had said of their merits. previously :- " He had received sheaves of letters in con- nection with the Hospital mismanagement in certain cases, but for the truth or otherwise of these statements he, of course, was unable to vouch." Therefore he merely gave and based the statement on the letters he had received, and he would not have alluded to it again just now only he had received no reply from the gentle- man he sent this telegram to. The Chairman had not as yet signified to him that he would comply with his wishes. He had sent the first telegram away on the 18th, and received a reply on the morning of the 19th from the Chairman withdrawing the more serious reflection. Yet, although this was now late in the evening of the 21st, he had not as yet wired and agreed to correct his statement through the Press. There was, therefore, time to acknow- As ledge it, although, of course, not much. he (Mr. Mackenzie) might not have another https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 opportunity of alluding to this subject he thought he would make it quite clear on this occasion. He congratulated the Hon. the Minister for having introduced this measure. He believed the public would welcome it. He also felt sure that the expenditure of the heavy sums paid for charitable aid would be more closely scrutinised. It seemed to him that the honourable gentleman might have reasons for not electing lunatic asylum trustees within the scope of these elections, but in the absence of expert knowledge it seemed to him that it would not be at all a bad thing if some men con- trolling lunatic asylums were to be elected by the public. He would say no more as to this. Perhaps there were reasons why it should not be 80. He indorsed what the honourable member for Bruce had said in connection with the repre- sentation of the Medical School ; and he also thought, in connection with the Dunedin Hos- pital, that, instead of placing a young doctor who had just gone through the University in charge of the Hospital as house surgeon, they ought to employ a well qualified medical man who was recognised as a man of high attain- ments and who had had considerable experience in practice. He believed if they were to do that, very much greater confidence would be felt on the part of the public towards these public institutions. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) regretted that he could not join in the chorus of support that this Bill had received from members of | form of electing the Hospital and Charitable Institution Boards. The change was so drastic and would involve so much expense that he was surprised honourable members did not see what was implied in it At the present time, as honourable members were aware, these Boards were elected from the local bodies. The Bill proposed that they should bring about direct election at the hands of the ratepayers, and of persons who were entitled to have their names enrolled as voters. "Every person en- titled to vote at the election of a member of a local authority shall be deemed to be an elector under this Act, and shall have one vote, and no more." He took it that the whole County of Selwyn, of which he represented a part, would under this Bill periodically elect two members of the Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards. Look for a moment at the expense involved in that. There would necessarily be increased expenditure, because, in the first place, there would be the expense of printing the voting-papers. An Hon. MEMBER .- What does that mean ? A matter of $5. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked, Did the honour- able member know how many electors there were throughout the County of >elwyn ? There were seventeen Road Boards in the district, and they extended from Kaiapoi in the north, past Springheld towards the West Coast, and in another direction south until they reached as far as Rakaia. Instead of the simple method now adopted by which the Council elected its two members on the Board, they were going to bring in a system by which the whole of the road districts throughout the county, and the people themselves, were to have the responsi- bility thrown upon them of electing the mem- bers of the Hospital Board. Although the elections were to be held on the same day as the elections for the local authority, the Hospital Board would be debited with one- half the entire cost of the whole elections. The principle of direct election might be wise in small boroughs, but for a large district it was quite a different matter. The proposal involved an increase of expenditure. In the second place, what circumstances had arisen that rendered this system of election necessary ? He believed the whole agitation in connection with this proposal originated in Christchurch, almost exclusively from a certain small section of the community who were disappointed be- cause the local bodies declined to put up two ladies on the Hospital Board. He admitted that ladies performed useful service on such Boards, as the sympathetic element in woman rendered her especially adapted for work on such bodies. But was the election of ladies going to be rendered easier and more certain by a Bill of this kind? He thought not, be- cause women would usually be more likely to be elected by persons of their own sex; but under these proposals it would nearly always be the men who would go to the polls, and naturally they would elect men connected with the Road Boards or County Councils to whom in the 