to the principle of this Bill. Now, if I were asked which of the four Maori members I should place my confidence in in regard to Maori land administration I should give my preference to the members I have named. There has been no more successful representative of the Maori race in this House than the member for the Southern Maori District, Mr Parata. And I think he has accomplished, during the time he has been in Parliament, more for the Maoris of the Southern Maori District than has ever been done by the Maori representatives of the North Island. But there was one phase of the discussion that rather amused me as coming from the Maori members. All the Maori mem- bers complained of the inattention of the majority of the pakeha members of the House to Maori legislation, and pointed to the small attendance of members in the Chamber when they were speaking on this very vital question. Now, it struck me there are no members of the House who vote on questions that they take no pains to listen to the discussion of more than the Maori members. It is very seldom that they are in their place during the discus- sions in this House, but they are always here when it comes to a vote, and they nearly always vote with the Government; and if they do meet with similar treatment from members of the House in connection with measures that concern them they have no right to complain. I have consistently opposed the Native legisla- tion of the Government since I have been in Parliament, and not because I can conceive anything better than the Government propose, but because the Government have already on the statute-book the finest law that has ever been passed in this colony dealing with Maori land administration -a law we never have any serious amendments proposed in-a law which has stood the test of nine years' experience in the colony, and is giving more satisfaction every day that it is on the statute-book. I refer to the West Coast Settlement Reserves Acts. Speaking to one of the most prominent sup- porters of the Bill before the House, I asked him what objection there was to legislation affecting the rest of the Maori lands being passed on the same lines as that Act. First, he merely said it was objectionable ; but the only objection he could name was the cost of adminis- tration-that 74 per cent. was charged against the revenues derived from the land. Well, if the Maori Committees, Maori Council, or Maori trustees ever administer the Native lands at a maximum cost of 73 per cent. to the Maoris, I think there would be very much greater satisfaction with those tribunals than there ever has been in this colony. It seems to me a very great pity the Government cannot model their legislation on the lines of the West Coast Settlement Reserves Acts. They would have saved a very great deal of heartburning ; they would have saved the alienation of a very large amount of Native land ; they would have brought land into profitable occupation, and would have roaded it and settled it in a satis- factory manner without any cost to the State, and to those who occupied the land. Under these circumstances I cannot understand this continual fishing for a different sort of legisla- tion, this continual experimenting on lines which have proved to a very large extent not to be a success. I guarantee that no member in this House can point out to me any Maori land administration, except when the titles have been individualised, that has resulted in anything but disaster to the Maoris them- selves and to those who have acquired the lands from them. Reference has been made in the course of the debate to land- sharks, but the greatest sinners against the Maoris in depriving them of their lands have been the present Government. No Go- vernment has to anything like the same extent deprived the Maoris of their land at such a small price as the present Government has done. If there is to be any discussion on these lines, the present Government would have to defend themselves from these charges, and not private individuals. I quite agree with the honourable member for the Southern Maori District that the views of the honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay in regard to the individual- isation of Maori titles is the most satisfactory method of disposing of the question that the Maoris are likely to be deprived of their land so as to reduce them to a state of ponury. If Maori titles are properly individualised under the system suggested by the member for Hawke's Bay, and if those individual titles were made incapable of alienation, I feel certain that it would result in very much greater satisfac- tion to the Maoris than administration by any committee or Council of management, or any hybrid organization such as is proposed under this Bill. You will get no result, no satisfac- tion, but, as occurred in the case of the Maori trustees and committees, heavy expense, with a good deal of waste and a good deal of humbug. At the same time I must admit that I think the whole of the objections to this measure are objections to the main Act, and that the logical conclusion from the rejection of this Bill ought to be the repeal of the principal Act. Unfortu- nately, I do not think it possible that that can be effected, and therefore there is some reason in the arguments of those who urged that it is necessary to amend the Act, and that the amend- ments proposed in the present measure should be embodied in the law that is on our statute- book. I do not pretend to say whether that course is advisable, but I sincerely regret that no attempt is being made on the part of the Govern- ment to deal properly and sensibly with this old question of land administration. The system pursued in regard to the West Coast Native Land Settlement Reserves, of allowing Maoris to take out any portions of landsand lease those lands themselves, with an individual title, is, I think, a very satisfactory method of settling the question of landless Natives. And it would do away to a very great extent with the argu- ment that, while there are forty thousand Natives in the North Island, twenty thousand of them own the principal part of the five million 