afforded a means of protection against those gentlemen, whom I might designate as profes- sional libellers, and by this Bill the only mode of punishing those persons is by punishing them criminally. As I have said many times in this House, I will never institute a Civil libel suit, and I ask the Parliament to pass this Bill so that when I determine to take action it shall be a criminal action, so that I may some day put some of those gentlemen where I think they ought to be. I hope the honourable gentleman will proceed with his Bill. and I hope the House will not amend it as the honourable member for Wairarapa suggests, when the Bill is in Com- mittee. It has been said that this will remain on the statute-book and perhaps never be used. A good thing too that it should not be used ; but it will have the effect of preventing those gentlemen who are prone to misuse the powers they possess to the detriment and injury- sometimes the irreparable injury - of respect- able members of the community. I will assist the Premier to pass the Bill through Com- mittee, but I hope he will insist that the Bill shall be put on the statute- book this session. Mr. PIRANI .- What a show he has got. Mr. FISHER .- It depends merely upon his decision. The member for Palmerston need not think that if the Premier desires to pass this Bill it will not be passed. We who know the Premier recognise that if he says "This Bill shall pass," that Bill will pass ; and if he says it shall not pass, the honourable member for Palmerston may take it that it will not pass, and I say that to the Premier's credit, because https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 I am built on the same lines myself. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri). - Sir, 10.30. there was really no occasion for the last speaker to have lashed himself into such a state of furious indignation when informing us he was going to support the Bill and hoped to have it put through. The respectable Press of New Zealand have no objection whatever to a criminal libel Bill being placed on the statute- book- in fact, they have asked for it. Quite recently, when a judicial decision was given which showed us we had no criminal libel law in the colony, the Press at once advocated that such a law should be passed, and therefore in the face of that fact the indignation-or, shall I say, the assumed indignation-of the honour- able member for Wellington City was entirely out of place. He will find that some of the journalists in this House will assist in placing the Bill on the statute-book. I am free to admit that the measure goes rather far. I know it requires modification in some respects. There should be some alternative, for instance, in the sentence of five years' imprisonment. It should be "not more than five years." And there are other matters that require attention. This Bill is really more severe than the criminal law of England, dating as far back as 1843 do not rise for the purpose of criticizing the Bill at any length, because I recognise that at this stage of the session long speeches will not be listened to; but I do wish to raise my voice Mr. Fisher fair and reasonable and complete law of libel. In his own Government, as far back as 1893, the late Sir Patrick Buckley brought down a complete libel law which would have met all the requirements of the country, and at the same time protected the Press and satisfied the public When the Bill is in Committee I shall endeavour to draft one or two clauses for it. I shall endeavour to draft a clause giving newspapers a fair and reasonable amount of protection for their reports of public meetings. That is a fair and reasonable clause that every member in the House who thinks the matter out should support. And there is one other <!-- PageHeader="\------- --" --> clause I shall endeavour to have introduced into this Bill, and this one, at any rate, the House will not have any objection to. It was a clause introduced into the Government Libel Bill of 1893 ; it is in the English Act, and it is in the Bill I brought down :- "No criminal prosecution shall be com- menced against the proprietor, publisher, editor, or any person responsible for the publication of a newspaper, for any libel pub- lished therein, without the order of a Judge of the Supreme Court in Chambers." I think there is nothing whatever unreason- able in that, and every right - minded man ought to assist me in getting it inserted in the Bill in Committee. I am really astonished to see the bigotry that is manifested by some honourable members against newspapers -- men whose reputation has been built up by the Press of New Zealand, and who, but for the Press of New Zealand, would never have been heard of. These are the very men who oppose all Liberal legislation with regard to newspapers. Mr. DUNCAN .- 1 object to nothing that is reasonable . Mr. CARNCROSS .- The Minister of Lands tells me that he objects to nothing that is rea- sonable and fair ; and, that being so, I can count on his support for the two clauses I intend to draft for this Bill. I even hope the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) will assist me too. I say that the respectable Press of New Zealand has no objection to criminal libel. We do not wish the present state of affairs to remain, and we believe that a man who has criminally libelled a person should be subject to pains and penalties. I shall support the Bill, and endeavour to make two or three amend- ments in Committee. 1 Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I think this is a Bill which needs an Attorney-General to take charge of it, and it is to be regretted accordingly that there is no Attorney-General on the other side of the House who is able to do so. We are willing on this side of the House to fill the gap, and there are two or three Attorney-Generals here who will assist to make the Bill a workable measure. It is not to be supposed that the Premier should personally I have much knowledge of the technicalities of the law of libel ; but it is surely to be desired and expected that he would have shown a little more knowledge and interest in the subject 