his Bill in. What has the result been? No doubt there has been a good deal of friction, for that was to be expected. It was just like a manufacturer bringing a new and novel invention into his work. It would, possibly, at the first not work smoothly, and so might require alterations to be made. The same thing applies to legislation of this nature. A few remarks have been made about the disaster that will possibly accrue to trade. Let us look at the reference to the expense of the arbitration and conciliation cases. It looks, perhaps, in itself very large ; but you can only know whether it is large or small by comparing it with something else, and if you look back and see the enormous losses that were made in 1888 or 1889, at the time of the big strike, you would find that it is almost infinitesimal; and when you consider our position during recent years, and see the comfort on the side of the employer, who has the knowledge that he can carry on his business and make contracts for three or four years without any risk of disturbance or any fear of not being able to carry them through on the score of strikes and lock-outs, and on the side of the employés the knowledge that they cannot be turned out unless they do wrong, and that they have accepted an award that they must adhere to for the time for which it is given, the result is eminently satisfactory. Then, there is another advantage: the mere agitator now really has no occupation. If he is in a factory, and says, "Jack, we ought to get so-and-so," what do his mates say ? They https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 say, " We have now got a system and a law by which we can get what we think are our rights. Our case has gone before the proper tribunal, and it has been fixed for two years that we are to get a certain thing; and, there- fore, if you want to disturb our agreement you have no place here. We have got what we fought for, and what the Legislature has given us ; and we have to abide by that, and so has the employer ; therefore, you must go out of here, because there is no need for you." Is not this conducive to good work being done ? Now, Sir, as to the great fear that has been so often expressed in respect to the risk of outside competition being fostered through this legisla. tion : It is said by some who are opposed to all labour Acts that you have to be careful that you do not drive the business out of the coun- try. Well, now, when you come to consider the great improvement in manufacturing in recent years, and the great saving which has been effected by improved machinery, you will see that what you may call industrial development implies the law of industrial dis- placement, and by the displacement of the old forms of machinery with the new methods you have brought down the cost of production so much that the rates of wages advance caused by the legislation is simply a bagatelle in comparison-it is almost nothing. If wages are increased you find that a man at once sets to work to devise some method whereby he can reduce the cost. In fact, it is an incentive for him to do so, and so we have seen the great Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith about. And thus it is, Sir, that I say the small advances we make here in wages, the small difference that will be made by these restrictive regulations, as some honourable gentlemen call them-but which, having been accepted by both parties, lead to the advan- tage of both - it is, I say, so small that it will never be felt, or, if felt at all, it will be much more than compensated for by the fact of the knowledge that matters go on on a certain basis for so long, whereby you get a continuity of procedure which gives confidence to productive enterprise. And, Sir, with regard to its limiting production and destroying our trade, let me say a few words about that. The late Mr. Brassey, the great contractor, on the question of compara- tive cost of labour under conditions of high or low wages, said, " I have made railways all over the world, and I have paid all kinds of rates ; high rates and low rates ; but British labour and the British workman I have always found, under all circumstances and conditions, was the cheapest, because his application, his industry, and his reliability tell in the long- run, no matter what rate is given to him, in comparison with foreign labour." And, then, as to shorter hours, it is well known at Home that large manufacturing concerns there have adopted the eight hours, and that they have found that with the willingness, the freshness, the better ability of the men to carry through their day's work, the eight-hour system has resulted in a great benefit. I will give the experience of a company which I know some- thing of. It used to work ten hours a day; then it came down to nine hours, and there still was dissatisfaction. Then, the manager said, " Let us try eight hours, and see if there is anything in the men's contention that they can do as much work in eight hours as they can do in nine." The fact of the matter is this : there has been eighteen months' experience of that, and the turn-out is just as much ; the machinery runs more regularly, and the men are stronger and fresher, with the result that the output is practically the same as before. That is not an isolated case. I can point to other manufactories that have done the same. There are several factories at Home working on this system. They do not complain : they are making money and doing well. Then, Sir, as to another supposed result of all this legislation to our colony : It was anticipated in the first instance that capital would be driven away, and that there would be disorganization all round. There was fear and trembling that there would be a diminution of production, and, in point of fact, the whole ground was covered which im- plied disaster as the result of the introduction of this Bill and of other labour measures. Now, what are the facts ? I am not going to weary the Council with figures. Honourable gentle- men can read them for themselves ; but if you look at any statistics, if you look at the grain production, if you look at our manufactured productions, if you look at every conceivable indicator, you will find increases. Then, 