-company are opposed to the sale. Mr. J. ALLEN .- We are told now that the directors of the company are opposed to the sale. Well, where is the agreement ? It seems to me the thing is wholly wrong, and I hope members will delay consideration of the Bill till next session. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Sir, this Bill is so important that it appears to me it is the duty of the House to carefully scrutinise its provisions. In the first place, we are asked to take a responsibility on the part of the colony of about a million of money in con- nection with the purchase of the railway. I admit the importance of this piece of railway to the North Island system, but I am not pre- pared at this hour of the morning, and in the very expiring hours of the session, to say that, on the bald and bare statements made to the House, Parliament should saddle the colony with this very large responsibility. The Bill proposes that the sum of £1 10s. per share shall be paid on 170,000 shares. Now, I hold in my hand the New Zealand Trade Review and Prices Current, a paper of recognised commercial standing, issued in Wellington. It is dated the 7th November-this very day-and in the line opposite "Manawatu Railway Company " I find the latest market price of the shares is £1 7s. Now, a paper like this is presumably corrected up to date, yet the Government proposes to pay £1 10s. on the whole 170,000 shares. The pre- sumption is that if you buy a small parcel of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 fifty or a hundred shares you pay the market rate, but that when you are dealing with the whole of the shares you ought to be able to get a better price than 3s. higher than the market rate. I have also looked up the latest London http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero quotations in the British Australasian, and find that the Home price is from $1 to £1 5s. Now, what is laid before Parliament to show the value in connection with the line? The Minister for Railways says that Mr. Coom and Mr. Hudson have gone into the question and say it is a good purchase. Well, where is their report? Where are the official reports by the Government officers, and by any other experts that the Government might have thought it necessary to obtain to justify Parlia- ment in incurring this large responsibility ? Have we any report as to the life of the rail- way, as to its condition, as to the life of the rolling-stock that may remain, as to whether the lands that are held are of the value set forth in the schedule, and as to whether the balance due on land-purchases is what is stated ? What guarantee is there to the House in any shape or form that this is not buying " a pig in a poke"? I say it is not fair on the part of the Government, in connection with a large and important matter like this, to spring a sur- prise on the House at this hour-a surprise which no one contemplated, and after a number of honourable members have returned to their homes. I do not know what data the Govern- ment have had prepared in connection with this matter, but I know that the statement of the 17th August. It is quite evident that as far back as the 17th August the Government had determined to buy the line ; if complete negotiations had not been entered into, at any rate they had brought them to that point where a balance was struck as to the cash in hand and the value of the stores-and yet the matter is not brought before Parliament until nearly twelve o'clock at night on the very last night of the session. Sir J. G. WARD .- You are a grossly unfair man, and you are misrepresenting the position. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I decline to submit to the statement of the Minister for Railways that I am deliberately unfair and am grossly mis- representing the position. That statement I leave to be judged by the country. Yet, in the face of what I have stated as to the absence of official reports and the value of the shares, we are told, in the dying hours of the session, that to-day is the first occasion on which the Govern- ment were in a position to bring the matter down. I ask, What loss will be sustained by the colony if this matter is left over until next session ? We should have an impartial investi- gation as to whether these shares are worth 30s. What harm is going to happen by a delay ? The shares are evidently falling in value. Last year 35s. per share was asked ; now there is a prospect of 30s. being ac- cepted. The Government have been fighting the company for a considerable time, and they have endeavoured by their railway arrange- ments to depreciate the value of the company's property. The railway time-tables are so framed as to assist in minimising the value of the com- pany's lines. What harm, I ask, will happen if this matter is postponed to another session ? Sir, the Government should come down as busi- ness-men, and treat us as business-men, and bring before us the data upon which the House may consent to vote this sum. The honourable member opposite referred to the debentures pay- ing 5 per cent. Why, the policy of the Ministry is that our railways shall only pay 3 per cent., and yet for the next six or seven years we will have to carry this €680,000 of 5 per-cent. de- bentures on the back of the colony, and make the railway produce that amount as well as pay working - expenses. I say the House is entitled to see the balance-sheet of the com- pany in order to see whether the revenue of the line is sufficient to pay the 6 per cent. dividend which was paid on the last occasion. Then, we should also have the fullest and most complete schedules of the assets, lands, unpaid purchases, and full particulars as to what the value of those assets are. Lastly, I say we are entitled to have official reports laid on the table of the House as to the condition of the line and as to its value-reports not only by Government ex- perts, but if necessary by experts from outside. Mr. SEDDON .- That has been done. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The Premier says, " That has been done." Then, why are we not supplied with this data? Members are asked to face a serious responsibility, and, coming 