fitted to perform their work at their present age the temptation. than many younger men. To be deprived of " temptation " or the word " bribe," and he did the mature experience of Mr. Rose would be a distinct loss to the colony and to the public not hint at either. service. On general principles he was in favour of the retirement of public servants at or a had forgotten what he said. It would, of course, be impossible to get from the honour- little over the age of sixty ; but to apply that principle arbitrarily and suddenly now would able member what he really did say; but if be attended with mischievous results. any honourable member knew of any circum- Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said he had a prior stances such as the honourable member for amendment to move. He moved, That the item Auckland City had related about a public " Collector of Customs, Auckland, $575," be re- officer, he was not doing his duty unless he daced by $25, in order that the salary might be exposed the conduct of the persons he hinted brought back to the same level as the salaries at. It was a pity the honourable member was not careful in making insinuations about the of the Collectors at the other ports of the colony. He did not intend to vote for the amendment way public officers carried out their duties. to reduce the vote by £1 as an indication that He (Mr. Pirani) believed that Mr. Rose was a man should be retired when he reached the a straightforward public officer, and he would age of sixty years, for the reason that there not believe that any one had ever attempted to bribe him to do what was not his duty. were many men at seventy years of age who were far better fitted for business than others Mr. Rose was one of those officers whose salaries were reduced in 1888. It had not yet been at nfty-five years of age, and in these cases he brought up to the original amount, and the thought it was just as well to leave the respon- House should therefore support the proposed sibility with the Minister in charge of the de- increase of £25. He hoped the honourable partment, who was better able to decide the member who moved the reduction would not question than members of the House. press it. He would like to ask the Minister if Mr. MONK (Waitemata) felt that some in- Mr. Mckellar was retired because he was over justice was exhibited by the desire of honourable age, and, if not, for what reason was he retired ? members to reduce this vote. He thought it would be an ungracious act if they tried to re- dice this officer, who had given the country said was that pressure had been improperly exercised in Mr. Rose's case-and be presumed forty years' efficient service, when an increase of #25 was put on his salary. He felt and said also in other cases. Money was not offered, but there was pressure exercised of another kind. this as one who, in company with the Pre- mier, had voted for retrenchment, by which this officer's salary had been reduced, in 1888. One to support the amendment of the member for argument was used by some members that this Kaiapoi. He did not think the statement chắcer was paid more than other officers in which had been made with regard to the amount of work done was borne out by the similar situations. His answer was to ask mem- bers to find out the amount of 'work they had facts. He thought the Collectors of Customs at Auckland, Dunedin, Wellington, and Christ- done, and their length of service as compared church ought to be placed on the same footing. with that of Mr. Rose. Mr. MILLS was not personally acquainted That was why he protested against the increase with all the officers in the different depart- proposed to be given to this officer. He wanted ments in the colony, but he believed that the to know the principle which guided the Minis- otheers who occupied high positions were men ter with reference to these increases. If it of long service, of strict integrity, and who applied to the increased work at Auckland, then did their duty to the colony. In reply to that principle was not applied to other places. the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), he wished to say that seniority curred in the service to which officers were did not always guide appointments : it never appointed, and those officers carried with them had ; special fitness, with merit and seniority, the salaries they had been receiving. were always considered. He had in his hand a list of all the officers in his department, and Minister to state where the Chief Clerk at Dun- edin, who received a salary of £390, had gone ? there was quite a number of cases of men who had advanced but little since they entered the Had he been appointed Collector at Timaru ? service, but they were satisfied, for the reason that they had fair salaries. the same salary he received at Dunedin. He Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the member carried with him the salary he enjoyed in the for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) had told the larger centre. In answer to the honourablo House that he knew of instances in which member for Palmerston, Mr. Mckellar had attempts had been made to bribe the Collector been retired on account of being over age. at Auckland. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) said he did not forcible instance of the manner in which the Government were carrying out the retirement Say SO. Mr. PIRANI said, Well, the honourable system. Mr. Mckellar was an officer than gentleman hinted at it. He said that, notwith- whom there was no more efficient in the service, standing that inducements had been offered to and he knew of any number of less efficient offi- Mr. NAPIER said he never used the word Mr. PIRANI said the honourable gentleman Mr. NAPIER might explain that what he Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said he intended Mr. MILLS said, Vacancies sometimes oc- Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) wished the Mr. MILLS said he had gone to Timaru, at Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said this was a 