Ensign Bill-Criminal Code Bill-Railways Au- thorisation Bill-Public Trust Office Bill-School Attendance Bill-Military Pensions Bill-Old-age Pensions Bill-Factories Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at twenty-five minutes past eight o'clock, p.m. PRAYERS. SECOND READING. Statutes Revision Bill. BILL DISCHARGED. Statutes Revision Bill. NEW ZEALAND RAILWAYS. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he wished to lay on the table the following return, which he thought was of sufficient im- portance to place on record :- " Statement giving Comparison of the Cost of various Works paid for out of Revenue and Capital during the last Financial Year. Revenue. Capital. Total. - £ £ £ 29,663 172,258 Permanent - way, in- 142,595 cluding sleepers Bridge strengthening 12,193 55,593 43,400 and renewals Buildings (renewals) 33,770 33,770 . . Additions to buildings 7,834 47,680 55,514 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and other works 227,599 89,536 317,135 http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero " Statement giving Comparison of the Cost of Maintenance per Mile charged to Revenue during the last Ten Years. Year. Year. € £ 1896-97 1891-92 130.89 149.14 .. .. 159.34 1892-93 1897-98 139.86 .. .. 1898-99 1893-94 140.05 171.74 .. .. 1894-95 138.22 1899-00 186.42 .. .. 1895-96 140.88 1900-01 194.61 .. .. " Statement showing Amounts charged to Re- venue for maintaining the New Zealand Railways, as compared with another Colo- nial Railway of the same Gauge. "NEW ZEALAND. Per Mile. Total. Permanent-way (cost of wages £ £ and materials) 303,460 .. 139.6 Bridges, works, and buildings 50.6 109,999 "QUEENSLAND. Per Mile. Total. Permanent-way (cost of wages and materials) . 104.8 286,426 Bridges, works, and buildings 32.8 89,712 "T. RONAYNE, General Manager. " Railway Department, Head Office, Wellington, 5th November, 1901." had been commented upon without an authori- tative return showing the position, would, at all events, be useful to honourable members, and of considerable interest to those who took an interest in railway affairs. He hoped it would prevent misapprehension and misconception in the minds of those who were anxious to know what was being done out of revenue and out of capital in regard to the great railway-works in the colony. The return fully bore out all he had previously stated on the matter. He moved, That the return do lie on the table. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Minister when a return that had been ordered by the House on his motion with respect to the rails and the sleepers would be laid on the table. He could foresee there would be no difficulty in get- ting the return, because there had been no diffi- culty in getting the return the Minister now sought to lay on the table. He regretted that a return similar to this was not given earlier in the session. He did not see why these particu- lars that they had been clamouring for were not included in the Railways Statement, so that members might tell how much of revenue and how much of capital was being used in the maintenance of the railways. He would ask the Minister to include in the return the num- ber of train-miles run, because it must be obvious to the House that the maintenance expenses would increase with the number of train. miles run. Mr. R. McKENZIE .- That is in the Rail- ways Statement. Mr. J. ALLEN said, Yes, but it ought to be in this return. The Minister had quoted the Queensland railways, and said the amount spent out of revenue was so-much per mile, and he had compared it with the amount spent out of revenue in New Zealand. That, however, could be of little value unless they knew the number of train-miles run in New Zealand and compared the number run in Queensland. With that information before them they would be able to judge whether the expenditure per mile could be fairly put alongside the expendi- ture of another colony. For instance, he was sure of this : in the previous years, where the expenditure was shown to be less per mile, the number of train-miles was much less, and therefore the expenses would be much less too. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said that at this late stage of the session one was glad to see anything in the shape of a return from a Minister. This return, however, was one that it suited the Minister to lay on the table, and it was not the sort of return members had wanted. Without seeing and reading the return, and com- paring it with other returns, it was practically useless at the moment. A comparison had been drawn between the expenses of repairing the New Zealand railways of ten years ago and those of to-day ; but the Minister forgot to say that the railways were now ten years older, and therefore the cost of maintenance must go on steadily increasing if, as he maintained was the case, they had not been properly maintained in the past ; and then, no doubt, the comparison 