ported for that purpose. We had got timber in the Auckland District superior to anything that could be imported. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why do you import sleepers ? Mr. SEDDON said that they could not get puriri in the quantity and at the price, and that was the reason. He at once disclaimed that these rates had been fixed with a view to making a differentiation with respect to the timber of other colonies ; but it was a well- kuown fact that the other colonies now were putting on a special rate for the export of timber that was coming to our country. Now, they were, with a view of exporting timber, reducing the freight on the railways for white pine, and in this respect he would repeat that we ought to encourage in our country the use of our own hard timbers. This was a small impost, and he did not suppose on a gate it would amount to more than 1s. Mr. BUDDO .- It would make 3s. difference on a gate. Mr. SEDDON said, If it made that differ- ence, they ought to use New Zealand timber. # PRODUCE MARKETS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Premier, When he proposes to bring down a Bill, as promised earlier in the session, to compel the larger Municipal Corporations of the colony to esta- blish markets for produce? There was no occasion for him to introduce the question at any length. It was well known that there was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 no satisfactory market for European - grown garden produce in the colony. That had been evidenced over and over again by the ex- periences of settlers, who had taken up small areas of land in the hope of making a living for themselves and families, when they found that the profits were entirely eaten up by the middlemen, Chinese rings, and so on. The Municipal Corporations Act gave power to the Corporations to establish markets, but it did not make it obligatory on them to do so. The Premier had already expressed his opinion that the true remedy for this evil was the establish- ment of markets in the large towns, and in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Masterton this session, he promised to bring down a measure dealing with the sub- ject. What he (Mr. Field) desired to know now was the date when the Government pro- posed to bring down that measure. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said a good deal depended on the progress made by other busi- ness of a more important character. He was of opinion himself that the larger cities in the coiony ought to establish markets in the inter- ests of the producers as well as in the interests of the consumers. There was no doubt that under existing conditions the market garden producers were considerably handicapped, and to have a market so established where the people could go and obtain for themselves their produce, and dispense with the middlemen, which were practically Chinese so far as Wel- lington was concerned, and, he believed, also in I of the mine as it really was his name thing. If the Government found that the local bodies were remiss in doing their duty, and not do without compulsion that which was wanted in the public interest, then, perforce, Parliament would have to do its duty, and in the interests of the consumer and producer compel the establishment of these markets ; but whether they would be able to do it this session or not was another matter. He was afraid by the time they got the Counties Bill through it would be rather late to bring on an amendment of the Municipal Corporations Act. # VOLUNTEER CAPITATION. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether, in view of the additional expense and requirements of field artillery as compared with infantry corps, the Government will increase the capitation allowance to the former branch of our Volunteer forces ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said there was a recommendation made by the De- fence Committee last session to the effect that an increase should be made ; but, as it meant providing capitation for eighteen thousand Volunteers this year, compared with practi- cally half that number last year, they came . to the conclusion to hold it over and make further inquiry, and see really what Parlia- ment had to say in respect to this heavy ex- penditure. A good deal in respect to this matter would depend on the discussion they would have in Committee on the Defence esti- mates. In the meantime, it is a case of taihoa. # ADJOURNMENT. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved the ad- journment of the House. He did so because of the unsatisfactory nature of the reply given by the Minister of Mines. He asked the Minis- ter if, in the interests of human life, he would make provision, either in his Coal-mines Bill or on the supplementary estimates, for the ap- pointment of competent miners at each coal- mine in the colony employing ten men or over for the purpose of assisting the Inspector of Mines in his duties of inspection by sending him a monthly report on the working of the mine and performing such other duties as may be defined by the Minister of Mines; and also make provision for the payment of a small sum of money per annum as a retainer to such men as may be appointed. In referring to this matter he felt the urgency of it so much that he felt compelled to move the adjournment of the House. What reply did the Minister give him in regard to that question? He quoted section 43 of the Mines Act, and he said the miners' duty was to report anything wrong in the mine ; and, secondly, that the miners had power to appoint two men at their own cost to report as to the state of the mine. The honourable gentleman knew they had that power to appoint Inspectors for years and years, but had rarely ever taken advantage of it. If a man dared to report the state 