crease so long as the traffic of the country goes on expanding. It is necessary to have fresh rolling-stock, and also to have a relaying system by which heavier rails are laid ; and we must therefore have, in consequence, heavier expendi- ture on the lines, as I have indicated. Surely no person in his right senses wishes to see our railway-traffic decrease. We all want it to increase ; and that means the growth or ex- pansion of our country. Now, as to this ques- tion of depreciation, referred to by the honour- able gentleman, why, the very system carried out in connection with the railways of this and every other country in the world is to avoid de- preciation being established by a sinking fund, and you cannot find any railway company or any State-owned railway in any country that sets aside a 3-per-cent. sinking fund for depreciation. For what reason ? Because if the timber and material of the wagons, engines, or carriages, or anything else used, deteriorate in the slightest you must put them in the workshops, and repair them. Railway rolling-stock must of necessity be kept in good condition, otherwise it would not be safe to use it on the lines; and those repairs and renewals are all effected out of revenue. It is done out of revenue in this country. It is by this expenditure that you keep your rolling-stock up to date, and that is why you do not require to provide a deprecia- tion fund. It must be clear to the most un- thinking that if you keep all your stock in good order out of your revenue, and if you set aside a sinking fund in addition, it would be providing for repairs twice over, and, even if we were foolish enough to provide it, it would be ruinous to the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Mana- watu Railway Company ? Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member used that argument. He said that the Mana- watu Railway Company had written off £191,255. The honourable member will find that originally, before they completed the making of their rail- way they charged interest on loans which had been obtained for the making of the railway to their capital, and that has not been done on the public railways of this country, and never will be done. I can assure the honourable member that it is a well-known fact that the Mana- watu Railway Company added to the cost of the railway by adding to the capital the in- terest on the money raised in the first in- stance, before the railway had been completed by the expenditure of that money. Now, that was entirely wrong. I do not use the word wrong in the sense of implying that anything has been improperly done, but I say as a matter of system or procedure it was entirely wrong. What is the result ? That when the railway was finished they added the cost of their in- terest to the capital; and it goes without saying that, the railway not having had the amount of interest they paid expended in making the railway, the line could not have cost that sum with the interest added, and it had there- fore to be written off, and that has evidently misled the honourable member. VOL. CXJX .- 52. your interest ? Sir J. G. WARD .- It has been charged all through the piece to the Consolidated Fund of the country, and the difference between the interest paid on the capital cost of the railways of New Zealand and the actual amount earned has all along been borne by the country. It has never been the custom to add the cost of interest to the capital expended in the making of our railways. If the interest on the cost of the railways of this country average 4 per cent., and the interest earned is only 3 per cent., the State, which is the owner of the railways, is entitled to provide the difference of 1 per cent. I say every member in this House knows that for many years past the country has been able to lower the rates of interest it pays on moneys used for making its railways, and I say that 3 per cent. is quite sufficient to take out of the railways of this country. You ought to give the users of the railways the lowest rates, both for passengers and goods, that is possible, and so help the development of the country, and therefore the policy of the Government is to give the advantage of anything beyond 3 per cent. to those who use the railways, and after making proper provision for maintenance and renewals out of revenue. Captain RUSSELL .- That is not what is done. Sir J. G. WARD .- I tell the honourable member, with all due deference, that he is entirely mistaken. It is what is done. I am certain the honourable member must get his information from a prejudiced source. Captain RUSSELL .- I get my information from the official papers. Sir J. G. WARD. -- Well, the honourable gentleman entertains a view which is abso- lutely wrong, and no official papers show any- thing of the kind stated by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. During the last few days I have taken this trouble myself to go into a few of the details of the matter, and I say that the whole of the expenditure out of capital account, and the whole of the expendi- ture out of revenue for the maintenance and working-expenses of the railways of this colony, has been administered properly by the officers intrusted with the carrying of it out, and there has been no interference by the Minister for Railways or any member of the Government, or any suggestion to them that they should divert any portion of the capital money for the purpose of renewals or main- tenance in any part of the colony. And what object could the responsible officers of the colony have in doing anything which could be regarded as improper in using the capital account other than as it ought to be? If they were using the capital account in the way the honourable member says, they would not be worthy of the position they hold. They have not been requested by me, nor by my prede- cessor, nor by the Colonial Treasurer, to do any such thing ; and why should they do it ? There is no answer from the honourable member to it. If they were to do it, it would only be for 