member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that the differ- ence was this : There was not the connection. so to speak, between one honourable member and another that there was between members of the Cabinet. # FARMERS' UNION. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether they will have branches of the New Zealand Farmers' Union throughout the colony supplied with all Bills affecting the interests of farmers and country districts ? The Farmers' Union had now apparently become a firmly established institution on non-party lines, and as such its deliberations and doings were likely to be for the good of the country, and the good it was likely to do would be curtailed if the various branches had not an opportunity of seeing Bills dealing with matters affecting farm- ing interests before they were dealt with by the Legislature. One of the first functions of the union seemed to him to be to criticize measures dealing with farming matters. Not only was the exercise by the union of that function a vast benefit to the farmers, but it was also an enormous assistance to many members who represented farming constituents, because many of these members could not be expected to un- derstand all the intricacies of farming interests. He (Mr. Field) confessed to being such a mem- ber, and he looked forward with gratification to the assistance which the union was likely to render him. He trusted the Minister would see his way to comply with this most reasonable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 request. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) might say at once that every Bill introduced into the House affected farmers. It did not, perhaps, affect them directly, but it had some effect on them. The honourable member doubt- less meant Bills that affected the farmers di- rectly ; and he thought there would be no difficulty about that, because, so far as he knew, any one who applied through the library, or to any member of the House or any member of the Government, for Bills affecting them or their interests had been supplied with them. But to send the Bills to every one would mean that they would require to be furnished with a list showing where they were and how the Bills were to be despatched to them. Any one who applied he would see that, as far as he was able, they were supplied with Bills. # FOREST RESERVES. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Go- vernment, Whether, out of the large blocks of land that they intend to open up for settle- ment in Kawhia County, they will make reserves of native forest of, say, one hundred or one hundred and fifty acres at reasonable in- tervals of distance ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he bad had this question in his mind for some time, and it was brought prominently before him during his last tour through the North | made a recreation-ground, and placed under Mr. Seddon and see nothing but black stumps and no shelter, and in a few years the people in those districts would be at their wits' end to get a piece of timber. In future it would be neces- sary to cut out patches of the best timber and have it reserved. A very small area would not be worth reserving, because there must be a sufficient area to give shelter for itself, other- wise it could not exist. He would do what he could to have such places as those mentioned by the honourable member reserved when cutting up new country. # SANATORIUM AT TURAKINA. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If he will vest the Government reserve at the mouth of the Turakina River in the Lethbridge Town Board for the purposes of a public sanatorium and seaside resort ? He would point out to the Minister that there was a vast tract of land between the Rangitikei and Turakina Rivers, a distance of sixteen or seven- teen miles, and there was no access for the public from the inland country to the sea- shore except at the two rivers he had men- tioned. At the mouth of the Turakina there was a reserve of a small area, which was origi- nally intended as a ferry reserve. The Natives, however, claimed the reserve ; but he had ascer- tained from the department that the Natives were not, as shown by the records, entitled to it. Now, this reserve consisted partly of grass land and partly of drifting sand. The people in the locality of Turakina and inland, and espe- cially those in the Town District of Lethbridge, were anxious to have something like a saua- torium, where they could in the summer-time take their families, and this reserve would be a very suitable spot if the Minister could see his way to dedicate it to a Board. He would sug. gest that the Natives in the locality should have the same right of access and use of the reserve as the Europeans. He would further point out that, unless something was done to prevent the sand drifting. in the course of a few years the reserve would not be worth any- thing either to the Natives or to any other person. He understood from the principal residents in the locality that they would be prepared to do something towards arresting the drifting sand, and he therefore hoped that the Minister would see his way to favourably con- sider this question. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, As stated by the honourable member, this reserve was made many years ago, and was shown as a ferry reserve on the oldest maps in the dis- trict office. It contained about seventy-fiveacres, and was used when traffic went along the coast as a crossing. place for stock, et cetera. It was at present under no one's charge, unless, probably, the County Council took an interest in it. He thought it was not now wanted for the original purpose for which it was reserved, and might be vested as asked for. A public sanatorium, how- ever, was not one of the purposes for which Crown lands might be reserved. It could be 