sideration. To his (Captain Russell's) mind this was a Bill directly adverse to the prin- ciple which honourable members talked about so much - namely, democracy - because it was perpetuating the mana of the chief to the detriment of the tribe, and preventing the subdivision of Maori lands. The Native Minister might dissent from that view, but he challenged the Minister to say that he honestly agreed with this Bill. He might point out also that the member for the Northern Maori Dis- trict had completely changed his views upon the question. A year or two ago there was no stronger advocate for individualisation. But he (Captain Russell) might say that his sole ob- ject in rising was to urge that on this and on many other occasions members should insist on the Standing Orders being observed, and that Bills should not be debated at improper hours and forced through Parliament without time being allowed even for their perusal. Questions affecting the Native race ought to be dealt with not in the dying hours of the session, but particular days, at fixed intervals, through the session, should be specially set aside for their discussion, so that all those who had a know- ledge of or took an interest in Native questions would know when they were coming on for dis- cussion. The present position was that two very important Bills dealing with Maori people had been brought down to the House, referred to the Native Affairs Committee, were not yet reported on, were unread by members ; yet they are told the session was to close in seventy-two hours. Members should insist on business being done properly. It should not be carried through by the brute-force of the majority. It was be- cause the majority used brute-force on all oc- casions that the minority were occasionally forced to retaliate by the brute-force of " stone- walling " as the only method of calling atten- tion to matters in which they were keonly interested. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said the de- bate had to a certain stage been characterized by an entire absence of personalities. The member for Pahiatua, however, had made an attack on him which he (Mr. Fraser) would not reply to. All he would say was that he could stand in his constituency and his past and present career would speak for itself. He would not take up the attitude the member for Pahiatua had descended to-the attitude of making a personal attack on a member of the House. The honourable gentleman blamed him for wasting the time of the House, but, as a matter of fact, the honourable gentleman himself, together with the member for Taieri, had taken up exactly a similar position in re- gard to a measure to which they were opposed. It had since been shown that they were justified in stonewalling as they did ; and, the course he (Mr. Fraser) took last night being on the same lines, the honourable member for Pahiatua should not have objected to it. It was only by taking the course he did that he could show his opposition to this Maori-land legis- lation finding its way to the statute-book. VOL. CXIX .- 69. temata referred to a petition he (Mr. Fraser) re- ceived within the last quarter of an hour. A deputation of Natives waited upon him and asked him to present this petition, which pro- tested in no unmeasured terms against this Bill being brought into operation in their district. It was signed by one thousand four hundred Na- tives, and therefore, as the Native Minister had said he (Mr. Fraser) was simply expressing his own wish and view on this measure, the petition had come in good time, because it was the best defence to that that he supposed he could have. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- What district do they come from ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER said, from the East Coast, and they were Natives he had never seen or spoken to in his life before to-day. He thought, if anything could speak in stentorian tones against this measure, which he had fought all through the night, it was this petition. He had fought against the measure because he be- lieved it to be wrong. In regard to the amend- ment of the member for Pahiatua, let him tell the House that permeating through the whole of our Native-land legislation, and the conduct of the business of the Native Affairs Committee with respect to any petition or ques- tion affecting the Native race, was the provision that no party could be represented by counsel or by agent except with permission of the Chairman or Judge of the Native Land Court, and that permission could be withdrawn at any time. The amendment by the honourable mem- ber was going to repeal the whole of our Native Land Acts on that particular question. The honourable member further suggested that only members of the legal profession should be ad- mitted into the Native Land Courts. He was quite willing to vote for that, but he would tell the House that there was a special Bar that was as important and as sacred as the legal profes- sion, and that was the Native Land Court Bar -a Bar formed at a meeting of the Judges in 1890; and no person outside the legal profession could appear before the Native Land Court un- less a license was granted to him year by year by the Chief Judge, if the Chief Judge was satisfied he was a person of good repute, and competent to do the work. He had the honour among a very few to belong to that Bar. The honourable member was now moving to repeal this legislation, and he could not see what benefit the Natives would derive from it. Now, imagine a Native case taken under the legislation of last session or this session. What chance would a Native have of laying his claims before the Native Land Court or Board ? He would have no chance whatever. He said without any hesitation that a Philadelphia lawyer could not evolve light from the chaos of Native-land legislation. The opinion of the Native Land Court Judges, and their judgments, would show the value of the assistance given to the Court by himself and others in deciding intricate ques- tions, and the thanks the Judges had desired to put on record. On account of the involved condition of the cases that came on for hearing now, they required experts who were honourable 