since 1887-I have never known where the party marionettes were. The parties have all been created by the people outside of Parlia- ment, and not by those who, for personal reasons, desire to destroy them in the House. The honourable member is trying to do so now. Within my limited experience, from end to end of the colony, I have never known that parties could have been formed, or, if formed, that their ties would hold, unless they were the result of the policy as affirmed by the people, and who desired that their representatives in Parliament should on that question be united. Now, I say that in New Zealand at the 8.30. present moment, however much the honourable member may desire that there should be a weakening of party ties, I say that in this country he will have to be a very clever man who will make the members of a party forget the causes of their old party attachments. Those ties have been formed in order to give effect to great principles. I say that future political warfare in New Zealand will require policies upon both sides which will necessitate -at any rate, on our side-a policy in the general interests of the country. When the right time does arrive you may depend upon it that in future, as of yore, men will declare themselves openly under one banner or the other, and all this talk of the weakening of party ties will then be found to be visionary. You will find that any slight weakening on the part of some few members will, by the voice of the people, be rectified, and that the same good- sense will prevail amongst the people, and again amongst the members of our party, and we will find that good party administration will be as potent a factor in the future as it has been in the past. I regret exceedingly that the honourable member should have thought it desirable to give so one-sided a criticism of the policy of the Government. But for his having done so I would not have spoken. I believe that on mature consideration, if he looks back at the history of the party to which he was formerly attached and was elected to support, he will find that the Government has done its best to carry on the business of the country in a manner intended to be for the best interests of the majority of the people of the country. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- There is a personal matter I wish to bring before the House. Early in the session I presented a pe- tition asking for an inquiry into the valuation of certain properties at Whangarei. A lengthy inquiry was held. The evidence was all taken down and printed. When the report was brought up in the House, the member for Auck- land City (Mr. Fowlds), who was a member of the Committee, moved that it be read, and then proceeded to make some unfair criticisms on the report and the finding of the Committee. The Premier then immediately got up and moved the adjournment of the debate, thus depriving me of the opportunity of making any reply to the unfair criticism of Mr. Fowlds, the member for Auckland City. My desire when presenting the petition was to have a full inquiry into the proceedings of the officers Sir J. G. Ward of the department, and to have the whole of that evidence printed and placed in the hands of the Government and the public, so that every landowner in the colony should know the un- fortunate position that he occupies at present in reference to the Valuation Department. Owing to the alteration that had been made in the Land- and Income tax Act of recent years the landowners now have practically no pre- tection, and are at the mercy of the officers of the department and the witnesses they employ to give evidence in the Assessment Courts. The result of that was that I had no opportunity of replying to anything or of making any expla- nation. I then immediately put the following question on the Order Paper, which has been there for the last fortnight :- "Mr. R. THOMPSON to ask the Government, What steps they intend to take to give effect to the report of the Public Petitions M to Z Committee on the petition of Robert Thompson. relative to the unequal valuation of some of his properties in Whangarei, in which the Com- mittee states that 'the valuations of some of the petitioner's properties and the great redue- tions made by the Assessment Court were strong reasons for a careful revision of all field-book valuations where inequality is evident '? " I wish to place on record the history, as short as possible, of what took place at the Assess. ment Court. The position is this : In December last the portion of my property on which I live- twenty-five acres-which, three years ago, was valued by the department at a capital value of £50 per acre and an unimproved value of $12 per acre, was raised in capital value to $110 per acre and in unimproved value to $77 per acre. Of course, I appealed, and the Assess. ment Court reduced the unimproved value from £77 to £40 per acre, after taking evidence. I am not finding any fault with the Court, but I say, where the Court has to make a reduction of £37 per acre on the unimproved value of 3 farm there must be something wrong. What I ask is for the Minister in charge of the de- partment to have an inquiry made into the whole matter as to whether the officers of the department have done their duty fairly or not. I make no complaint against the head of the department here, but, as far as its officers are concerned, I have not been fairly treated. Of course, the Court has protected me to a certain extent. In support of the valuation a land agent was brought from Auckland to give evidence, and no inspection of the property was made either by the officer of the department or by the wit- ness. Neither came to inspect the property. yet were prepared to go into the Court and give evidence on oath not only as to the capital value, but also as to the unimproved value. I think it is only right that the Government, the House, and the country should know this. be- cause if this sort of thing is allowed to go on all over the colony there is no security for any landholder. So far as I am personaly concerned the matter is over ; but in the interests of other landowners, who may find themselves any day in the same unfortu- 