on a sea of troubles the end of which we cannot foresee. There may be there, as in this colony, rival factions, rival interests, and while the law is in abeyance there may be no trouble ; but as soon as the law steps in and an attempt is made to settle the tribal rights there will be trouble. And whenever that trouble happens, the people of New Zealand will have to pay the cost of settling it. Now, Sir, let us deal for a moment with the financial aspect of this question. The Premier stated that one effect of our abolishing the Customs duties as between New Zealand and the Islands would be to take away, I think he said, two-thirds of the Customs revenue. Now, the question comes, How is that revenue going to be made up? From what source are you going to get the money for the purpose of administering the Government of these islands? From the people of New Zealand. I think the honourable gentleman stated that there was 10 per cent. duty now on all imports into the Cook Islands Group ; but. of course, that 10 per cent. includes all articles going from this colony, whether articles of our own manufacture or not. The effect, therefore, will be that all articles coming from New Zealand that are our own manufacture will go in free of duty, and the only Customs that will be received will be those Customs duties that are paid on importation of dutiable articles into New Zealand, and the duties collected on goods imported into the Islands from other colonies. But there is a provision that seems to imply, and I am very glad to see it, that it is intended to prohibit the importation into the Islands of intoxicating liquors. I think it will give great satisfaction to a large number of people in New Zealand if the Government, under sub- clause (2) of section 11, exercise the power to prohibit the importation into the Islands of in- toxicating liquors. It is admitted by all those who have studied this question that the tendency of sending liquor among the Polynesian races is to debase them and do them injury. If that is the case, and the importation of intoxicating liquor is prohibited, you will get no revenue from what is the largest part of the Customs re- venue of New Zealand. To that extent the Customs revenue will be restricted. So far as the general policy of the Bill is concerned, I approve of it. The colony has, as I think, foolishly decided to embark upon this foreign policy ; but, having done so, I think the policy of this Bill is fair and just. The Bill contains proposals that I think tend for the good govern- ment of the people of these islands. My only re- gret is that we should have a Bill of this kind before the House, and if year after year we are going to have the most important hours of the session taken up with discussion with regard to these islands, we will pay very dearly for having entered upon that foreign policy. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I regret that some- body from the Government benches has not had something to say in favour of this Bill besides the Premier. The speeches that we have had have been opposed to the Bill, and the last one was in opposition to the annexation altogether. Mr. G. W. Russell head " on the part of some members opposite that led us into this, and nothing else. My own opinion is that the British Government have "had " us in this matter, and have imposed upon us a liability that they did not care to take themselves, and that we have now a very large responsibility, which will grow larger year by year. These islands might have been of some value to us if the population had been anything like stable, or even increasing. But the population is decreasing. I do not know whether the Hon. the Premier expects by this annexation to stop this decrease and cause the population to go in the other direction. For years and years past the population has been dying out. During the past twelve or thirteen years the deaths have been 499, against 421 births-a decrease on the population of close on eighty. One does not know what is going to take place. Who is going to grow the bananas and pineapples, and so on, that are to come to New Zealand ? I do not see that there has been any very great benefit so far by this annexation, nor do I conceive there ever will be. The Premier talks about the Customs and the keeping of the liquor out. But how are these things going to be done ? To impose Cus- toms duties satisfactorily means, even in these small islands, a considerable number of officials to enforce them. It is all very well to impose duties by statute, but it is no use having those statutes unless you are able to carry them out, and I do not see how you are going to carry them out in these islands without considerable expense. In fact, one of the grievances of the natives living in the Islands in the past has been that they have not been able to enforce the laws that they have enacted. They could not keep the liquor out, and so the liquor has been a great curse to them. They could not, even with their licenses, keep out the- unlicensed trader, and unlicensed trading has been going on ; and it would require a very con- siderable expense to satisfactorily carry out a policy of proper Customs duties control, and a policy which will keep away liquor from those islands. Now, with regard to the Constitution. I believe the member for the Bay of Plenty put the matter accurately so far as the Constitution is concerned. For my part, I do not under- stand how this Bill comes before us at all as a measure to be placed on the statute-book. It is quite true that provision is made in the Con- stitution to continue in certain native districts the laws of the natives as between themselves, so far as they are applicable to the general principles of humanity. But they are not maintained by statutes of ours. They are maintained by Letters Patent by the King under the Great Seal. That has not been done in this instance, and I think the whole thing is unconstitutional. In regard to the Bill itself, what I object to, apart from the constitutional question, is the provision in clause 3, which gives to the Governor in Council power at any time to adopt the whole or part of the laws, or modify the laws, or anything else. As a matter of fact, it is legislation not by this 