Order Paper for a considerable time, and as it was hard to say when it would be answered, he had taken advantage of an interview that the member for the Bay of Plenty and himself had had with the Minister that morning to bring the matter under his notice. As they had gone fully into the question then, it was not neces- sary that he should take up the time of the House by going over the subject again. He would merely ask if the Minister had got any further information. Sir J. G. WARD said, Until he looked into the local conditions of traffic he could not form a definite opinion on this matter, but during the early recess the time-table of the Auckland line would be a subject of review. GOVERNMENT RAILWAY TIME-TABLE. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether his attention has been called to the fact that the Govern- ment Railway Time-table is being interleaved with advertisements, and whether he will take' steps to remedy the inconvenience thus caused by putting the advertisement pages either at the beginning or end of the book? He had received numerous complaints from tourists and others of the difficulty in finding out the time-tables of the different railway-lines in the present official time-table, and this was caused by the interleaving of numerous advertise- ments with the time-tables. He had counted the pages, and found that there were more pages of advertisements than of time-table matter. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he agreed in the main with what had been said by the honourable member. He was anxious some time ago to have a better time-table adopted, and therefore employed an officer to secure advertisements, so that the time-table might be made payable ; but he did not con- template the time-table attaining the bulk it had done. He had since given instructions that the system of interleaving the advertise- ments was to cease. He might state, however, that contracts had been made for twelve and eighteen months on certain conditions, but as soon as those contracts were fulfilled he had arranged to bring a better system into force. LAMBS DESTROYED BY SEAGULLS. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Co- lonial Secretary, If he has received information to the effect that large numbers of young lambs are being destroyed by seagulls ; and, if so, will he cause seagulls to be removed from the list of protected birds ? Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said, No such information had been received by the Colonial Secretary's office; but any owner or occupier of land who represented that seagulls were causing damage would receive a permit to destroy them on his land. HALSWELL POST-OFFICE. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Postmaster - General, Whether he will, in ac- cordance with the request of a number of re- Mr. Lang and open a money-order and savings-bank office there ? A petition had been recently sent to the Minister asking for extra postal facilities, for the erection of a building, and more par- ticularly for the opening of a Post-Office Savings-Bank and Money-order Office at Hals- well ; and he hoped the honourable gentleman would give him an assurance that the petition would be favourably received. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said the petition had not yet reached Wellington. It was in the hands of the Chief Postmaster at Christchurch, and so soon as it reached him he would consider the matter, and if facilities could be given without undue expense he would be quite prepared to grant them. PALMERSTON NORTH POST-OFFICE. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Post- master-General, Whether he has considered the advisability of erecting a brick post-office at Palmerston North? This matter had been brought before the Postmaster- General over and over again, and he was surprised to learn that the Government had not considered that further accommodation was desirable at Pal- merston. At the present time there was one room, in which the whole of the postal and telegraph work-sorting and everything else- was carried on, and there was a tiny little room, about 8 ft. by 6 ft., used by the Postmaster. The public room was really a small lobby, about 5 ft. by 10ft. Now, considering that the Town of Palmerston contained nearly eight thousand of a population, and that it was the centre of an enormous district, for which a large amount of postal work was done owing to the train junc- tion being there, it seemed extraordinary that something was not done to provide up-to-date postal facilities for the officials and the public. He noticed the Government proposed to expend £1,500 on a brick post-office at Hunterville, and he believed the value of the present building at Palmerston would not be more than $700. He would like the Postmaster-General to say if it was a fact that because he (Mr. Pirani) repre- sented the district the Government were keep ing the district back in regard to postal facili- ties ; because that was the only conclusion be could come to. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) assured the honourable member that there was no such thing on the part of the Government as con- sidering who the gentleman representing any important constituency in the country might be when granting facilities of the kind. The Government would as readily authorise the building of a Post-office at Palmerston for the requirements of the people as in any other dis- trict of the colony. The reason why provision had not been made was that the departmental officers had reported that it was not necessary at present. He might say that if it was proposed to erect a post-office there now, as is being done in Hunterville, and other places throughout the colony, it would be erected in brick. That was a system the colony was adopting generally in the colony, in order to obviate the rebuilding of 