the word " him." cluded in another item altogether. i: Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said he thought he would be consulting the dignity of Standing Orders will not allow it. the House and his own dignity by not speaking on this item. Canterbury members to sit here and allow this Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said, when he item to pass in its present form without going made a statement previously that certain things to a division, and therefore he suggested that had been done in various parts of the colony the name of Mr. Rhodes should be expunged ; that statement was contradicted, and he now otherwise there was danger of some slur being wished to say that the whole of this trouble cast on the Mayor of the City of Christchurch. might have been obviated if the first arrange- ment made by the Government in Christchurch they could to avoid bringing this and other items had been adhered to. For example, if the down in their present form. The Solicitor- arrangement in respect to Coker's Hotel had General was consulted, and they found that that been adhered to none of this trouble would was the only way that they could deal with the have arisen ; but a certain vice-regal gentleman matter. He could say this : that right through had poked his nose into the matter, and thus Mr. Rhodes had behaved admirably, and relieved the whole of this trouble had occurred. a situation which was most difficult. Per- Mr. TANNER (Avon) said that no gentle- sonally, he and Mr. Rhodes were excellent man in the colony had placed himself so un- friends, and he was very much pleased with the teservedly at the disposal of the Government way Mr. Rhodes had acted, and when this diffi- with respect to the Royal visit as Mr. Rhodes. culty arose he did his best to get over the He had turned out of his own home and had difficulty in respect to the payment of the given up his residence for the accommodation accounts. It had been suggested that the of the Royal visitors, and he had probably done name of Captain Alexander should be inserted. more than any other man in the colony to They could not do that, because the rules of make the visit of their Royal Highnesses a the Audit would not allow it ; and, secondly, Yet no other man's name appeared success. Captain Alexander had no authority from the on the estimates as receiving money by way Government, and if he incurred any liability it of reimbursement except Mr. Rhodes. He (Mr. would be on behalf of the Governor. Captain Tanner) did not think that was a fair thing to Alexander was not a Government officer. The do, and Mr. Rhodes's friends in the House had Audit Department would not have passed the fair cause of complaint. account unless on Ministerial authority preced- Mr. SEDDON .- What about Ministers, and ing the liability being incurred. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 what about the Governor? They are mentioned in the estimates the same as Mr. Rhodes. of Christchurch ? Mr. TANNER said, as to Ministers, they ex- Rhodes was the position of an agent. The pected them to do all that they had done ; but, in regard to the Governor, he thought he would Government were the principals. The agent had have something to say with respect to that incurred certain liabilities, and the Government were getting this item passed so as to reimburse matter later on. He felt that the statement of the member for Ellesmere was absolutely him, because they were the principals. If the Government were not the principals the vote for true, and could be reconciled with the explana- the item would not be there. He might remark tion now given by the Colonial Secretary, for, from his knowledge of Mr. Rhodes, Mayor of that there were some accounts which he would be Christchurch, both in that House and as a very sorry to see appear on the files of the Public Accounts of the colony. They had no right to political opponent, he was a gentleman whom go into the privacy of a house, and they would ary one in the colony might trust in matters of this kind. be doing so if that course were adopted. Then, Sir J. G. WARD .- How do you suggest that the Auditor-General might say that he wanted this matter should be dealt with ? the Governor's warrant; and he would report the matter to the House, and the question Mr. TANNER said that was a matter for the Law Draftsman, but it was a pity that it would be referred to the Public Accounts Com- mittee. Did members want that? It was a should appear in its present form. From the most difficult situation, and he might say that estimates of the year it would appear to the future historian as if £247 had been claimed by it took the Government some time before they saw their way out of it at all. The only way Mr. Rhodes, and that he was reimbursed to to get out of it was simply boldly to put it that extent. . Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) regretted that so on the estimates. The Government could not much time had been taken up in discussing simply settle the matter by sending a cheque to Mr. Rhodes. He did not think Mr. Rhodes this question ; still, he thought it was impera- would take exception to the course which the uve, to maintain the dignity of the House and Government had taken, and he was surprised the respect due to the Mayor of Christchurch, that that gentleman's name should be expunged at the Canterbury members taking the matter up, and endeavouring, as it were, to make politi- from this item. He would suggest to the Pre- cal capital against the Government. mier two alternatives-that the name should be expunged and the name of Captain Alex- ander inserted, or that the words " on behalf <!-- PageNumber="\-" --> Mr. SEDDON. - You cannot do that; the Mr. MEREDITH said it was not possible for Mr. SEDDON said the Government did all An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Mayor Mr. SEDDON said the position of Mr. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. SEDDON said the residence was given 