me an answer by Friday, the 3rd June next, by letter, or by wire addressed to Rangiora for me. I have another property in view in case you are not willing to negotiate with me .- Yours faithfully, "R. MEREDITH. "The Manager, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington." " Assets Realisation Board, Wellington, 3rd June, 1898. "DEAR SIR, - Glentui Estate : I have brought the matter of the sale of this property before my Board, and am instructed to inform appli- cants that it will be surveyed at an early date, and offered by auction about November next. I thank you for your inquiries and offer, but, understanding you have expressed a wish that the public should have an opportunity of pur- chasing at auction, the Board has not been unmindful of your views .- Yours faithfully, " WALTER G. FOSTER, General Manager. "R. Meredith, Esq., Springbank." I have now read the correspondence which passed between me and the Assets Board. I addressed three letters to the Board, and re- ceived from the Board three replies. A portion of the land in question was sold on the 17th November, 1898, seven months after I had written these letters, and the rest on the 21st December, 1899. I now give the lots, acreage, price per acre, and names of purchasers :- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Sale of Glentui Estate, at Oxford, by Messrs. Ford and Ingram. Name of Price per Lot. Area. Purchaser. Acre. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Sold on 17th November, 1898. £ d. A. R. P. S. 10 James White. 2:21 2 0 1 0 283 James Judson. 3 5 17 G 1 0 110 0 36 R. H. Parish. 5 8 2 6 7 12 5A 153 3 13 6 J. Judson. 250 3 18 6 3 G 7 P. Rvan. 212 0 32 7 7 5 0 R. Blunden. 180 8 5 2 1 6 R. Henderson. 280 3 31 9 5 15 0 Sold on 21st December, 1899. W. Brock. 7 2 15 0 44 0 1 165 H. Meyer. 6 2 3 5 0 4 J. O'Halloran. 238 0 10 0 0 9 10 6 0 20 305 6 2 11 W. Berry. 5 12 0 3 0 305 8 James Rudd. 0 0 6 0 13 242 0 J. O'Halloran. 14 0 1,300 0 3 10 0 15 329 4 10 3 16 0 Dohrman Bros. 16 575 0 1 10 0 0 17 746 0 0 2 0 0 W. Vincent. 18 364 0 2 7 0 4 936 0 20 1 15 19 0 The following were the terms :- " Five per cent. of purchase-money on fall of hammer ; 10 per cent. to be paid on 28th Feb- February, 1903 ; balance to be paid 28th Feb- ruary, 1905; interest meantime at 4} per cent. per annum." Clause 12 of "The Valuation of Land Act, 1896," gives the conditions under which the Government, under the Land for Settlements Act, have power to purchase. It says,- " In any case where land is taken or acquired under the provisions of 'The Land for Settle- ments Act, 1894,' the sum to be offered by the Minister shall be a sum not less than the valuation of the land appearing on the general valuation-roll, and if such offer is not accepted by the owner, then the compensation payable shall, in the case of lands acquired or taken under 'The Land for Settlements Act, 1894,' be ascertained by the Court and in the manner prescribed by that Act, and, in the case of lands acquired or taken under 'The Public Works Act, 1894,' by the Court and in the manner prescribed by that Act." Sir, I have now given the whole of the correspondence that passed between me and the Assets Board. Honourable members will notice at once that I did not offer to pur- chase fifteen hundred acres. I had not copies of these letters by me last week when this question came up before the House, as all my manuscript papers were destroyed in a fire which destroyed my dwellinghouse on the 5th May last. I had to get copies of my corre- spondence from the Assets Board. Honourable members will notice that I applied for not more than a thousand acres-one block of five hundred acres, and a second for five hundred acres or any less quantity. As the question was gone into on a previous occasion, I do not think it desirable to say anything more. I have read the correspondence, which will go into Hansard, and will place the case before the country. I regret what took place on Thursday last in the House, in consequence of the Premier making the statement which I felt it my duty to flatly contradict. I have been eleven years in the House, and desired to maintain the dignity and high character that has always been characteristic of our Par- liament, and I regret the circumstance on that account, and on that account only. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Honour- able members, I have no doubt, feel at the pre- sent time like persons at the end of a long voyage, who at last come within sight of their destination. We have had a long voyage of nineteen weeks, and are now about to arrive at our destination. I think it will not be in- appropriate that some references should be made to what are the outstanding features of the session which is now drawing to a close. I think that honourable members and the country will recognise that the most important thing that has happened in connection with this session has been the criticism with regard to the financial position of the colony, and it is that to which I desire briefly first to refer. Last March, in the speech which I delivered at Riccarton, I referred to the increase of the ex- penditure which was going on, and I pointed 