Parata Tellers. Lawry McGowan Seddon Barclay Mckenzie, R. Mills Symes Majority against, 3. Motion negatived. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the Bill was practically a local one. It was of little im- portance except to the locality of Motueka. The Act of last year had been deposited at the Magistrate's Court in the Town of Nelson, other preliminary steps had been taken in connection with it, and it had afterwards passed the ordeal of the House. Despite all this no flaw had been found in it. Indeed, the member who was doing his utmost to get the Bill through was the one who asked last year that the Motuoka Wharf should be in- cluded in the Bill; and yet this year they found him persuading the Government to take up his local Bill, and take out of the Nelson Harbour Act the very thing he had got put in himself. There were many measures of in- finitely greater importance which the Govern- ment had decided not to proceed with. The House divided on the question, "That the Bill be read a second time." AYES, 31. Allen, E. G. O'Meara Hall Palmer Arnold Hall-Jones Barclay Heke Parata Houston Rhodes Bennet Kaihau Carncross Seddon Ward Carroll Lawry Witheford. Lethbridge Duncan Field McGowan Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Fisher Millar Flatman Colvin Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Symes. NOES, 19. Smith, J. G. Lang Atkinson Laurenson Steward Buddo Massey Tanner. Collins McNab Ell Fraser, W. Meredith Tellers. Graham Herries Monk Hutcheson Russell, G. W. Pirani. Majority for, 11. Bill read a second time. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- "The Short Title of this Act is ' The Nelson Harbour Board Amendment Act, 1901,' and it shall form part of and be read together with 'The Nelson Harbour Board Act, 1900' (hereinafter called ' the principal Act ')." Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) moved to strike out the word "Nelson," in the first line, with a view of inserting other words. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) moved to report progress. Motion agreed to. Progress reported. This Bill was read a second time, and com- mitted. # IN COMMITTEE. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the insertion of the following new clause :- "The Westport Harbour Board may from time to time apply such portion of its funds as 1 it thinks fit, not exceeding one thousand pounds in any one year, in prospecting for coal on its endowments." New clause agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the excision of the Schedule, for the purpose of substituting the following Schedule :- "All that area in the Nelson Land District. containing by admeasurement 400 acres. more or less, situated partly in the Borough of West- port and partly in Block III., Kawatiri Survey District. Bounded towards the north-east and north generally by the ocean : towards the east generally by the Orowaiti River : towards the south generally by a public road being the con- tinuation in an easterly direction of Cobden Street, Township of Westport ; by a municipal reserve to Derby Street ; thence by Derby Street to a point in line with the northern side of Bright Street ; thence by a line to and along the northern side of Bright Street to Palmers- ton Street ; thence by Palmerston Street to s point in line with the northern side of Ken- nedy Street, and by a right line to and by the northern side of the last-mentioned street to the Buller River : and towards the south-west by the said river: excepting from the above- described area all freehold land, education re- serves, and Native reserves, and also a strip of land being a reserve for defence purposes (New Zealand Gazette, 1886, page 786) : as the said area of 400 acres, more or less, is delineated upon the plan marked S.G. 47203, deposited in the Head Office, Department of Lands and Survey, at Wellington, in the Wellington Lard District, and thereon edged with blue." Amendment agreed to. . Bill reported, and read a third time. PUBLIC HEALTH BILL (No. 3). This Bill was read a second time, and com- mitted. IN COMMITTEE. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) moved the addition of the following new clause :-- " Part IV. of the principal Act shall be con- strued subject to the following provisions for exemption, that is to say :- "(1.) At any time within four months after the birth of a child, or, in the case of a child born before the first day of November, Che thousand nine hundred and one, then st any time within four months after the said day, the child's parent or custodian, if con- scientiously of opinion that vaccination would be prejudicial to the child's health, may apply to any Stipendiary Magistrate or Regis- trar for a certificate of exemption. " (2.) If satisfied that such conscientious ot- jection exists, the Magistrate or Registrar may 