effect on the friends of the aged applicants, and large numbers of aged persons would thus pro- bably be prevented from obtaining that which the Legislature intended they should obtain. He would watch the Bill very closely when it came back from the other branch of the Legis- lature. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said he had been credited with having pointed out that the proviso to clause 6 would not have the effect which had been stated. He might say that it was his colleague, Mr. Hutcheson, who made the discovery. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said it appeared to him that the words which had been added by the Upper House at the begin- ning of clause 3 were merely in the nature of a preamble. The two lines added only led up to the power which had been given to the Deputy Registrar in the last part of the clause. That being the position, it appeared to him hardly worth while to object to that amendment made by the Upper House. He agreed with the member for Palmerston in regard to clause 8A : It was quite impossible that the Colonial Trea- surer could inquire into all the small details that might be necessary in connection with cases of old-age pensions; if the honourable gentleman was going to inquire into the parti- culars of every pensioner who came under that clause he would have his hands full. He re- gretted that the Government had not inserted a clause providing that cottage property to the value of £100 should be exempt. When a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 clause of this kind was proposed in the House it was not the Premier who opposed it, but an- other member who thought it should have been introduced by Governor's message, and opposed http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero it therefore on technical grounds. He would suggest to the Premier that in a future amend- ment of the Act provision should be made in this direction. Mr. SEDDON (Premier), in refer- 9.30. ence to the remarks made by the honourable member for Riccarton, thanked that honourable member for correcting an impression which had gone throughout the colony, and which had brought adverse com- ment upon himself (Mr. Seddon)-namely, the statement that the Premier had raised an objection to some slight concession being given in the case of the poor cottager, or the pen- sioner who had a cottage worth £100. The fact was, he never raised that objection at all. He had stood the brunt of this adverse criticism, and had received all the punishment for an action that he had never committed. The next point was as regards the amendments which were made in subsection (1) of section 3. His own opinion was that the inclusion of the words "the Deputy Registrar may cause a preliminary inquiry to be made on any applica- tion, and on every such inquiry," et cetera, did not alter the clause as originally intended, only it fixed definitely that the Registrar might hold an inquiry. It made the thing more positive ; that was all. Then he came to the proviso to clause 6, which was struck out, and in this connection able member for Palmerston against the mem- ber on the Government side of the House who drafted this proviso. He (Mr. Seddon) said he was not in love with the alteration, and his own opinion was that as it stood now it would not effect what was intended and what was wanted. He believed, himself, it went further than any of them wanted. At all events, he had objected to the proviso, and he intended to have the matter looked into again by the Law Officers in order to make clear the point that had been raised. As regarded the new clause 84, the member for Palmerston was wrong entirely as to the details of the working of the Act. In the original Act it was the Colonial Treasurer who had to sanction the extension of the payments on the certificates. If the House altered this it would have to alter the original Act ; but it would not work, because the payments were made by the officers of the Post Office on behalf of the Registrars, and these payments came to the Registrar, who submitted them to the Minister. And, he thought, properly so, because otherwise there might be a free-trade in these extensions, and it was just as well to have a check on them. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston), in personal ex- planation, stated that he had said, in the case brought before the House by the Auditor- General, the fact was that the Registrar had assented to the payment of the pension, and that the matter had not been brought before the Colonial Treasurer for his approval until after the money had been paid. The papers bore out exactly what he had said. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentleman was wrong. The facts were these: The Post Office officials paid the money, and then the Registrar came with the papers and submitted them to him, and he approved of them. He gave a certificate for the extension after the money had been paid. The Controller and Auditor-General raised the question that the extension could not be granted after the money had been paid. Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON moved, That Mr. McNab, Mr. W. Fraser, and himself be appointed a Committee to draw up reasons for disagreeing with these amendments. Motion agreed to. # NEW ZEALAND ENSIGN BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 5 .- Commencement of Act. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out the clause. Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out the preamble. Motion agreed to. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved the insertion of the following preamble :- " Whereas, by Proclamation under the hand of His Excellency the Governor, dated the twenty - third day of October, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine, it was declared, in accordance with the Queen's Regulations 