tural and pastoral labourers, and I wish to take the House back a little further-to 1899 when the member for Wellington City(Mr. Hutchesoni moved for the inclusion of agricultural and The Committee divided on pastoral labourers. the question, and those who voted against the inclusion of the agricultural and pastoral labourers were :- Messrs. E. G. Allen, Bollard, Cadman, Carroll, Duncan, Fisher, Gilfedder, Graham, Hall-Jones, Hogg, Holland, Hous- ton, Lang, Lawry, McGowan, M. J. S. Macken- zie, R. Mckenzie, McNab, Massey, Meredith, Millar, Mills, Moore, Morrison, O'Meara, O'Regan, Parata, Pere, Rolleston, Seddon, Stevens, Steward, Symes, J. W. Thomson ; tellers -Flatman, G. Hutchison. Now do you see where the hide-bound Tories are. And the Bill was dropped, but it served as a rallying cry, and the Premier did his best to incite an infuriated mob in Wellington to the belief that I was the man who killed the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Bill. Mr. TANNER .- Give us the list of those who voted the other way. Mr. HUTCHESON .- The "Noes " were 21 and the " Ayes" were 36. The " Noes " were : Messrs. J. Allen, Brown, Buchanan, Carson, Crowther, Heke, Herries, Hunter, J. Hut- cheson, Joyce, Kelly, Lethbridge, Lewis, McLean, Montgomery, Russell, Sligo, Smith, Tanner; tellers -- Carncross, Taylor. Pairs: For - Field, Kaihau, J. Mckenzie, Ward; against - Pirani, Rawlins, Wright, McGuire Now, I admit that at that time the Imperial https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Parliament had not seen fit to include the agri- cultural and pastoral labourers, but it had been announced as their intention at the next session of Parliament to deal with the agricultural and pastoral pursuits, and to include them. Now, we are always prating that we are leading the world, and that the great inventive genius of our Premier evolved from his inner conscious- ness all these beneficent measures, and I do not think it was too much to expect of him that he should again lead the world and include agricul- tural and pastoral labourers in our legislation. We had a stormy scene on that night-a scene I do not care to revert to-but I must say that the principal opponents to the inclusion of the agricultural labourers under the Workers' Com- pensation for Accidents Bill were those repre- senting the small farmers, who sat mostly on the opposite side of the House. The Premier appealed, that, knowing his followers better than any other member of the House could do, it would be impossible to get the Bill through, and that it must be lost if it was sought to include these labourers. That is why he put it in the mouths of my opponents at the general election of 1899 that I was the man who killed the Bill. I had no such intention, and I am pleased now, if I am right in prognosticating, that the Premier intends to include the agri- cultural and pastoral labourers, for the reason that it is only bare honesty to the farmers to say whether they are or are not in the Bill, and to let them know how they stand, so that, if necessary, they may take steps to insure their Mr. Hutcheson tion clause, I would say that the very fact of a man being injured in any pursuit was prima facie evidence that he had been engaged in a dangerous pursuit, and, as the Bill in the inter- pretation clause says "any," it seems to my mind to cover all hazardous employments, and therefore I interpret the Bill as applicable to farmers. Legal luminaries may say it is limited in its application by the context ; and that may or may not be the case, but to me it seems the farmers' position is defined ; and, speaking with a full sense of my ignorance of a farmer's life, I say it would only be a fair and equitable thing to do for the farmers to specifically include them, so that they may take advantage of the Act and free them- selves from all anxiety and care as to injuries to their employés by insuring those employés for a reasonable sum. On every occasion when a labour Bill has been before the Committee this session I have dropped the lead over the side and told the honourable gentleman when he was getting into shoal water, and I tell him now he will not get this Bill through if he gives mortgagees preference over the claims of the injured workman, or, in event of his death, of the claims of his relatives. You can insure the mortgagee. It is the man who is borrowing the money who, no doubt, will have to pay the cost of insuring the mortgagee. Again, if he does not go circumspectly in respect to the exclusion of casual labourers-it is a difficult matter to define what is and what is not casual labour-he will again be in shoal water. These are two points that will be strongly debated in the House. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- I distinctly understood from the Premier last session that a Bill would be introduced dealing with agri- cultural labourers and making the necessary provision. The farmers understand they are in it, and they are asking that they should be removed from the obligations of the Act. Now, if the Right Hon. the Premier is going to have this out fair and square, and is going to intro- duce any clause into this Bill that will remove agricultural labourers, I say the Bill is not going through this session. If there is one class of workers in this country whose family needs the benefits of the Workers' Compensa- tion Act it is the low-paid and intermittently employed farm-labourer. The town workers usually get a much higher rate of pay, and their work is more regular than the agricultural labourers, who receive a lower rate of pay and have more slack times, and who have no opportunity for making provision for their families that those in the towns have. I hope the Premier will make that quite clear when he is replying-that he is not going to make any attempt in his amending Bill to absolutely exempt farm-labourers from the operation of the Act, because farmers clearly understand they are under it. It is well known that the agents of these insurance offices are canvassing for business amongst the farmers. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- I am not interested in the question as to whether the Premier has 