that were now being demanded. Now, wages, I grant, are an important item in the running of a manufactory or business. But what about rent and the enormous expense of advertising ? What about commercial travellers, what about bad debts, and what about the thousand and one other things that hamper a manufacturer ? May be the manufacturer sometimes finds he is not doing particularly well at his manu- factory, and he finds it difficult to cut down. He cannot cut down his rent, he cannot cut down advertising, and he cannot cut down the wages. Well, the time may come when there may be a Government sitting on these benches that may step in and say: "You say you cannot carry on that business suc- cessfully, and pay the men proper wages and make a profit. Well, we will do it. We will not pay any exorbitant rent, we will not spend money in advertising all over the colony, we will not have to get long credit for the raw ma- terial ; we will establish the manufactory, and we will produce a first-class article and employ the men shorter hours and pay them better wages. We will see if we cannot make that factory in New Zealand a success." If the employer says that he cannot carry on, the time may come when the State will step in and say, "Let us try our hands, and see if we cannot do the thing better." If there is an attempt to screw the men down to a life lower than men with self- respect ought to live-if there is an attempt to deprive them of the true value of their https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 labour-it will be found, perhaps, that it is not so much on the working-men themselves that the attempt will recoil, but on the middleman, and on the manufacturer-the man who takes the workers' labour, and makes his wealth by putting a share of it in his pocket, not return- ing it to the people from whom he gets it. Sir, to a certain extent I regret the turn this debate has taken, but I felt I ought to say a few of the things I have said-just to hint at what I may hereafter enlarge upon at much greater length -before it concluded, and I trust that the debate will not now be much prolonged. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, no doubt the speech we have just listened to from the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) must be pleasing to those who have not carefully studied the labour question. There was a deal of sentiment and high- falutin' in it, but an entire absence of facts necessary to convince members of this House. A great deal has been said about the work of the Labour Bills Committee, and no doubt that Committee, to whom the Bill was sent for the purpose of considering its provisions, has done good work. But I venture to say that if many other members of this House were members of the same Committee, and had the opportunity of hearing the evidence given before it by experts, they could not have arrived at any other conclusions than those embodied in the Bill now before the House for its third reading. I happened to be present on two or three occa- sions, and I could not help noticing the large number of manufacturers and labour experts- are carried on in this colony. They gave their evidence in a straightforward, conscientious manner. There was a ring of honesty about the evidence, and the Labour Bills Committee was a jury, and, after hearing the evidence, decided on the various questions on the weight of evidence. It could not be otherwise ; and I was surprised to hear my honourable friend the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) challenge some statements made by the member for Riccarton. Why, Sir, the very speech he made-that the decisions arrived at and amendments made in this Bill by the Labour Bills Committee in con- sequence of the weight of evidence placed before that Committee by experts - is proof positive that the country has arrived at this stage : that we want no further innovations in our labour legislation. The House has already gone too far in that direction. That is the ultimatum of the country. And therefore I concur in the warning note that has been given to this House to-night by the member for Masterton. He has always been a friend of labour, and I do not know any member of this House who represents a distinctly country constituency who has done more to assist labour legislation than the honourable member. Every country member has done all he could to assist the town members to perfect labour legislation. Now, Sir, in connection with labour legislation the term "workers " is used very frequently, as if it had a general application, whereas it should be used in a restricted sense and have local application. The term "workers," as em- ployed in this Bill, refers to those engaged in the various factories, who work mainly under cover and within buildings. To say that they are the workers in this colony is scarcely a fair statement. Those who work in the country, those who have laid the foundation of our in- stitutions, those who are producing a vast volume of raw material, are surely entitled to consideration as workers. Sir, the forty-eight- hours-a-week principle is embodied in this Bill. I have no objection to that if those workers engaged in factories in the centres of popula- tion are satisfied with it ; but I will say this : that the men and women who laid the founda- tion of this colony-the fathers and mothers of many members in this Chamber-did not stop at forty-eight hours a week. They worked sixty hours a week, and even m'rs and not the I know, as an old resident in he District of Canterbury, that when went on the land they had little means"," had to work hard. Many a small farmer with fifty acres or a hundred acres of land-and the land not always of the best quality-land which required a great deal of labour to be expended on it to make it productive-ploughed all day, and when the horses became tired put them in the stable, and then had his evening meal, and went out, and, with the aid of a lantern when the moon was not shining, worked for several hours putting up sod fences. That was what the early settlers did in this colony, and I say that such settlers are entitled to every con- sideration and respect. The man who wants 