ciliation rather than weaken it. I therefore say, do not let us pass that clause 6, which provides for a special Board of Conciliators, or clause 21, which makes it possible for either party to apply for a straight issue with the Court of Arbitration. In both cases, Sir, I think it would be a very great mistake. In the first instance, it is not fair that either party to a dispute of this kind should be able to force the other to do what they do not want. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- They do it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- They do not do it. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Yes. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- How do . they do it ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Workers make their employers do it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Do what ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Go to the Con- ciliation Board and Arbitration Court. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - The honourable member does not understand what I mean. I say it would be very unfair to alter the present law, and say that either party can force the other party to go to a special Board of Conciliators. A Board of Conciliators, what- ever is said in this Council, is not a Board that many of the workers like, because the Board of Conciliators, if they do anything at all, is a Board which, on the side of the workers, must be composed of experts from the particular trade, and these experts, in spite of what some of my friends have said, are men who https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 are specially pointed out as the men to be got rid of on the first opportunity. Now, that may be a suspicion on the part of the workers in past years. I have no doubt they have had experience of it in past years, but we have at the present moment special reason for knowing that it is a weapon in the hands of the enemy at the present time. Look at what happened in the Waihi Mine. There was a difficulty there between the workers and the company, and the workers endeavoured to get the thing put into the hands of the Board of Concilia- tion ; but in some marvellous way, before they could turn round, the men who were acting on behalf of the workers were all run out of the mine. It is no use speaking as if we were children. We know that these things do hap- pen, and I think it is only right on the part of the Council that they should take these things into consideration as real live matters ; and if they want to put this law on a proper footing they should guard against and prevent them. It is no use saying that, within a certain man's recollection and experience, these things never happened to him. Quite possibly they may not have happened to the honourable Councillor speaking, but we can absolutely say that these things have happened in certain localities in New Zealand, where a certain result has operated from a certain action on the part of certain men who were trying to get satis- faction for the employés at the hands of the employers. Therefore I say it is very un- Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker wrongs done to these people, and absolutely put weapons into the hands of their enemies. Well, then, Sir, I have got a few words to say about trades-unions and their position with re- gard to this Bill. Apparently the Hon. Mr. Rigg thinks it is very hard that trades-unions should be introduced into this Bill, and not be placed in full possession of every power and privilege which an industrial union has got. Curiously enough, Sir, last year, when we con- solidated the statutes, the department thought that, inasmuch as every trade-union in New Zealand was registered as an industrial union, it would hardly be worth while re-enacting the section of the old Act. But since then it has been thought necessary that trades- unions should be reintroduced into the legis- lation, and that they should be made parties to every award. I think we have had evi- dence before sufficiently strong to show that in certain quarters it was quite possible trades- unions might contract themselves out of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and endea- vour, as independent trades-unions, to take up an independent stand on labour questions. Well, that, I say, is an absolute menace to the whole intention of the labour legislation, and it can never be allowed. And, as to saying that they should by this Bill be put in a position of independence and given all the powers of origin- ating disputes, I say that has not been taken away from them, because they have only got to register as an industrial union and they have every power anybody can want. Therefore I think it is perfectly fair all round. On the one hand, members of trades-unions can see that they cannot get away from any award a Court may make; and, on the other hand, if they want to be parties to a dis- pute all they have to do is to register as an industrial union, and they have every possible privilege. What is fairer than that? I do not think anything could be; but I am not prepared to admit that they should be let in as inde- pendent partners to originating disputes in an independent guerilla sort of fashion. I know it is a difficult matter to reply to both sides, because I feel a little like the gentleman who found himself between the devil and the deep sea ; and, upon my word, I am not prepared to say which is the devil and which is the deep sea ; but perhaps, for old association's sake. I must put my honourable friend Mr. McLean on the side of the devil. But between him and my candid friend, the Hon. Mr. Rigg, I feel that I am in a difficulty, and I know that a man who tries to please both sides is generally making a mistake. I trust I may say on the present occasion the Government is trying to bring common-sense to bear on the result of the experience we have gained of these measures. I trust the result will prove that Parliament will pass an Act which will prove of use not only to one side, but to the other ; because it is of no use trying to pass measures exclusively in the interests of either the worker or the em- ployer-we want to pass measures that will suit both, and at the same time bring about general 