schools, paid much higher salaries than it is our school-teachers being paid salaries equal proposed to pay them under this Bill. Perhaps, to the salaries that are paid to other servants of the State? My impression is that the however, we will get that righted in Committee, and I trust we shall. Now, there is one serious school-teaching profession ought to be the blemish in the report of the Commission, to aristocracy of the professions in the colony. It ought to be the best-paid profession. It is which I wish to draw the attention of the the one department which, above all the others, House. They do not recognise any certificate over the D certificate. I think that is an im- we cannot afford to pay badly. Those who are portant blemish, and one that we ought to engaged in that profession ought to be paid at a rate that would attract the brightest men do away with. We ought to insist on our and women in our midst. Instead of that it teachers holding a high standard of education. In California, in New South Wales, and in Vic- is actually the poorest-paid profession in our midst. The average salary paid to our school- toria they insist that no man shall have control teachers is $99 per head. That is, including of one of the first-class schools-six hundred the salaries paid to pupil-teachers, and ex- pupils and over-unless he holds the Al cer- clusive of sewing-mistresses. Under the new tificate. In this colony we are, under the pro- posed scale, to allow men to control first-class scale they are to get a rise of about £8 a year. That will give an average of £107 a year, as schools with D1 or D2 certificates. At any against $99 a year. At the present time the rate, we recognise that, after the D certificate, average salary paid to railway servants is £101 we 'do not expect any further educational at. a year, or $2 more than the average paid to the tainments from our teachers. Outside that school-teachers. The average salary paid to matter, I do not wish at this time to criticize the report of the Commission. I know they the post and telegraph officials is #124 a year, had many difficulties to contend with. They or 25 per cent. more than the average of the could not please everybody, and they have not school-teachers. The average salary paid to the pleased everybody; but I think we may amend officials of the Customs Department is £198 a year, and the average amount paid to the offi- the scale of salaries in Committee, and make it cials of our Agricultural Department is £207 a better than it is at present. I hope the House year. In view of facts such as these, is there will recognise the important position the teach- any man who will not say that it is high time ing profession occupies in the colony, and deal we put our school-teachers in a better position with that profession in no niggardly spirit. It As I will pay us to do this, and pay us handsomely. than they are in at the present time ? https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have said, I am not going into the details of intention to oppose this Bill, which provides the scheme which is now laid before us. It for the introduction of a colonial scale of will be time enough to deal with these when the Bill is before the Committee. What I want salaries. Ever since I have been a member of this House I have brought that question up to point out is the absolute necessity for pro- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero year after year, and I am pleased that at last viding a colonial scale of salaries for our teachers, and that they should be paid at a much better we have a Bill before us for the purpose. It rate than they are at present, unless we want has always appeared to me somewhat anoma- lous that, although we had a colonial system to see our whole school system degenerate. In California, the average paid to women teachers of education, yet we had thirteen Boards of Education in the colony who were paying in the primary schools is £152, and the average paid to men teachers is £145, so that in Cali- different salaries to their teachers. It was, fornia at all events, the women have no cause indeed, an absurdity, because the money re- quired for the purpose of paying the salaries to to complain that the men are better paid than carry on the work of education is all drawn they are, because the women teachers are paid from the one source-the Public Account of there a larger sum per year than the men are. In all the schools in California, including the the colony. As has been stated by the member for Franklin, the proposed payment for teachers secondary schools, the average salary of the of schools with an average attendance of under men is $202, and the average salary of the women is #161; but in the primary schools, as twenty is a retrograde step, and I venture to I have pointed out, the women are better say that when the Bill becomes law there will be an outery all over the colony from teachers paid than the men. In New South Wales, the average sum paid to the school-teachers is of schools with an attendance of under twenty. £113 a year, and in Queensland it is £107 a year. Now, I have put these facts before the House to show that the school-teachers of the colony are the worst-paid class of public servants we have. the Bill out ; because, although it may not be I have also pointed out that, in comparison with the other colonies and with the State of Cali- a perfect one, it can be improved. However, as I have said, the Government will soon find fornia, our teachers are much more poorly paid ; and I wish to impress on the House the neces- out that there will be a commotion from one end of the colony to the other by the teachers sity of passing the Bill, although it may have of schools with an average attendance of under certain incongruities in connection with it. These things we may right after the measure twenty. Another matter that I should like to bring before the House is this : I do not like has been in operation for twelve months. Sir, the idea of staffing schools and paying salaries with other speakers, I admit I would like to see Mr. Laurenson Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- Sir, it is not my Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Then, throw it out. Mr. BOLLARD. - Throw what out ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The Bill. Mr. BOLLARD .-- No ; I do not want to throw 