for a return showing the actual position whether such return would be forthcoming. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said, With refer- ence to the statement of the Minister for Public Works, that the wording he had re- ferred to was the same as last year, that was partially correct; but, if the Minister referred to the year before, he would find an honest statement with reference to loans to local bodies. It was only last year that a change was made. The year before, the two amounts were added, and the addition was subtracted from the total ways and means. Last year he had evidently started a new dodge, and he had continued it this year. Mr. HALL-JONES .- What is the use of it ? Mr. PIRANI .- The only use was to mis- represent the expenditure to those who did not study the matter carefully. In 1899 the Minis- ter would find this paragraph : "The estimates of expenditure for the current year total to £1,355,098, of which £1,308,025 will be a charge against the Public Works Fund, and the balance against the Government Loans to Local Bodies Account, leaving an unallocated balance of ways and means for public works purposes of £523,000." That deducted both, and he did not think much of the new system. If the Minister had only continued in the same way as his pre- decessors, either in adding the two together or leaving one out altogether, the Statement would be much fairer. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) wanted to press the point he had brought forward. Last year there was a revenue of $9,449 from the lands set apart in connection with the North Island Trunk Railway. It was provided by Act that the revenue received from those lands should be devoted to the railway, and to no other pur- pose ; but the Minister had informed the House that night that part of the money had been used for surveys. The return he wished to get would simply show how much had been paid towards the object of the fund, and how much had been paid for surveys or other purposes. Mr. SEDDON said the proper thing for the honourable member to do would be to formally move for a return, and let the Minister look at it, and, if the information could be given, the motion would be dealt with. Mr. MASSEY asked if the information would be forthcoming if the Government could give it ? Mr. SEDDON replied that at that moment he did not understand the question. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would like the Minister for Railways to give some explanation about the extra expenditure proposed in his department. The Premier's explanation that it was on account of new rolling-stock coming to hand sooner than was expected was simply bluff. It was known a considerable time ago the rolling-stock was coming to hand, and, when it had all arrived, it would, as a matter of fact, be delivered after contract time. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, no. Mr. PIRANI said that would make it easier, I with the statement made by the member for already made provision for the expenditure. At any rate, it was only fair to the House that the Minister for Railways should place his explanation of the real reason for the increased expenditure before the House. Members were entitled to a little more explanation than the Premier's statement that, because delivery of the rolling-stock had been delayed, it involved the payment of more money. Mr. SEDDON said he ought to have added that there was the construction of trucks and locomotives in the workshops to be taken into account. Then, there were contracts out to private firms for wagons. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Only at Invercar- gill. Mr. SEDDON said he understood there were several contracts out. The Minister for Rail- ways informed him there were three. How- ever, he knew that the amount to be charged this year for rolling-stock and locomotives was much more than usual, and, considering the way the traffic was increasing, it would not be easy to meet the demand there would be for wagons. Mr. MASSEY said, So far as the point he had raised was concerned, he would come back to it on the public works estimates. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) would like to know why this additional sum of £100,000 was being placed for additional rolling-stock and only £50,000 for roads. It seemed to him the boot ought to be on the other leg, and that there should be £50,000 for rolling-stock and £100,000 for roads, because he found that even with the £50,000 additional the liabilities would not be met. Mr. SEDDON .- We have got half a million from the consolidated revenue for expenditure on work which is outside this altogether. Mr. HERRIES said the Premier's finance was peculiar. The half million was outside the Loan Bill, but it was not outside the Minister for Public Works' estimate, and the estimates showed that while the vote for roads was £384,000 the liabilities already at the beginning of the year were £457,000, which left a deficit of £73,000. Now, if we were only going to vote £50,000 out of this extra loan we would still have a deficit on the roads, and he said that deficit ought to be filled up before this sum was voted for extra rolling-stock, for which no such deficit existed. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) would like to ask the Minister for Railways-seeing the statement the Premier had just made that £100,000 was wanted for rolling-stock, and also that in his opinion there would not be sufficient rolling.stock - what portion of this $100,000 was intended for increasing the size of the rail- way workshops in the colony ? There was not one penny on the estimates for any increase in the size of the existing workshops, and the reason they were told why so much rolling-stock was being imported was because it could not be manufactured within our own workshops. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) did not agree 