by Royalty, and among them was that of Mr. [ peared on the estimates, it would be well to pass Rhodes. However, he was now informed that the liability was incurred by Mr. Rhodes, acting on instructions received from Captain Alex- ander, and the Committee had to pass the item. If they did not do so the tradesmen would not receive their money, unless Mr. Rhodes paid it out of his pocket ; and he thought Mr. Rhodes had done quite sufficient already, With regard to the next item, "Grant to Ministers and their Secretaries, in reimbursement of expenses in- curred by them, including £150 for ordinary travelling-allowance, $350," he certainly thought there ought to be a definite expression of opinion on the part of the Committee. He thought a great many members would agree with him that sufficient provision had already been made for the travelling-expenses of Ministers and their Secretaries ; and, as the Royal party were in the colony about twenty days, this would mean about $17 per day in addition to the ordinary expenses already provided by law. He thought the Committee should know how much of this $350 was intended for Ministers and how much for their Secretaries. He was surprised at Ministers putting such an item on the esti- mates, and, in order to give a definite expres- sion of opinion, he would move that it be struck out. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) would move a prior amendment, to the effect that the item of $247 granted to Mr. Rhodes be reduced by £1. as he wished to speak on that particular question. They had been informed by the Premier that another $200 was to come for- ward to be debited against the colony, making https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 something like $470 or $500, in round figures. He would like to point out that when a pre- vious matter was being discussed members Were told that included the whole caravansary of the Royal party throughout New Zealand, and he wanted to know why this thing was to be charged twice over. If there were contracts at Auckland and Dunedin, and this #447 in Christchurch, for supplying the Royal party, then where did the £2,257 which members were told was to pay the expenses of victual- ling the Royal party throughout New Zealand come in ? There was a discrepancy there, and he desired to enter his protest against what he conceived to be a double charge against the funds of the colony. In regard to some other charges later on, he had seen photo- graphs in the illustrated papers of certain rooms where distinguished personages slept when in Auckland, and he wanted to know what had become of the furniture if the colony had paid for it. With regard to this item, it seemed to him it was placing Mr. Rhodes in a very unfair position before the colony, because he (Mr. Hornsby) had heard it stated that it was a very mean thing on the part of Mr. Rhodes, who was supposed to be entertain- ing Royalty at his residence in Christchurch, to come and ask the Government of the colony to pay for it. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) thought, as the Minister had fully explained the circum- stances under which Mr. Rhodes's name ap- the vote. The item was a fair charge, and he thought the House would be consulting its dignity by proceeding with the estimates. He regretted exceedingly that Mr. Rhodes's name appeared on the estimates at all, because that gentleman had placed his house at the disposal of the Government, and had done everything in his power to worthily represent the City of Christchurch. He had done it well; and it seemed that the only reward he was to get was to have his name dragged across the floor about a paltry sum of £247. He thought this item ought to be passed. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) re- gretted very much that this item on the esti- mates rendered it possible for the casual man in the street to put a left-handed construction on Mr Rhodes's position in this affair. It was not a disbursement on the part of Mr. Rhodes. Mr. Rhodes had merely passed along to the Go- vernment the tradesmen's bills. Mr. SEDDON said there was a liability on Mr. Rhodes. Mr. HUTCHESON was given to understand that Mr. Rhodes merely transmitted the bills from the tradesmen in order to keep the Go- vernment out of conflict with the Auditor- General. The Government found they had no power to incur expenses in connection with a private house, and in order to get over the diffi- culty the expedient was adopted of making Mr. Rhodes nominally responsible for the expense. He was also given to understand that His Excellency's Private Secretary, Captain Alex- ander, personally supervised the alterations. Mr. Rhodes apparently gave the house to the Government for a specific purpose, and in the carrying out of the necessary altera- tions Captain Alexander was the party who gave the instructions. Why, then, should it be made out that Mr. Rhodes was being reim- bursed for expenses he had incurred in connec- tion with the Royal visit ? No doubt Mr. Rhodes deserved the thanks of the House for the munificent way in which he had treated the Royal visitors. He would like the Govern- ment to be generous, and to make the matter quite clear. At present it was open to the con- struction by any biassed-minded citizen to say that Mr. Rhodes was paid for everything he did ; and such a conclusion would not be un- : natural for the uninformed citizen to arrive at. One or two little words might be added to show that the expenses were incurred by the instruc- tions of the Government. Mr. SEDDON said it was so stated in the estimates : "Grant to Mr. Rhodes, Mayor of Christchurch, in reimbursement of expenses in- curred by him." Mr. HUTCHESON said the terms were alto- gether too general, and it was only fair that. the Government should make it clear to the public that Mr. Rhodes was getting nothing out of the transaction. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) said it was only fair to the Mayor of Christchurch that it should be stated that no alterations or temporary addi- tions to his house were made by him until the 