because of the reason he had pointed out, and therefore he thought there should always be a certain amount of give-and-take between the factory and the suppliers. # OTARA BRIDGE. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will this session place a sufficient sum on the public works estimates to pay $1 for #1 on the total cost of the Otara Bridge and approaches, as promised by the late Sir John Mckenzie? Some few years ago the Kiwitea County Council applied to the then Minister of Lands (Sir John Mckenzie) for a subsidy to erect a bridge over the Rangitikei River at Otara. They did not then, nor for some years, go on with the bridge, but applied to be allowed to use the money granted to make the approaches. This was agreed to by the Minister. Sir John Mckenzie went Home, and when he came back again a deputation came down and, with himself, interviewed the Minister, and got a promise that he would give a pound-for-pound subsidy for the bridge. It must not be forgotten that the money so far placed at the disposal of the Council had been spent on the approaches when the interview took place. The Kiwitea County Council built the bridge, and spent all the money they had and all they could borrow ; but when the Coun- cil came to ask for the subsidy the department demurred, and said there was no agreement to this effect. He then wrote to Sir John Mc- Kenzie and asked if he remembered making the promise, and Sir John Mckenzie wrote back saying he remembered making a promise, and hoped Mr. Duncan, the present Minister of Lands, would carry out the agreement. He would say the present Minister of Lands had carried out the agreement so far as he could, but, un- fortunately, other members of the Ministry did not see as the Minister of Landsdid. He hoped now the Ministry would give way and see that it was a fair thing to give this Council a pound- for-pound subsidy as promised by the late Sir John Mckenzie. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the official reply to this question was this :- "The Government has been drawn into an expenditure over this bridge that was not con- templated when the alleged promise was made. The utmost that the Government then understood it would have to contribute was $1,250. Instead of that, grants amounting to €4,668 1s. 4d. have been made. The Kiwitea County Council include in the cost of the bridge two approach roads, costing $1,891 14s., and, as there is nothing to show that the late Sir John Mckenzie intended his promise to apply to these roads, the pound-for-pound subsidy has been refused, but a sum of $500 has been promised towards that work." MAORI LEAFLETS. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua), for Mr. Symes (Egmont), asked the Government, If they will have the leaflets distributed to farmers trans- Mr. Duncan same to be distributed to the Maoris ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said there had been no application made by the Maoris for these leaflets. The carrying-out of the sugges tion would involve considerable cost, and it was a question whether it was worth the cost to get this done, at least, until the Maoris asked that the boon should be granted them. Mr. O'MEARA said they did ask it, through the member who put the question. Mr. DUNCAN said they ought to ask it through his honourable friend the Native Minis- ter. If he saw that the Maoris were taking ad- vantage of the Act, and were going into the work as their European neighbours did, then these leaflets should be supplied to them. That was as far as he could go. WIRE NETTING FOR SETTLERS. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) asked the Minister of Lands, If he has carried out his promise of last session to take into consideration the desir- ability of supplying wire netting to settlers at cost price ? This was a matter of much conse- quence to the settlers, who had for a long time been trying to get the Minister to supply them with wire netting at prime cost. He hoped the Minister would, on this occasion, be able to give a satisfactory answer. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state that there had been no application what- ever made in this direction during his term of office. If they wished to go in for this to any considerable extent, and would make repre- sentations to the Government that they re- quired this assistance, he thought it ought to be given. If proper representations were made the Government could get out as much wire netting as settlers required, and get it cheaper than when farmers sent for it individually. But so long as no applications were made for it it was not to be expected that the Govern- ment would keep a stock of wire netting on hand until a number of people were prepared to apply for it. WELLINGTON LAND BOARD. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If he will appoint some person to fill the vacancy that at present exists on the Wellington Land Board ? He had no desire whatever to cast any reflection upon the Com- missioner of Crown Lands, for he thought he was an exceedingly good officer, but he was not given the assistance he deserved. For the last year and nine months there had been a vacancy on the Land Board, caused by the death of the late Mr. Field. He would like to ask why that vacancy had not been filled ? Why did not the Minister of Lands appoint Mr. Pirani or him- self to the Board. He was not anxious to ob- tain the post himself, but had suggested the two names because the appointment of either would cause the dissatisfaction that existed among settlers to disappear. He would, in fact, like to see the personnel of the Board changed altogether, but that was possibly a debatable matter. He would suggest to the Minister that 