ciprocal relations with America, then we need not continue the present arrangements with our Australian friends. Personally, I do not advocate doing anything that is inimical or un- friendly to Australia, because a great many of our children and brothers and sisters live over there, and we feel we are one people. But at the same time let us not forget that the same thing can be said on a larger scale of America. It is only a big English colony-a little bit bigger than we are, but with the same senti- ments of blood and relationship ; and the sym- pathies existing are just as strong between the real bona fide American people and ourselves as between the Australian people and us. I will give an instance: When President Kruger tried to get the sympathy and support of the European nations, he tried the American na- tion amongst others, and the American people were told that other nations were in favour of interfering and preventing war between the Britain and Boer proceeding any further. They asked what the American nation was going to do, and the reply was that if any of the nations interfered with England it would very soon see what the American nation would do ; and I am proud that the Americans gave such a reply. We heard a remark made as to what the Ameri- can Consul-General at the Philippines said. I will ask you to bear in mind what the American Consul-General did at Pretoria, when he was ap- plied to by the Governor of New Zealand through the Consul - General at Auckland, when New- Zealanders were subjected to indignity and their clothes were torn off their bodies by the Boers. When they had not proper food to eat, and when representations were made to the American Go- vernment, what was the reply that was given ? The reply was that the difficulty would be rec- tified at once ; and our sons at Pretoria had entirely different treatment, owing to the kind- ness of the American Government through their Consul-General at Pretoria. It may be only a sentiment, but it is a sentiment of the right class. Now, in regard to the question of com- merce, would it not be a great thing for us to have an alliance, a commercial alliance, with a coun- try like America, with a population of seventy millions of people ; and I am quite satisfied that if we had commercial alliances with them it would mean the protection of the American flag. It would mean that we would have the American ironclads in immediate proximity to our waters, and, in the event of trouble with Russia -- with a port on the Pacific coast-we should have a friendly Power which would pro- tect our passengers and mails going through the American Continent. It means that we shall have their direct and personal sympathy with us. It is of more importance to us, I think, than our spending thousands of pounds in constructing forts, et cetera in this colony. The very fact that the British flag and the American flag are associated, I consider, is of the utmost importance. I consider that it is of the greatest importance that an isolated colony situated like New Zealand is, ex- posed as it is in the Pacific to any attack VOL. OXIX .- 32. the China coast -- it is of great importance that we should have this alliance with America. However, I cannot deal at length with the defence aspect of the question. I shall deal more particularly with commercial matters. The question has been raised with regard to the Federal service. I am of opinion that the premier service for New Zealand is the service that will take our mails to London in twenty- six or twenty-seven days, and will bring them from London to this colony in the same time. With respect to the Federal service, we all know that it means an extended time for the delivery of our letters, and that is of great importance to commercial men. A speedy delivery of letters means that merchants who are getting shipments of goods by mail will know the price of such goods, and will be able to make the necessary financial arrangements, and arrange for the sale of those goods, and arrange for fresh shipments on the best basis. That is the commercial aspect of the question, and that, I am informed, is the correct view of the case. I come now to another aspect of the matter, and I will mention a personal incident. When I was in London a most important proposal was made by certain persons in relation to money being sent out to New Zealand, and we were waiting for our mails by the Fr'isco mail-ser- vice ; but the Government decided that the mails should be sent by Vancouver, and we had to wait for some ten days, and in the meantime news was circulated through certain newspapers that the finances of this colony were in a very bad state. On account of that delay it meant that an amount of some £200,000 was not sent to this colony, which would have come here to assist in developing our resources. I mention this to show the im- portance of a quick mail-service to the colony. I am not going to defend any particular line of steamers. I am not interested to the extent of one penny in any line of steamships in the world. Hon. MEMBERS .- Not now. Mr. WITHEFORD .- I never was in my life. And I tell you one thing : there is not one of those who are talking about an all-red British line who has done more than I have done towards getting an Imperial subsidy for an all-red line via Vancouver. I went to the British Government and I said, "Will you not give your attention to this division of the Pacific; seeing that the Pacific coast is five thousand miles nearer than any port in Eng- land, will you not give a subsidy so as to have millions of passengers under the British flag ?" And the answer was, "No; our arrangements are made. We cannot consider it, but, next to the British flag, we hope you will subsidise the American flag, because the day will come when we shall work together." If America is to. be accepted as the nation's ally, is not New Zealand justified in saying, "Let us have the United States as an ally "? There are seventy millions of people there prepared to travel -- prepared to come here and see the magnificent scenery of the South Island. I speak with a 