amendment. Bill read the second time. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- "The principal Act is hereby amended as follows: As to section twenty- seven thereof, by adding at the end of the proviso the following words, namely : ' Pro- vided, further, that an order of a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be required when the property to be dealt with under subsections one, two, three, four, and seven does not ex- ceed the value of two thousand pounds." The Hon. Colonel PITT moved, That the words " one, two, three " be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, "That the word ' one ' be retained." AYES, 7. Tomoana Reeves Feldwick Walker, W. C. Swanson Louisson Pinkerton NOES 10. Pitt Jenkinson Bolt Smith, W. C. Jones Bowen Twomey. Peacock Gourley Harris ## Majority against, 3. Word " one " struck out. The Committee divided on the question, " That the word 'two ' be retained." AYES, 10. Tomoana Reeves Feldwick Twomey Smith, W. C. Harris Walker, W. C. Swanson Louisson Pinkerton NOES, 8. Rigg http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Jones Bowen Smith, A. L. Peacock Gourley Pitt Jenkinson Majority for, 2. Word "two" retained. The Committee divided on the question, " That the word ' three' be retained." AYES, 8. Twomey Pinkerton Feldwick Walker, W. C. Smith, W. C. Harris Tomoana Kelly, W. NOES, 8. Swanson Jones Bowen Williams. Peacock Gourley Smith, A. L. Jenkinson The CHAIRMAN gave his casting-vote with the "Ayes," and the word was retained. Bill reported, and read the third time. COOK AND OTHER ISLANDS GOVERN. MENT BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives agreeing to an amendment pro- posed by the Governor in this Bill, and trans- mitting the same for the consideration of the Legislative Council. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, the message was agreed to. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER presented a communication from the Right Hon. J. Cham- berlain, the Secretary for the Colonies, dated London, 5th November, 1901. The telegram was read by the Hon. the SPEAKER, and was as follows :- "Your telegram of the 2nd November has been laid before His Majesty and His Royal Highness the Duke of York, who desire their cordial thanks be conveyed to both Houses of the Legislature for kind congratulations, which are warmly appreciated." The Hon. Mr. W. C, WALKER moved, That the telegram be entered on the Journals of the Council. Motion agreed to. MILITARY PENSIONS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said this Bill was the same as the one of a like name passed last year. It simply continued the effect of the Military Pensions Act of 1866, which was continued last year in favour of certain contingents. This Bill continued the effect of the Act of 1866 still further to other contin- gents, and to make certain that there could be no mistake the same course was adopted this year as last-namely, that each man was entered nominally in the Schedule, so there could be no mistake as to who was entitled and who was not. He begged to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. The Council adjourned at eleven o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 6th November, 1901. Second Reading - Third Readings - Railway Re- turn - Factories Bill - State Coal-mines Bill -Local Bodies' Loans Bill - Cook and Other Islands Government Bill-Companies Bill (No 2) -Nelson Harbour Board Bill-Mining Bill-Vic- toria College Site Bill-Tour of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York-Public Health Bill - Old-age Pensions Bill - Factories Bill- Nelson Harbour Board Bill - Westland and Nelson Coalfields Administration Bill - Public Health Bill (No. 3)-Timber Export Bill-Ad- jourument. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. SECOND READING. Chatham Islands County Bill. THIRD READINGS. Remuera Waterworks Empowering Bill, Chatham Islands County Bill, Registration of Births Extension Bill. RAILWAY RETURN. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) laid on the table a statement showing the average train-miles run, the number of passengers, and 