to take some power to provide machinery for bringing the State Coal-mines before the Arbi- tration Court in accordance with the clause ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- This shows the danger of having amendments proposed in Committee, as they have been. If the member for the Bay of Plenty had put his amendment on the Order Paper I could have referred it to the Bill Draftsman and to the Law Officers ; the same with my own amendment : it would have been better if it had been referred to the Law Advisers in the first instance ; and I may say the amendment was mentioned. I stated in Committee, and I repeat now, that I shall look into the matter very carefully, because I do not want to have any defect in the Bill. Bill read a third time. MAORI LANDS ADMINISTRATION BILL. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .- Sir, this Bill is not a policy measure. So far as policy and principle are concerned in connection with the administration of Native lands, they were settled by the House last session. This is really an amending Bill-a machinery Bill- and explanations of the amendments proposed can be given better in Committee than in the course of a second-reading speech. As I said before, the principle has already been affirmed by Parliament. Mr. MONK .- Then why do you want the Act ? Mr. CARROLL. - Because we found the machinery of the main Act not so workable as it might be for the despatch of business. Some of the clauses were so drawn up that working under them was next to impossible. I will point out one or two instances of that. In the Act of last year we stated that no Native could http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero alienate any land unless he produced a papa- kainga certificate-that is to say, a certificate that he was the possessor and owner of a piece of land in severalty, and had the fee-simple title to it - that, until he did that, any alienation on his part would not be confirmed. Well, that meant that if, in a block of land in which there were a large number of owners, they all had to produce papakainga certificates, each owner would have to show that he owned a separate piece of land, and that such was a papakainga reserve, before any alienation could be effected. . That- would take years to do. We propose to amend the Act of last year in the direction of making it merely necessary for the Native owner to produce a certificate from a Judge of the Native Land Court to show that he has sufficient papakainga land for his use and maintenance, without actual individualisa- tion, to have his alienation confirmed. That is a very desirable and important amendment. Then, we go further. In section 4, section 22 of the principal Act is repealed. The section reads :- " Immediately upon the coming into opera- tion of this Act in any district as provided in section five hereof, Maori land in such districts shall not be alienated by way of lease either to the Crown or to any other person, except with the consent of the Council first obtained and in accordance with the provisions of this Act." The amendment that we add is this: In the case of alienation by way of sale, where the land is held by not more than two persons, we add the words " lease or mortgage." If we give them permission to sell, we should also give them permission to lease or mortgage. That is what we do here. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- You do not do any- thing of the kind. Mr. CARROLL .- Any way, whether we do so or do not, in effect that is the proposed amend- ment. Then, another amendment we propose is in section 24 of the principal Act. Section 24 was that the Governor, for the purposes of this Act, may, on the recommendation of the Coun- cil, revoke all restrictions existing against the alienation of Maori lands, and so forth. Well, we alter that by saying that the Governor, after considering any recommendation of the Coun- cil, may remove and revoke any and all restric- tions. Under the Act the Governor could only act on the recommendation of the Council, but as proposed the Governor is not bound to act on any recommendation of the Council. This opens the alienation door wider, in the direction of permitting dealings under Order in Council. It will offer greater facilities for the settlement of cases between Natives and Europeans where they are thought not worth while to come under the Council. There are many cases, I believe, where there are several small pieces of land owned by a small number which could be more readily dealt with by the Governor in Council. Then, another important amendment we make is this : Where lands owned by Maoris which are incorporated had to be transferred by all the owners to the Council before the Council can administer the same, we now propose that they can be transferred by any number of the owners, providing they do not number less than ten. The necessity for that is this : Where you have a block of land owned by a large number of owners, and you require to get the signatures of these owners to the transfer transferring the land to the Council before the Council has power to lease the land, you will find great trouble, expense, and delay at every step you take in getting that done. We propose, in all fairness to the owners, so that the Council may get to work as soon as possible, that where the land is owned by more than ten it shall be legal for ten to sign the transfer to the Council. After that, the Council has to satisfy itself that it is the wish of the owners of the land that the land should be leased or otherwise disposed of ; and, on the Council being satisfied that the owners, or a majority of them, are in favour of that land being dealt with by the Council, then the Council can accept the transfer from the ten or more and proceed to administer the land in the manner set forth in the deed of transfer. This would provide an easy method by which the waste lands of the Maoris could be cut up and let to the public in the interests of settlement. Under the Land for Settlements Act the same principle is adopted in some measure-that is to say, residents in a district can petition the 