family to which the question referred, but did not know whether the individual mentioned was one of those who took an active part in the events of those days. They had, he thought, erected a monument for his uncle or his father. The Government would consider this question, and if they came to the conclusion that they had not sufficiently paid respect to that par- ticular family, then they would erect the monu- ment asked for by the honourable member. RAILWAY CONCESSIONS TO MAORIS. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) asked the Government, Whether, in view of the fact that the Government have placed such restrictions upon Maori lands in the North Island as to render it a matter of impossibility for the Maori owners to lease or otherwise deal with the said lands in such a manner as to derive any benefit therefrom, they will therefore grant to the said Maoris the concession of permitting them to travel on all railway-lines throughout the North Island at half-rates ? Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said he did not know whether the honourable gentleman was already anticipating the near future in the way of the coming election or not, but evidently he evinced a desire to have something of a roseate hue to place before his constituents. With the first part of the question he, of course, entirely disagreed, because it was hardly in ac- cordance with the facts of the question. Al- though the Government had placed restrictions on the Maori lands of the North Island, so as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to compel the operations and alienations in connection therewith to pass under a proper scrutiny, that did not mean that the Govern- ment absolutely debarred all transactions in http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Native lands. If there was any exception to be taken to the present nature of the laws affecting Native lands the honourable gentleman was as much responsible for it as any one else. How- ever, he could assure the honourable gentleman that his desire to have the alienations of Native lands carried into effect would be considerably facilitated and lightened when they had the Bill which was on the Order Paper passed into law this session. He would claim the honour- able member's co-operation in connection with that Bill, and he was sure he would give his valuable assistance, because he was one of those anxious to smooth the way for the alienation of Native lands. But that that should be a rea- son why he should ask that Maoris should travel on the railways of the colony at half-rates he could hardly understand. The honourable gentleman might communicate with his col- league the Minister for Railways, but he would advise him, if he did so, to adduce some stronger reasons than contained in this question. # CONSTABLE PARKER. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether he will give effect to the recommendation of the Public Petitions A to L Committee with regard to ex-District Con- stable Parker of Waiuku-namely, "That, in Mr. Carroll by ex-Constable Henry Parker, this Committee recommends that the usual retiring-allowance be granted to him "? He did not think it was necessary for him to say very much by way of explanation, because he believed, from a con- versation he had had with the Minister, he understood all the circumstances of the case. The petition, was signed not by the individual himself, but by the settlers in the district of which he had charge for about thirty-five years. It might be said the duties of a district con- stable were light; and that was so, under ordinary circumstances ; but he would remind the Minister that the district of which Mr. Parker had charge was now in charge of a con- stable getting something like three times the salary paid to District Constable Parker. He might be told that it was not usual to pay a retiring-allowance to district constables, but he could refer the Minister to a case in which a retiring-allowance was so paid ; it was to be found in the report of the proceedings of the Police Commission, where a constable named E. S. Thompson was paid a district allowance of £118 128. 6d. That precedent having been established, he hoped to get a favourable reply to his question. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) ad- mitted that this officer had done very good service. But district constables had hitherto not been granted retiring - allowances. He wished to impress on the honourable gentle- man the fact that they were allowed to follow their own occupation, and only acted as con- stables when called upon, receiving a small salary for their services. Section 15 of "The Police Force Act, 1886," which governed the question of compassionate allowance, confined the granting of such to "rewards for extra- ordinary diligence or exertion, or as compen- sation for wounds or severe injuries received in the performance of their duty," or for " disablement by bodily injury received," or when "worn out by length of service." Dis- trict Constable Parker could not be said to come under any of those headings. In the case under discussion he might say that for many years District Constable Parker held a mail- contract, and was therefore receiving public money in that direction also, in addition to following other private pursuits. He could not give the honourable gentleman any hope of anything being done in this case. In regard to the petition, they all knew how ready people were to sign petitions, especially in favour of an officer who had done good service in any district. It was very easy to get a whole dis- trict to sign a petition ; but the Government had to look upon these matters entirely from a public point of view, and unless there was any special circumstances he could not depart from the ordinary course. DISTRICT COURTS. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister of Justice, If he will consider the desirability of abolishing the District Courts of the colony, and arranging for Judges of the Supreme Court 