everybody under the Bill; and it is a ques- tion, I think, whether agricultural labourers and farmers should not be brought under the clause. If brought under the Act it might not be so serious as some of the farmers think it would be, for if any union of workmen raised a dispute they would have no right to knock off their harvest work at once; they would have to go on with it, and before the dispute was settled the harvest would be in, and the dispute would not be worth much. There- fore my reading of the Act is that the proposal is not so bad as the farmers who are frightened about it imagine it is. Now I come to section 6 of the Bill. My honourable friend has made a great point of the special Conciliation Boards. Well, the evidence we had from the Trades Council is such as was stated by my honour- able friend-that is, that if the employés took part in any dispute they might be dismissed. However, there was one witness, the president of a trade-union, who, speaking for himself, and not for the Trades Council, said he believed in the clause, and, further, that he had settled some disputes in the proposed way. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- He will get it for that. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Well, he is a gentleman who, if one may judge by the way he pronounced his opinions, will hold his own wherever he is. If my honourable friend is afraid that the effect of the clause will be such as he states, then the union could take the case direct to the Arbitration Court. The honourable gentleman says they will not work under it. If so, there is no course left but to go to the Arbi- tration Court; there is no trouble about it. However, I believe, myself, this clause is a vent, and will be a saving of the Conciliation Boards. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Will any one tell me that the parties will go past the Conciliation Boards in Dunedin with the dispute? I venture to say they will not. I consider the clause will be very good in bring- ing the honourable gentleman's friends up to the mark ; and probably, if they conducted their proceedings in a different way, there would be no difficulty about the Conciliation Boards remaining as they are at present. Therefore I would strongly recommend that the clause should be retained in the Bill as a means of preserving the Conciliation Boards. I consider that the principal object of the Bill is to make the principle of the Act more work- able. As for clause 18, and the case of which my honourable friend spoke, I think the law was wrongly interpreted in the case he referred to. It was never intended that the motion passed at a meeting should require a majority of members of the union, because the members have to go through the ordeal of a ballot after- wards, so that the majority of them attending at a meeting is not of consequence. I quite agree that in some cases they could not attend a meeting. Clause 19 was struck out of the Bill, and in its place a fresh clause was drafted, which I think every one will admit is more like justice than the clause it replaces. I now come to the principal clause of the Bill- clause 21. Hon. Mr. McLean considerable difference of opinion about the clause, inasmuch as it allows either of the parties to a dispute to go direct to the Arbitration Court. Well, in my opinion, if you make it apply to both parties the clause will be a dead-letter. We tried it in the Conciliation Boards last year. We altered the Bill as it came from the other House, and it has been a dead-letter, and the same result would follow in the present case. Now, I can show you cases where it is very good to go to the Arbitration Court direct. Mind you, I believe, myself, in going before the Conciliation Board and threshing the mat- ter out to a certain extent, even if I have to go to the Court of Arbitration. But there are cases of renewals and agreements in which it is very desirable indeed to go to the Arbitration Court direct. There may be only a few points to settle, and if you go to the Court of Arbitration and get these two or three points settled they will not be keeping the parties to the dispute two or three weeks before the Board of Con- ciliation wasting their time, but they will get the matter settled in a day. While these disputes are going on, and are keeping up the agitation, they tend to destroy the good- will of both parties towards each other, and my opinion is that the sooner each dispute is settled the better it is for all concerned. It is not good to keep up the irritation for several weeks when you can settle it in a few days. I hope that clause will be kept in. I agree with something my honourable friend said, to the effect that these Bills are coming forward too quickly, and that it would be much better to allow them an opportunity of being worked in order that they may be tested properly. Every one knows that a bad law well administered is better than a good law badly administered, and if we had a little less of this pretence at consolidation it would be much better for all parties in many cases. This pretence at consolidation is only in order to get in a lot of new matter, as we have seen in the amending Bills coming forward, and we are giving these Acts little rest. Let these people try to work out their own laws, and all these faults which they propose to cure by amending Acts will come right, and may probably in the working turn out not to be faults at all, but recommendations in their favour. I hope that these clauses will be kept in the Bill, and that they will result in a considerable amount of good, and aid in keeping or bringing about good feeling between employer and employed, with- out which no industry can well succeed. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, one gets tired of criticism with regard to these affairs ; it is simpler and casier to hold one's peace, and it is certainly more comfortable. However, one has a duty to perform, disagreeable though it may be. There are some statements made by the Hon. Mr. Rigg which I feel it is my duty to controvert. I wish to deal more par- ticularly with his statement that most of the disputes that arise in the colony are brought to Wellington to be settled. I emphatically state that, as far as the great number of dis- 