some of the most important financial institu- tions in England ; Mr. Brodie Hoare, a direc- tor of Lloyd's Bank (Limited) ; Mr. Walter Chamberlain, brother of the Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, Secretary of State for the Colo- nies ; Lord Avebury (better known as Sir John Lubbock), a most eminent financier; Lord Eustace Cecil, son of Lord Salisbury ; Mr. Trotter, the trustee and general manager of the London Stock Exchange; and many other influential gentlemen. Now, these gentlemen are the petitioners. These are the gentlemen who have put this colony to such enormous expense in contesting the rights of the colony and the rights of the colonists against stringent and extraordinary claims made by men who, first of all, have no claim, and have no right to pursue this colony in the way in which they have unrighteously pursued it. Quoting from Mr. H. D. Bell's very able speech before the Public Accounts Committee, which will be found in Parliamentary Paper, I .- 11, 1900, the position of the Midland Railway Company is thus laid down :- "Suppose a railway company contracts under the Act to construct a line from point A (which must connect with a Government line) to point D, passing through points B and C. The com- pany finds that the railway from B to C can be easily constructed on the level, but that from A to B and from C to D there are ex- pensive engineering difficulties. Further, it finds that the railway from B to C will, when constructed, be run at little working-expenses, while between A and B and C and D the work- ing-expenses will be abnormally high ; and that the line from B to C will pay some interest without the connections, and a high rate if the connections are made. It therefore constructs only the section of the railway from B to C, gets a free grant of the land on which it so constructs it, and takes its full land-grants in aid on the estimated cost of that section, selecting of course the best of all the land set aside, and then turns to the Government and says, ' We have finished, and shall do no more. The line from B to C is ours; and you can go on and finish from A to B and from C to D at your own expense, and provide traffic for our line. The railway from A to D will be broken into three parts, of which we own the middle, and you must pay us toll at both ends.' That is precisely and exactly the position which the petitioners assert they are entitled to main- Early in 1886 the New Zealand tain. Midland Company was formed with a capital of £500,000 ; a first issue of shares to the amount of $250,000 being made. Of course, the company had the usual power to increase its capital from time to time. Considering that the contract work was estimated to cost £2,830,000, it is obvious that in its initiation the company made no proper provision of capi- tal, and the Committee will find that that non- provision of sufficient capital by the company, beginning then and continued afterwards, is the reason, and the only reason, why the con- tract work has not been carried out. They con- tracted to find the money to complete the rail- way. They did not find it ; and they have sought, and are seeking, to make the colony answerable for the consequences of their de- fault." At another stage it was urged that the com- pany entered into the contract relying upon what they had read in the newspapers and upon the statements of public men. How was that state- ment borne out? In the report of the first meeting of the company, held on the 16th November, 1887, the following statement ap- pears :- " The construction of the railway was com- menced on the 24th January, 1887, and the works have been making steady and satisfac- tory progress. "Since last general meeting the Deputy Chairman, Mr. E. Brodie Hoare, has visited New Zealand, and has inspected the country through which the line will pass, in company with members of the committee of advice in New Zealand, the engineers, Mr. H. Alan Scott (the manager), and others, and was well satis- fied with the progress of the railway as an undertaking, and also with the value of the land to be granted to the company." Yet it is still suggested that the company entered into the contract relying upon what they had read in the newspapers, and what public men had stated in the colony. Now, Sir, I will at this stage make reference to the charges-the atrocious charges, as they have been correctly designated - brought against this colony in the name of the debenture- holders. It is through the influence exerted by these influential men that the Stock Ex- change was moved to damage the name of this colony, and to injure its credit on the Stock Exchange. If the petitioners complain that the debenture-holders and the company were in any sense misled, I answer that Mr. Brodie Hoare visited this colony, as the report just quoted shows, and was satisfied with what he saw. It is too late, therefore, for him to come to this Parliament now and say that the company was misled, and that they did not know what they were doing. They have made charges against the good faith of this colony which have cost this colony large sums of money. The Colonial Treasurer, who is the Premier of this colony, is not in a position to deny -I demand from him, and he must admit that, through the representations of these gentlemen in England, through the charges which they made against this colony on the London Stock Exchange, they have cost this country no less than £10,000 a year for forty years; and, having by their representations on the Stock Exchange, damaged this country to the extent of #400,000 in that way, they now come here as suppliants and ask that this money which the Committee has agreed to give-namely. €130,000 -shall be paid to them, and that demand is coupled with the threat-at all events, there is the apprehended danger-that if we do not pay these petitioners this £130,000 they will con- tinue to blackmail the colony until they succeed in enforcing their demands. I ask this Parlia- ment if it is content to sit idly by and allow 