On the question, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he wished to congratulate the Minister for Rail- ways on the passing of the Bill. He and the member for Wellington Suburbs, Mr. Wilford, who was the most competent guardian of the interests of the railway employés in this dis- trict, in their efforts to aid the honourable gentleman, abstained from taking any part in the discussion of the Bill in Committee. They wished the Bill to pass, and that was the best way to help it. They recognised that the Bill was a perfect whole, and that it would be indis- creet to interfere in any way with its symme- trical proportions. Accepting that suggestion from the Minister for Railways, he (Mr. Fisher) and the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs moved no amendments, although they had many prepared. The Bill having reached its present stage, the persons most concerned- the railway employés of the colony-would, he hoped, understand that in the desire to save time, the House having reached such a state of high pressure, nothing was to be gained by prolongation or further discussion. He thought the House would agree with him in saying that no Bill submitted to Parliament during the present session had received so much thorough consideration at the hands of any Minister or the House. Members most in- terested in the passing of the Bill had spared no effort to aid the Hon. the Minister for Railways, who was entitled to great credit for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 passing such a difficult and important Bill, in- volving interests to the railway servants which it would be hard to measure. He knew the Bill would not give satisfaction to everybody. No Bill ever did. But no Minister had ever tried to give greater satisfaction, nor had any House ever given a Minister such united and unanimous support. He could only congratu- late the honourable gentleman, and say that the members of this district, in common with other members who had taken a great interest in the matter, were in a position, on behalf of the rail- way servants of the colony, to offer congratula- tions to the Hon. the Minister for Railways. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) thanked the honourable member for his kind remarks. He had done his best with a most difficult matter to make it as effective as possible for the Railway service as a whole, and if he had succeeded he was quite satisfied. He desired also to thank those honourable gentle- men who, by the way in which they had allowed him to proceed with this Bill, had given more valuable assistance than if they had talked a great deal upon it. Self-denial in the way of criticism to a very large extent was the best way of assisting in getting such a technical measure, bristling as it was with difficulties, through the House. He desired to say that in one point in Committee he made an alteration in the Bill which he believed would very materially benefit the railway employés of the colony. That alteration was made in the composition of the right that the honourable member for Wel- lington Suburbs, who, in the course of his remarks on the second reading, referred to the I matter, and had been told that he (Sir J. G. Ward) would give it consideration, should know that he had done so, although the alteration was, perhaps, not quite as the honourable gentleman suggested. He had gone a little further in the matter. He had been exercis- ing his mind about the constitution of the Appeal Board for some time, and he thought what he had asked the House to do was a step in the right direction. The alteration made in the Appeal Board was as follows: In addi- tion to a Judge of a District Court or a Sti- pendiary Magistrate to be the Chairman of the Board, and one person elected by members of the First Division of the North Island and Middle Island respectively, there was also now the right given under the Bill for the Workshops Branch, the Locomotive Running Branch, and the Maintenance Branch each to elect one of their number to be a member of the Appeal Board ; but only the person elected by the re- spective branches he had just named would be entitled to sit on the Board when a case affect- ing any one in his special branch was before it. That gave employés of the different depart- ments an opportunity of having one of them- selves on the Appeal Board ; and he believed the work of the Appeal Board of the Railway service would be more useful in the future, and there would be certainly more confidence in it by the different branches affected than there had been in the past, though the Appeal Board had done excellent work, and no reflection in any way was intended upon it by the alteration he had made. He thought, on the whole, the Bill would confer great benefits on the railway em- ployes, and he would not further trespass upon the time of the House, and he had much plea- sure in moving its third reading. Bill read a third time. The House adjourned at thirteen minutes to one o'clock p.m. (Saturday). LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Saturday, 2nd November, 1901. First Readings-Factories Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at eleven o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Maori Lands Administration Bill, Govern- ment Railways Department Classification Bill (No. 2). FACTORIES BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 29 .- Provisions to secure reasonable remuneration to persons employed in fac- tories. 