received an advantage in being preferred to others who had no horses, he thought that at all events they should not be required, if the horses had survived, to give the price of them to the country. It might be quite the correct thing, as the honourable member for Welling- ton Suburbs and the Premier had said ; but he thought they should be more generous in this matter, and that those whose horses had car- ried them right through should get some con- sideration. Though a number of horses had been subscribed for by friends of the troopers, a large number of troopers had found their own horses, though they could ill afford to do so. He thought they ought to be more generous to these men, seeing that they had done such good service to the colony and the Empire, and had kept up the reputation of the colony's troops. He hoped that a reasonable sum would be returned to those men. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said it was all very well for the honourable member for Eden to say that they ought to be generous, but he thought they ought also to be just-just to the people of the colony. He could, speaking from his own experience, say that quite a number of young men were most anxious to join the contingents, and, as an inducement to the Government to accept them, they were prepared to provide their own horses. Having done so, why should the Government recoup them if they voluntarily left their horses behind ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The Government would not allow them to bring them back. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. HOGG said there had been no under- taking that they would be brought back. The men were prepared to provide their own horses if the Government would accept their services. It was simply an offer to induce the Defence Department to accept their services and send them to South Africa. They were prepared to provide their own horses ; that was the induce- ment, and, that having been accepted, he could hardly believe that they would, in the face of the well-known facts and circumstances, prose- cute such an application as had been made on their behalf. He was satisfied that the manli- ness and loyalty and unselfishness of our young colonial troopers was entirely underrated by the members that were clamouring for the price of their horseflesh. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) was amused at the Premier's interpretation of the agreement made with the Fourth and Fifth Contingents. It was very specific and clear. It was as fol- lows :- " It is hereby lastly declared that the equip- ment of each Volunteer, and each horse and the equipment thereof, used under this agree- ment is the property of the Queen in her Colony of New Zealand." Not in the Colony of South Africa; and he maintained that under the agreement all the equipment and horses still living should have been brought back to New Zealand or sold. Surely that was so. The Premier, he thought, had not understood the agreement rightly. He had understood, and he had not heard it specifi- Mr. Bollard chased by the Imperial Government at the rate of #28 per head. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. J. ALLEN said, Well, it had been stated, and he had never heard it specifically denied. He knew that members of the Fourth and Fifth Contingents had sold their horses in South Africa. If this agreement was good, how had they come to do so ? He knew a case in which a man who had taken his own horse had been offered a hundred guineas for it, and had not sold it. If some had been allowed to sell their horses, why not others; and why had not the agreement been put in force? There was evidently some confusion about the matter. He knew a case in which a man had taken a horse of his own, and his father had sent him a remount, and paid the cost of it. Mr. SEDDON said that would be the man's own property, and he could sell it. Mr. J. ALLEN said that if the interpreta- tion put by the Premier on the agreement was correct, which he did not think it was, it should be interpreted in a liberal spirit. Those who had taken their horses to serve their country, when the time came for them to return, if the horses were still living, should receive the benefit of that, more especially as some were allowed to receive money for their horses in South Africa. Under any liberal interpretation of the agreement they were en- titled to receive some money for their horses, and he thought if the people of New Zealand could express their opinion on the matter they would certainly say the men should be paid for their horses. He did not see that it was right that New Zealand should hand over to the Imperial Government horses and equip- ment for nothing; nor did he think the Imperial Government expected it. He was quite certain that if any claim were made the' Imperial Government would willingly pay it. This was not dealing with the men in a liberal spirit. It was the aftermath of the great patriotic spirit that was displayed when the men were sent away to serve their country. When they came back they found themselves neglected. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said, What- ever the Premier might say, the general impres- sion of the men who went with the Fourth Contingent when they signed this agreement was that it referred to the campaign only, and that the object of handing over their horses and equipment to the Queen was that there should not be any claim on their part if the horses were killed. Besides, it was clear, notwith- standing what the Premier said, that Colonel Davies had told them, whether officially or not, that the Imperial Government was giving £28 for each horse. There was no doubt that was the impression that the men received. Whether it was official or not he could not say, but he had before him a letter from a returned trooper in which he said,- "I found my horse with the assistance of a few friends, and could have sold him for £30 while in camp in Auckland. I kept him right 