Before the adoption of the report, he would like to urge the Government to give very favourable consideration to the prayer of this petition. The evidence taken before the Committee was to the effect that in the year 1885 the petitioner compiled and issued the statutes of New Zea- land in a handy and complete form. At that time he had a verbal promise from a then Minister of the Crown that in the event of his undertaking the work and supplying this public want the Government would not inter- fere with the work he had in hand. The petitioner did the work, and expended a large sum of money on it, and the work then issued was of very great assistance to the various professions and public men of New Zealand. Then, in 1893, the petitioner published a third edition of the statute law of the colony, which was still recognised as the standard authority of the public general statute law of the colony. The petitioner had expended a very large sum of money-over £4,500-in plant and ma- chinery and in publishing the various editions of his work, and to enable him to do this he had to incur heavy liabilities. When the peti- tioner had arranged for a revised issue of the same work, and had arranged for a company to take the matter over, he got information that the Government proposed to themselves pro- vide for the publication of the statute law of New Zealand. This, of course, rendered the formation of the company absolutely useless. Had the Government abstained from taking the action they had done, Mr. Badger would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788261 have formed his company, issued a revised reprint of the statutes, and cleared himself of his financial obligations. He thought it would be generally admitted that there was great http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero legal knowledge displayed in compiling these volumes, and that the work issued had been of great public utility. The position, then, was this: the Government had probably done the right thing in going in for a codification of the statute law; but the fact was that the petitioner in this case, after supplying a public want, would have a liability of about $1,500 thrown on him, which he had incurred, relying on a promise that if he supplied what was required by the public he would not be interfered with. He (Mr. G. J. Smith) would urge the Government that they should, if possible, meet the petitioner in some way. He had a number of copies of the statutes on hand, and plant and machinery which was of considerable value, and he hoped the Government would take a favourable view of the matter, and purchase such of the plant, et cetera, as might be useful in connection with the codification or compilation of the statutes. There were legal gentlemen in the House who, he believed, were conversant with the statute law compiled by the petitioner, and could speak as to its value. He hoped that in equity the Government would see the reasonableness of granting some relief to the petitioner in this case. The work was well known throughout the colony, and had probably been used by most lawyers and by many other public persons. further in the way of recommending the peti- tion to the favourable consideration of the Government. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said he remembered very well when this gentleman first produced his compilation of the statutes of New Zealand. Our statutes, of course, ex- tended over a very lengthy period, and it was only comparatively very few even of the legal profession who possessed the whole of the volumes of the statutes of the colony. When Mr. Badger first produced his volumes they brought the law down to 1891 or 1892. He (Mr. G. W. Russell) could speak from personal experience, having made very large use of the volumes. The work which Mr. Badger did was in the interests of the legal profession, and of Justices of the Peace and others who resided away from the large centres of population. He quite approved of the action of the Government in codifying the law and taking steps to reduce the bulk of the legislation of the colony, but agreed with the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith) that it would be exceedingly hard, and almost unjust, that a private individual who had done a large part of this work should find himself thrust suddenly-to use a collo- quial expression-"on the broad of his back," by the Government stepping in and taking away his market, and leaving him with a largo amount of the value of his work in a state in which it could not be turned into money. The excellence and thoroughness of the work had been appreciated, because, although it had no legal standing in the Courts as against the statutes, yet it had proved of great service to many persons who required the assistance of the compiled volumes of the statutes of the colony down to the time when the work was issued. He would not go so far even as the member for Christchurch City (Mr. J. G. Smith), as to say there was an equitable claim against the Government. He would rather be disposed to say that there was a moral claim, and one which the Government might very well take into consideration gene- rously and sympathetically. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said it would not be right that this matter should be allowed to pass over without some member connected with the legal profession saying something as to the work done by Mr. Badger in his two volumes comprising the statute law of the colony. He desired to say that he thought tho legal profession were of opinion that it was indeed a very valuable work. During the years that he had been acquainted with it, and had heard it referred to, he had never yet found serious complaint made with that work. Such was its accuracy and general correctness that he had never yet heard any serious fault found with it. In addition to the work of putting into two volumes the statute law as it existed in the colony, Mr. Badger also compiled an exceedingly valuable index : indeed, the index was one of the most valuable parts of the work. It was altogether a national work, and he entirely agreed with what had been said : that 