came out at eight a.m .; this time it has taken from half-past eleven p.m. to seven a.m. He did not think the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty meant it, but the honourable mem- ber was a little unjust if he included the Na- tive Minister in the suggestion that those who endeavoured to assist the Government in their legislation received nothing but abuse for their pay. Certainly the Native Minister was a model of patience and courtesy during a very trying time in Committee. But the weakness of the honourable gentleman's position was that, first of all, he apparently had no heart for the Bill, and, secondly, hardly seemed to be endowed with sufficient authority to accept amendments even when they approved themselves to his judgment. In regard to clause 4-which was section 22 of the Act of last year slightly altered -it was a positive miracle of bungling on the part of this Chamber and the other Chamber, and continued even by Governor's message, originating with a misprint which we endea- voured to cure by various amendments, which amendments were carried out in an incon- sistent and muddling style. He ventured to say, if this clause went on the statute- book as drafted at present, section 22 of the Act of 1900 would have to take second place as a bungle to section 4 of the Act of 1901. In the alterations there were no less than two contradictions on the face of the clause, one of which we had removed, and the other of which the Minister, although he had admitted it, un- fortunately forgot to rectify until a subsequent amendment had passed. He referred to the fact that provision was made for " alienation by way of sale" where the land belonged to more than two owners, and for " alienation by way of sale and mortgage " where the land belonged to not more than two owners. This dis- tinction, by providing for mortgaging in one case and not in the other, might be deemed to have some restricting effect upon the mortgaging of land belonging to more than two owners, and would, at any rate, be worth inquiring into, and the Minister could, no doubt, have it easily rectified in the Council. His suggestion was that the clause should be wiped out altogether, and the plain, intelligible clause 24 of the Bill of 1900, as it originated there, inserted. The clause, omitting what we unanimously struck out in Committee last session, would then read,- " Maori land shall not be alienated, either to the Crown or to any other person, except with the consent of the Council first obtained, and in accordance with the provisions of this Act." Now, some great authority on the English law described the common law as " a tortuous and ungodly jumble "; but in these ten or twelve lines of clause 4 of this Bill they had surpassed the common law even according to that definition. Clause 24 of the Bill of 1900, if the Minister thought fit to accept it, would be a twofold improvement on the law as it stood at present, apart altogether from this particular Bill. There would be a double pro- tection given to the Natives : there would be an absolute safeguard against alienation of the tional safeguard in the Maori Councils' consent to protect the Natives even against the Crown. Now, the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty was very astute, being certainly one of the best lawyers in the House, and he (Mr. Atkinson) was not at all sure he had not worked a point on the Minister and himself in reference to subclause (9) of clause 9 of the Bill. He asked the Minister to see what would be the effect of that amendment. He only wanted to make sure it was not giving enlarged opportunities for traffic in Native land by dropping subsection (2) of section 26 of the principal Act, as was done by that amendment. The subsection was so inartistic as to appear al- most meaningless ; but at the same time he hoped the Minister would make sure whether the amendment would not incidentally allow free- trade in Native land in a very undesirable way. As a friend of the Bill, he did not want to see the Natives tripped up or deceived by unintention- ally granting them power to part with their freehold without full and sufficient safeguards. No doubt the last provision in the preamble of last year's Act sounded like irony : " Whereas it is necessary to make provision for the pre- vention by the better administration of Maori lands of useless and expensive dissensions and litigation in manner hereinafter set forth." He could not imagine a better hotbed for liti- gation than the Act as amended by the present Bill. If the Act as amended did not remain a dead-letter, he was afraid that it would be likely to prove a curse to the Natives ; but, as a lawyer, he must seek consolation in the fact that it would probably be a gold-mine to the profes- sion. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) wished to make a personal explanation. He might state that he had been employed on behalf of the Karaitiana estate for the last eight years. On behalf of his principals he saw Mr. Sheridan, and asked that, as a matter of expediency, an appli- cation should be sent in for a survey lien. He might explain that he (Mr. A. L. D. Fraser) was the only person who could give evidence which would justify the Government in paying over this money. As to the statement that he was not employed in the case, he might explain that that was not correct. He was both retained and his evidence was necessary in order to sanction the paying-out of the money. Mr. ATKINSON said that, speaking in the honourable member's absence, he had stated that there was no suggestion in the letter of any impropriety on the part of the honour- able gentleman ; but he might add that it had not been suggested to the solicitors engaged that any further evidence was needed for the purpose of getting a charging order from the Native Land Court, and their success in securing the order showed that no such evi- dence was needed. And, as the evidence was solely for the Judge, how was Mr. Sheridan concerned with it, especially now that the order was made? All he had urged upon the solicitors was the retaining of Mr. Fraser pro- fessionally. 