Clause 4 .- "The Board shall not enter into any contract for the construction of a channel through the Boulder Bank until the tenders for the work have been submitted to and approved by the Minister of Marine." Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) moved to strike out the word "tenders" and insert "specifications." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 6 .- " (1.) The Motueka Wharf shall not, after the passing of this Act, be deemed to be vested in the Nelson Harbour Board, but shall be under the control of a Board to be called ' The Motueka Wharf Board,' consisting of the members of the Waimea County for the time being representing the Motueka and Moutere Ridings, and the Mayor of Motueka. "(2.) The Motueka Wharf Board shall have such powers with respect to the Motueka Wharf and its approaches by water as are from time to time conferred upon it by regulations. "(3.) The Governor, after making such in- quiry as he thinks fit, may determine what con- stitutes the assets and liabilities of the said wharf, and may also do or direct to be done whatever is necessary in order that the wharf, its assets and liabilities, may be effectually transferred to the Motueka Wharf Board. "(4.) This section is in substitution for sec- tion six of the principal Act, which section is hereby accordingly repealed." Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) moved to add the following words to subsection https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 (2) : "which may from time to time be made by the Governor in Council. Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 7 .- " All foreshore and mud - flats within the Motueka Electoral District, be- tween the boundary of the Nelson City Elec- toral District and the entrance of the Motueka River, are hereby declared to be endowments for the Motueka Wharf, and shall be adminis- tered accordingly by the Motueka Wharf Board." Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister of Marine) moved to strike out the words " boundary of the Nelson City Electoral District," and to insert the following words : "the southern boundary-line of Section number ninety - one, Block I., Moutere Survey District." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. VICTORIA COLLEGE SITE BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- Short Title. Mr. Seddon's amendment, to insert be- tween "The Victoria College Site " and " Act, 1901," the following words : "and Wellington College and Girls' High School and Wellington Hospital Empowering," under consideration. Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 2 .- " (1.) The Wellington City Council Mr. Graham in the First Schedule hereto, in exchange for such part (not exceeding ten acres) of the Wel- lington College Site Reserve as is agreed on between the Wellington City Council and the Governors of the Wellington College and Girls' High School, but so that the eastern boundary of such part is coincident in whole or in part with the eastern boundary of the said reserve. "(2.) The said Governors are hereby em- powered to convey or transfer such last-men- tioned land to the Wellington City Council." Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved to add the following words after "for such part ": "of the Wellington College Site Re- serve as may be agreed upon between the Wellington City Council and the Governors of the Wellington College and Girls' High School, or for such other land as the Wellington City Council may consider to be of equal value as a public reserve with the land described in the First Schedule hereto." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to insert the words "not being Crown lands " after the words " such other land." Mr. SEDDON moved to report progress. Motion agreed to. Progress reported. DEATH OF THE HON. J. A. BONAR, M.L.C. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, I 5.0. rise to propose, That the House do ad- journ until half-past seven o'clock this evening, as a mark of respect to the memory of the late Hon. James A. Bonar, M.L.C., who was this day called away to his long home. Death. S.r. I think, has been with us more this session than in any other session in the history of our Parliament. To me the loss of an old friend of thirty-five years' standing, and one who I may say had a great deal to do with introducing me to public life, is a severe blow. The Hon. Mr. Bonar has been connected with Westland and the West Coast as County Chairman, Superin- tendent, Chairman Harbour Board, Chairman School Commissioners, and colonel of Velun- teers, and with almost every movement and work for the development and benefit from its earliest settlement his name has been asso- ciated ; and he has taken a leading part as the representative of that part of the colony in the Legislative Council for over thirty years. I say that representation has been to the benefit of the district and in the best interests of the colony. He can ill be spared. This session Westland has lost both its representatives in the Legislative Council-first the Hon. James Kerr, and now the Hon. James A. Bonar- and this double loss will be keenly felt by the people on the West Coast. There are many here who have known him in years past who will bear testimony to his genial kind-hearted- ness and readiness to help on all occasions. I feel assured one and all will tender their heart- felt sympathy and condolence to his wife and family in their sad bereavement. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Sir, I 