asking only one section of the country to carry the burden. Why should you impose upon our able gentleman has been misrepresented, he organizations of labour conditions which will may explain shortly; but I am not aware he enable the country to compete with America, has been misrepresented. and not at the same time provide something point out, in connection with clause 21, that I which will lay upon capitalists some of the said it was in favour of the employé, and not of expense and some of the loss which might have probably to be met in order to cope with the employer ; and the honourable gentleman American competition. That is the position, misrepresented the reason I gave for saying so. My reasons are these: that the employer pos- and if you watch the American system you will see it does not in the slightest way bear upon sesses all the powers at present conferred by clause 21-that it is to his advantage that an the question of conciliation and arbitration. Now I wish to say a few words as to the Wel- employé should go to the Board of Concilia- lington Board of Conciliation. I omitted that tion, so that he will get evidence to prepare before. It appears to me that the whole of him for the Court of Arbitration, and that the employé has been forced to conciliation know- what I might call this organized opposition to ing full well that it will not profit him. conciliation has arisen out of the fact that in one centre of this colony there has been a Board which has not given satisfaction to the em- honourable gentleman to make ? ployers, and, in some cases also, not to the em- ployés. An Hon. MEMBER .- To no side. words to say. The Conciliation Board's time is wasted, and the money of the country is The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Very well, wasted in paying the expenses of conciliation. we will say so ; but one swallow does not make & summer. You might as well say that the whole system of appointing Magistrates should the words proposed to be omitted stand part of be swept away entirely because in one or two the question." cases, and probably a few more, there have been people who have been strangely careless, and Bowen who have shown nothing but a ridiculous idea Feldwick of their duty as Magistrates. You might, just Gourley as well say that; and I might go round the whole range of the social sphere and find Jennings numerous instances exactly appropriate to the Kelly, T. position I am now putting forward. Like my honourable friend Mr. Jenkinson, I shall vote Barnicoat against the third reading of this Bill, and in doing Bolt so it will be with a despondent heart, because Jenkinson I know you are going to carry it ; but I am perfectly certain we are entering upon a career that will be disastrous to the employers, disas- trous to the employes, and will result in a friction that will be in no sense favourable to third time, the successful carrying-on of organized in- dustry. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- May I make an more consideration, and I therefore move the explanation now ? adjournment of the debate. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman has spoken to the main question great deal of reason why this motion should be and to the amendment. carried. I recognise that there is a great deal The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- This is a per- of force in what the Hon. Mr. Reeves has said. sonal explanation. The honourable member It must be apparent to any one who has taken misrepresented the way I explained matters. any interest in the proceedings to-day that a The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I only gave number of members who have previously taken my conclusions. a part in such debates have not taken any part The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Do you rule me in the debate on this Bill. I believe that if out of order, Sir ? time were given to them they might make The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I do not know inquiries and perhaps get some information what the honourable gentleman wants to ex- which would show them the real position. I plain. The honourable gentleman cannot heard the Hon. Mr. Ormond interjecting the word "Bosh !" when the Hon. Mr. Bolt was wander on. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- The Hon. Mr. referring to the persecution of workers in some A. Lee Smith misrepresented a statement I instances by employers. If the Hon. Mr. made. Ormond would take the trouble to communi- The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- No, I did cate with Napier he would find that a few years ago a Free Labour Association was not. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I must be al- established by the employers, and their con- lowed to be the judge of whether you did or duct towards every worker who would not join their association was of a very vindic- not. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- If the honour- The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I was going to The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- I rise to a point of order. How many more speeches is the The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I have but two The Council divided on the question, "That AYES, 18. Pinkerton Kelly, W. Pitt Kenny Shrimski McLean Taiaroa Harris Montgomery Ormond Twomey Peacock Walker, W. C. NOES, 7. Rigg Jones Smith, A. L. Reeves Majority for 11. Amendment negatived. On the question, That the Bill be read the The Hon. Mr. REEVES said,-I think this is one of those questions which requires a little The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I think there is a 