Invercargill and Christchurch are connected. In justice to the North, I think before a large amount of further expenditure is incurred on South Island railways, which are by no means urgently required, the bulk of the money avail- able for railways should be concentrated on this line. The Minister for Public Works has made a promise that the line will be finished within a given period-I believe within three years from the present time-but at the existing rate of progress that is simply a matter of impos- sibility. It is quite possible that when the viaducts are completed, the railway may be pushed on a little more rapidly, but it will in. volve much larger appropations than the Go- vernment seem inclined to propose. Last year the amount of expenditure on the line was £130,000, and this year it is proposed to expend $160,000. If you consider that it will take nearly a million of money to complete the line, I want to know how it is possible at the rate of #160,000 a year to finish the work within three years ? The assurance is simply absurd. Then, if you consider the possibilities of this dine, the effect of its completion, the large amount of extra traffic it is likely to bring about by connecting two such places as Wel- lington and Auckland, the fine timber forest that will be opened up, the vast quantity of good land that will be made available for settle- ment when the line is completed-if you con- trast these eventualities with what is likely to follow the extension of the Midland Railway and the Otago Central, I contend we are not justified in prosecuting those works in the way we are doing. There is every prospect 1.30. of the North Island railways, when they are completed, becoming highly remune- rative ; but I would ask honourable members what possible prospect there is that the money being expended on the Otago Central and the Midland Railway will return anything in the way of a reasonable revenue. Mr. BARCLAY .- The Otago Central is pay- ing now. Have you seen it ? Mr. HOGG .- No, I have not; but I have seen the Midland Railway, on which it is pro- posed to expend £100,000 this year, and I will read to honourable members what the Public Works Statement says about it :- " Considerable work has been done during the year in making the necessary surveys in con- nection with the proposed long tunnel between Otira and the Bealey. Before definitely under- taking the construction of a work of such great magnitude, however, the Government has con- sidered it desirable to call in further expert ad- vice, and in pursuance of this decision we are now in communication with railway authorities of the highest standing in America, with the view of obtaining a report from an American or Canadian engineer of eminence, and of ex- perience in the construction of mountain rail- ways, on the different proposals that have been made in reference to the construction of this particular section of the railway." The tunnel is about six miles and a quarter in length. I think that, instead of consulting will be more wisely expended in giving an ex- cursion to members of the House to the Otira Gorge, so that they may see for themselves where it is proposed to make this tunnel. They should be taken as far as the railway will take them at present-to a locality where there is a huge bed of boulders, with a river in branches regulated by the seasons-and there they will see where it is proposed to perforate with a tunnel the backbone of the South Island. If members were to see that district I venture to say that even the South Island representatives, who have for years been advocating the work, would immediately say, " Drop it ; it is time we stopped this folly." If there is to be a means of communication over the lofty ranges, in addition to the coach, I would suggest that it should be by means of navigable balloons. The scenery, no doubt, is romantic, but the land is not fertile, and, as the only traffic to be cultivated is that supplied by tourists and sightseers, a long tunnel is an obvious ab- surdity. If such a work is constructed be- tween the Otira Gorge and Canterbury the money might as well be thrown into the ocean. If the project was in the hands of a private individual the man who would spend money on it would be ranked as a madman. Now, with regard to the Otago Central, only the other day I met a man who has been settled for a num- ber of years in the South Island, and has been connected with some of the railway enterprises down there. I asked him for information, and I said, " Have you been over the Otago Cen- tral ? I would like to get your opinion." He said, "I am perfectly conversant with that line." I asked what he thought of it. He said, " No more money should be spent on that line, because it is a mass of stones and rocks and rabbits." That was the opinion I got. I do not know what the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) may know of it, but that is the information I got from a man who has been there. I was not asking by any means for a bad opinion : I wanted to know whether the line was worth constructing, and he assured me it was not worth constructing, and would not pay the cost of construction. If it is proposed to spend £200,000 this year on railways that are not worth constructing, we ought to hesitate before voting the money. I am not finding fault with the money required for the North Island Trunk line. What I am alluding to is the waste of money that is going on in connection with two railways in the South Island. It is quite likely that the line the honourable member for Wai- hemo has pleaded for may be a line that ought to be constructed, and I have nothing to say with regard to that. In respect to the ex- penditure on roads, it is quite true there is a good deal more expenditure going on in the North than in the South. In the North it is proposed that £392,000 should be expended on roads, and only £216,000 in the South Island. But then it must be remembered that in the North Island a large amount of settlement is going on, and a good deal of the country is very expensive country to road ; whereas in 