scription. While the right honourable gentle- man made the suggestion about the impropriety of having anything like close criticism of the measure before the House, he illustrated his own text admirably by giving us details about table-linen and cups and saucers upon which vice-regal money had been expended, and, to show that the thing was quite genuine, and not a " fake," he actually gave us the name of a sub- stantial firm in this city from whom some of the articles had been purchased. Now, the honourable member for Mataura has admitted, as it seems to me, frankly enough, that the course that has been taken, and that we are asked to take now, is undesirable, if not an unconstitutional one. Mr. McNAB .- I did not say so ; I said it had been said. Mr. ATKINSON .- I thought the honourable gentleman said so; I certainly understood him to say it was undesirable, but possibly I mis- understood him. But now I wish to put this aspect of the question : The Governor is an essential part of the Government of this colony, and one of his most important functions is the entertaining department. He extends the hos- pitality of the colony to distinguished official visitors. There can be no question that in a normal case the expenses of entertaining dis- tinguished guests would fall upon him, and there is no doubt that we have made provision for this in the salary and allowances which we appoint for the Governor. Well, therefore it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 seems to me that it is beside the mark to say that he was necessarily the agent of the colony in such a way that he must be personally reim- bursed for any expenditure that has fallen upon him in connection with this Royal visit. An Hon. MEMBER .- You admit that position, that he should be reimbursed ? Mr. ATKINSON .- No, I have not admitted it so far ; but I wish to put it that it is an extraordinary course that we are asked to take, and that it is not logical to say that we have put His Excellency forward on our behalf as our agent to bear this responsibility, and that therefore it is for us, as has been said, to foot the bill. One of the most extraordinary speeches of this debate was the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton. I am bound to say I almost invariably listen to him with pleasure, and I expect to hear logic from him, and argument based upon principle. Yet one argument we had from him this evening was this: that this Bill had received the assent -he said " at any rate, the tacit assent "- of the Governor, and therefore it would be a reflec- tion upon His Excellency if we did not pass it. In other words, it was the old stock argument about a slap in the face to the Government dressed up as a slap in the face to the Governor. Well, the honourable mem- ber, with his turn for logic and dialectics, may carry that on to its logical conclusion, and he will see quickly enough where it will lead us. It will take us back to the times of the Stuarts or the Tudors, when Parliament had to do as it was told ; but there would still be this differ- Mr. Atkinson a Stuart or a Tudor they could hit back - the Stuarts sometimes got the worst of it, but the Tudors came out on top-but the position here is that no "slap in the face " can involve re- taliation. The other party is now powerless ; it is as a suppliant that His Excellency has to come before us. He has to come as a suppliant, because we have control of the purse-strings. The Bill before us shows that in theory, at any rate, it is so, and in practice, so far as I can, I shall endeavour to maintain it. The honour- able member for Masterton said that His Ex- cellency had been unsparing in his expenditure upon the reception of Royalty. I fully concede that His Excellency has been unsparing of him- self personally, that he has taken an immense amount of pains, and in my opinion has done far more in the way of attending to details than it was necessary or proper that he should do. The work, in my opinion, should properly have devolved upon his Responsible Advisers, and I regret that he put himself out so much as he did in respect to these de- tails; but the particular kind of prodigality the honourable member for Masterton referred to was prodigality in money. But, according to his argument, it was not His Excellency's money, but ours, and it is therefore the very left-handed compliment of liberality with our money that is really implied in the eulogium of the honourable member for Masterton. I fully see the difficult position in which the Premier has placed himself, and in which we are to some extent placed, and I would submit that the rea- son for the difficulty is that we are - not for the first time during His Excellency's term of office -infringing what is certainly one of the cardinal principles of policy which we ought to respect with regard to our Governors. Now, last year we increased His Excellency's salary by $2,000 ; and one of the arguments for the increase was the anticipated expenditure over the Royal visit, for which we are now asked to make special pro- vision. We put an additional vote, by virtue of the Public Revenues Act, on the supplementary estimates-€1,000, I think it was. Mr. SEDDON .- That was not for His Excel- lency : that was for expenditure in connection with Government Houses-furnishing, altera- tions, et cetera. Mr. ATKINSON. - That was towards the ex- penses of His Excellency's establishment. Mr. SEDDON. - Oh, no ; furnishing. Mr. ATKINSON .- Yes, furnishing. It was not for an addition to the Premier's garden in Molesworth Street, at any rate. It was an ex- tension of the vote for His Excellency's purse, and it would otherwise have been properly paid out of the moneys given to him by the Act. Now, the honourable member for Mataura re- gretted that His Excellency's name should be brought on the floor of the House ; but I sub- mit it is those who propose such Acts and such votes as these, and who ask us to vote for them, who are responsible for bringing the name of His Excellency on to the floor of this House. It is a principle in our Constitution Act-or, at any rate, a principle in the Royal Instruc- 