correct a misstatement made by the honourable member for Waihemo in reference to the popu- lation of Auckland and Otago. The honourable gentleman quoted the Auckland population of 1896 and compared it with the Otago population of 1901, and by that means managed to give Otago a larger population than Auckland, whereas if he had compared the two places for this year he would have found that Auckland has a larger population by some three thousand. In regard to the statements made by other speakers regarding Auckland, I entirely agree that the northern members have some right to make the statements urging a larger expenditure for the Auckland Province. I rose mainly to urge the rights of the settlers north of Auck- land. I consider they have a right to the con- sideration of the Government-to larger votes for the purpose of constructing roads. They depend entirely for the carriage of their goods on the state of these roads, and one of the great wants they ask for is the means to make roads to give the settlers access to the ports. In re- ference to railway expenditure, I hope the North will be given a larger expenditure. It is to be hoped in the future we shall have more consideration from the Government. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- At this late hour I am not going to keep the House for any length of time, for I desire to get the Bill through Committee to- night. We have estimates here amounting to a large sum, and yet the general complaint from honourable members is that the sums proposed for the several works are not large enough to meet the urgent requirements of their districts. Now, that is evidence to me that members are satisfied with the Bill which is to follow almost http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero immediately. We have had Otago representa- tives criticizing Auckland votes and Auckland representatives criticizing Otago votes ; but, Sir, each individual member must know best the requirements of the district he repre- sents, and he is not so well qualified to ex- press an opinion upon the necessity for works hundreds of miles away, of which he knows nothing, and in districts which he does not know the needs of. As to the treatment of Auckland, I consider Auckland comes off very well this year, as it did last year also. Those who have looked carefully into the esti- mates will see that it is so. On railways last year the expenditure was £163,807 in the North Island, and in the South Island £148,822 ; and, of that $163,807 for the North Island, over $100,000 was for Auckland railways. Then, if you take the roads expenditure last year in the North Island, the expenditure was $228,718. Of this sum £92,255 was spent in Auckland, and only $78,877 in the whole of the South Island. And, while we have had upon railways and roads in the Auckland Province these large sums expended, we are told we are neglecting the requirements of the Auckland District ! Now, I will give one instance in reference to what was said by the honourable member for Waitemata. He told us that it was our duty to push on the Helensville Northwards line. tend that railway ; but, Sir, last year we had every representative from Auckland urging the completion of the Main Trunk line between Wellington and Auckland. That was to be the first consideration. The House bad tacitly agreed to it, and members from all parts of the colony recognised that it was desirable this work should be completed at a reasonable date. No sooner do we adopt that view than we have hundreds of petitions from Auckland for the early completion of another work altogether ; but we cannot have two great works carried on at a great expenditure and at the same time in the Auckland Province. We have five lines of railway under construction there, and I say it is in the interests of Auck- land and of the colony generally to expend the greater sum in the completion of the connec- tion between Wellington and Auckland. Now, if the Auckland members had said they were prepared to take a sum from that allocated to the Main Trunk line to carry on the lines north of Auckland, then we might have had some alteration in the amount of the vote for the Main Trunk line and for the lines north of Auckland ; but to say that the Helens- ville Northwards line should be pushed to completion, and that a large vote should be taken for that line as well as for the Main Trunk line, would not be fair to other parts of the colony where railway communication is as urgently required. Now, with regard to this Helensville North line, during the years the Government which the member for Waitemata supported was in office this was the position - taking the last two years: For 1889-90 there was voted £15,000; expended, $5,796. For 1890-91 there was voted £25,000; expended, £10,924. Now, in 1898-99 I exceeded my vote on that same work by over $1,000. In 1899-1900 there was £7,688 expended, and last year, out of #15,000 voted, there has been just upon £12,000 expended-that is, without the expenditure on permanent-way, rails, sleepers, and other material in connection with per- manent-way ; so that the line has progressed very much better under the present Administra- tion than under the Administration which the honourable gentleman supported. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- You know very well the people would not allow them to borrow then. There was a howl for retrenchment. Mr. HALL-JONES .- And why? Because the people could not trust them. The people at the present time recognise they have a Government in office which will take up these works and carry them through economically and with reasonable speed. There have been no political railways since the present party has been in office. Every line has been of service to the colony, and has been constructed where it was most required. But in the past money was squandered and wasted, and it was that which induced the people to say, "You shall not borrow money for such purposes." Now, Sir, the member for the Bay of Plenty referred to the rate of interest to be paid for the money raised under this Bill, and he 