Majesty's cruisers were going in and out of Port Chalmers ; and, when they saw a route laid down and this port left out, that, to some extent, was casting a reflection on the port itself. It was not right ; but how to remedy it was another matter. It appeared to him that the Admiralty were afraid to trust one of their boats to enter either Port Chalmers or the Bluff. What would happen to the Bluff or to Port Chalmers if an enemy's cruiser went there he would not like to say. His Majesty's cruisers dared not go there, and, that being known, in the event of war those were the first places an enemy's cruisers would make for. The whole thing, to his mind, pointed to the fact that something was wrong somewhere. His own opinion was, and we had it now on the autho- rity of the Admiral himself, that old charts was all the information upon which the Admiralty went, and probably the Otago Harbour Board itself was to blame in not seeing that up-to- date charts were sent to the Admiralty, so that they might know they were labouring under a mistake. If the honourable member would see that charts were sent to him, with a return of the tonnage of vessels going to Port Chal- mers, he would see that it was sent on through His Excellency to the Admiral. BREACH OF PRIVILEGE. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If they will take steps in the direction of getting definitely settled the prac- tice to be followed in cases of breach of privilege ? He was induced to put this question on the Order Paper because the Standing Orders did not appear to deal with the question of pro- cedure in respect to breach of privilege. As far as the procedure of the House could be regu- lated outside the Standing Orders, it seemed to depend upon some dicta laid down in " Rulings of the Speakers of the House of Representa- tives." For instance, on page 158 it says : " In the case of a newspaper article, if member calls attention to it, it is read by the Clerk ; a motion should be made that it is a breach of the privileges of the House." With all defer- ence, he submitted that the ruling laid down was not correct-that was to say, if the pro- cedure of the British House of Commons was to be followed. Breaches of privilege might be committed by persons either inside or outside the House. If committed by persons inside the House, then they might be dealt with at once, on motion that a breach of privilege has been committed. If a breach of privilege has been committed by an outsider, the first step is to summon the offender to the bar of the House, and not, as has been the practice in this House, to pass first of all a motion that a breach of privilege has been committed. He trusted that the Government would take some steps, either by appointing a Committee or otherwise, to clear up a part of our procedure that was of great importance, and which was at present in a somewhat nebulous condition. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the practice on questions of breach of privilege was already Mr. Seddon of Commons, and in our own House. He thought as cases arose they had fixed the practice that obtained in dealing with them. # LONG-SERVICE MEDALS. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will take into consideration the advisableness of reducing the term of service now demanded from Volunteers before they are awarded the New Zealand long-service medal ? The question was often asked, What could be done to induce Volunteers to remain in the service? and here was a matter by which Volunteering would be easily and readily en- couraged, and almost at no expense to the State. He maintained that sixteen years was too long a service to ask of a middle-aged man to qualify for the long-service medal. If the term were reduced to twelve years, he thought it would have a splendid effect in keeping in the Force any man who had perhaps been a Volun- teer for six or seven years. He might be told. possibly, that this would be interfering with those who had already got their long-service medals after sixteen years' service. That could be easily met by giving a different class of medal-one class for sixteen years' service and a different kind for twelve years' service. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the Commandant of the Forces stated that he could not recommend any large reduction in the term of service requisite for carning the New Zea- land Volunteer long and efficient service medal. If such service were now shortened it would be easier in that case as compared with the time served by those who had already earned the medal under present conditions-that was, that a medal given after this alteration was made would not have the same value as the present one to those who had earned it. However, it was a matter that should be considered, and a discretion used, and that done which was in 1 the best interests of the Volunteer movement. He would promise that the matter would be given consideration. # BONUS ON KEROSENE AND PARAFFINE-WAX. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Pre- mier, When he will, in pursuance of a pro- mise given last session when the tariff remission proposals were before the House, grant a bonus on kerosene and paraffine wax manufactured in the colony, so as to enable the Orepuki Shale Company to establish their extensive and im- portant colonial industry ? He would point out to the Premier that last year, when the Tariff Bill was before the House, a promise had been made that a bonus of 6d. a gallon on kerosene and ¿d. a pound on paraffine-wax would be given to the company. A deputation of members had waited on the Premier in July of the pre- sent year, and impressed on him the necessity of assistance being given to this industry. So far nothing had been done. It was well known that the company had expended about £100,000, of which £70,000 had been expended on labour and machinery, before the tariff had been 