in the Act of 18:4, and which, from 1894 to put through its Committee stage, there was not a single " No" against the third reading of the 1901-for seven years-has been resisted in Par- measure. It was carried unanimously by the liament by one means or another, and has been subordinated by interested parties. At last, House. And then we had a spectacle I never however, we have it on the statute-book of the witnessed before in the House, and hope never colony. In the woollen factories women and to witness again. I do not wish to say any- thing that will cause heartburning, but I no- girls now, of course, can work their forty-eight ticed in the Press something in this style : hours, but all girls under eighteen years of age are now only permitted to work forty-five hours. " A gallant band of heroes set up a stonewall, I therefore say that, under all the circum- and did their level best to prevent the passing of the measure." What a travesty on the true stances, I congratulate the House and mem- position ; they were not opposing the hill at bers upon the work done. There are some measures which I regret have not been placed all; they wanted it passed. Sir, what were the heroes doing ? They were engaged in a on the statute-book. I allude to the Licensing struggle to save themselves from having to write Act Amendment Bill. I regret that that ques- to the Paymaster-General, "We do not want tion has not been dealt with, but the fault lies the increase." with those who flooded the Order Paper with amendments. The representatives of the Pro- stonewall ; it was not the Bill at all. Members told the House and the country on the second hibitionist section - what have they done, after going on the platform and denouncing the Go- reading " We are opposed to it until it goes before the constituencies : we will not soil our vernment ? After strongly asserting that there fingers with dross obtained at the end of the must necessarily be some alteration in the way session : we will not pollute our pockets with of amending licensing laws, when we gave them money obtained under such circumstances : our the opportunity for making amendments they constituents must be consulted; it is uncon- flooded the Order Paper and threatened stone- stitutional and unprecedented to do this." walling and obstruction to such an extent that But, when called upon to put in a proviso to, in the Government, fearing that other measures that were necessary would be blocked, have had effect, tell the House and country that " Having in the House stated I was not in favour of to allow that matter to stand over till next this money being paid until after next ses- session. The Counties Bill is another measure I should like to see on the statute-book, but it sion of Parliament, I notify the Paymaster that I do not wish to receive the increase" is impossible. I sent it to a Committee, and -why, Sir, rather than be put in the position found the Committee absolutely opposed to the of giving effect to their own opinions as ex- policy contained in the Bill. They struck pressed, and as they told the country were the out every cardinal point of the Bill which I believe the people of the country desire. views they held, they stonewalled the Kill for a solid day and night, and they managed to get The general feeling is that there is too much out of the difficulty, and members know the government, and I say the fact that we have rest. That measure has put upon the colony Road Boards with a paltry revenue of $100 a about $6,000, which is scattered over 800,000 year by the score in the colony points to the people; and I will say this, that the people necessity for reduction. The Bill was kept of New Zealand, if you give them bene- before the Committee for a long time, and the ficent laws, and if you watch carefully their draftsman had not time to remodel it ; and to interes's, and the country is main ained pro- have brought in the Bill in its mangled shape sperous, will never, in my opinion, have a word would have been only to waste the time of the to say against the increase in salaries that are House. But next session I will take a lead paid to members the people believe in pay- from the House itself. I shall ask the House ing a living-wage. One of the rules at the to decide finally on the policy as to whether present time is that each one shall receive a there is to be a reduction of the number of living-wage-that each one shall be rewarded local bodies, whether there are to be Town for the services he renders. It is the position, Boards and Road Boards, or whether it will be no' the individual, that the salary is given for, necessary to do away with some Road Boards and i is the position of the member of the day. and increase the number of counties, but He is only a passing event-whoever comes making them much smaller than proposed in and takes his place, there is the position, and the Bill. I know now pretty well the mind of there is the salary. The ques ion is, Is £300 the House on this question, and I will endea- equal to the position ? I say i is. The vour to have a Bill ready next session that will amount paid before was not equal to the enable us to grapple with the question and position, and as far as members were con- complete this necessary work in the present cerned it left them year to year making great Parliament. I also wish to put on record sacrifices for the people of the country, which some remarks in regard to a matter that sacrifices, I say, were not necessary. I con- personally affects the House in respect to clude, Sir, by expressing the hope, as stated the Payment of Members Bill. I say that by the honourable member for Parnell, bat 90 per cent. of the members of the House were our Speaker, Sir Maurice O'Rorke, will be in favour of that measure, but there are a few res ored to perfect heal h, and tha he may who are nervous, and feared the consequences. be with us next session. You, Sir, for pre- They had not mentioned the matter to their siding during the session, I, with other mem- constituents and they hesitated about the Bill ; That was the reason of the 