Allen, E. G. Duncan McLachlan Allen, J. McNab Field Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Arnold Palmer Hall-Jones Barclay Bennet Heke Rhodes Herries Seddon Bollard Kaihau Buddo Symes. Carncross Lang Massey Carroll Tellers. Laurenson McGowan Collins Mckenzie, R. Smith, G. J. Colvin Majority against, 23. Amendment negatived. Mr. HORNSBY ( Wairarapa) moved, That the vote £11,557 be reduced by £1,000. He did not desire in any way to interfere with the salary of the Under-Secretary, but he did wish to reduce the headquarters staff. He desired to reiterate that the military establishment ought to be conducted on a much more economical plan. The officers were duplicated and tripli- cated, and, if the business of the country-so far as the Volunteer Force was concerned - were properly carried on, there was no necessity for much of the expenditure proposed. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) desired tc move a prior amendment. He moved, That the item " 13 clerks, $2,262," be reduced by £1,174, to bring the amount to what it was for the previous year. The capitation proposed was $30,000 as against £40,000 last year, and if the expenditure was less there was no need for the headquarters staff to be increased. The growth https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 of the clerical staff around the head office of the Defence Department ought to be dealt with. The head office staff had increased from eighteen last year to thirty-seven for the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero present year. It was for the Government to justify this large increase. Many of those who had been taken on as casual clerks in the Defence Office were now being absorbed as a permanent part of the staff. Members should reduce these estimates item by item to the amounts shown on last year's estimates. It was for that purpose he moved that this item be reduced by £1,174. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) hoped members would treat this department with a certain amount of generosity. During the past two years a very severe strain had been placed upon it in the despatch of the contingents, and, of course, the ordinary clerical work had got a little behindhand. In addition to that, the large increase in the number of Volunteers rendered necessary an increase of the clerical work. Probably the number of clerks would be decreased as the pressure of work was relaxed. Mr. SEDDON said it was a fair question to raise why there had been an increase of seven clerks in the Defence Office. The answer was the large expenditure that had taken place, and that not only the colonial but the Imperial demands and the Imperial connection made it necessary to keep separate accounts for the pay of the contingents. Then, there had been vari- ous abnormal occurrences during the year, all of which had thrown an exceptional amount the visit of the Imperial troops, the visit of the Indian troops, and the Royal visit. The vouchers for the various military camps alone represented an amount of from £20,000 to £25,000. The way in which the clerks in this de- partment had been worked was really a shame. They had been working day and night for weeks and weeks. It was impossible to do the work with less of a staff. This increase of seven clerks would not be permanent. When they got back to normal conditions the number would be reduced. This colony was not justified in working its clerks day and night. The De- fence Office had to keep a separate account for each man of the three thousand who were sent to South Africa, and, in addition to that there were eighteen thousand Volunteers. When he told the member for Riccarton of the work these men were doing, he felt sure the honourable gentleman would not press his amendment. There had been an increase of six thousand Volunteers this year. Then, the cadet corps showed another three thousand, and the rifle clubs would probably make another three thousand : the work had, therefore, gone on increasing. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item, ' 13 clerks, £2,262,' be reduced by £1,174." AYES, 7. Monk Tellers. Ell Hall Thomson, J. W. Hornsby Russell, G. W. Meredith NOES, 29. Field McLachlan Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Allen, J. Arnold O'Meara Hall-Jones Bennet Palmer Heke Rhodes Bollard Herries Seddon Buddo Kaihau Ward. Laurenson Carroll Tellers. Collins Lawry Colvin Carncross McGowan Mckenzie, R. Smith, G. J. Duncan Majority against, 22. Amendment negatived. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved to strike out the item, "Staff Officer (also for Artillery duties), $300." Amendment negatived. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL moved to strike out the item, "8 clerks, £1,311." That was a big increase on last year, and he would like to know why so much clerical assistance had been required. Mr. SEDDON said it was because of the separating of the duties of the Commandant. and was the result of the establishment of the military as separate from the civil organiza- tion. Personally, he was satisfied that they would have to go back to the old arrangements, but in the meantime these clerks were kept busy, and must be paid. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked for the name of the Mounted Infantry Officer for the South Island, $300. 