for letters in respect to the San Francisco ser- vice was continued, the cost would be increased from #15,463 to $17,760. At 4s. 4d. a pound, the postage equivalent of the penny rate, and 10s. 5d. a pound on letters for the United States, the payment would be £11,791. Postal Union rates would amount to £6,061. The payment of 10s. 5d. a pound for our letters to the United States was because that country did not admit our letters on the penny rate there. These were the three rates of payment ; and the fastest service, and the cheapest and the best service, it would be seen, was the San Francisco one. From London to New Zealand the average times taken last year by the San Francisco and Federal services were as 4.30. follows :- San P. and O. Orient Francisco. Line. Line. Days. Days. Davs. London to Auckland 39.38 39.15 31.71 .. 40.35 Wellington. . 39.96 32.86 Dunedin 41.13 34.07 41.71 .. Bluff 34.82 40.96 40.38 .. While from New Zealand to London the times were :- Days. Days. Days. Auckland to London .. 40.36 30.85 40.74 42.14 Wellington 32.69 41-20 .. 41.89 Dunedin 33.69 41.01 . . Bluff 34.44 40.26 41.14 . . 2 Now, under these proposals, assuming that the service between San Francisco and Auckland will be performed in seventeen days, and the inter- colonial fortnightly connection with the Federal service to be Sydney and Wellington, mails should be delivered as under :-- Federal San Francisco. Service. Days. Days. London to Auckland 38-39 28-29 Wellington 37-38 .29-30 Dunedin 38-39 30-31 31-32 Bluff 39-40 Auckland to London 29-30 Wellington 30-31 Dunedin 31-32 Bluff 32-33 If we were to establish a fast intercolonial ser- vice, connecting with the weekly Federal service at Australia, between Bluff and Melbourne and Auckland and Sydney, the transport of mails to and from London by this route would be much shorter than at present. With a connection between the Bluff and Melbourne direct the mail-deliveries would probably be :- Days. London to Bluff 36-37 37-38 Dunedin . . .. Wellington 38-39 Auckland 40-41 .. Bluff to London .. 36 .. Dunedin 36 . . Wellington 38 . . Auckland 39-40 · · And by a direct service between Sydney and Auckland :- Sir J. G. Ward London to Auckland 37-38 .. 38-39 Wellington .. Dunedin .. 39-40 Bluff 40-41 . . Auckland to London 37 39 Wellington .. Dunedin 40 Bluff 41 But, then, this would not be nearly so fast as the San Francisco service, nor as fast as a Vancouver service if such were established. Honourable members will see that, from any point you like to take it, the San Francisco service is much the faster. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I move, That the Standing Orders be so far suspended that this resolution moved by the Postmaster-General be treated as a Bill on its second reading, and that the Postmaster-General be allowed an hour to be heard on the motion, as provided by Standing Order No. 103. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That can only be moved by unanimous consent. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- No ; I certainly cannot give my consent. I regret exceedingly to be guilty of what may be ap- parent discourtesy to the Hon. the Postmaster- General. I beg he will not consider it so in the very least ; but the Standing Orders are perfectly clear on the point. In the first place, I should raise the point that the Postmaster- General has now finished his speech according to the Standing Orders, and unless we begin this debate de novo he has no position in the House in connection with this subject until he rises to reply. I say it is impossible to bring in a motion in the middle of the debate now going on to suspend a Standing Order. But, in the second place, the Standing Orders are perfectly clear upon the point. It has been known to the Right Hon. the Premier and the Postmaster- General that this debate was coming on, and it is no new subject that is sprung upon the 39 House unexpectedly. Standing Order No. 437 37 is perfectly clear, and says,- 38 "Any Standing Order or Orders of the House 39 may be suspended on motion made with or without notice : Provided that notice extending over two clear days, and specifying the hour at which such motion will be made, shall always be given when practicable ; and that a notice to suspend without notice shall not be entertained unless there be forty members present at the time such motion is made; and provided fur- ther that when such suspension is to extend over more than one sitting, or in relation to more than one specified matter, the presence of forty members shall in all cases be necessary." The Premier must or should have foreseen that the introductory speech would be a long one, and so it was his duty to give notice of the suspension of the Standing Order if he de- cided it would be necessary. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not know why the honourable gentleman wishes to con- tinue to discuss the question. I have already ruled on the point. 