as follows : Otago, £5,473 3s. 9d. ; Auckland, £4,536 13s. 6d. ; Westland, £529 2s. ; Welling- ton, £238 0s. 5d. ; Canterbury, £82; Marl- borough, £61 18s. 6d. ; Southland, £60 17s. 2d. : total, £10,981 15s. 4d. Now, I should not be surprised to see Canterbury doing better than Auckland or Otago. The honourable member for Bruce asked what quantity had been exported last year. The quantity ex- ported during the year 1899-1900 was 111 tons 8 cwt. canned fish, on which a bonus of £1,039 15s. 2d. was paid. The export of cured fish amounted to 3 tons 3 cwt. 2 qr. 161b., entail- ing a bonus of £7 88. 6d. During the year 1900-1901 the total export of canned fish amounted to 101 tons 18 cwt. 1 qr. 171b., on which a bonus of £1,016 11s. 9d. was paid. No salted fish was exported during this period. There was no salt fish exported last year for which a bonus was paid. I hope the House will agree to the provisions of the Bill. The only question that has been debated has been whether it should apply to one year only or whether we should pay the full bonus this year and then taper off. I prefer the latter course. Bill read a second time. EDUCATION BOARDS ELECTION BILL. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the Bill was to remedy an in- convenience in connection with the election of members of Education Boards. The Act of last session provided for the appointment of scruti- neers, but made no provision under which they should make a declaration not to disclose what took place. Since the Bill had been introduced his attention had been drawn to the desirability of extending the time between the notice of elections and the declaration of the poll, some of the voting-papers not coming to hand within the time prescribed in the Act of last year, and when in Committee he would deal with that point. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said he had drawn the attention of the House last session to the fact that, while a Bill had been passed entitling individual members of School Com- mittees to vote for members of the Education Board, the Canterbury College Governors were elected by the School Committees as a whole. The position was an absurd one, and he thought that members of School Committees should be given the same privileges in regard to the Can- terbury College Board as they possessed in re- gard to members of Boards of Education. He hoped the Minister would agree to a small amendment being inserted in the Bill making provision to enable this to be done. Mr. HALL JONES hoped no attempt would be made to introduce matter foreign to the Bill. which was one dealing solely with the election of members of Education Boards. The way to meet the point raised by the honourable gentleman would be by an amendment of the Act dealing with the College Governors, and he would promise to look into the matter and see if some such provision could not be made next session. Bill read a second time. CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS RATING BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Section 2 .- Power to remit rates on chari- table institutions. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add the following proviso : " Provided that this section shall not apply to any charitable institution occupying an area of land greater than one acre in extent." Proviso added. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to add to the proviso : "if within a borough, or three acres, if outside the boundaries of a borough." The Committee divided. AYES, 40. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Monk Allen, J. Hardy Napier Heke Arnold O'Meara Herries Bennet Palmer Parata Bollard Hogg Hornsby Carncross Russell, W. R. Duncan Lang Seddon Ell Lawry Stevens Field Thomson, J. W. McGowan Ward. McGuire Fisher Mackenzie, T. Fowlds Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Gilfedder McLachlan Massey Mills Pirani. Graham NOES, 7. Tellers. Smith, G. J. Collins Tanner. Budde Laurenson Meredith Russell, G. W. Majority for, 33. Proviso added, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. EVIDENCE FURTHER AMENDMENT BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) moved the addition of the following new clause :-- "The provisions of sections six, seven, and eight of 'The Evidence Further Amendment Act, 1895,' shall apply to any person examined under this Act as a witness." New clause negatived. Bill reported, and read a third time. COOK AND OTHER ISLANDS GOVERN- MENT BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- " Subject to the provisions of this Act, the laws in force in the said Islands at the commencement of this Act (including the local laws, customs, and usages of the native inhabit- ants, in so far as the same are not repugnant to the general principles of humanity) shall con- tinue until other provision is made, and, sub- ject as aforesaid, the statute laws of New Zea- land shall not be in force in the said Islands." Mr. SEDDON moved the addition of the fol- lowing proviso :- "Provided that the Governor, by Order in Council, may from time to time direct that any 