pensation for Accidents Act since 1899 or not. The question, to my mind, is whether in this proposal we are to have the English Act of last year enacted here, or is the farmer to be still in a doubtful position with regard to the Act, or is this proposal to exempt them from the operations of the Act when it comes to a ques- tion of employing machinery on the farm? I think this is a matter that ought to be made clear. If it is left in the present unsatisfactory position it will still be a debatable question as to whether the farmer is under the Act or not. The employers are not exactly sure of their position, although a number of them are in- I think the House suring their workmen. demands this information when the Premier replies : "Are we to have the English Act? " I say, if we are not to have the English Act let us remain where we are. I would like to go into this matter pretty fully. I do not see why the Government should not take up the ques- tion of insurance. At the present time the Government Life Insurance rate is 10s. per cent. on wages, and no consideration for find- I consider that insurance ing employés. should be done for farmers at 6s. per cent., and no loss made by the department ; indeed, I The think it will be profitable business. farmers are not adverse to insuring the same as other employers, but they resent being in a position of not knowing whether they are liable or not under the Workers' Compensa- tion Act. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- I would like to express myself somewhat similar to what has been said by the last speaker. We ought to have the English Act in its entirety and not adopt a portion of it. My name has been men- tioned by the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Hutcheson) as one who voted against bringing agricultural labourers under the operation of the Act of 1899. I certainly did that, and had my reasons for doing so. At that time the Commissioner of the Government Insurance Office was behind the chair, and I walked across and asked him if any rates had been prepared to cover farm-labourers, and the answer was in the negative. I concluded that we were going blindfold in bringing people under a bond to insure when there were no rates prepared to meet the case, and I thought at that time there should have been a schedule prepared so that we might know what we were voting on. That was my reason for opposing the Bill at that time, but I believe myself that if farm-labourers are brought under the opera- tion of the Bill they will be thankful for it, after they have had experience of it and know exactly how far it reaches. I trust the Premier will adopt the whole of the English Act. Surely, if England can follow that Act this colony can. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) .- I wish to make a few remarks. I agree with the member for Kaiapoi. If the English Act is brought down the farmers will not have the slightest objection to it. As the Bill stood before, if a man was injured when threshing, or doing any contract to satisfy the claim the farmer would be liable, and, if he could not do so, then the mortgagee was also responsible. A farmer could not work under such circumstances as that. If the English Act is passed, I think the Government might take up the insurance themselves. Then there will be no difficulty at all. The honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) would like the House to believe that farm- servants are the worst - used and worst-paid people in the colony, and as if they got only a few days' work at a time ; but he knows nothing about it. The honourable member always talks about matters that he knows nothing about. I have a man on my place now who has been with me years, and others for a shorter time, and I say they are better off and better paid than town labourers. I know they can save double the money in the year that town labourers can. If a Bill was brought in in the way I suggest it would satisfy the farmers, and I guarantee there will be no objection to it. But they must know exactly what they are doing, and not be left in the uncertain manner they are in at the present time. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .- As one who has taken a deep interest in this measure, and who has been instrumental in urging the Government to bring down an amending Bill this session, I purpose saying a very few words. I am mainly induced to speak by the statement of the honour- able member for Kaiapoi. He says it is better not to have any Bill at all this session if that Bill is not a copy of the English Act. I agree with him that it will be better to have a Bill framed exactly, or almost exactly, on the lines of the English Bill ; but I disagree with him in saying we cannot have a satisfactory amend- ment framed on our own Act of last year that will answer the purpose. I think we should make it quite plain that agricultural labourers are to be included in this Act, if it is suitably amended, as they are in the case of the Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act. They have just as much right to be included as any other labourers in the colony. Then, there is also the question of the casual labourer -- the swagger, and so forth. There is a very strong feeling in the country districts that this class of labourer should not derive any benefit from the Act, because it is a matter of impossibility almost in every case for the farmer to protect himself by a policy of accident insurance when employing a casual labourer. At the same time, I am quite sure that farmers will not object to come into line with other employers of the colony and pay their insurances like other em- ployers, so long as the measure is within the same scope as the English Act, and is restricted to work of a character which it would be proper to include within the provisions of the Act. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- The honourable member for Avon just now stated that the number of persons employed in agricultural operations exceeded those employed in any other industry in the colony, and I believe he is quite correct there. But he might have gone a little further and told the House that- 