the part of the Premier." He regretted that by that means a great deal of support which would have been given to many local Bills had prac- tically been withdrawn. It was nonsense for the Premier to say that he had already given two days for the discussion of the Bills, because all that he had done had been to play into the hands of certain obstructionists. If these Bills had been given a fair opportunity for considera- tion, and if a day had been given without any limit to the time in which the House would be obliged to discontinue the consideration of the Bills, it would have been very soon evident that the majority of the Bills left on the Order Paper could have withstood anything like a siege. He felt that the present was an occasion when they should take a vote of the House as to whether the course proposed by the Premier, in refusing to give a further opportunity for dis- cussing local Bills, should be accepted, or whether a further opportunity should be given. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) begged to second the amendment. He might state that he was interested in one of the Bills that the Premier by his well known mastery of the art of "dickery " had succeeded in placing nearly at the bottom of the Order Paper. Some weeks ago the Premier indicated to a deputation that it was his determination to prevent the Bill, of which he (Mr. Hutcheson) had charge, seeing the light of day. He (Mr. Hutcheson) undertook to say, however, that the Premier would not entirely succeed in his scheme. It would be hard indeed if the Premier could succeed in preventing legislation passing which merely enabled the ratepayers of Wellington to record their wishes. In answer to an inter- jection of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) he might state that if the honour- able member felt strongly opposed to the Bill he could vote against it, or could propose to amend it in Committee. As he had already stated, he (Mr. Hutcheson) would accept the verdict of the House without protest. The right of private members of the House had been whittled away until nothing but the shadow remained. They were led like sheep to the slaughter. One man in the House had usurped every right of private members, and every function of private members was now an appanage of the right honourable gentleman, who had succeeded in establishing the very worst form of tyranny-the tyranny of an elected despot ; because he did it all in the name of the people, and the people took the burden of it, and he, by his devices, made it to appear as though it was the wish of the people. He felt himself almost inclined to become a fatalist, and, living in the atmosphere of the House, to say "what will be, will be." His colleague for the city bad succinctly put the case. What did it avail if they could succeed in convincing the majority of members so long as they did not succeed in convincing the right honourable gentleman. There was the whole thing in a nutshell. If the right honourable gentleman was capable of realising his great responsibility, and what was due to the coun- know that it was his duty to allow any self - governing community in the colony governed by a local body-in this special case the most important local governing body of the colony-to say what they require for the good of their own district in conformity with the provisions of the Municipal Corporations Act. Yet the fact remained that the Premier had determinedly opposed for years past every- thing that made for the progress and welfare of the City of Wellington. For instance, he had done everything in his power to harass and im- pode the freedom of action of admittedly the best managed local governing body of the whole colony-the Wellington Harbour Board. He had restricted, hindered, and impaired that body at every opportunity. He had even de- nounced their legislation and had sought to in- still into the minds of the people a poisonous distrust in the honesty of purpose of that body. He had accused them of corruption, which, were they capable of, they would not have been de- serving of the title of citizens of Wellington. He had sought to interfere with the rights of private individuals in the city, and in the es- tablishment of the Middle District College had set himself against the concrete opinion of the citizens of Wellington. Another instance of the honourable gentleman's hostility to the city was to be found in the fact that he had said to a public deputation that this Bill should not pass. Now, why should not the Bill receive the con- sideration of Parliament? He (Mr. Hutche- son) did not make bold to say that the Bill ought to pass ; but why should it not receive the consideration of Parliament ? If that were permitted there was no fear as to what the re- sult would be. His colleague (Mr. Fisher) had asserted that scarcely a single member of the House understood the provisions, and that no one knew the inwardness of the Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able member must not discuss a Bill on the Order Paper or explain its provisions. Mr. HUTCHESON would not say more re- specting it than that it was a Bill the citizens of Wellington, through their popularly elected local-governing body, had desired to have the imprimatur of the Legislature affixed to. Mr. FISHER said four-fifths of the rate- payers were bitterly opposed to it. Mr. HUTCHESON replied, that if only a bare majority of the ratepayers voted against the proposals contained in it, as they would undoubtedly be entitled to do, that would settle the Bill most effectually, and it would become absolutely waste paper. The citizens, however, ought to have an opportunity of declaring against it, as they would have if the Bill was passed, since it was thoroughly safeguarded by the provisions of the Municipal Corporations Act of last year. Let the citizens, then, say " Yea " or " Nay " to the proposals, but it was not right for a minority of the House to deny to the citizens the right to vote on that question. He desired to show every consideration for his fellow-members, the great majority of whom were anxious to close the business of Parlia- 