such other branches of science as the advanco- ment of the colony and the increase of the population may from time to time require, may be taught in such school. For such higher education fees shall be paid by the pupils at such rates as shall be fixed by regulations." The Act says they shall pay fees. Then, why should they not pay? I proposed at a former time in this Parliament-it was a time of great necessity, no doubt-that the so-called Seventh Standard, which in reality has no legal existence, should be abolished. The necessity for the abolition of that standard is not now so great, and consequently my objection is not so great : but I do object to the extension of the district-high-school system for the benefit of those people in the middle class of life who can well afford to pay, if they desire their children should receive a higher-class education. The common-school system was designed for the education of the children of all classes of the community ; its chief merit was that there should be no special advantage extended to any one class of the community : and it must be clear to the mind of any reasonable-any reason- ing person- that this is a provision conferring exclusive benefit on the children of a certain class of society. The original Education Act of 1877 was an equaliser - not a leveller, but an equaliser-in all respects. It was never intended that the children of any section of the community should have any advantage over those of any other class. It is clear that the extension of the district-high-school system is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 designed for the benefit of a particular class of the community, who, by reason of the means they possess, are not entitled to receive such advantage. I look upon this Bill as only one step in the direction in which I have always wished the education system to go. Even if it is not perfect it will be easy in future sessions to make it so. I would point out, en passant, that those persons who regard the Education Act of 1877 as a sacred thing, never to be touched by the desecrating hand of man-as a fetish which it ought to be beyond the power of the Legislature to remodel or improve-take a mistaken view of the education question. Here is an attempt-and a laudable attempt- to improve the Act of 1877, and I regard any man as a friend of the Education Act who attempts in any way to improve the provisions of that Act. As I said before, I have not much to say in regard to the Bill. It is a short Bill aiming at the accomplishment of one purpose. That purpose being to my mind desirable, the Bill will have my support. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- I totally dis- agree with the remark of the last speaker in respect to centralising the education system. We have experience in this House of the diffi- culty of moving the central authorities in the direction we believe the country desires them to be moved, and it is only through our local institutions we can have the desires of the pub- lic readily given effect to. If the power is in the hands of the central authorities, every one must recognise that it is most difficult to move Mr. Fisher should like to refer to. It has been stated that women are incapable of performing this work, and that has been advanced as a reason why women should not be paid equal to men for equal work. This is not the real reason ; it is only an excuse-I cannot apply another term. But the real object is that certain prizes are to be reserved for men in order to induce them to take up the teaching profession, and hold these positions. If a woman takes charge of a class of the Fourth Standard of eighty children, and the result is satisfactory to the Inspector, is not that sufficient evidence that she is doing her work ? And the reports of the Inspectors are to the effect that the women teachers are doing the work satisfactorily. I may point out that women now hold the positions of heads of girls' high schools, and have charge of a large number of scholars, in many cases of high educational attainment. That being so, why should not a woman be allowed to take the position of head of a primary school, and the Education Board have the opportunity of giving her the same salary as would be paid to a man? The excuse given is this: that wo- men are not physically capable of performing the work. We have, however, evidence of cases of women who have been teaching for from eleven up to twenty years, and they are teaching the Fourth and Fifth Standards. The honourable member for Wallace knows that there is a considerable amount of work in teaching children of the Fourth Standard-and a class of perhaps eighty children. If a woman fills that position satisfactorily, why should you not give her the same pay as you would give a man ? Then, there is another excuse ad- vanced - namely, that women have not the same economical obligations or the same respon- sibilities; but I may point out that a woman may be supporting a mother, and other mem- bers of her family. You give the same rate of pay for men and women up to the third column of this scale, but in the other two columns you do not give the same rate of pay, showing clearly that this is merely an empty excuse, and that there is no sound reason for it. I would ask why should not the Education Boards be allowed to give payment at the same rate of pay as they give men for doing the same work. The purpose in fixing up this scale is in order that prizes may be held out for men to enter the teaching profession. That is the long and short of the whole thing. With regard to in- fant mistresses, they may have charge of three or four hundred children, and may be filling very responsible positions. You give a woman teacher $155 for performing this important work and filling this important position, and to the third male teacher you give an equal amount. You give the same amount to an infant mis- tress when there is a school of a total number of 560 to 600. Then, with regard to house allowance : House-allowance varies from #20 to $50 for the headmaster : but what about the first assistant teacher in the towns ? There is no house allowance granted to him. I have a case in my mind now where the difference will 