Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Premier, Whether he will state why he objects to the following motion for a return, standing in the name of the member for Ashley, namely : "That there be laid before this House copies of all correspondence which has passed between the Government and the Colonial Office, London, during the past twelve months in reference to the question of precedence ?" He would be satis- fied if the Premier would place the correspond- ence on the table, so that the members and the country could draw their own deductions. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it rested with the honourable gentleman to state that there had been correspondence; he was waiting for the honourable gentleman to give the House some particulars. He had no objection to re- turns; the more the merrier ; but, in connec. tion with an unopposed return, first of all there must be the material, and it might be necessary for some explanation to be given, which the honourable member in this case had not given. Mr. MEREDITH said, If the honourable gentleman would now state that no correspond- ence had passed, or no despatches, between the Government and the Colonial Office on a ques- tion of precedence he would be quite satisfied. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentleman practically admitted now that he was only on a fishing expedition ; he had probably heard some whispering and thought this was a good way of getting at the facts, and instead of asking him to say " Yes " or "No " he moved for a return. Mr. MEREDITH .-- I am asking now. Mr. SEDDON said, No; the honourable gentleman's question was, why a return of some correspondence, the existence of which he was not satisfied, was not given. # RAILWAY FROM AVONDALE TO KARAKA BAY. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Minister for Public Works, If he will reconsider the question of constructing a branch railway from Avondale to Karaka Bay, on the Manukau Harbour, in order to hasten the delivery of the San Fran- cisco and inland mails? He had asked this question last year. He understood that a survey had been made, and an estimate of the cost. He was told on good authority that it would be a very cheap line to make-in fact, for about half the cost required to dredge the Onehunga Harbour. The branch line required to be made was only a mile and a half from the Kaipara line at Avondale to deep water in the Manukau Harbour. Steamers could then leave at low water. He thought the matter was worth in- quiring into, as to whether it would not ex- pedite the delivery of mails-especially the San Francisco mails -- from Auckland to the South. There would be no such thing, if this were done, as a vessel having to wait for five or six hours at Onehunga for the tide. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he was not aware of a mail-steamer having to wait five or six hours for the tide. A boat of the "Ngapuhi " class should go to the present wharf at Onehunga at any time of that the Government should make this railway and the necessary wharf to enable the Fr'isco mails to be delivered some two hours earlier. If that was to be tacked on to the cost of the Fr'isco mail-service the honourable gentleman was not taking a course in the interests of Auckland, and he doubted if the House would agree to the construction of a railway for that purpose. The Public Works Department did not know of any existing survey of the line, nor had their attention been directed to this matter until last year. Under present circum- stances, with so many works in hand, he could hold out no hope of provision being made for this work. Mr. BOLLARD said the very fact of the sur- vey having been made showed that there was something in it. It had been done by the District Engineer in Auckland. Mr. HALL-JONES said it was evident that the line was not worth making. TEMPERANCE WALL-SHEETS. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Government, If they will have prepared and printed for distribution to the public schools " Temperance Wall-sheets " similar to those issued by the Education Department of Vic- toria ? He thought there was not much need to advance any arguments in favour of such a desirable work being undertaken. An Hon. MEMBER .- Have you got the Vic- torian sheets ? Mr. ELL said he had copies of the sheets issued in Victoria, and would show them to the Minister of Education. They could not too strongly impress upon the minds of the young the evils of intemperance, for such impressions tended to benefit them in after life. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he had not had the pleasure of seeing the wall-sheets referred to, but he might say that the Minister of Education was waited upon by a deputation a short time ago, and he had now the matter under consideration. It might perhaps be advisable to have something of the kind done as suggested by the honourable member-of course, omitting all controversial matters-but it was a question whether pam- phlets relating to public health would not be best. As he had said, the matter was now under the consideration of the Minister of Education. NATIVE BIRDS OF NEW ZEALAND. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Go- vernment, If they will have coloured pictures of the native birds of New Zealand printed for distribution amongst the public schools ? It would be a good thing if the children attending our public schools were made familiar with the native birds and flowers of New Zealand. He had spoken on the subject to teachers, and they had expressed a wish that they might have pictures of the native birds of New Zealand, and also of the flowers, so that when they were giving object-lessons-and he might say, by the way, that children enjoyed such lessons, and they were most important to young minds- 