demand that this amount should be paid by way of salary. I think it is much better for members to openly and honestly support a measure of this kind, and place, as I said in 1880, a member in an independent position, than to go along under existing conditions when we all well know the amount paid is insufficient. Mr. ATKINSON .- It is better than putting it on the supplementary estimates. Mr. SEDDON .- The member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) says this is the proper way to do it. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I will prove it. He said it is better to do it this way than put it on the supplementary estimates, and that means this is the proper way to do it. At all events, we heard a good deal last year on the matter, and the trend of the argument then was this : " If the Government come down with a Bill to increase the salary, then we will give it favour- able consideration. That is the proper way to do it." Very well, the Government have now brought down the Bill, and we hope to see it placed on the statute-book of the colony. Members may feel that this is a reasonable salary to pay, but at the same time fear that some of their constituents might take ex- ception to it; and I ask that they should not watch the lobbies carefully to see that the "Ayes" are all right, and then go into the " Noes " lobby - their hearts in the " Ayes" lobby, and their bodies in the "Noes." This https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 country does not wish to have representatives of that kind. In my opinion the country will be with the man who feels that his services are worth the salary and boldly votes for it. They will think more of him than of one who, while he says he is adequately paid, is always complaining of the calls made upon him, and yet, when the opportunity came of manfully voting for the increase, votes in the opposite direction. Human nature is human nature, and in my opinion there is no member of the House who will stand on the platform and, feeling convinced of the merits of the case, would say he is asking too much. If he goes boldly to the country the country will say " Very well." Of course, I shall be told, as I was told last year, that this matter ought to come before the electors, and that, if passed at all, it should be made applicable to the next Parliament. Well, I say some one has to take the responsibility, and as I have said in 1880 I now repeat : there are twelve or eighteen months to run before the general election takes place. There is time between this and the elections for the people to understand and appreciate what their members have done. They will then have a full know. ledge of it ; but if you do it just before the elections what do your opponents say ? During the elections they endeavour to use it against you. They tell the country that you are a self- seeker, and that you are not looking after the country, but your own advancement and prefer- ment. Then, when the electors have time to judge of the situation, and the country to think would suffer. I say the time to do it is now, and there will be time between this and the general election for the electors to express their opinion upon it; and I say here, with some sense of responsibility, my own opinion is that we are justified in making the in- If it was thought too much, or if crease. the electors thought the man whom they returned was not worth it, they would never forgive it; but if they are satisfied that the member is worth it, and that his services have justified it, my own opinion is that they will indorse the course he takes. If you say that it should not be agreed to until the electors have been consulted, you may do the same in regard to every important measure that comes before the House, and say, " Taihoa, do not do anything until after the election.' You have got to take responsibilities as long as you are here, and meet cases as they arise. As far as I am concerned, there is no mistake, because from the time I first entered the House until the present moment I have always advocated the payment of members, and I have always advocated £300 a year; so that there is no inconsistency as far as I am concerned. And, so far back as 1879, there was a majority of the members in the House who considered that £300 a year was not too much. There were a number of members then, pro- bably, as there is now, who, because they knew their fellows were less fortunately situated and must maintain their position, took advan- tage of those members to twit them ; and yet in the past I have known members who would only have been too delighted to have seen the proposal carried, and who, for reasons which I will not mention -- or, if I did, it would not be alto- gether to their credit-did not openly vote and support it. Sir, I do not think it is necessary for me to say anything further. You have re- stored many reductions that were made in the years of depression. You have raised the sala- ries of your Civil servants, you have raised the salaries of your Ministers, and it follows, I think, as a natural corollary that you should raise the salaries of the members of Parlia- ment. Mr. ATKINSON .- Are there any more to be raised ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; there are one or two other increases that require to be made, and I know the honourable member will not be found objecting when that question is raised. Mr. ATKINSON. - If you propose to increase the salaries of the Judges, I will vote for that. Mr. SEDDON. - Time will tell. At all events, the position now is a fair one. The amount of increase asked for is $60 a year for the members of this House ; and, as far as the members of another place are concerned, in speaking in the House on that question on the 2nd December, 1879, I am reported to have used these words :- "With triennial Parliaments and the redis- tribution of seats it was absolutely necessary that the payment of members should be fixed by statute. He believed that constituents 