in which sentiment might well be expressed, because anything in connection with the Empire-in fighting for the Empire, or in de- fending the Empire-is a matter of sentiment, and therefore sentiment was not at all out of place. But the very gentlemen who sneered at sentiment on those occasions use it now as an argument why we should have nothing to do with the San Francisco mail-service. I confess I cannot see the force of their argu- ments, and, as far as I am concerned, I cannot allow them to have weight with me. I maintain that it is not right for us to indulge in sentiment in dealing with this question, but to come to a conclusion on logical grounds, more especially as we are dealing with a purely business transaction. Sir, the resolutions we are asked to come to a decision upon to-night are for the purpose of authorising the Govern- ment to make arrangements for mail-services. To my mind there are only two mail-services the Government can make any arrangement about -the San Francisco service and the Federal service. I regret to say that the Vancouver line is really beyond the reach of practical politics for the next eighteen months, and my reason for saying that is that I do not think the colony should have anything to do with, nor would I vote for a moment for its having any- thing to do with, a Vancouver service which consisted simply of a side-line to Pango-Pango, or to some other junction. That would be of no use to the colony at all. I do not believe in it, and I would have nothing to do with https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 it. If we had to choose to-night between subsidising a Vancouver service and a San Francisco service, without any hesitation, I would say subsidise the Vancouver service. But, as I have before remarked, that line we cannnot deal with, at least for the next eighteen months or two years. We know that the arrangements of the company with the Queens- land Government-or, as Queensland is now a State of the Commonwealth, I suppose I should say their arrangements with the Federal Go- vernment, are such that the route cannot be altered. I trust that when the eighteen months expires we will be able to make such arrange- ments as to induce the Queensland State to per- mit the company's steamers coming round by New Zealand. I hope it will be done, and I sincerely trust that in any arrangements our Government may make, whether with the Federal service or with Messrs. Spreckels for the continuance of the San Francisco service, they will keep steadily in view that the line this colony would prefer to have is the Van- couver service, and that they will leave their hands unfettered, so that when the time comes they may be able to make their arrangements to give us that line. Sir, I did not intend speaking at present, as I was more inclined to reserve what I had to say for Committee ; but it has struck me that in Committee each member would be confined to speaking to a particular resolution, and would be de- barred from speaking on the general question, and that is why I take this opportunity of Mr. W. Fraser \--- - rising is that I want to draw the Postmaster- General's attention to one or two matters that I do not see referred to in the proposals. Sir, it has come to our knowledge that the Messrs. Spreckels charge differential rates on freight from America -that their freight to Sydney is lower than their freight to Auckland. Now, why should we agree to that ? And I say this : although I intend to vote for the resolution to authorise the Government to enter into a con- tract with the Messrs. Spreckels on the poundage basis, I also intend in Committee-and I am sure the House will consider there is a necessity for it-to insist that a condition shall be put into the contract by which Messrs. Spreckels shall not be able to charge differential rates, Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- Spreckels will not do it. Mr. W. FRASER .- " Spreckels will not do it." What Spreckels will do, or what Spreckels will not do, does not concern me one little bit. What we have got to do is to make arrange- ments for a contract under certain limitations as to cost and certain specific conditions, and if the Government cannot make arrangements on these terms, then they have no right to make them at all. That is the position we ought to take up. I think we waste a good deal of time in talking whether Messrs. Spreckels will do one thing or another. If they will not do what we want, then let us secure the Federal service, or the other alternative the Postmaster-General told us about. That is one point. Now, I may say this : that, as between the San Francisco service and the Federal service, there is no question that the San Francisco service is the quicker route, and the cheaper route ; and it is that which weighs with me, and nothing else. Does any one imagine the House is going to give a free gift to the Messrs. Spreckels of our hard- earned money ? Surely no one imagines that we intend to do anything of the kind. We desire that the Government shall drive the hardest bargain they can in our interests with the Messrs. Spreckels, in order that we may get this San Francisco service at a reasonable rate. I hope that some satisfactory arrange- 8.0. ment will be come to ; but it is absurd to say that we have no right to give the money \- of the colony to a foreign-owned company. We are not giving it to them for nothing : we are surely getting something in return. I say it is a purely business transaction. A suggestion has been made with regard to a third route. It has been suggested that this House should endeavour, instead of any of the proposals con- tained in the resolutions, to subsidise the ocean- going steamers that carry our produce to the Old Country. Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear. Mr. W. FRASER .- The honourable gentle- men say "Hear, Hear." It sounds all very well ; but what does the whole thing amount to in practice ? You cannot get cheap freights when your steamers have to travel at a fast pace with mails. If you want cheap freights you must send your goods in slow-going vessels : you would have to subsidise the ocean-going 