want. That is a logical reason why we should not dictate to those gentlemen who may be in this Chamber after the next election what honorarium they should have. I should say we should vote for this Bill or vote against it on the straight-out issue, and not that it should come into force after, possibly, we are politically dead. Briefly, I would say this : I do not think for one moment I am inconsistent in the stand I take. I stated at a public meeting in June last that I was strongly in favour of an increase- that a substantial sum should be paid to honour- able members, and that I should support it. Since then we have incurred exceptional and abnormal expenses, and, to my mind, this is not the time when we should increase our own salaries as servants of the colony, and for this reason I shall vote against the Bill. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - I would not have risen again to speak had it not been that the interjections so frequently made by the mem- ber for Wallace have been accentuated by the member for Napier, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, these interjections having reference to the fact that, as a newspaper-proprietor, some of the Govern- ment advertising came to newspapers belonging to members of the House. Well, last year the amount paid for the newspaper in which I then had a third share amounted to £115. So far as the Government advertising is concerned, it is almost entirely railway advertising-adver- tising that must be done, and it amounts to something like 2 per cent. of the income of the paper, so there is no wonder that the paper is prosperous when it has that enormous advan- tage from the Government advertising. Mr. GILFEDDER .- Two or three years ago. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. PIRANI .- Two or three years ago the Government paid more than they pay now. An Hon. MEMBER .- They did not pay so much. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes; the average is less now than it was then. But I must say that the Government have been very fair in the distribu- tion of the advertising, and our paper has a very much larger circulation than my opponent, and my opponent gets something like £30 more a year than I do. Mr. SEDDON .- You are both Opposition. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes; we are both opposed to the Government. I have never complained as to distribution of favours, and I think that, taking it altogether, the amount is fairly ap- portioned. There is another point in connec- tion with it, and it is this: that a man is a very poor specimen if he is going to support or oppose the Government because of the amount of money he gets in his business from the coffers of the State. An Hon. MEMBER .- No one suggested that. Mr. PIRANI. - No other suggestion can apply, or where does the argument come in ? An Hon. MEMBER .- You are not supporting it. Mr. PIRANI. - No; but the honourable member wants to insinuate that I am not sup- porting the Bill because I get money in another way. If the argument applies to me it applies Mr. A. L. D. Fraser Mr. Hornsby ; to the member for Wairau, the Hon. Mr. Mills ; to the member for Taieri, Mr. Carncross; and to the member for Riccarton, Mr. G. W. Russell. Now, the honourable member did not point out, as I think he ought to have done, that the legal profession represented in the House share largely in the Government expenditure, and I think it is a matter which requires the attention of Go- vernment. If the Government had a member of the legal profession wholly in the Govern- ment pay to do the Government work in each centre the work would be done better, more economically, and more satisfactorily to the people. I can say with a clear conscience that anything I have had from the Government has been well earned. The House divided on the question, "That the word ' now' stand part of the question." AYES, 31. Allen, E. G. Palmer Heke Arnold Parata Hogg Houston Seddon Barclay Kaihau Carncross Stevens Carroll Laurenson Steward Colvin Lawry Symes Fisher McGowan Ward. Mckenzie, R. Flatman Gilfedder McNab Tellers. Hall Mills Hornsby Hall-Jones O'Meara Napier. NOES, 25. Buddo Smith, G. J. Lang Collins Massey Tanner Mackenzie, T. Thompson, R. Ell Thomson, J. W. Fowlds Meredith Fraser, A. L. D. Monk Willis. Pirani Graham Tellers. Hardy Rhodes Herries Russell, G. W. Atkinson Russell, W. R. Lethbridge. Hutcheson PAIRS. For. Against. Duncan Fraser, W. Allen, J. Hanan Bollard McLachlan Millar Morrison Pere Bennet Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 6. Amendment negatived. On the question, That the Bill be read s second time, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said,-I do not in- tend to detain the House very long, but there are some remarks which have been made during the debate which I think should be replied to. First of all, an attempt was made by the mem- ber for Palmerston to place me in a false posi- tion. I scarcely think that those remarks were worthy of the occasion or of the honourable gentleman. I did say that probably there would be members who, when voting against the Bill, their spirits would be in one lobby while their votes and bodies would be in the other. 