then a man should pay 2s. when he gave a the value of the land within the sixteen years receipt for £100. Mr. CARROLL (Commissioner of Stamps) was indebted to the honourable gentleman for the suggestion he had made, whereby the re- venue could be, no doubt, materially increased. As the Government considered most things from that standpoint, on the face of it the honourable gentleman might expect a favour- able answer; but there were other considera- tions which had to be viewed by the Govern- ment. He might tell the honourable gentleman that successive Governments had for years considered the question of a graduated duty on receipts and cheques, but owing, no doubt, to the impossibility of correctly estimating what the increase would be to the revenue, and partly also to the inconvenience and annoyance such a change would occasion to the commercial community and the general public, the idea had always been abandoned. However, we lived in progressive times, and he did not put the ques- tion raised by the honourable gentleman beyond the range of Government consideration. He might say that, as a matter of policy, the Go- vernment had not yet dealt with this question in order to express any definite view thereupon ; but, the honourable gentleman having brought it up, he (Mr. Carroll) would take a note and refer it to his colleagues. # TAMAKI BLOCK. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked the Native Minister, If he will cause the unpurchased balance of the Tamaki Block to be purchased ; and, failing which, will he arrange for an early sitting of the Native Land Court to define the Government's interest in the said block ? The Native Minister would know something about the Tamaki Block, to which his question related. This particular block was leased by the Natives to the Hawke's Bay Timber Company, and he believed the lease had something like twelve or sixteen years still to run. The Hawke's Bay Timber Company had cut out a great portion of the timber upon that block; and they had made offers to the Government to sell out their interests to the Government in order that the land might be settled in the usual way. He would like to point out to the Native Minister that there was something like twenty thou- sand acres of good dairying country in that block. The timber was now cut off, and if the land was not purchased and settled by the Government it would have to remain some sixteen years further unproductive to the colony. There were some eight thousand acres still unpur- chased by the Government from the Natives, and he would like to ask, Would the honourable gentleman cause these eight thousand acres to be purchased ; and, if he could not do that, would he get the Native Land Court to sit there and apportion the area which really belonged to the Government ? If the honourable gentleman would do that, there would be some hope of the Government listening to the overtures of the Hawke's Bay Timber Company, and they would have a productiveness from that block which would be half a dozen times greater than to come. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said, No doubt this was a very important question, not only to the province generally, but especially to that district the honourable gentleman repre- sented. There were difficulties, however, stand- ing in the way of making a complete purchase of the entire block. One was what the honour- able gentleman had already referred to-that was, that the land was under lease to the Tamaki Timber Company, which lease had yet twelve years to run. In any case, it would be necessary to make terms with that company as to their conveying their interest on reason- able terms to the Government before effecting further purchases. Next to that, the question had to be considered as to the possibilities of the Government buying up the outstanding interests owned by the Natives in that block. The Government were prepared to buy when- ever such interests were offered for sale, but would not unnecessarily press the Natives in that direction against their wishes. If that con- tingency was a remote one, then the Government would take early steps to have the interests already purchased by them in that block de- fined by the Native Land Court, which, pro- viding satisfactory arrangements were made with the company aforesaid, could be cut up and offered to the public in the interests of settlement. At any rate, the Government would move in the direction of having a sitting of the Native Land Court held there as soon as possible, for the purpose of apportioning the land that should belong to the Government, and every other facility would be also given to enable what the honourable gentleman desired being done. # MAORI CENSUS. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Native Minister, Whether he will give in- structions that the census return of the Maori population of New Zealand taken during the year 1901 be translated into the Maori language ? Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said, Yes. OTAKI NATIVE SCHOOL RESERVE. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether they will make inquiry into the admini- stration of the Otaki Native School Reserve and other similar reserves throughout the colony ; and, if it is found to be defective, whether they will introduce legislation or take other means to secure the proper administration of such re- serves ? This was, he understood, one of & number of reserves which had been given by Natives in old times for the purpose of esta- blishing schools, most of which were under the control of the Church of England. It was felt throughout the Otaki district, by Europeans and Natives alike, that this school was not doing the good work it should do. The land forming the reserve was, he believed, about six hun- dred acres in extent, and was all first-class land, some of it being very valuable. There were on the property large and commodious 