abrogate the principal functions of that body. He could only imagine that, in requiring ten- ders to be submitted to the Government for its approval, there must be some ulterior motive, and if he were the honourable member repre- senting the City of Nelson that Bill should only pass over his corpse. The Bill said,- "The Board shall not enter into any contract for the construction of a channel through the Boulder Bank until the tenders for the work have been submitted to and approved by the Minister of Marine." Now, the Minister of Marine informed the Committee that the Government had power in all contracts let by governing bodies to compel them to submit their tenders for Government ap- proval, and that peculiar statement was indorsed by the member for Motueka. Those honour- able gentlemen, however, could quote no au- thority for such a statement. The Harbour Board was duly constituted and incorporated by the Harbours Act of 1878. Section 156 of that Act said,- "Before any Harbour Board or any other body or person shall commence to make, con- struct, or erect any harbour works or other structure of any kind on, in, over, through, or across tidal lands or a tidal water, or the sea- shore below low-water mark, or in the bed or bottom of any port or harbour, by virtue of this or any other Act, the following provisions shall have effect :- (1.) Before commencing the making or con- struction of the work, such Board, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 body, or person shall deposit at the office of the Marine Department a plan in duplicate of the whole work, showing all the details of the pro- posed work and the mode in which it is proposed the same shall be carried out." Now, the honourable gentleman, who was Chairman of the Nelson Harbour Board, has he went along by inserting the humiliating assured the House that those conditions had been fully complied with. The other condi- tions were- " (2.) If it appears to the Governor in Coun- cil that the proposed work will not be or tend to the injury of navigation, the Governor in Council may approve the deposited plan, with or without modification or addition, and subject or not to any restriction or condition necessary for the preservation of any public right. "(3.) The work shall not be made, con- . structed, altered, or extended with- out the like approval ; but any such approval shall not confer on such Board, body, or person any right to construct, alter, or extend any work which independently thereof it would not have had. " (4.) If any Board, body, or person acts in any respect in contravention of any provisions of this section in rela- tion to any work, the Minister may, at the expense of such Board, body, and proceedings and employ persons to abate and remove the work, and restore the site thereof to its former condition. " (5.) No person who, with such approval as aforesaid, constructs, makes, or erects any harbour work or structure, shall be liable for indictment for nuisance or perpesture on account thereof." The Minister ought to know the powers vested in him as administrator of the Marine Department ; and why should this insult and injury be placed upon the people of Nelson ? They had still greater indignity in 2.0. clause 5, which said,- "The Governor may at any time by Order in Council prohibit the continuance of any work which in his opinion is likely to affect the Nelson Harbour injuriously, or may by such Order permit the continuance of such work subject to such conditions or modifications as he deems expedient." Now, a high legal authority had told him (Mr. Hutcheson) that the technical meaning of the phrase, "prohibit the continuance of any work," was that the Governor in Council might not only order the stoppage of the work, but also that any work done should be undone, and that any structure erected should be re- moved. The Premier told them to-night, in justification of the necessity for this wretched measure, that the Harbour of Nelson was silting up. Now, that exactly demonstrated the neces- sity for the scheme the people of Nelson had entered into to make a new entrance. In re- gard to the foreshore, he thought the Harbour Board ought to control the foreshores within an area covered by a radius of ten miles. He did not suppose the House would object to divorcing the Motueka Wharf from the Nelson Harbour Board, but the Premier was getting a back- handed slap at the Nelson Harbour Board as conditions in clauses 4 and 5. Of course, when they got into Committee he had copious amendments to move to the Bill, and if they succeeded in making it a good Bill, and divorced this incompatible couple, and struck out or modified clauses 4 and 5, he would give it all the assistance he could. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) moved the ad- journment of the debate. The House divided. AYES, 23. Rhodes Arnold Lang Lethbridge Russell, G. W. Atkinson Smith, G. J. Bennet Massey McNab Steward Buddo Meredith Tanner. Collins Millar Tellers. Ell Monk Herries Fisher Hutcheson. Graham Pirani NOES, 26. Allen, E. G. Hall Duncan Hall-Jones Field Carncross Flatman Heke Carroll Fraser, A. L. D. Houston Colvin 