defence of our own homes, and in protecting us during a crisis of great danger. An Hon. MEMBER .- How could men who lost their lives apply for pensions ? Mr. MONK .- I did not say so. An Hon. MEMBER .- You said that some of those who had lost their lives were petitioning. Mr. MONK .- No, Sir : I said that our ex- perience on the Committee has been that we are continuously being pressed with petitions from the remains of contingents, or of soldiers who fought energetically for our lives and our homes when we were in much peril. Many soldiers lost their lives, and those remaining are now petitioning us. Sir, one of the most remarkable instances of error in a Ministerial appointment has been in connection with the Commission that went round investigating the claims of the old soldiers. Many did not get or did not notice that the Commission was going round to hear the statements of those who had claims to prefer, and, in consequence of that and carelessness of the Commissioners, the inquiry has proved eminently futile. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I think this opens out a debate on another question, and cannot be permitted. Mr. MONK .- I think, Sir, by alluding to the manner in which we served those soldiers, to whom we are under special obligations, it would make us all the more careful in making arrangements to suitably acknowledge the services of those who, while they have not been risking their lives immediately on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 our behalf, have at the same time brought historic eminence to the people of New Zea- land, and have made a place in our history as & commencement, so to speak, of the military spirit that for right purposes we hope our race will ever be distinguished, and the ability to defend ourselves and make worthy mark on the battle- field. But what I wish now particularly to call the attention of the Premier to is the request I put forth this time last year that the medal,-the souvenir commemorating the assistance our contingents have rendered in South Africa, - should be a work of merit. I have not seen one of those medals, but I have heard they have not that character which I should like them to have possessed to convey to the mind of the beholder with sufficient vividness the historic importance of the epoch upon which New Zealand has engraved the annals of the special relations that her people have established be- twixt themselves and the Mother-country. As I said last session, I should like the presenta- tion to have come from Her Majesty the Queen, bestowed like a noble mother decking the brow of a loved daughter with the chaplet of her approval. . Least of all should it have been merely suggestive of war, but so significant that with the roll of years it shall become more and more a treasured gift, resolving itself into a prized feature of our Imperial heraldry, a character which the medals awarded to the first New-Zealanders, who have made them. selves famous on the battle-field, do not possess. Mr. Monk There is one of our Standing Orders which says that repetition is to be avoided. I understand the honourable gentleman is reading a speech of last session. Mr. MONK .- I am quoting. Mr. SEDDON .- I ask whether it is com- petent for the honourable member to do that, because it will save me a lot of trouble in the future if I am allowed to do the same thing. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It has always been & practice to quote from speeches de- livered, and I understand the honourable mem- ber is simply quoting portions of the speech referred to. Mr. MONK .- I have a special object 12.0. in bringing the matter before the Pre- mier, because I consider the medal as part of the pension, and my opinion on the matter is as I have just stated. I want a memento so beautiful in its constructions and expressive in its design that it shall be for all time a stirring memento of a great historic event. I am sorry the Premier is, apparently, indifferent to the sentiment of the subject. I repeat that long ere this he ought to have laid before the House a beautiful work of art that would have been more valuable in years to come than it is to-day. The common medals that are being distributed are unequal to the occasion. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must tell the honourable gentleman he is introducing irrele- vant matter. Mr. MONK. - I accept your ruling, Sir. However, I hope I have said enough to con- vince the Premier that he should take steps, even at this late hour, to secure a souvenir that might be handed to the men with credit to the colony. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. I am glad the Premier is recording the names of all those who have fought for the Empire in South Africa-making an historic document and record of the names of those who have made this colony famous. We all know our New-Zealanders have won encomiums from the military chiefs of the parent State. Our representatives have made New Zealand famous and more talked of than all the publica- tions the Right Hon. the Premier could have secured in the Review of Reviews, and this end they have secured by their helpful deeds. Remember that they were Volunteers that went forth at the impulse of a martial spirit and the love of adventure. Sir, no doubt this measure will impose some burden on the colony, but of all the burdens now cast upon the taxpayers I believe they will meet with the greatest pleasure that which will insure a relief to some extent of the needs of those who have suffered in the war. There is many a sorrow- stricken heart in the country. I know some who have lost their dearest ones. There are many homes in this country that mourn the loss of their loved ones - those who went away in an adventurous spirit, little recking that the bullet on the battle-field would lay them low. Their sufferings may have been slight as com- pared with those of the parents who weep over their fate. Those who have been left behind 