sary to pour large sums of money into the | to refund to the Governor duty paid on certain coffers of the Governor. I do not subscribe to liquor he had imported-as illegal a vote as that doctrine at all. I believe, in the case of some Oriental nations, and in the case of bar- had been drawn to it there surely would have haric and half-savage people who are dazzled by the glitter of gilt and gold, it is possible that been some very sultry correspondence about it. Then an amount was placed on the there may be some necessity for such things, estimates for the cost of furnishing the private and that they may have some influence on people of that kind ; but it has no influence, apartments at Government House, in direct violation of the agreement entered into with and ought to have none, on a civilised people the Governor when he was appointed, and in like ourselves. Is it necessary, for the sake of the dignity of the nation, that the head of direct violation of the Act under which his one of the greatest nations on earth-the Presi- appointment was made. Last year we had, dent of the United States-should be paid again, a precedent that has never been set some hundreds of thousands of pounds a year ? Nothing of the kind ; he only gets his have had reductions and increases in the salary $10,000 or £20,000; and does the nation suffer of Governors in this colony, but never before in dignity or is there any loss of prestige has there been such an unblushing way of deal- through that fact? I say there is not. I do not think that this Bill ought to be passed. I ing during his term of office with a Governor do not agree, also, with what has fallen from as we had last year. And this year the Govern- the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. ment are following the consistent example they have set during their term of office. I say, Witheford), that this money has been expended on what he calls the working-classes of the community. I should be very glad indeed if branches of the Legislature -the Governor, the Legislative Council, and the House of Repre- I thought so ; but I venture to say that the wine merchant had a very considerable share, sentatives-it is an improper thing for one branch of the Legislature to give to either of probably, of this amount. I also desire to point out that it must have been expected by His Ex- the other branches, at the instance of the Go- cellency the Governor, when he knew that the vernment, what can only be called an incentive to be kind to the Ministry of the day. It has colony was to be honoured by a visit from the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall, that he would been a common thing of late for the Governor, have to incur some considerable expenditure, as at the request of the Government, to interfere in the administration in such ways as I feel many private citizens did-as, for instance, the Mayor of Christchurch, who must have incurred certain that, if they were drawn attention to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 a very considerable expenditure out of his pri- in the proper quarter, an end would very soon be put to it. Why, we cannot get from the vate pocket. And the Governor's exertions and Premier the correspondence which has taken bis efforts in receiving and entertaining the place between himself, the Governor, and the Royal visitors were not unrecognised and were not unrewarded, for he received the decoration Home authorities about the game of precedence and the insignia of one of the highest orders of nobility which, I understand, can be bestowed. months. Is that another reason, because the Premier has been able to exalt himself in that Now, under these circumstances, and if it be correct that the bulk of the money just re- table of precedence, why the present Governor should be treated differently from any other ferred to was expended in giving entertain- ments to certain select people-which, 1 observe, Governor? And I could go on enumerating numbers of other incidents connected with the is the practice still-I do not see that the administration where the Governor has acted country, as a country, ought to be called upon in a way such as has never been done here to pay the account, and I, for my part, trust the before. There has only been one precedent in Bill will not be persevered with. this colony for a Royal visit-the visit of the Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I do not in- younger brother of the present King. And no tend to follow the bad example set by the Pre- mier and enter into the details of expenditure attempt was made at that time to get a special included in the vote contained in this Bill. I vote to the Governor to cover the expenses he incurred in connection with the reception. If do not think that there has ever been in this this course is to be followed, if one official in House such an exhibition of imprudence as the colony is to be paid the expenses he has was given by the Premier in his speech to- night, and I very much regret that he should Royal reception, why not refund to every Mayor have attempted to set a key-note to this debate in the colony who has spent a penny in the same by reading a list of articles of furnishing ob- way in pursuance of the duties of his office ? tained by the Governor in connection with the Why not refund to the Mayor of Christchurch Roval visit. But I do object to the usage the great cost he incurred in entertaining during which has crept into our system of govern- the Royal visit. If anybody is responsible for ment in regard to the present Governor- dragging the name of the Governor on the floor namely, of every year giving him a sum of of the House it is not the members of the House money over and above his salary for some pur- who are discussing the Bill but the Govern- pose or other. The Government commenced ment, who are responsible year after year for the game some years ago by placing a large putting the representative of the King in the amount-I think it was £350-on the estimates was ever passed through this House. And if the attention of the Imperial authorities before in this colony, of increasing the salary of the Governor during his term of office. We that, while we have what may be called three which has been played during the last few been put to personally in connection with the 