On the question, That the Committee recom- mend that provision be made in accordance with His Excellency's message, Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said,-Sir, before the Bill goes any further I desire to know whether this measure contains anything more than has been indicated to us by the Chairman of Com- mittecs. I understand all it is intended to do is to include the Sixth and Seventh Contingents under the Pensions Act. Some little time ago I had the honour to ask the Premier a question about certain amendments of the Pensions Act. As it now exists on the statute-book it provides for pensions being given to men who have actually been wounded in the war, and it does not go to anything like the length of the Im- perial Act, which provides that men although not actually wounded in battle but who have received injuries to health can claim a pension. We have no such provision in New Zealand, and I want to know whether the Premier will amend the Act this session so that men who have come back from the war and were either injured in the performance of their duties, but not actually in fight, or who have had their constitutions so undermined that they cannot work again, should be provided for under our Act. I wish to know from the Premier whether in this Bill there is any amendment to make such a provision. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I desire to say, Sir, that the measure goes further than the mes- sage indicates : there are seven or eight clauses in it. What I am going to do is this: I am extending the Act to apply to cases in which both the father and the mother are alive. At present the Act only applies to cases in which the mother, or widow, or children are alive. They are the only ones who can receive benefits as the Act now stands. If the father is alive, then the mother can receive nothing, although in some cases that have come to my knowledge the father is unable to work, and was really kept by the son as well as the mother. The honourable member is wrong in what he says about the Act and its application. Our present Act does apply to the cases mentioned by the honourable member, and is not confined solely to the cases of those who have been wounded in battle. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It does not cover ill-health. Mr. SEDDON .- It applies to those who meet with accidents. Our law is really a transcript of the English Act. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, our original law was a transcript of the English Act. However, I will look into the point that has been raised. I am of opinion that the Act does cover the cases referred to. For instance, if a man has lost the use of his limbs by sickness I consider the Act covers his case, and properly so. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). - Sir, I wish to ask the Premier about the case of men who are not connected with our contingents, but who, belonging to the colony, have suf- fered in the war. I am informed that many who wished to join our contingents and were Queen. The colony is doing a great deal for the men who were sent direct from the colony, but it will not do anything for those men who went there at their own expense. I think the Premier would be justified in looking at some of these cases. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I do not con- sider we should be held responsible for such cases as the honourable member for Waihemo has mentioned. We have trace of those who left the colony as members of our own contin- gents, and, if we extend the Act to include those who, although belonging to New Zealand, went to South Africa from other colonies or from the Home-country, we are touching an unknown quantity. I may say I have gone the length of doing this: Some men were stranded in Melbourne, and I assisted them back to New Zealand by paying their passages ; but that is the furthest I have gone with men outside our contingents. As to what the honourable mem- ber also says, I understand some expense was incurred on behalf of a trooper who died, and the department could not see their way to authorise the expenditure. It was only a small amount that was involved, and, as the services had been rendered, I authorised payment. Motion agreed to. Resolution reported to the House and agreed to, and Bill read a first time. PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON £500,000 NEW ZEALAND DEBENTURES IN- VESTED BY PUBLIC TRUSTEE. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I have to report that I have received the following communica- tion from the Controller and Auditor-General :- " Audit Office, 16th October, 1901. "The Hon. the Speaker of the House of Repre- sentatives. "THE Controller and Auditor-General has the honour most respectfully to submit to the House of Representatives, in accordance with the provisions of section 9 of 'The Public Revenues Act Amendment Act, 1900,' a copy of the correspondence in a case under that section of difference of opinion between the Audit Office and the Treasury on the question whether the public revenue should be credited with the amount paid out of the Public Account for interest on the New Zealand Government debentures, in which the Public Trustee has invested the sum of $500.000 received by him under section 8 of 'The Bank of New Zealand and Banking Act, 1895.' "J. K. WARBURTON, Controller and Auditor-General." Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) .- This is a technical question that has been raised be- tween the Audit Department and the Trea- sury, but up to the present time the Public Trustee has paid the interest direct into the Treasury. The Controller and Auditor-General is of opinion that it should be paid into the Pub- lic Account, and then be drawn out and paid in in the ordinary way. The matter has been re- ferred to the Law Officers, and they are of opinion that the Controller and Auditor-General is in- 