wrong in this instance. There was a rumour in circulation to the effect that the Minister for Railways bad drawn over $4,000, and that I have drawn nearly £5,000. Those statements have repeatedly been made. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Where were those statements made ? Mr SEDDON .- You are very cunning. The honourable member is very innocent. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What do you mean by that ? Mr. SEDDON .- I mean that you are very cunning. I cannot refer to a past debate, in which the statement was made, without being called to order. Mr. DEPUTY . SPEAKER. - Honourable members must not address each other. Mr. SEDDON .- I have said that the state- ments were made, and that they are being made now and industriously circulated, but I cannot refer to where they were made without being called to order. The honourable member knows that, and he wants to draw me into stating where this statement was made ; and then he would rise up to a point of order. That is what I meant when I said he was very cunning. The statements being made, I have taken a way of completely vindicating our position ; and, in conclusion, I may say I hope members do not think Ministers do not earn their sala- ries. If I supposed the House and country thought I was not worthy of the amount I receive, and did not give full value for it, then, Sir, I would say they must get somebody else. Sir, I move, That the return be laid on the table. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- As a personal explanation, I would say the Premier has contradicted my statement about the lands at the rear of his residence. Here is Mr. Martin Chapman's own statement :- " Speaking for myself, I say that no inquiry whatever was directed to me as to my willing- ness to sell my land. The very first intimation I received that anything was in the wind was the intimation from a Government agent, who told me the Government had resolved to take a piece of my land under the Public Works Act. He was even able to indicate the exact piece. No question of willingness or unwillingness to sell came in. I was informed the Government would take the land. Further, no request or suggestion has ever been made to me that I should sell, or that I should name a price ; and, moreover, I have never named any price, and am not willing to do so." If that statement is not correct that is not my fault. The statement has been published and has never yet been contradicted. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, Sir, I will lay upon the table of the House Mr. Chapman's state- ment in which he offers a price, and with con- ditions which are fair in the extreme. When I heard or saw something in the papers I simply sent for Mr. Chapman; and when Mr. Chapman heard the position he was not aware of what had taken place-he was not aware of the negotiations that had been going on between myself and Mr. Bell at the time that he made after the sending of the letter, and Mr. Bell came to the conclusion that the Government were not going to do anything in the matter. It had been a chapter of accidents. I received a very nice letter from Mr. Bell, in which he said he felt pained at what had appeared in respect to myself ; and I also received a nice letter from Mr. Chapman. I may remark that there was a third party, owning another piece of land. What was done was in the interests of the State. If Ministerial residences are to be called in question, and such charges are to be made against me, then I say that I would rather go out of the Ministerial residence and live in a five-roomed cottage than submit to such things. I will refuse to continue to live in a Ministerial residence under such conditions. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- In reply to an in- terjection, the Premier referred to me as being cunning. I may say that I never made any statement with regard to the amount drawn by the Premier, or his salary, nor with regard to any member of the Government. I also wish to say that, so far as I am aware, no statement has been made in this House during this session by any member that the Premier has drawn £4,000. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member knows that I cannot refer to Hansard. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It is wery unfair to put it on all of us without naming the person to whom it applies. Mr. SEDDON .- If I were to refer to the debate I should have to refer to the member making the statement. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. SEDDON .- It is in Hansard, and if you look at the speeches in the financial debate you will find it there, and under the name of a member who has been termed a "candid friend." Mr. FISHER .- As the Premier has referred to this matter, I indignantly deny that I ever made any statement of the kind just referred to by him. He ought to be compelled to say who he is referring to. Motion agreed to. GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS DEPART- MENT CLASSIFICATION BILL. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, this is a very important Bill, and I shall endeavour, in the time I have at my disposal, to place before members the provisions of it. I may preface my remarks by giving honour- able members a slight indication of what the position of the Railway Department is from a financial point of view at the present moment, by comparison with what it was when taken over by the Government of the colony from the Railway Commissioners :- £ Head Office, Departmental, 1894-05. 1901 -- 2. and Traffic 211,935 323,900 .. Maintenance 179,879 251,542 .. Locomotive 138,743 215,416 . . .. Total .. $530,557 £790,867 .. Annual wages increased, £260,310. 