he had just given. It was to be hoped, too, that he generally knew more about subjects he was talking upon than he knew on the present occasion. This honourable gentleman, who pro- fessed to know all about the work of the Local Bills Committee, he (Mr. Graham) had not seen present at a single meeting of the Committee during the present session, or, as far as he remembered, at any meeting in any previous session. Mr. FISHER .- You were absent when I was there. Mr. GRAHAM said he was never absent from the meetings of the Committee. The local Bills, no doubt, went through the House at racehorse speed, but it was by no means cor- rect to say that the Committee did not go into the merits of each measure. Every clause in each Bill was fully investigated, and often they were very keenly criticized. He heard honour- able members who had had local Bills before the Committee say, " Hear, hear." These mem- bers knew from personal experience that what he was saying was correct. Therefore, although local Bills went through the House at a greater speed than most other Bills, it could not be truthfully said they did not receive full and mature consideration at the hands of the Com- mittee before being reported to the House. He had known local Bills take two or three days to deal with. He had often felt amused at the facility with which the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) discoursed on many subjects, and in this instance he had done so on a subject he knew nothing whatever about. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) said it was only / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero fair to the House that members should know something about the provisions of the Bill, and, as & division was to be called for, he trusted that to enable members to vote intelligently the Pre- mier would explain the aim of the Bill. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) wished to add his testimony to that of those members who had already spoken of the careful manner in which the Local Bills Committee did their work. In his short experience of some six sessions of Parliament he had had charge every year of one or more local Bills, and he would rather submit to the ordeal of any other Com- mittee of the House than go before the Local Bills Committee with a weak or faulty Bill. That Committee recognised that local Bills did not receive exhaustive treatment in the Com- mittee of the House, and therefore did their best to supply the deficiency. He had some- times thought of raising the point at the Com- mittee that it was not their duty to investigate every clause of the Bill. He had found that Bills in which he was interested had occupied a great deal of time in the scrutiny the Committee gave them : they had been most thoroughly investi- gated in every respect. The Committee, it seemed to him, made a point of ascertaining the whole of the policy of a measure. He was interested in a local Bill which the House so far had not dealt with, and he claimed that, like other members, he was entitled to have the the House. If in the wisdom of the House the Bill was rejected he would accept the de- cision, but he would certainly object to have the Bill smothered. He would use every en- deavour he could, and every endeavour the forms of the House allowed, to assert his rights to have the Bill considered in a fair and square way, and either passed or rejected. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he de- 3.0. sired to introduce this Bill because it was already in another form on the Order Paper, but not under its proper designation. He referred to the Prevention of Combines Bill. This Bill confined its operations simply to foods. He felt there would be a difficulty in getting a Bill through dealing with the larger questions, but he thought they would get a Bill through simply dealing with the prevention of combines in regard to the food of the people. Now, members of the House would see by the morning paper that a lawsuit was pending in this connection, and they would see there an account of a combination and the objects of the combination. The whole thing was exposed in the public Press. Of course, no law the House would pass would or could interfere with any matters now before the Courts, where the question as to the legality of a combination for such a purpose was being tested. At all events, this was a most im- portant matter, and it was one we should not deal with lightly. He thought, probably, if a Bill was introduced and members had time to consider it, if objection was taken to the Bill proceeding this session he would not press it. He said, where we had all the millers combining, and the bakers com- bining with the millers, the question was where the consumer was going to come in by- and-by. If they raised the price of food on the workmen, then the workmen combined to get the price of their labour raised. An Hon. MEMBER .- The workmen started it. Mr. SEDDON said, No ; their combination did not affect the food question. At all events, he should ask the attention of the House to another phase of the question, as members took an interest in country matters. He wanted to know where the farmers came in. If there was only one buyer in the colony it would probably have an influence on the producer. He knew districts where there were only a couple of buyers of sheep, and members knew the effect that had on the sheep-farmers. At all events, he thought from what had fallen from members that the matter was of sufficient importance to justify doing something to bring it under con- sideration. Now he came to the question of local Bills-although he did not know why that question had been introduced. Very generously the Government gave a day of its own time for local Bills, and what was the result? On the first day a struggle took place between the member for the Taieri and the member for Dun- edin City (Mr. Millar) on a Dunedin Bill. He thought a majority of the members of the House was against the member for the Taieri, and said he had no right to strenuously oppose the 