planation, to show that the petitioners had an objection not only to one, but to pretty well all the laws of the colony. Motion agreed to. OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the amendments made in this Bill in the Legisla- tive Council be agreed to, except the amend- ment made in clause 8. He did not believe in what they had done in clause 8. They had struck out "for which no penalty is otherwise provided in any other Act," and the effect was that any person might do what they liked and defraud the country, and only be fined £10. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) called atten- tion to the amendments made in clause 3. According to the Premier these were made on the recommendation of the Law Officers ; but he would ask him to look carefully at the effect they had. The Legislative Council had made the clause read as follows :- "(1.) The Deputy Registrar may cause a preliminary inquiry to be made on any ap- . plication, and on every such inquiry it shall be the duty of every person to make true answers to all questions concerning any applicant for a pension or renewal, or any of the statements contained in any application for a pension or renewal certificate put to him by the Deputy Registrar or any officer authorised in that behalf by the Deputy Registrar. " (2.) Every person commits an offence who- "(a.) Refuses to answer any such question ; or " (b.) Makes any answer knowing the same to be untrue. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 "(3.) This section shall apply to any officer of any bank or other corporation carrying on business in New Zealand and to any officer of the Post-Office Savings-Bank and of any other http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Government department which receives invest- ments of money from the public." The words, "The Deputy Registrar may cause a preliminary inquiry to be made on any application, and on every such inquiry " were new. The effect of the alteration was that these offences could only apply to anything done before the preliminary inquiry. As the Bill left the House it meant that before a Magis- terial inquiry the Deputy Registrar could ask all these questions, and a person committed an offence if he did not answer them properly. It was now confined to a preliminary inquiry. Mr. SEDDON said he saw the point; and the honourable member had better move that the House disagree with the amendments in clause 3. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved, That the House disagree with the amendments in clause 3. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) thought the Pre- mier might give credit to the member for Wellington City for objecting to the amend- ment proposed by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), in the dying hours When the Bill was going of last session. Mr. Heke have exactly the opposite effect to what the Premier had desired. The Premier denied that, and told the House that the amendment was all right. Mr. SEDDON .- So it is. Mr. PIRANI said the Premier had now come down with a proviso in the other direction. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. PIRANI said the words the Premier accepted were "provided this section shall not apply," and the one he had put in now was \-- "provided this section shall apply." Mr. SEDDON assured the honourable mem- ber that the one put in now was wrong, and the one put in previously was right. Mr. PIRANI .- Then, you will move to dis- agree with the amendment ? Mr. SEDDON said, At this stage of the session he was prepared to accept small mercies. Mr. PIRANI said this was an instance of the ungenerous nature of the Premier. Even now, with a chance of altering this amendment, he <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> expressed the opinion that it was wrong: but he was going to accept it. If it was wrong, why did he disagree with it? However, he (Mr. Pirani) was a little doubtful whether the new proviso might not have the effect of causing an innocent person to suffer. Mr. SEDDON .- So am I. Mr. PIRANI said the husband and wife might die within a few days of each other, and in that case the estate of the one who had not offended would have to suffer in the same way as the estate of the one who had ; and he thought the doubt should be removed. With regard to clause 84, he was sorry it had not been made more simple. Why not put all this routine on the Registrar, instead of on the Colonial Tres surer, for that is what has caused the trouble in the past ? Instead of the Colonial Treasurer directing that these instalments should be paid. the Registrar had to do it, and the payments did not come before the Treasurer for approval until afterwards. If the Premier looked up the papers he would see that he (Mr. Pirani) was correct. It was not a very important matter, but there was no need to burden the Colonial Treasurer with the trouble of giving his authority; and surely an officer holding the position of Chief Registrar of Old-age Pensions ought to be trusted to exercise such discretion It would be simpler, quicker, and more effet- tive. It did not matter much who was right or who was wrong. As the Solicitor-General said the question was open to doubt, it would be just as well to settle it, and while settling it he thought they ought to settle it in the easiest possible way. Mr. TANNER (Avon) said he was glad to hear that the Premier had included clause 3 in the amendments which were objected to, bu: he trusted honourable members would look at what the effect of the clause would have been if it had been assented to. By an amendment which had been made the Deputy Registrar had almost magisterial powers. The result of the 