was allowed to creep in he did not know where this practice would drift to. He should there- fore rule that these petitions were out of order, and could not be received. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he desired to present a petition on the same subject with the picture cut out. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, In view of Standing Order No. 297, which said, " No printed or lithographed peti- tion will be received if it contains any erasure or interlineation," this petition was mutilated, having a portion cut out, and he asked if this was in order ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, In his opinion the petition could not be accepted, because it had either an erasure or an interlineation upon it. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) wished to ask if Mr. Speaker's ruling was that no peti- tion could be presented that had any illustra- tion or lithographed plan attached to it ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that no peti- tion could be presented that had attached to it or delineated upon it any picture or drawing. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) asked if a petition would be in order if the erasure was initialled. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, Yes. PATEA ELECTION. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he desired to announce, in respect to the first notice of motion on the Order Paper for the issue of a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 writ for the Patea Electoral District, that he had had supplied to him from the Clerk of the Writs a notification. From this it appeared, in the first place, that there was no Returning http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Officer. He believed a gentleman had been asked to act, and would be in town on the following day. Then, whoever the officer was, a few days would be required to revise the existing polling-places, of which there were fifty-six, to secure Deputy Returning Officers, and to arrange generally for the holding of the election. It would therefore be advisable to postpone the motion for direction to the Speaker to issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Writs, because if once that was issued the election must be proceeded with. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - Why not get Mr. Edwards to make the arrangements ? Mr. SEDDON said he did not know why a question of that kind should be put. So far as the Government were concerned the election could go on upon the following day; but the fact was that a responsible officer informed him that there was no Returning Officer; that he had to find fifty-six Deputy Returning Officers to make arrangements for the election, and that the rolls were not ready. Conse- quently, he (Mr. Seddon) could not move the motion now, and would postpone it until Fri- day. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) could only say that it was a matter of great regret to himself, and, he believed, to other members of the House, that delay should occur which seemed perfectly substantial reason why the writ should not be issued, and why the Returning Officer had not been appointed and all arrangements made, before this. Mr. SEDDON .- You will tell me that we knew what the decision was going to be. Mr. J. ALLEN said the Government knew what the decision was going to be, just as the members of the Opposition knew. The Govern- ment suited themselves as to the course that was taken when elections were to be held, and he ventured to say the delay was intentional. Mr. SEDDON said he objected to an honour- able member making a statement of that kind. They could have the election take place at once if they were so determined, and have another muddle made of it. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said he thought that every one would agree in the hope that the election would not be postponed until the House had closed its sittings, and so that Ministers could go to Patea and stump the country when the election came on. Everything ought to have been ready for the issue of the writ, though it might, perhaps, be impolitic to say, as his honourable friend Mr. Allen had done, that this delay was intentional. He had, however, no shadow of a doubt that every advantage would be taken of the delay, and that the House would be doing wrong unless it expressed the opinion that the Clerk of the Writs was to blame in not having ready the machinery to proceed without delay with the election. The fact was, the constituency was to be disfranchised because the Clerk of the Writs had not seen his way to keep the whole machinery of election in proper order. There was another point upon which it was well to say a word or two. On a previous occasion he had denounced the abominable system under which the Auckland electoral roll had been kept, a manner which was a disgrace to all the persons responsible. There was no word in his vocabulary strong enough to express the contempt he felt for the Government allowing an official who was a strong political partisan to control the electoral rolls in the Auckland District. It had been proved that the rolls were kept in a disgraceful condition. It was true that the election for Patea had not taken place very long ago, but there was no reason why the rolls should not have been revised so that there would have been no need for delay. As it was, many people who had no more right to vote in that electorate than he himself had would be placed on the roll, contrary to every- thing right and proper. The roll ought to have closed on the very day that the writ was issued. That writ ought to have been issued at the shortest possible time, but instead of that the whole district would be canvassed over first in the Government interest. There would be persons, both directly and indirectly, paid by the Government to canvass the district. Mr. SEDDON .- They cannot do that. Captain RUSSELL said they could do it, and they would do it. It was notorious that there was no election in the colony at which there 