object of this legislation has been to do away with the brute-force argument. I am not closely connected with unionists, but at one time I knew them well. I have been a unionist since I was twenty years of age, and I have great sympathy with them now; but as far as I know unionists they do not want strikes. But in the past it was a question of going on strike or being re- duced to whatever the employer said. The employés want to have some voice in selling their labour. You hear from time to time the complaint that the workers want to "run the show." Workers want to do nothing of the kind ; but establishments and factories cannot be carried on without the services of the workers. and they have the right to say at what rate of remuneration they shall work for there. That is a liberty they should get. I regard strikes as a system of industrial warfare. That should not be done if we have a better means of settling disputes. Let us have the better means, and the Arbitration Court is the best means that I know of. So far as I am aware, no better means of settling disputes has ever been brought about. I do not wish to make any reflection on the Conciliation Boards, but I will say this : that it has been proved by the number of cases that the Conciliation Boards have sent to the Arbitration Court that the Arbitration Court is the superior Court of the two, and parties to a dispute ought to have the right to say as to which Court they will go. It has been said in the debate that they have reduced the number of points in the disputes. Well, we have no proof of that ; and, even if that is the truth, those points could be reduced by the Arbitration Court, and the disputes, therefore, might just as well go there and be settled in less than half the time and at less than half the cost. I do not know who it was my honourable friend Mr. Twomey referred to, as causing trouble in Dunedin, but I think I know who it is. I shall not men- tion the party's name ; but I may tell you this : that, if I am correct in my surmise as to the person who had caused the trouble in the trade there, he was the means of bringing about the Tailoresses' Union, and he is the man who .suggested the formation of the Tailoresses' Union. I may be wronging him, but I think he said it would be impossible to form a union of women ; but a union of women has been formed very successfully, and is very successfully being carried out. However, that has very little to do with the case, but it has led in a very large measure to the legislation we now have, which has been successful. We now know its weak spots ; let us do away with those weak spots : and my opinion is that the best we have now is the Arbitration Court. Give the parties to the dispute power to take the matter before the Arbitration Court. They have the power now to take it to the Board of Conciliation; why not give them the same power to take it to the Arbitration Court ? They can compel each other to go before the Conciliation Board, and that Board makes a recommendation, and if VOL. CXIX .- 48. Board then says, " You must go to the Arbitra- tion Court." It would be much easier settled by allowing either party to say that they will go to the Arbitration Court direct. It has been said that unionists are being punished. Now, whether that is the case or not I do not know : one never cares to go beyond one's own experi- ence; but if I were to give my own experi- ence-and I have been a prominent member of trades-unions - I would say that I have never suffered in consequence of it. I will tell you how people have suffered. They get abusive and offensive; they say something that is disagreeable, and because of these re- marks they suffer. I do not know in all my experience that I have ever known a trades- unionist suffer who went calmly and dispassion- ately to his employer and voiced the opinions of the workers or of the union men. As I have said, I have never suffered personally. The last employers I had were Messrs. A. and T. Inglis, of Dunedin, and the managing partner of that firm told me that if ever I wanted work he hoped I would go back to his firm. 1 believe that applies to nearly everybody, and that people are well content to be reasonable and to work with trades-unionists. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- Sir, the Bill we have before us goes to show that Conciliation Boards are on their trial. I am one of those who would like to say a word or so on behalf of the Boards. I am not ready to agree with the statement that they have been failures or have failed to do good work. I am not prepared to express an opinion as to what has been the conduct of the Wellington Board. Beyond the statement of its Chairman in the Committee-room, and the return presented to us the other day, I know nothing about it ; but I venture to make this statement : that had it not been for the publica- tion of the reports concerning that Board we should not have had a word said against Con- ciliation Boards to-day. In Auckland, Dunedin, and Christchurch it has been publicly recog- nised that they have done excellent work, and I am very much afraid that if we take the conciliation principle out of this Act-and that is what we are doing-and let all the parties go direct to the Court, it is only then that we shall come to understand the value of our Conciliation Boards. As a fact, the Conciliation Boards have to bear the first brunt of bad feeling between the parties. They have to take the parties when they are heated with the dispute in which they are en- gaged, and, apart from the merits of the dispute, they have got to allay that feeling ; and before they have done I think-at any rate, in a great many instances-that feeling is allayed, the points of dispute are narrowed, and there is a better spirit between the parties when they come before the Court. I think there is no doubt that, apart from the fact that the bitter feeling bas been allayed, there is a reduction of the work, which in itself must be very valu- able. Now, what is it that the Bill contem- plates ? It contemplates not only to do away with the Conciliation Boards and to send the 