one, and if carried would be in the direction of assisting education. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- Sir, it is true that under the original Act these changes could be made, but the direction is so ambiguous that, while it states clearly that teachers may be removed from one school to another within a district, the Education Boards find it almost impossible to exchange teachers from one district to another even where Committees and teachers are agreeable to the change. The question is left in .such a manner that it is scarcely understood by the Boards, and their reading of the Act is that no interchange of teachers can take place. What experience I have had of Boards is to this effect : There is nothing more necessary than when a teacher- whose qualifications may be first-rate and who may do good work-remains in a district till he is not appreciated, or gets out of touch with the Committee and the parents, the sooner he is removed from the district the better it will be in the interest of the children and of everybody else. At present, however, the Boards believe they have no power to make an interchange. The matter is alluded to in the Bill, and it is contemplated that there should be an inter- change where necessary ; and when this oppor- tunity is given it should be done, because there is nothing more necessary for the wellbeing of many schools in the colony than that the Boards, with consent of School Committees, should have authority to exchange teachers where it is shown to be in the best interests https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 of the children. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Well, I might say there is something wanting in respect to the teachers ; but this suggested clause will not meet it at all. In the first place, this measure deals with an entirely different question. We are not now dealing with the question of the appointment or of the removal of teachers. This is not an amendment of the Education Act, and we should not mar a Bill dealing with teachers' salaries. The appointment and the removal of teachers is altogether a distinct question. The worst feature of the whole proposal is this : it wipes out the Committees altogether, and the effect would be to produce a deadlock, because it provides that a teacher may be sent into a school, and also be removed from one school to another, without the Com- mittee being consulted. Something is wanted in connection with this conflict between the Committees and the Boards which sometimes arises in connection with the appointment of teachers. The Boards get a list of teachers and send three or four names to the Committee ; and I know of cases where the Boards have acted arbitrarily and illegally. This is too great a change without knowing what you are going to do, and it is out of place in this Bill. I do not want to interfere with the Boards ; but we should not do anything without consul- tation with the Committees. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- The Premier does not understand his own Bill if his argu- ment against this amendment is to be taken Mr. T Mackenzie form part of and be read together with 'The Education Act, 1877.'" The Premier said this was not a Bill to amend the principal Act, and only dealt with the salaries of teachers; but it deals with the staffs of schools, and with district high schools, house allowances, and residences. Then, the Premier says that some- thing is wanted to do away with the continual friction that occurs between the Committees and the Boards. What nonsense! There is no such thing as continual friction. In Auck- land, under the proposals in this Bill, the Education Board cannot pay a penny house allowance unless the funds are specially pro- vided. There is no Board in the colony so badly off for teachers' residences. In con- nection with this matter, I say that the cer- tainty of teachers' salaries working smoothly is dependent on the fact that the teachers are suitable for their positions. Now, the Hon. the Premier talks about an inferior teacher from a town school being sent into the country. Does the Premier find the best teachers in the country schools? Why, the best teachers go to where they get the best pay-like the Premier himself. If the Premier could get a billet of #5,000 he would not be here at £1,600 ; and, like every other man, he values his own services, and takes the best posi- tion possible. That is why the best teachers are in the best-salaried positions ; but, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Waihemo in connection with district high schools, it is absolutely necessary you should have in charge a graduate of the university-an A or B certificated man-if that school is to be And yet under the present Bill, a success. and under the Education Act, it may be im- possible to remove a teacher from that school to another school for which he is suitable, and you will have to do as has been done in many districts, appoint teachers to take charge of the district high school work who are better qualified than the headmaster. On the West Coast, when they transformed a primary school into a high school, they sacked the whole staff. That is the effect of the Premier's contention, and it undoubtedly means that, if there is no power to transfer a teacher from a large to a smaller school, the Boards will dismiss him. That is what has to be done now. In many cases where a man could really do good work in a small school the Board is not allowed to trans- fer him to one. Then, the Premier talks about wanting to limit the powers of Committees. What are the powers under the present Act ? If the Education Board likes to send six names to a Committee and say one out of that six shall be chosen, the Committee have to choose that one. If some such proposal as this amend- ment was embodied in the Education Act it would work much more smoothly than at pre- sent. The teachers would be able to get positions suited to their abilities and requirements, and there would be no possibility of friction be- tween the Committees and the Boards regard- ing the appointment of teachers. I have not the least hope that any such proposal as this 