ditionally a rebate of one-tenth on the half- yearly payments of rents from our Crown tenants, equal to } per cent .: and it follows, therefore, as a matter of abstract justice, that there should be some relief given by a reduction on the mortgage-tax. Many widows, orphans, and others whose living depends on this class of investment are heavily taxed, and I regret not being able to announce this remission as being immediately conceded. However, I in- tend to submit proposals later on in the session that, from and after the 31st March next, the mortgage-tax should be reduced by d. in the pound." That was the opinion of the Treasurer last year. He said that the mortgage-tax was a heavy tax on widows and orphans, and, as a matter of abstract justice, should be reduced ; and he promised to reduce it. That promise has not been kept. We are now in the dying hours of the session, we are winding up busi- ness as fast as possible, but I am quite certain of this, and especially in view of the announce- ment made by the Treasurer a few days ago that the finances of the colony are in a satisfac. tory condition : I am quite satisfied that, if the Treasurer wished it, Parliament would assist him to do away with this iniquitous tax, and thus give effect to the promise he made last year. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- Sir, I do not intend to delay the House very long in debating this measure, but I am surprised at the honourable member for Franklin not recognising that the circumstances of last year and this are, according to the statements of some of the pettifogging financiers in the House, somewhat different. We were told in the early stages of this session by our tiro financial aspirants to the Colonial Treasury that the finances of the colony were in a hope- less stato of muddle; that there would be an enormous deficit in our revenue during the current financial year ; that the Colonial Trea- surer could not make both ends meet by some hundreds of thousands of pounds ; and, con- sequently, there was no chance of reducing taxation. In view of the arguments used by the member for Nelson City and other pessimistic, pigmy, financial nonentities in their Budget speeches, how could you expect Government to reduce the mortgage or any other tax this vear ? As a matter of fact, there are very few in the colony who want a reduction in the mortgage-tax. It is only the representatives of wealthy people who are everlastingly agi- tating and intriguing for a reduction. Do honourable members on this side of the House, who represent the mass of the people that have no money to lend on mortgage, ask for this reduction ? Not at all. It is only those who represent the wealth of the colony, and sit mostly on the Opposition benches, who wish to have this reduction. Who gets the benefit ? Does the borrower get the benefit ? Not a cent, because the Government Advances to Settlers Act has regulated the rate of interest in this colony ; consequently, if mortgagees re- second-class securities, and in every case the. mortgagee pays the tax. I hope the Colonial Treasurer will not attempt to reduce the mort- gage-tax, as it is both just and equitable in its- incidence. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I desire to say a few words before this Bill is put through. The position I want to place before the House is this : The amount of this taxation is utterly inadequate. I say, looking at the value of land in this country, the revenue raised from all sources in the country, and looking at the taxa- tion on land, the amount raised from the un- improved value of land is utterly inadequate .. The total value of the wealth in this colony is over £217,000,000. Of this sum about £84,000,000 is the value of unimproved land. The amount which the land pays for land-tax and local rates is close on #900,000. If you compare the value of the land with the total value of the wealth and the taxation it con- tributes, you will find there is a very great discrepancy. The value of unimproved land as compared with the total wealth is more tham one-third of the whole value. The amount of tax contributed by that land is only about one- seventh of the taxation, and that is not right or fair. And this land of ours, which, as has been said, is the only asset which is a natural one, and which is the property of the people as a whole, and which no one man has a right to more than another, so far as Crown. lands are concerned, is slip-slip-slipping away from us every year in larger quantities. Ì have a return here, which was laid on the table some little time ago, of all the leases. in perpetuity which have been surrendered or. forfeited during the last year; and what do I find ? Almost every one of those surrenders -- and there are a considerable number of them -- have been turned into lands held with right of purchase. In a short time all that land will have passed in fee-simple into the hands of those- people. Here is Auckland, 247 surrenders and forfeitures, every one of them turned into. occupation with right of purchase ; Wellington. Provincial District, 913, all turned into occupa- tion with right of purchase; and so on, right through the provinces. And you may take up- the Year-book, and if you turn up the tables there you will find that the land is going literally by the hundred thousand acres. Moreover, the. large estates are also increasing, as shown by a return lately laid upon the table ; and I say, un- less this tax is increased and unless the land is made to give a larger return than it does to the revenue, that process will go on, and the last state of the people of this country will be ten thousand times worse than it is to-day. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) .- Sir, I should like the honourablo gentleman who has just sat down to take up a section of bush land and go in for dairying. If he did he would hold a very different opinion on the question of taxation. It is very much nicer to be a professor of consti. tutional history and a member of the House than clearing, fencing, and subdividing, and bring- ing a farm into cultivation. We have endea- 