Government gave from £300 to $400 to trustees to look after them. An Hon. MEMBER .- You mean the Domain Board. The Hon. Mr. GOURLEY did not know what they were called. At any rate, they simply had nothing to show for the money spent on the gardens ; but the Corporation took them over, and found the money which pre- viously the Government were giving, they having power to levy a rate sufficient to keep the gardens in proper order, and now they were in first-class order and were worth looking at. He thought the Bill was a very good one : it was advisable, as the Minister had remarked, that some of these local bodies should have power conferred upon them to levy rates. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON was very much surprised that there should be any opposition to the Bill, because it was a matter that was occurring in various parts of the country. There were numerous cases in which trustees or Boards had the management of certain re- serves and areas of land, without possessing rating-power or funds wherewith to keep them in proper order. He could cite a case in point. He was at one time a member of a Board in which was vested a large area of land. The Board had no rating. power and no means of deriving revenue from the land without going to great expense. The land had remained in the possession of the Board for a large number Numer- of years, and was a perfect wilderness. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ous attempts had been made to vest it in the Borough Council, and eventually it was handed over to the Christchurch City Council, and since then the area had been utilised and beautified, and in time would be a very valu- able asset for the city. The money spent by the city in improving it would be amply repaid in the future. There were other cases in which large or small areas of land remained perfect eyesores to the people, simply because the Boards or the trustees, as the case might be, had no power to raise money with which to make improvements. The Hon. Mr. REEVES quite agreed with what the Hon. Mr. Louisson and the Hon. Mr. McLean had said. Of course, there were two sides to the question. He would like to give an illustration of a case within his own know- ledge. A Domain Board on the West Coast had taken a sensible view of matters, and had let sections with frontages to the road, and the rents accruing were laid out in improving the domain ; so that what was at one time a howl- ing wilderness was now a smiling garden. He did not think it was right that the Borough Council should take over a domain, because in the hands of an independent Board a reserve would always be better treated. If the Board was composed of business-men they would be able to control a reserve without levying a rate on the people. He remembered that not many years ago, in Wellington, the affairs of the har- bour were in the hands of the civic authorities, but since the Harbour Board had taken over most prosperous bodies in the colony. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN thought that when Bills of this class came before the Council, each one should be taken on its merits. The Minis- ter had spoken as if it was a universal boon to the public when areas, large or small, which had been put aside for public recreation were handed over to boroughs. Well, he would like to mention a case of which he would dare say many members in the Council knew : the case of the park and domain near Christchurch. He had been interested in that domain for many years, and could say that one of the most im- portant duties of the Board had been to resist any attempt on the part of the rating bodies to get hold of the reserve-to put houses on it, and so get revenue out of it, or to use it for public establishments, to save the cost of purchasing sites elsewhere. More than once the Board had to resist efforts to make revenue out of the reserve. It had often been pointed out that the place would be an excellent one for building sites, and he had no doubt, if any encroachment was once allowed, it would go on by degrees, until there would be no reserve left worthy of the name of a park. There was once a scheme put for- ward to drive another road through the park, lined on one side by a row of villas. The Board, however, had managed to resist every attempt at encroachment, and had planted in the park a collection of deciduous trees such as could not be found anywhere else in New Zealand, without interfering with ample space for recreation. They had had difficulties for want of sufficient means, but, at any rate, they had saved what was a possession, not merely to one borough, but to all the boroughs and the country round about. He had often said he would be content that any sufficient number of the Road Boards and Borough Councils of Canterbury should have the charge of that domain, but no one rating-body should have the control, because the temptation to relieve the rates by cribbing building areas from the park might be too strong for them. He was induced to make these remarks because of the generalising statements of the Minister, who spoke as if it would be necessarily, under all circumstances, an advantageous thing to hand over to a borough the control of recrea- tion-grounds. Every case should be taken on its merits. With regard to the Bill before the Council, he was anxious to hear what was to be said for it, and whether there was good reason for handing the domain over to the ratepayers of the borough. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY did not agree with the sentiments of the Hon. Mr. Bowen. It was desirable, he thought, that municipalities should control the public domains of the town. What was the Board of control in the present instance ? It was a nominated body that fre- quently managed the reserves to the disad- vantage of the public; and what was sought in the Bill was the transfer of the management from that nominated body, which was beyond the control of the public, to a body that was under the control of the people and elected by 