Committee went most exhaustively into the inquiry, and there was a marvellous dis- crepancy between the statements made to the -Committee as set forth in the petition and the evidence given by the railway officials. The petition stated that thirty sheep were killed. It came out in evidence-at any rate, the rail- way authorities stated-that about thirteen sheep were killed. After an exhaustive inquiry the Committee had no alternative but to pass a resolution stating that they had no recom- mendation to make. So far as he personally was concerned, the settler who lost his sheep had his sympathy ; but he knew of a far worse case, where a settler lost a number of sheep some time ago. The case was well known to the member for Franklin. In that case about three hundred sheep were killed at the railway-crossing at Pokeno-one of the most dangerous crossings on the railway-lines in the colony. The Committee went exhaustively into that case, and they brought down a similar report to that which had been pre- sented by the Committee to-day. It was pointed out by Mr. Ronayne, General Manager of Railways, that that man had no legal claim against the colony, that the colony had never paid a claim of a similar nature, and that if they paid a claim of that nature it would be establishing a dangerous precedent. But what did the Railways Committee do in the case of a constituent of the member for Egmont, Mr. David Knight? In that case the train was late, and it came through a cutting https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 without whistling, dashed into this man's trap, and smashed it. That man had received no compensation. He ought to have got com- pensation. But in the present case the Committee had no evidence to lead them to any other conclusion than that which they had come to. The member for Waihemo did come before the Committee, sometimes very patheti- cally and sometimes very persuasively. had every sympathy with the petitioner, but on the evidence before the Committee they could only agree to the resolution that the matter be referred to the Government for its favourable consideration. Mr. T. MACKENZIE desired to make a personal explanation. The honourable mem- ber for Parnell said that there was no evidence that there were any sheep killed in this case at all. Showing how little the honourable mem- ber understood what was going on in Committee, he (Mr. T. Mackenzie) might state that Mr. Ronayne read from the official report that thir- teen or fourteen sheep had been killed on the spot. That bore out his statement made before the Committee. That was one point. Now let him come to the Chairman of the Com- mittee. The honourable gentleman 3.0. said that he (Mr. T. Mackenzie) tried to persuade the Committee that the driver was reading from a newspaper, and that he (Mr. Mackenzie) could not make any reply when the honourable gentleman asked him a question. Now, he read the whole letter which he had received from Mr. Diack, and this is what an unusual occurrence to see drivers of fast- running trains reading the daily papers." And, when members of the Committee asked him if he personally made that statement as his own evidence, he said he did not personally vouch for that statement at all, he merely read his communication, and he now appealed to the honourable member for Franklin, Mr. Massey, to say whether that was so or not. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) was not aware that there was any of the sheep killed until Mr. Mckenzie had risen to explain that fourteen were killed and more injured; but, as the Minister for Railways had stated that he did not have sufficient information before him as to the circumstances, he could not say what might be done ; but, no doubt, as he said that he was a member of the Farmers' Union, he would see that the farmers got justice. What he (Mr. Bennet) wished to explain was the trouble of getting sheep through narrow crossings. It might take half an hour to get them across the line if the crossing was wet or dirty. He had no doubt that due consideration would be given to the matter now, and that the Minister would see that justice was done. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might be allowed to point out that he thought, under all the circum- stances, the matter would have to come ulti- mately up for review by the Railway Depart- ment. The recommendation of the Committee and the petition would in due course come before the department. Mr. R. THOMPSON said there was no re- commendation. Mr. SEDDON said, Well, all petitions came before the Government, and probably the fact of no recommendation being made would be in its favour. What he wished to call attention to was this : that he scarcely thought it was wise to send this petition back to the Committee. There would be a dispute between the dark and He the red Mackenzies, and the consequences might be serious. From what had been indicated to them, they should not risk a return of the petition to the Committee. At all events, in debating the matter now, they were only losing Even if they did the time of the House. send it back, it would have to be dealt with finally by the Railway Department. No one had seemed to point out that, if people were to do this kind of thing, the conclusion might be arrived at that in certain places they were not to run trains at all, because sheep required to cross the railway-lines. If that held good they would be put in a very peculiar position. What struck him was that if a number of sheep were going to take a quarter of an hour or thirty minutes, as the honourable member for Tua- peka said, to cross a railway-line, surely ordi- nary precaution would suggest the sending of one man down the line on each side to see them safely over. He did not think there should be any responsibility on the State. How- ever, it was a matter that required either the Railway Department or some one to investi- gate. He did not think, as far as the House was concerned, they could do any good with it. 