it will be a very expensive luxury to pay this huge subsidy to a foreign company. We have had coming here an average of twenty-five pas- sengers a month for ten years, and for that we have paid, gross, £273,000. Then, in regard to the huge tourist traffic, by this route we can never have tourists coming to this colony in the summer, the time of year when they should visit it. It is well known that if they wish to visit this country in the summer they would have to cross either Canada or the United States in the depth of winter; con- sequently we can never have the tourist traffic we anticipate. And if we analyse the passenger- list do we find that the majority are tourists coming to our colony ? No ; they are generally theatrical or circus companies. Do these people explore the country ? No, they do not : they exploit it. So much for the passenger service. Now, it is entirely fallacious to say a day or two makes any difference in the carriage of the mails. I am not a business- man or a mercantile man, and consequently I have to go to people in authority for informa- tion on the matter. And what do they tell me? Only yesterday one of the largest importers in Auckland told me that this cry out for a very fast mail to take orders Home was fal- lacious. He said, " When there is a special line wanted we order it by cable, and follow it up by an extended order or letter, and it does not matter whether that extended order takes a week or two longer to reach Home than it does at present." We know the cable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 rates have been reduced, and every day we are drawing near the brighter times when they will be still further reduced. Honourable members will recollect that, in connection with this subject of the Pacific cable, I asked a ques- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero tion this afternoon without notice, which is one of the most important factors in the whole question of the San Francisco mail. The Postmaster-General tells us that the cable will probably be completed in eighteen months. Here now we are proposing to enter into a Well, I do not contract for three years. prophesy very often, but I will stake my existence on this : that before two-thirds of the proposed contract has expired it will be found that there will be a cable between England and the colony on which the rate will be 2s. 6d. a word or less ; and if that prophesy comes true it does away entirely with any thread of argument that may be adduced in favour of the San Francisco mail. Now, leaving the cable question for a moment, I must congratulate the Postmaster-General on the fair, instructive, and statistical way in which he laid the whole question before the House. But still the honourable gentleman used arguments that were, to my mind, as falla- cious as many of those that have been used by honourable members who support his proposals. One of his arguments was that the sentimental feeling was at the bottom of all the opposition -sentimental feeling on account of the em- bargo that has been placed on British steamers trading to Honolulu. He also stated-unfairly, Mr. A. L D. Fraser again approach the British and Washington au- thorities, and, having Mr. Spreckels on our side, the result would be that that embargo would be removed. Well, I challenge the Postmaster- General to place on the table the last corre- spondence he had with Washington through the Imperial authorities. What did the New Zea- land Government do? They approached the Imperial authorities, and asked them to request the Washington authorities to reconsider the matter of the embargo. The reply was that they would not reconsider it-a reply that was, if not impertinent, at any rate, ungracious and unconciliatory. That is one of the arguments held out to us to support the proposals. It seems to me there is but a very slight probability of that embargo ever being removed. As a colo- nial, which is one of the best assets I have to my credit, I wish to say that I will not support a foreign line of steamers that is doing all it can to damage our own line of steamers. Let us take a supposititious case. If any honourable gentleman in this House were a shareholder in the Union Steamship Company, what is he doing when he supports Messrs. Spreckels? He is simply paying out of his pocket to a foreign company to work against his interests as a shareholder in the Union Company. That is the real position of it. And, further 8.30. than that, there is always -it has been stated, but it is not superfluous to repeat it again, that at any day or hour, God forbid it should happen in our time, America may be at arms' length with the British Empire, and we should have prepared cruisers-cruisers that had been subsidised by us-for them to take action against us. I would point out, too, that they have cadets training on these steamships. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- They have more wisdom than we have. They are training their young people. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, let them train them on their own ships, and in their own dockyards and forts. But look at the privi- leges to gain experience which might be in- jurious to us, these cadets have, coming in mercantile steamers, which they would not have if they were cadets on a man-of-war. An Hon. MEMBER. - They cannot get into the forts. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- No ; but it would be far easier for them to get information with regard to our defences than if they were on warships. Now, I certainly have thought over the matter for some time, and, like the honourable member for Lyttelton, I was still open to conviction, and might, after hearing a number of the able speeches delivered in this House, have been influenced to vote for the service ; but the turning-point, the last straw on the camel's back, was the indiscretion of certain Auckland members, and especially of the Auckland Press. If this motion is lost the Auckland people can thank themselves for it; or they can blame for it the Press, and a certain section of Auckland members in this House. I mean Auckland City mem- bers, and the honourable member for Franklin 