IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- Section twenty-two of the princi- pal Act is hereby repealed, and the following substituted in lieu thereof : - " Immediately upon the coming into opera- tion of this Act in any district as provided in section five hereof, Maori land in such district shall not be alienated by way of lease either to the Crown or to any other person except with the consent of the Council first obtained, and in accordance with the provisions of this Act. In the case of alienation by way of sale where the land belongs to more than two owners, the con- sent of the Governor in Council to such sale shall be first had and obtained ; in the case of alienation by way of sale, lease, or mortgage where the land belongs to not more than two owners, the passing of this Act shall in no way affect the same unless the land is transferred to the Council." Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) moved to report progress. The Committee divided. AYES, 15. Rhodes Atkinson Lang Russell, W. R. Lethbridge Fraser, W. Massey Tellers. Hardy Fraser, A. L. D. Monk Herries Pirani Smith, G. J. Hutcheson Kaihau NOES, 38. Palmer Allen, E. G. Fowlds https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Parata Arnold Graham Pere Barclay Hall Russell, G. W. Hall-Jones Bennet Buddo Seddon Heke Carncross Hogg Stevens Carroll Lawry Symes McGowan Collins Tanner Mackenzie, T. Ward Colvin Mckenzie, R. Willis. Duncan Millar Tellers. Ell Field Fisher Mills Hornsby. O'Meara Flatman Majority against, 23. Motion negatived. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) moved to insert the fol- lowing words after "district": "owned by more than two owners." Amendment agreed to. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori District) moved to strike out the word "two" in line 25, with the view of inserting "ten" in lieu thereof. The Committee divided on the question, "That ' two' be retained." AYES, 34. Allen, E. G. Colvin Lawry Arnold Lethbridge Duncan McGowan Atkinson Ell Fisher Mckenzie, R. Barclay Millar Flatman Bennet Mills Buddo Hall Hall-Jones O'Meara Carncross Palmer Heke Carroll Pere Collins Hogg Ward Stevens Hornsby Willis. Tanner. Symes NOES, 11. Field Smith, G. J. Lang Massey Fowlds Tellers. Monk Fraser, A. L. D. Hutcheson Parata Kaihau Herries. Majority for, 23. Amendment negatived. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori District) moved to strike out all the words in the section after the word "obtained," down to and including the word "same," with a view to adding a new proviso. The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be struck out stand part of the clause." AYES, 33. Allen, E. G. Hall Parata Arnold Hall-Jones Pere Heke Smith, G. J. Barclay Bennet Hogg Stevens Buddo Hornsby Symes Carroll Lawry Tanner McGowan Ward Collins McNab Willis. Colvin Millar Tellers. Duncan Carncross Ell Mills Palmer O'Meara. Flatman Guinness NOES, 9. Atkinson Tellers. Lang Herries Field Pirani Seddon. Fowlds Massey. Fraser, A. L. D. PAIR. Against. For. Lethbridge. Mackenzie, T. Majority for, 24. Amendment negatived. The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause as amended stand part of the Bill." AYES, 26. Allen, E. G. Parata Heke Pere Arnold Hogg Seddon Carncross Lawry McGowan Carroll Stevens Duncan McNab Ward Willis. Millar Fowlds Guinness Mills Tellers. Hall O'Meara Colvin Palmer Hall-Jones Symes. NOES, 10. Collins Tellers. Lang Atkinson Field Massey Fraser, A. L. D. Pirani Ell. Smith, G. J. Herries PAIRS. For. Against. Lethbridge. Mackenzie, T. Majority for, 16. Clause agreed to. 