Wellington. I am, however, satisfied that if you can take action you will do so at once." He received a reply from the Public Trustee on the 10th April :- "I beg to thank you for your letter of the 3rd instant, which reached me on the 9th, on the subject of the encroachment of the sand on a large extent of property near the sea - coast at Oeo. I know the property re- ferred to, and also regret to see the destruc- tion that is going on, and which the Public Trustee some time back tried to prevent, but was advised that he had no right of inter- ference, as the land is a compensation award granted to a Native named Hone Pihama for loval services rendered to the Government in the early troublesome days, and the Public Trustee has therefore, unfortunately, no juris- diction in the matter." He was induced to write to the Public Trus- tee thinking that he might be able to apply a remedy, but found that the Public Trustee was He was desirous of bringing the powerless. matter before the Government. The question was a most serious one, not only affecting the Native owner, but also the land of the settlers in the immediate neighbourhood. Something should be done, and that without delay. He aiways understood that there was no wrong without a remedy, and he hoped that the Native Minister would be able to give him a satisfactory answer, and that immediate action would be taken to put a stop to this sand drift, which, if permitted to go unchecked, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 must eventually destroy settlers' land in that neighbourhood. The question was a most serious one, if not to the colony, to the settlers and Natives affected. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said he had no doubt that the facts detailed by the honourable gentleman were perfectly correct, but, like him, he was in a difficulty. He did not know exactly what remedy to apply. The property, no doubt, was private property, but at the same time it was property on which the sand was encroaching at such a rate that it imperilled the prospects of the whole district. Consequently, the trouble was a general one, and ought to be considered from a district point of view. He thought all the residents in that district ought to meet and draw up some scheme to be put into a public Act to deal with this question, the same as other public Acts were made to deal with noxious weeds and other pests which militated against the welfare of a community. If sand was going to prove a great evil in that district it ought to be grappled with in the same way. He was quite prepared, on behalf of the Government, to confer with the honourable gentleman as to any steps ad- visable under the circumstances ; but whatever was done he was quite sure should be done by the district as a whole. He thought that was the only way to deal with it, for to expect a private individual to take the necessary steps to prevent the encroachment of sand which was likely to overrun the district was too much to saddle any one with. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) asked the Native Minister, Whether he will see to the betterment of the Maori hostelry at Waipapa, Auckland, by consulting and arranging with the Public Trustee to have the present build- ings pulled down, with a view of erecting better buildings and improving the sanitary arrange- ments of such hostelry ? Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said he was in sympathy with the question asked by the honourable gentleman. He had consulted the Public Trustee, and had found that the Maori hostelry at Auckland was maintained by rents received from certain Native reserves at Auckland and Onehunga, which amounted to about £194 15s. The cost of maintenance only amounted to about £30, and consequently there was a fair amount of money in hand to the credit of that institution. The Public Trustee admitted that the present house was dilapidated, and he favoured the erec- tion of a new building. He thought they should put up a commodious building at Auckland for the comfort and convenience of the travelling Maori public. They were going to do the same thing at New Plymouth, because Natives travelling to the north by way of Taranaki found considerable difficulty in obtaining accommodation at any of the hotels. The hotelkeepers for some reason would not take the Natives in, if only for a night, and they had to look round and get accommodation where best they could. These hotelkeepers were only too glad to take the Maoris' money over the counter, and fill them up with indifferent liquor; but when they asked for board and lodging it was denied them. It was a matter that required to be looked into, for a racial prejudice of that kind should not be tole- rated in a country like this. There were Natives and Natives, he admitted, but when the objection was wholesale and general he took exception to it. The Government therefore intended to put up an hostelry at New Plymouth for the accommodation of Na- tives. According to the estimate which they had supplied them they were of the opinion that the institution would be self-supporting, and no cost to the colony. Mr. HEKE asked if the Government would also deal with the hostelry at Onehunga. Mr. CARROLL said, Yes. # HOHAIA PATUONE. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) asked the Go- vernment, If they will have a monument erected over the grave of Hohaia Patuone, of Hokianga, the deceased having been a leading chief of the district, and a nephew of the late Tamati Waaka Nene ? Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said he had made inquiries into this question, but he had not had replies yet. Generally, he might say the Government were anxious to pay fitting tribute to the memory of those who occupied high positions and were leading men among the Maori race in different parts of the colony, and whose names had been associated largely 