Grade 2. 7s. to 7s. 6d. 8s. \- Leading Labourers. 88. 6d. 8s. 1 Labourers. Grade 2-7s. Skilled, 8s. Grade 3-6s. 6d. Skilled, 7s. 6d. Labourers, 78. Skilled labourers are labourers assisting fitters and erectors, men taking down and setting up machinery and work requiring a certain amount of mechanical skill, &c. Cleaners. 3s. 6d. 48\. Shop Enginemen. 7s. 6d. to 8s., although 7s. 6d. to 9s. not shown in the Schedule. Locomotive Running Storemen. (Not shown), 7s. and 7s. 6d. to 8s. 78. 6d. Train Examiners. 8s. 6d. 88\. 1 Lifters. 7s. to 7s. 6d. 78. 6d. to 88. 6d. In the three grades, 6d. rise all round. Coalmen. 68\. 6d. 7s. (When in charge of special gang, 1s. per day additional.) Junior Strikers, &c. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 3s. 6d. \- 4s. Maintenance. Principal Leading Tradesmen. 9s. 6d. to 11s. 11s. to 12s. 1 Leading Painters and Plumbers. 9s. 6d. to 10s. 10s. 6d. 1 Masons and Bricklayera. Maximum, 11s. Maximum now, 11s. 6d. Tradesmen now, Tradesmen, 8s. to 10s. 9s. to 10s. 6d. Bridgemen. \- 7s. 6d. 7s. Strikers. 7s. 6d. to 8s. 6d. 7s. 1 Line Gangers in charge of Special Work. Os. 6d. 10s. 1 Gangers. 7s. 6d. to 9s. 8s. to 10s. (Grade 3, 7s. 6d., abolished ) (Gangers in subclass 10. residing in isolated places, 6d. per day additional.) Platelayers in charge of Relaying Gangs. 7s. 6d. 78\. 1 Platelayers 6s. 6d. 7s. 1 Junior Platelayers and Junior Labourers. 3s. 6d. 4s., rising to 7s. in four annual increments of 6d. and one of 1s. Junior surfacemen in relaying gangs 6d. a day additional ; for- merly nothing. Subclass 14 and 15 .- Electrical and Inter- locking Branch. (This is a new branch.) Subclass 14. - Signal - adjusters : Grade 1, 11s. 6d. to 12s. (one annual increment of 6d. per day) ; Grade 2, 11s. Signal - erectors : Leading hands, 11s. ; Grade 1, 10s. ; Grade 2, 9s. ; Grade 3, 8s. ; Grade 4, 7s. 6d. ; Grade 5, 7s. Subclass 15 .- Electric-line men : Grade 1, 11s. ; Grade 2, 108. Electric-line erectors : Lead- ing hands, 9s. ; Grade 1, 8s. ; Grade 2, 7s. 6d. ; Grade 3, 7s. I have now referred generally to the more im- portant alterations contained in the Bill, and I may say, for the information of honour- able members, that the classification proposed in this Bill is much simpler and is much better than the existing classification. It also removes many of the difficulties that existed under the former classification. I cannot, of course, go fully into the whole of the details now, because time will not permit. Many of the matters brought before me by railway em- ployés were reasonable, and I have endeavoured to reasonably meet the requests of the deputa- tions. As Minister for Railways I am only too glad to make the most workable and satisfactory classification possible, and my desire is to do what is fair and just to all branches of the de- partment as well as to individual members of it. I must at the same time conserve the in- terests of the colony. I regard the trust placed in my hands as a great one, and my anxious desire is, to the best of my ability, to control and administer it justly and impartially. It is of the highest importance to the colony that justice should be extended to so important a body of men as are to be found in the Railway service. I am sure that no one would be better pleased than myself if it had been possible to propose an even more liberal classification than this one. The Amalgamated Society of Rail- way Employés number some three thousand five hundred members, and the First Division is comprised of some thirteen hundred officers. They have assured me that they are satisfied with the proposals. In this measure I have endeavoured to do that which is just to the men, and I feel sure that honourable members will recognise that the acquiescence of the two important branches I have referred to shows the scheme has been framed in that spirit. As I have indicated, this scheme will give a considerable amount of benefit to a most deserving class-namely, the officers of the First Division in the colony. That divi- sion consists of thirteen hundred employés, and they have expressed their approval of the classification scheme. Under the cir- 