so that there might be no stoppage of the mining industry, and no undue interference with the interests of the farming community. He was intending to communicate with the parties interested to this effect. With re- gard to clause 3, which provided for an ap- peal from the decision of the Commissioner of Crown Lands, there seemed to be an unrea- sonable prejudice against mining, and he did not know there was any reason for it. The simplest way out of the difficulty of dealing with matters outside mining districts was to include the districts concerned in a mining district, which would simplify the matter. With regard to the new clauses he proposed to add to the Bill, and which honourable mem- bers would find on Supplementary Order Paper No. 80, he might say that, owing to the exten- sion of the dredging industry, it was necessary that men occupying positions as dredgemasters should be fully qualified to carry out their duties with due regard to the safety of life and the proper working of the machines. It was therefore proposed that certificates should be issued to those men who were qualified to hold the position of dredgemaster. He need not tell the House it was very important that these men should be well versed in such matters as the management of dredges on quick-running and strong-flowing rivers, the strength of ropes, and many other things that were not required under previous mining laws. Bill read a second time. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- Right of inspection of mine ex- tended. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) moved the addition of the following proviso :- " Provided that, where the men so appointed to inspect the mine are not employed therein, they shall produce, prior to each inspection, a certificate from a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace that he is satisfied with the bona fides of the application for inspection." Proviso agreed to. The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause as amended be a clause of the Bill." AYES, 28. Allen, E. G. Houston Palmer Russell, G. W. Arnold Kaihau Buddo Laurenson Stevens Carncross McGowan Tanner Ward Mackenzie, T. Collins Mckenzie, R. Witheford. Duncan Meredith Ell Flatman Millar Tellers. Hall-Jones Mills Hogg Hornsby. Heke Napier NOES, 24. Allen, J. Fraser, W. Lethbridge Graham Atkinson McNab Bennet Hall Monk Field Hutcheson O'Meara Fisher Lang Parata Mr. McGowan Russell, W. R. Thomson, J. W.Herries. Smith, G. J. Majority for, 4. Clause as amended agreed to. Clause 3 .- Right of appeal from Commis- sioner of Crown Lands. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) moved to add the following proviso :- " Provided that notice of the appeal shall be filed at the office of the Commissioner, and the deposit required by subsection one of section two hundred and eighty-three of the principal Act shall be lodged with the Commissioner." Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved the following new clause :- "(1.) Subject to the provisions of the Act, a miner shall not be employed underground for a longer period in any day than eight hours. ex. clusive of meal-times. "(2.) Such period of eight hours shall be deemed to commence from the time the miner enters the mine, and to finish when he leaves the mine. " (3.) The prescribed number of working. hours may from time to time be exceeded, but on every such occasion wages shall be paid for such extended hours at not less than one-fourth as much again as the ordinary rate. "(4.) Where, in any award of the Court of Arbitration under 'The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900,' made prior to the commencement of this Act, provision is made limiting or extending the working-hours of miners working underground in any mine, or providing for the payment of overtime, this section shall, in respect to such mine, and sc long as such award continues in force, be read and construed subject to such award." The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 45. Allen, E. G. Graham Mills Arnold Hall Napier Hall.Jones O'Meara Atkinson Hogg Palmer Bennet Parata Buddo Hornsby Russell, G. W. Houston Carncross Seddon Carroll Hutcheson Smith, G. J. Kaihau Collins Colvin Lang Stevens Duncan Laurenson Symes Ell Lawry Tanner Field Ward. McGowan Flatman Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. Guinness McNab. Fraser, W. Millar Gilfedder NOES, 11. Thomson. J. W. Fisher Monk Pirani Heke Tellers. Lethbridge Rhodes Allen, J. Russell, W. R. Herries. Massey Majority for, 34. New clause read a second time, and agreed to. 