torted that it was very extraordinary that we should raise this objection, and said that he could only interpret our action as showing a desire to delay the progress of the measure. I want to say that that remark, so far as I was concerned, was entirely gratuitous. I had no desire to delay the progress of the Bill, because I believe it to be-although perhaps not the very best attempt possible to deal with the Na- tive land question, on account of the many difficulties surrounding it-a most genuine attempt to overcome the difficulties that en- compass the question. Sir, I give place to no gentleman in my desire to see the Native lands administration of the colony placed on a better and sounder footing than hitherto, and I have always helped the Natives to the best of my ability. The question is, however, so difficult that a layman can scarcely understand it in all its ramifications ; but I want it to be perfectly understood-and I want the honourable gentle- man to feel-that I had no desire whatever, nor did it ever enter my mind, to do anything to delay the passing of this measure. We all hope that we have at last arrived at some solution of the difficulty. Since 1891, twenty- seven Bills have been passed on this subject, and this is the twenty-eighth, as I understand, and let us hope that it will be the last for some time to come. I, at any rate, hope that the difficulties that have always encompassed the question have at last been got over. The Hon. Mr. TOMOANA .- Sir, I do not think the honourable member who has just spoken is quite justified in saying that we have not seen the Bill. I am the only mem- ber of the Council who was absent. I only returned last night, and the Bill had then been read the first time in the Council. I do not think either that the honourable gentleman should have taken this late stage of the Bill as an opportunity for speaking. If he wishes to oppose the Bill I would like to know at once. The honourable gentleman also said that there were twenty-seven Bills - or Native Acts- which had been passed affecting Native lands. Now, this Act of last year is the first one which the Natives had any hand in. I may state that, in my opinion, this Bill is really carrying out the promises made in the Treaty of Wai- tangi, and I trust that honourable members will be friendly to us, and help us in this Bill. During all these past sessions of Parliament the members have invariably been attacking the Native people. I trust, therefore, that honourable members will allow this Bill to pass. Sir, although there may be only a few members supporting this Bill, still I trust that it may be passed, because it is a very important measure. Persons are telling the Natives that if this Bill is passed they will suffer great wrong; but if the Bill were not passed, then I think they would laugh at the Natives. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I do not think there is anything very wonderful in so many Bills having been passed in all this time. We know that there are as many European Bills Hon. Mr. Jones But, so far as I can see, all those Bills were trying how not to do it, and this is the first honest attempt to try how to do it, and I trust it will be successful. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, I rise for the purpose of making a few remarks by way of personal explanation. I think the Hon. Mr. Tomoana has made an error in what he has stated. He has misinterpreted what I said. I said nothing antagonistic to him in my remarks, nor have I uttered a word in this Council in any way against the Bill. That is all I wish to say. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I should be sorry to allow the Bill to pass without saying a word or two of congratulation to our honour- able friend Mr. Tomoana on the eloquent and intelligent way in which he has addressed us on this subject, and it is an additional pleasure to us in passing this measure to know that it has been to him not only a measure of present interest, but that it brings back to him and his people the traditions and the obligations which we hope to see maintained. It is all the better for us, and for our Maori friends, that all those obligations should be preserved, and it is satisfactory on the present occasion to feel that this Bill is an attempt to do our honest best in our endeavour to carry out those traditions and obligations. It is all the more to the credit of the measure. When I spoke in moving the committal I alluded to the exceptional position we are in in this colony in having a Native Minister of the Maori race, and I say it is a very great privilege indeed that we should have a Minister able to represent both races, and, with a sort of ambi- dexterous mind, be able to look at questions from either side. He is able to balance opin- ions, and through one side of his nature say whether the Maori should be most considered. and with the other side whether the pakeba should be most considered ; and no doubt on the whole his judicial mind would arrive at the conclusion that neither should be considered one before the other, but that fair play should be given to each. I am quite certain that those who sat on the Committee this morning and had the pleasure of listening to his evidence must have come to the conclusion that this measure is very near his heart, and I shall be very pleased indeed if the Council will pass its third reading to-night. Bill read the third time. The Council adjourned at a quarter to nine o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 5th November, 1901. Second Reading-Third Reading-Bill Discharged -New Zealand Railway -- Public Health Bi- Government Railways Department Classification Bill-State Coal-mines Bill-City of Auckland Loans Consolidation and Auckland City Borr #- ing Bill-Cook and other Islands Government Bill-Coal-mines Bill-Maori Lands Administra- 