give them the authority they should have, nor the pride that should be instilled into the mind of every man who is trying to make his way up. I believe clause 25 is a good and generous clause. It is the clause which allows any man, no matter what grade, or class, or department of the service he may be in, to reach the position of General Manager, or, as was aptly interjected by an honourable mem- ber, it gives him the opportunity of climbing from log cabin to White House. That is a posi- tion I congratulate the honourable the Minister in regard to. Then, there is the constitution of the Appeal Board, and I wish to draw the atten- tion of the Minister to something that might arise in connection with the constitution of this Appeal Board. Clause 13 deals with it, and it appoints the Board as follows : One man, who is a Stipendiary Magistrate or a District Court Judge, is to be President of the Court, and, under subclauses (2) and (3), one person is to be elected by the members of the First Division in the North Island and Middle Island re- spectively from among their number, and one to be elected by the members of the Second Division in the aforesaid islands respectively from among their number. It is true this seems to be a very difficult matter to arrange ; but I should like to allow a man in the work- shops, or in some way to appoint a man outside the workshops to sit on the Board. I put this matter before a gathering of the workshop men and the departments, and they saw at once the anomaly that might arise. Supposing, for the sake of argument, a guard on our section here was appointed one of the members of the Appeal Board for this island. That guard is under the Stationmaster ; the Stationmaster is his superior officer. And suppose the superior officer-the Stationmaster - inflicted a penalty under another section of this Act on another guard. Now, if this other guard wanted to appeal he would go to the Appeal Board and be tried by his fellow-guard, who might reverse the decision of his own superior officer, the Station- master. That is a position that might crop up at any time. It might apply to any grade or department of the railway workshops, and the suggestion I offer to the Minister to adopt is this : The railway workshops men say that there are practically two branches of the Second Division-there is the mechanical department, and the locomotive traffic and maintenance de- partment, and what they say is this: that it is impossible to have a man from the locomotive, traffic, and maintenance departments sitting on the Appeal Board to hear an appeal from some man who had been aggrieved in the other de- partment, and vice versa. Now, I would suggest that the word "one " should be struck out, and the word "two " put in, so that the subsection would read : "Two persons to be elected by the members of the First Division in the North Island and Middle Island respectively from among their number, one of whom shall be elected from the mechanical branch of the service, and the other from the loco- motive, traffic, and maintenance departments." sary for a man to try other men outside his own department, otherwise you might have the foreman of a particular branch mulcting in some form of penalty a man under him, and that man might have to appeal to one of his brother workers and have the decision reversed. I merely put this matter to the Minister with all deference just as a suggestion. Now, I must congratulate the Hon. the Minister, on behalf of my constituency, on clauses 6 and 7. My constituents believe it is right that from the classification there shall be prepared and laid before Parliament each year a list setting out the names, status, and pay of each member, and the number of years he has been in the service ; but they say that in clause 7 the words "whether he is or is not entitled thereto " should be struck out, and there should be added to the end of the clause: "and any member shall be entitled at all reasonable times to peruse or obtain a copy of the folios of such conduct-book relating to himself." They say they may be " hauled up on the carpet " for some offence, and their conduct-book pro- duced ; and they then find there are black marks against their names that they had no knowledge of at all, and these black marks might be against their names for something that had oc- curred too long ago for them to be able to rebut any charges that may have been brought against them. Now, in regard to the Second Schedule, as to the classification of the men, is there any justification for classing machinists, at any rate, lower than sailmakers? I believe in the sail- makers being raised, and I do not want to see any reduction or levelling down ; and let these men-who are a grand lot of men, as the Minis. ter and the whole country admit-have the benefit of the prosperity which they are helping themselves to maintain in this colony. The class of work they do in the workshops has been admired, and has been recognised as good work, and it is not necessary to emphasize that, or to say anything further in regard to the matter at all. But why should the Minister put a man who is a machinist, I was going to say, lower than a sailmaker, lower than a riveter, and lower than a borer, blacksmith, turner, or copper-smith ? Now, what is the position of a machinist ? There is not any very great num- ber of them, and it is not a tremendous amount that is involved. Here is the position that I want to show: I have in my hand a table of statistics of wages paid in the Old Country, and I am producing this not to show \------- the amount that is paid, but the classing and grading of the different departments. I am producing this for the purpose of showing that in the Old Country-I am not saying that the wages paid in the Old Country should be paid here-that fitters, smiths, turners, planers, borers and slotters, and millers, are all graded the same. Now they are graded as receiv- ing the same amount of pay. I put this before some of the gentlemen who have juris- diction in this matter when discussing this question, and they contradicted me when I said all these classes would receive the same 