would meet in June next, and the Premier could then bring down resolutions to continue the contract for another twelve months. He failed to see the benefit of making provision for eighteen months when the Government could bring down resolutions next session to deal with the matter. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said that in March of this year Mr. Spreckels made a state- ment that, even if the New Zealand Govern- ment did not enter into a contract with him, . he would run his boats all the same. The only difference was that he would not run to con- tract time. He (Mr. Fisher) voted for the one- year contract in the hope that, after the dis- cussion in the House upon the resolutions, the constituencies would be better educated upon the subject than they were at present, and so the House would have an opportunity next year of reviewing the whole question for the Fr'isco service under more favourable circumstances. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) pointed out that on the 19th November, 1900, Mr. Spreckels wrote a letter to the Secretary of the General Post Office to the following effect :- " We shall be pleased to carry your mails for one year, but we decline to enter into any con- tract. We have been much disappointed at the running of our new steamship. We do not wish to be bound by a contract." Now, if these resolutions are carried in their present form, the Government would not be able to enter into a contract satisfactory to the colony under the present conditions. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The Committee divided on the question, "That the words 'and six mouths' be in- serted." AYES, 32. Hogg Palmer Bennet Bollard Houston Pere Kaihau Pirani Carncross Russell, W. R. Lang Carroll Colvin Lawry Seddon Massey Duncan Thompson, R. McGowan Field Ward Mills Witheford. Fowlds Hall Monk Tellers. Hall-Jones Napier Herries O'Meara Lethbridge. Heke NOES, 32. Graham Allen, E. G. Parata Rhodes Hardy Allen, J. Russell, G. W. Arnold Hornsby Hutcheson Smith, G. J. Atkinson Barclay Laurenson Symes Mackenzie, T. Buddo Tanner Mckenzie. R. Thomson, J. W. Collins McLachlan Wilford. Ell Flatman McNab Tellers. Fisher Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Gilfedder. Fraser, W. Millar PAIRS. For. Against. O'Rorke Guinness Smith, E. M. McGuire Willis. Hanan. his duty to give a casting-vote, and he should give his casting-vote with the "Ayes." When giving a casting-vote it was usual for the Chair- man to give his reason. The resolutions had to be reported to the House, and if when that was done the House chose to reverse his vote it was open to them to do so. Amendment agreed to, and words inserted. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said he wished to insert, after the word " news- papers," in section (b), a few words which he thought the Postmaster-General would accept. Those words were to the following effect : "and that the net rate of freight after de- duction of all rebates and commissions charged for cargo between Auckland and San Francisco shall in no case exceed the net rate charged between Sydney and San Francisco." At the present time he was told the Sydney merchants were getting a cheaper rate of freight by the Fr'isco boats than the Auckland merchants were, and he thought it ought to be provided that in no case should the freight to New Zea- land exceed that charged to Sydney. Sir J. G. WARD asked the honourable mem- ber not to move the amendment, but to allow the matter to remain in the hands of the Go- vernment. They were not undertaking an ex- tended contract. If they were voting for a long period of years it would be a different thing, but to make such a binding condition as the honourable member suggested might make them unable to get anything. He would be prepared to make proper representations on the matter. Mr. G. J. SMITH, by leave, withdrew the amendment. Sir J. G. WARD moved to add to subclause (b) the following words : " with a minimum of not less than #15,000 and a maximum of $20,000 per annum.' Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) wished to point out the extraordinary allowance for carrying news- papers; it took from 3d. to 34d. to carry a weekly paper to the Old Country. Was that caused by the high rate paid to Spreckels and Company ? Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) would like to ask the Postmaster-General to reduce the minimum of £15,000, for this reason: that according to the estimate of the Postmaster- General of the weight carried last year the total amount paid was #16,490. Now, there was evidence that as a mail-route the San Fran- cisco route was decreasing ; but the honourable gentleman desired to pay Messrs. Spreckels $15,000 whether they carried the stuff or not. It seemed to him the only way the Postmaster- General could get value out of the #15,000 would be to post the whole of the material by way of San Francisco. If a minimum of £12,000 was fixed, Mr. Spreckels would be paid very well. Sir J. G. WARD pointed out that they re- ceived £11,791 postages by this route. That was for the mails carried outward. His opinion was that for a valuable property of this kind, running such a service, £12,000 was really a 