persons have taught the settlers that freehold is the best tenure; and if the honourable gentle- man was a bona fide settler he would arrive at the same conclusion. People who have taken up 999-years leases have surrendered them, merely because they believe in the freehold tenure; and, no matter what legislation we may pass in this House, the people are determined to have the freehold. I am certain that if the honourable gentleman was a tiller of the soil he would desire to have the freehold, notwith- standing his arguments. I only wish to say, in conclusion, that I consider the mortgage-tax to be a most unjust imposition, and one which is doing injury to widows and orphans. I was surprised at the argument of the honourable member for Motueka, who calls himself a Liberal. However, I shall not detain the House any fur- ther. The Bill is an annual one, that must be passed, and it has nothing new in it. Let honourable gentlemen set to work and pass the Bill. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .- As my name has been mentioned in this debate, I should like to say a word or two on the question of Crown leaseholds. We were told to-night by the member for Riccarton and the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) that the Crown lessees should pay a land-tax. I would ask those two honourable gentlemen, who repre- sent city constituencies, whether, if they were possessed of 200 acres of land and they leased that land to me, it would be fair that I should pay the land-tax on that land, instead of those two gentlemen who owned the land. So it is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 with the State. The Crown lessees are not the owners of the land. The Government are the people really who should take the money out of one pocket and place it in the other, and so pay land-tax and make up the deficiency which exists owing to the Crown lands being leased to the Crown lessees. With respect to the argu- ment raised by the honourable member for Motueka, he mentioned my name in connec- tion with the mortgage-tax. Mr. R. MCKENZIE. - Because you inter- jected. Mr. O'MEARA .- I was perfectly safe in in- terjecting, because I am strongly in favour of the abolition of a portion of the mortgage-tax, as I believe it to be an unjust tax to levy on the people, who are compelled to accept mortgages in some cases against their own desires. I may say I have not a single shilling loaned 8.30. on mortgage personally, but I have as a trustee, so I am not interested personally either in the abolition of the tax or the reten- tion of it ; but if my vote were taken I should certainly vote for its partial abolition, for this reason : You will find, for instance, a person has an estate, and he dies leaving a family. The estate is left to the family, and one condition of the will is that the estate must be sold within a reasonable time, a reasonable time being twelve months. There are seven or eight child- ren entirely dependent on what they get from The estate is sold for £1,000, the estate. and, as the sale is a forced one, the trustee is Mr. McGuire and #800 on mortgage. The interest is 4 per cent., or £32 a year, and out of that income the trustee representing the family is compelled to pay à per cent. to the Government by way of mortgage-tax. I say that, as far as this tax is concerned, a person may be a direct contributor to the mortgage-tax of the colony by such means as I have stated and also a recipient of chari- table aid. I hope the Premier will keep his promise to the House and to the country, and next session, if not this session, he will take steps to amend the law relating to the mort- gage-tax of the colony. Mr. SEDDON (Premier.)-Sir, I am sur- prised that an hour should have been taken up with discussing whether or not we are going to collect the land- and income-tax this year. Members will recollect that we have been placing very heavy burdens on the people, and we must have the wherewithal to pay our way : and when it comes to asking for a portion of the money, the Bill, I thought, would have gone through the House without the slightest difficulty. No doubt members want to go home ; but they talk all the same. An Hon. MEMBER .- They like it. Mr. SEDDON .- I did not want to say a word about it, but I find now that three ques- tions of vast importance have been raised. I have been told that land-tax is not leviable upon the holders of leases in perpetuity. The member for Riccarton told the House that ; and the member for Palmerston is of the same opinion, and the same opinion is held by a number of other members. The member for Mataura, who knows better, read a return to strengthen the impression, showing how much had been paid ; and the return was nil. But the honourable gentleman was careful not to say they were not taxable. I say they are tax- able, and that the interpretation of the law by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) is absolutely correct. The member for Riccarton says that as no rates are collected they are not taxable. He ought to know better. They are not taxable for this reason : that none of them as yet have gone above the exemption. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh, oh ! Mr. SEDDON .- If it is so, I will give the reason why the tax has not been collected under the Act. The great majority of the interests of the lessees are mortgaged, and if their interests are mortgaged they do not pay the tax, and it will not be in this return. Now, I have it from the Tax Commissioner that there is a large number who are just on the margin, and who will come under the Act soon, and have to be taxed. There are a large number who are mortgaged, and who would be taxable if it were not for the fact that they have a mortgage upon their interest. They do not pay the land- tax. Now, I may say I know, myself, that at Cheviot there are interests there that, were it not for being mortgaged, would be taxable ; and I believe, myself, that when the return is asked for later on it will be found that some of these lessees in perpetuity have to pay the land-tax. Now, the same reasoning might have been ap- 