Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the amendments made by the Legislative Council in this Bill be agreed to. Motion agreed to. CITY OF AUCKLAND LOANS CONSOLI- DATION AND AUCKLAND CITY BOR- ROWING BILL. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) moved, That the amendment made by the Legisla- tive Council in this Bill be agreed to. Motion agreed to. COOK AND OTHER ISLANDS GOVERN- MENT BILL. A message was received from the Legislative Council stating that the Cook and other Islands Government Bill had been passed with amendments. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was a new clause, as follows :-- "8A. All Federal and Local Ordinances assented to by the Governor shall be laid on the table of both Houses within ten days of the meeting of Parliament." And after subsection (4) of clause 9 it was proposed to insert the following :- "9A. For the purposes of ' The Shipping and Seamen's Act, 1877,' ships trading to or going between the said Islands and New Zealand shall not be deemed to be home-trade ships." He moved, That the amendments be agreed to. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Minister to explain the meaning of the clause referring to home-trade ships. Mr. SEDDON said the clause referred to vessels trading between the colony and the Islands. The Islands now being part of New Zealand, vessels trading there under ordinary circumstances would be treated the same as vessels trading along the coast of New Zea- land. An Hon. MEMBER said it was just the oppo- site. Mr. HUTCHESON said the term "home- trade" could be applied to New Zealand or to foreign trade. Mr. SEDDON said the clause read as fol- lows :- "For the purposes of 'The Shipping and Seamen's Act, 1877,' ships trading to or going between the said islands and New Zealand shall not be deemed to be home-trade ships." Mr. HUTCHESON said, Although these ves- sels might traverse eighteen hundred or two thousand miles of open sea, yet, since we had included the Cook and other islands within the boundaries of the colony, they were now home- trade vessels If the Government did not de- clare these vessels foreign traders they would, on the facts stated by the Premier, be in law coastal vessels-that was, trading between two ports of the colony, they would undoubtedly be engaged in the home-trade. In reality the extent of their traffic rendered them foreign traders, and required that they should be sub- so forth that the foreign-going vessels were. Motion agreed to. COAL-MINES BILL. A message was received from the Legislative Council stating that the Coal-mines Bill had been passed with an amendment. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said the only amendment the Legislative Council had made was to substitute one clause for another. Clause 6, as it left the House, read,- "No miner shall work longer in any day than eight hours underground in a mine ; such eight hours shall commence from the time of enter- ing such mine until such time as the miner leaves the mine: Provided that this section shall not affect any award already given under ' The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900': Provided, further, that any such miner working beyond the said eight hours shall be entitled to be paid overtime.' The clause substituted was as follows :- "6. (1.) Subject to the provisions of the Act, a miner shall not be employed underground for a longer period in any day than eight hours, ex- clusive of meal-times. " (2.) Such period of eight hours shall be deemed to commence from the time the miner enters the mine, and to finish when he leaves the mine. "(3.) The prescribed number of working- hours may from time to time be exceeded, but on every such occasion wages shall be paid for such extended hours at not less than one- fourth as much again as the ordinary rate. "(4.) Where, in any award of the Court of Arbitration under ' The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900,' made prior to the commencement of this Act, provision is made limiting or extending the working hours of miners working underground in any mine, or providing for the payment of overtime, this section shall, in respect to such mine, and so long as such award continues in force, be read and construed subject to such award." He moved, That the amendment be agreed to. Motion agreed to. MAORI LANDS ADMINISTRATION BILL. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved, That the amendments made by the Legislative Council in this Bill be agreed to. There had not been really any amendments except what had been accepted by the House when in Com- mittee on the Bill. Some of those amendments had been put in the wrong place, and what the Council had done was to put them in their proper places. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori District) said he only desired to make an explanation. The honourable member for Napier (Mr. A. L. D. Fraser), a short time before, had presented a petition, alleging that it contained the objec- tion of some thirteen hundred Natives against the Maori Lands Administration Act of last year. He had perused the petition, and had discovered that it was a wholesale petition against the Public Works Act, the Rating Act, 