the Committee is on the one point, it will govern this case also, and hence I agreed to amend the resolution and refer it to the Public Accounts Committee. I think, however, it is a waste of time to duplicate and force the second warrant when it is admitted by the Audit Department that it is on the same lines as a warrant already issued. However, that is the interpretation of the Auditor-General, and it is for us to receive it and deal with it by referring it to the Public Accounts Committee. I would like to see an amendment of the law, so that, where a question has gone through the hands of the Law Officers and been decided upon, it should not be brought up again. I move, That the letter lie on the table and be printed, and that it be referred to the Public Accounts Committee to report. Motion agreed to. PERSONAL EXPLANATION. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, I have been misrepresented, and I desire to make a personal explanation. I desire to refer to a paragraph that appeared in this morning's New Zealand Times, on page 5. The paragraph runs thus :- " A Breeze in the House. "Matters became heated during the pro- tracted discussion on the State Coal-mines Bill last night. At one stage Mr. Meredith accused the Premier of using intemperate language. Mr. Seddon, in reply, protested against the tone of the member for Ashley, and said that members were not now in Sunday-school. Mr. Meredith, retorting, admitted that he taught in Sunday-school, but said that he would far sooner be a Sunday-school teacher than a West Coast publican. (' Ohs.') The Premier, nettled, rejoined that Mr. Meredith had applied to a Board, of which he (the Premier) was a member, to make him a present of 6,000 acres of the Glentui Estate, and be- cause this would not be done, the attitude of the honourable member was thus explained. Mr. Seddon denied that he had used intem- perate language, but he assured the member for Ashley that he had his measure full well. He also informed him that the Premier of this country was able to maintain his position, and would continue to do so." This paragraph is supposed to report an episode that took place on the floor of the House last night when the House was in Com- mittee on the State Coal-mines Bill, and Major Steward in the chair. A reference was made by some members of the House, and particularly by the Premier, to the amendment introduced into the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill when in Committee of the House, on the motion of the honourable member for Wanganui, Mr. Willis, altering the constitution of the Concilia- tion Boards. Thirty members supported the amendment, and eighteen members opposed it. Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, can the honourable gentleman refer to a past debate, and a past transaction ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I am just watch- Mr. Seddon not think it is necessary to go into the whole history of the debate. Mr. MEREDITH .- Sir, I do not intend to do so. I shall be as brief as possible. The Premier made reference to the members who supported the amendment in such a heated and unwarranted manner as to arouse my indig- nation. I rose and briefly protested against the intemperate language of the Premier, and forth- with sat down. The Premier then rose and made an attack on me, pointing out that he would not be dictated to by the member for Ashley, who was a Sunday-school teacher. On the Premier resuming his seat I rose in my place, and pointed out to the House that the members who had supported the amendment of the honourable member for Wanganui did so with a sincere desire to place the Bill on the statute-book in the best possible form, and in the interests of the people of the colony. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must not elaborate his reasons, but come to the point where he has been misrepre- sented. Mr. MEREDITH .- Yes, Sir. I pointed out it was true I was a Sunday-school teacher. I have been connected with Sunday-schools all my life, I said, and I preferred to be a Sunday- school teacher rather than a West Coast publi- can. The latter term, no doubt, irritated the Premier, and if the Premier had got up and said he had not during any term of his colonial history been a publican, or retailed liquor be- hind a publichouse bar- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- This language, to my mind, whether permitted in Committee or not, should not be allowed. All personal re- ferences ought to be avoided. I understand the honourable gentleman says he has been misrepresented. I do not see how his remarks or his contentions with regard to the Premier can show he has been misrepresented. Mr. MEREDITH. - Sir, I will leave that matter. I will quote the gross misrepresenta- tion that has taken place :- "The Premier, nettled, rejoined that Mr. Meredith had applied to a Board, of which he (the Premier) was a member, to make him a present of 6,000 acres of the Glentui Estate, and because this would not be done, the atti- tude of the honourable member was thus ex- plained." Those words I take exception to, and in their application to me I say they are absolutely in- correct. I give them a flat denial. There is not an atom of truth in the statement. Briefly, Sir, this is the position : three years ago the Glentui Estate, administered by the Assets Board, was offered for sale by public ad- vertisement. I wrote to the Board to ascer- tain if they were prepared to sell me from five hundred to fifteen hundred acres of the estate, and to quote their price. I received a reply stating that they were prepared to sell, but would not make a quotation of their price, and inviting me to make the quotation - a strange method of doing business. After again looking at the property, and consulting my 