merly patronise the Pacific route-and my friend the honourable member for Hawke's Bay will bear me out-is that they do not get that comfort they seek. When a squatter owning millions of sheep travels round he likes to be comfortable. My own opinion, there- fore, is that we should not confine ourselves to any one American line, but that if we can get the Vancouver service or any other service we should take them all, especially when the owners are going to provide most of the money. In this case the company find £52,000 to run the boats, and all we are asked to pay is €15,000 or £20,000. Why, the company spend more than that amount in the colony on their various trips, most of it going for necessaries of life which are grown by the farmers. Then, if we carry out the suggestion I pre- viously made-and endeavour to get a treaty with America-the farmers of this colony would be placed thereby in a position of positive affluence. I hear that woollen - factories are about to be established on the western sea- board of America, and if we only send our wool to that quarter instead of to London, the United States Government could afford to take off half the duty on wool-that is to say, they could take off 3d. in the pound. Honourable members will see for themselves that, as the quantity of our wool exported is something like 109,000,000 1b., the result would be that our farmers would benefit considerably, and in the face of a fact of that kind I contend that every farmers' representative in the colony should support these resolutions. An Hon. MEMBER .- Did you say 3d. in the pound was the duty ? Mr WITHEFORD .- I say that 2d. in the pound could be taken off the duty, which would mean the saving of a great deal to our farmers. Sir, I do not intend to detain the House any longer. I thank honourable members for the patient hearing they have given me. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, one of the chief points made by the member for Franklin in the course of his speech was that, in the event of war breaking out in which the Mother-country was involved, it would be a very great advantage for our mails to be carried in neutral ships and across neutral territory. An argument like that might avail somewhat when the day comes that the prestige of England as a maritime power is likely to cease. It is not likely to appeal at present to this House or this country. This is not the first occasion on which the Fr'isco mail-service has been under consideration. A year ago the Postmaster- General proposed a series of resolutions dealing with the Fr'isco service. The first resolution was that "this House authorises the Govern- ment to enter into a temporary agreement with Messrs. Spreckels,' and so on; and in the course of his speech on that occasion the Post- master-General said, -- " The proposal in these resolutions, which is for an agreement for twelve months, upon a poundage basis, will enable the Government in the interval to determine whether any better service, which, as it is to be exclusively carried out by American steamers, is not too popular either in this colony or in Australia." Has the honourable gentleman fulfilled the compact he entered into twelve months ago with the House and the country? The tem- porary arrangement of a year ago was to enable the Government to determine whether any better arrangement was possible than the service with Spreckels. Now, Sir, what is the position at the present time? Have the Go- vernment endeavoured to make a better ar- rangement in the interests of the country than the Spreckels service ? What is our position ? Parliament has been sitting since the 1st July. The present arrangement terminates in Novem- ber, and a proposal is only now brought down. Even now. What are the alternatives the Postmaster-General has to offer the colony ? Has he found out anything about a service to Vancouver ? Has he endeavoured to ascertain what the cost of a Vancouver service would be, so that he might be ready, if Parliament so willed, to carry on communication through Vancouver with England ? Not at all. Sir J. G. WARD .- You do not know any- thing about it. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Then, let the honourable gentleman state what arrange- ments he has made. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable gentle- man should not make a positive statement unless he was in a position to know. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - No statement was made by the honourable gentleman this after- noon indicating that he has ascertained terms with the view of picking up the contract via Vancouver if the House resolved not to carry on the San Francisco service. In regard to the Federal service, he read to the House the tele- grams which had passed only within the last few days asking whether the Federal Govern- ment would be prepared to allow our mails to come by that route, and no answer has yet been received ; while, with regard to what many members regard as the best possible ser- vice, myself amongst them-namely, a direct service to call at South Africa, using British bottoms-I cannot find that the honourable gentleman has endeavoured to ascertain any particulars which would be a guide to the Committee. In fact, the very terms of the resolutions submitted indicate that the Govern- ment has already determined to continue the Fr'isco service, plus Spreckels. How do I prove this ? First of all, I find on page 37 of the esti- mates this vote: " San Francisco mail service (three-weekly), £17,000; cost of transit from San Francisco to New York and from New York to Queenstown of homeward mails, €6,132 ; interprovincial service (San Francisco service), $5,000." So that the House has already voted the money for the maintenance for a year, at any rate, of the San Francisco mail-service. Now, I want, in the second place, to show that, in addition to asking Parliament to vote the money for the Fr'isco service, a letter, offering a renewal of the 