they seek to put into the Bill amendments knowing that the Bill will have to go back to another place to be met there with opposition. In my opinion, if this Bill were made applicable to agricultural labourers you would probably have had no Bill again this session, and the benefits that otherwise would be conferred on those engaged in skilled trades, and trades where machinery is employed, and other em- ployments where there is danger, would have been denied to them, simply because there are a considerable number of labourers in the honourable gentleman's district." I alluded, Sir, to the member for Riccarton. Then - " Do honourable members know this : that if a man had been coming from the train, and engaged a cabman to convey him to his hotel, if the cabman had a collision and killed him or maimed him he would be regarded for the time being as a contractor- as the servant of the person who used the cab-and you would have had the wife and family of the person killed thrown on your hands ? " Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- You have left out twenty lines. Mr. SEDDON .- I am just coming to what you left out. Now, I ended by saying .- " The one reason that stopped this Bill being passed in this House was the amendment in regard to making it include everybody, and the result was that for twelve months the people have been denied the advantage of this legis- lation : that was, the question of including the agricultural labourers. And I might say that the member for Riccarton, while he has a large section of agricultural labourers in his district, must not forget that he has also a large section of people who are engaged in dangerous trades, and who would receive the advantage of this legislation : and, in the face of my promise that next session I would bring down a Bill extend- ing its application, he might have refrained from pressing his amendment. However, the House in its wisdom rejected it, and I must compliment honourable members who have been anxious and sincere to secure the placing of this measure upon the statute-book." The member for Riccarton was not satisfied and made a personal explanation, and I replied to him in these words :- "This question of personal explanation is being considerably abused. I say, Sir, the honourable member deliberately moved the amendment, and he knew at the time it had been refused in the Legislative Council. I told him so, and said that, in respect to agricultural labourers, it could not be put in the Bill without having it safeguarded. "An Hon. MEMBER .- Is this another personal explanation ? "Mr. SEDDON .- I am simply repeating what I said before, and my belief is now that the amendment was moved knowing that had it been carried it would have had the same effect as if the motion had been, 'That the Bill be read this day six months." statement was entirely untrue. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; the honourable mem- ber misbehaved himself, and was called upon to withdraw his expression. Then, I went on to remark that the honourable member had been guilty of gross misconduct and ought to have expressed his regret. Taking it altogether, it seems to me that the matter has been rankling in the honourable gentleman's mind ever since. He does not forget the reproof Mr. Speaker ad- ministered to him for his misbehaviour, and as he had the opportunity of reading the report to- day I think it was only my place as it was my duty to call attention to what occurred. How- ever, as regards the English Act, it only came into force last July. We have had no experience of its working as applied to the agricultural labourer, and I repeat what I said in 1899, and what I said last session when the Bill was going through the House, that we should see how it works in England, and prot by their experi- ence, and then move in the matter. At the pre- sent time what is before us ? The English Act has carefully safeguarded those who come under it and imposes certain necessary conditions : and it seems to me if we allow our law to remain in the present unsatisfactory state we are doing a great injustice that may work injury and ruin to some innocent person who does not know that the law does not apply to him, and to whom it would mean ruination if it did apply. The Government are prepared to remove that diffi- culty. We have heard the opinions of a number of members on the matter to-day. Well, I wanted to have the opinions of members on the various points, and I think I have done very well. In the debate it seems to me this fact has been proved : if you take the list of names of those who voted for Mr. Hutcheson's motion and for Mr. G. W. Russell's motion it will be found that 50 per cent. of them, when they went to the people, were put out of Parlia- ment. Take the names as given by Mr. Hutcheson of those who voted for his amend- ment, and take those who voted against it, and it will be found that those who voted against it are in Parliament to-day, but those who voted for it are away where all politicians go. That is the result. I think the honour- able member read the list to the House as a warning. Now, the statement has been made that the Premier is afraid of the Farmers' Union. Well, if there is one member of the House who is afraid of the Farmers' Union, and who, as the days and weeks roll on and he gets nearer his constituents, is getting paler and fading almost to the vanishing point, it is the member for Riccarton ; it is not the Premier. The member for Riccarton thinks he must bring this question up regarding the agricultural labourers, as I told him when the Bill was before the House last year there would be a division in his dis- trict. When the Bill was first brought down with this clause in it, it was thrown out by the Legislative Council ; and, if it had been sent back to the Council with the clause in it, it would have been thrown out again, 