Island Maori lands ; the Maori lands in the South Island being in an entirely different posi- tion to Maori lands in the North Island. Sir, at one time the Maori lands in the South Island were in an exactly similar position to the Maori lands in the North Island; but when I was elected to represent the Southern Maori Dis- trict I brought before the House & pro- posal to pass legislation to subdivide and allocate the individual interests of the Maori owners in the South Island lands. That pro- posal was adopted, and experience has proved that it was a proper one, for at the present time there is absolutely no trouble whatever in connection with Maori lands in the South Island. Each individual or family now holds an area of land under a separate Crown grant ; therefore it is that we in the South Island would derive no benefit from the measure now before the House. Sir, I should like to see the Maori members representing the Maori con- stituencies in the North Island bring about a similar state of things in this Island. I believe it is not impossible to accomplish that object ; but the difficulties that would have to be sur- mounted are, I admit, greater than those we in the South had to overcome. My own opinion is that the only solution of the Maori problem in this Island is to individualise all the titles. Three years ago I made a proposal to this House. I gave my views as to the way in which the Maoris of this Island should direct their efforts. Briefly, my views were these : In the case of mountainous lands, where Maori https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 owners were in a position to place stock upon them they should be allowed to retain such lands; and in cases where they were not in a position to do so the land should be leased for the benefit of the Maori owners. Sir, with regard to the effect of the Bill now before the House, I wish to say that the Maori population of this country is not a people who have the command of money to enable them to develop the re- sources of their land as the Europeans can do. There are many restrictions, the result of legis- lation passed by the House, which prohibit them from administering their lands to the best advantage. Sir, we have had Act after Act passed during successive Parliaments and by successive Governments, and we have been told that each succeeding Act would solve the Maori difficulty once and for all. Well, it has not been solved yet, and we are still endeavour- ing to find out some means whereby it may be solved. I feel that I am in rather a delicate and difficult position in speaking with regard to the desires of the Maori people of this Island, for I find they are not themselves of one mind respecting what is necessary for their advance- ment. Sir, when I look back to the time when I was first returned to this House, I find that I have been waiting ever since and asking myself this question : When will the various sections of the Maori inhabitants of the North Island arrive at a mutual understanding as to the direction in which legislation should be framed to meet the wishes of the Maori down of a comprehensive measure that would meet the necessities of the various districts is that the Maoris themselves are not of one mind as to the way in which that legislation should be framed. I find that the people on the west coast of the Island have their own ideas of what is necessary ; that those on the east coast have desires in a contrary direction ; and that those in the Northern district have views that differ from either as to the course of policy that should be pursued. As a Maori re- presentative of the South Island, together with the European representatives of that Island, I feel that we are placed in an entirely false posi- tion. We really do not know what we ought to support, because there is a lack of combination between the inhabitants of different parts of the North Island as to the manner in which Native legislation should be framed. We do not need to go further back than to-night for confirmation of what I have said. We had the speech of the member for the Western Maori District; then we had the speech from the member of the Eastern Maori District ex- pressing entirely opposite views; and the views of the member for the Northern Maori District differed to a certain extent from each, although I fancy the general drift of his argument rather went towards the views of the member for the Eastern Maori District. I should like to see this Parliament, or some succeeding Parlia- ment, frame some legislation that would, gene- rally speaking, meet the desires of the Maori inhabitants of this Island. Sir, last session the honourable member for the Western Maori electorate continually approached me and solicited my support for the Bill then before the House, and which was passed into law last year; but this year we find the honourable member comes and speaks entirely in opposition to the measure and to the views he expressed himself last year. It seems to me that you will require to bring in special legislation for each Maori district. I would like to draw the attention of members of the House to this feature of the debate: It has struck me that many members have spoken against the Bill and have said that it should not pass, that it is a bad Bill, and have advanced various argu- ments against it ; but not a single one of those members has proposed any other line of proce- dure in substitution of that they condemn. Now, I say the only members of the House who have given any other line of policy have been the member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, and the member for Riccarton, Mr. G. W. Rus- sell, and they have said that the titles to the land should be individualised. To my thinking, that would result in an entire solution of the difficulty. The reasons advanced and the argu- ments given by those gentlemen seem to me to more nearly approach my own view than the views that have been expressed by any other members who have spoken to-night. With regard to remonstrances that 12.30. have emanated from Maoris who do not desire this Bill to pass, I may say that I <!-- PageNumber="İ" --> 