place : When the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Bill was under discussion in the House, Mr. G. W. Russell moved, in Com- mittee, to insert 'agricultural' after ' indus- trial ' in a given subsection-that is, giving the agricultural labourers the benefit of the Act. This was opposed by Mr. Seddon, and, of course, was defeated, Mr. Seddon promising at the same time that this session he would bring in an extended Bill, giving agricultural labourers compensation for accidents. That, I say, was the true inference from the words used by the Premier on that occasion. He did not use the words in that specific order in which they are here set down ; but, so far as concerns the im- pression conveyed to the House and given to the country, and the impression that was in- tended to be conveyed to the country, there is no question about that. Now, the Premier says it was never intended to apply to farm- labourers. Then, I ask, what necessity was there for passing the Act of last year ? because, if it was to have the restricted application the Premier now says in regard to farm-labourers, it would be just as well not to have placed it on the statute-book. The farm-labourers consti- tute the largest body of labour in this colony. They outnumber the seamen, they outnumber the factory workers, and, in fact, they consti- tute the greater mass of our industrial popu- lation ; and yet they are declared not to be included in the terms of the Act. If I under- stand the Premier aright now-but it is rather difficult to understand what the Premier really does mean ; it is not always to be gathered from what he says- An Hon. MEMBER .- Have you seen the Bill ? Mr. TANNER .- We have not seen the Bill, and we have not seen its terms ; I admit that. It may be that the Bill is intended to make clear the scope and application of last year's Act. It is not to be supposed, after what the Premier pledged himself to-or is reported to have pledged himself to-at a recent caucus, it is intended to make it clear and unmistakable that farm-labourers are to be included under its provisions. My own impression of the Act passed last year is that it does distinctly include agricultural labourers, and it ought so to in- clude them. If the Premier is on the horns of a dilemma he has himself to blame for it. am not asking for any new departure from last year's Act ; I am satisfied with the Act as it stands. But there are members in this House who are afraid of the Farmers' Union, and some of them are men sitting on this side of the House. It is quite right somebody should tell the truth here sometimes. There are men who call themselves Government supporters in this House who were simply dragged with the flowing tide in 1894 against their wishes in support of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. They have waited for any subsequent oppor- tunity to deal that Act a vital stab, in which they were very nearly successful this session, and they have not yet relinquished the hope of emasculating or sweeping it off the statute- book, though they are compelled to be very VOL. CXIX .- 55. was followed by the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Bill in 1899 and 1900 these men hoped it might not be made to apply to those engaged in agricultural pursuits. Why it should not do so passes the wit of Socrates and Solomon and even the skill of a Philadelphia lawyer, to conceive. These men engaged in agriculture have as much right to the protection of the Workers' Compen- sation for Accidents Act as any men in the colony, for amongst them, in the course of their employment, have occurred some of the most pitiable instances of men's lives being cut short, and the prospects of their wives and children being absolutely blasted in consequence, that have occurred in any country. But it is not done in a wholesale way, as in a colliery disaster in the Old Country, for instance, where hundreds of lives are swept out of ex- istence together; but when one enumerates from the newspapers the number of lives sacrificed in this colony in the pursuit known as agriculture, with all its branches included, he will find that it constitutes a formidable proportion of those annually killed. What proportion that bears to the number of lives that are lost in the course of the twelve months I rather hesitate to say, in the absence of accurate statistics, but I believe it is equal to the number of lives lost in all the other occu- pations, on account of the numerical pre- dominance of the agricultural labourers. And yet these are to be excluded by the Bill now introduced, if we gather rightly what has been stated. I like to support the honourable gentleman when I can, but I can give him my assurance my vote does not go with him in any such proposal as this, not if my political exis- tence depended on it-and I do not think it does -but I shall oppose it most strenuously at every point. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I think we ought to accept the literal recital of what the member for Avon says in regard to the statements of the Premier last year, for the honourable gentleman says he is not quoting from Hansard, but from something more reliable and convincing, which must be a note of his own taken at the time. He says that when the Premier was asked to do a certain thing in regard to the agricultural labourers the Premier replied, " Hi will, certain." That re- I minds me of an incident relating to Sir George Grey. On one occasion Mr. E. M. Smith, the member for New Plymouth, warned Sir George Grey of a trap that was being laid for him, when Sir George, according to the version of Mr. Smith, replied in his courtly way, " Look here, Smith, I ain't a goin' to be 'ad that way." So I want the Premier, when answering these questions in regard to the agricultural labourer -he seems to have got the Premier into a terrible tangle, like the mortgagee and the poor widow-to give us that further explanation de- manded of him by a recent deputation in regard to the casual labourer. The casual labourer seems to be the most troublesome customer of all. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - I 