should not be allowed to consult his chief, who had introduced the Bill into the Lower House, with a corrected copy of the Bill in his hand. He had not yet got that corrected copy. Honourable members would recognise that his time was pretty well occupied just now, and Mr. Seddon's time was also pretty well occu- pied. He did ask the Council to be reasonable, and to allow him to have an opportunity of dis- cussing with his chief the measure as it had passed the Council. He might have to ask the Council to recommit the Bill-he did not say to destroy what had been put in, but possibly to put in some other clause which might occur to the Minister in charge of the department. It was unreasonable and inconsiderate of the Council to refuse to him what he had never known to be refused to a Minister before. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said it was with no discourtesy to the Minister that he had proposed the amendment. He was known to have a very great dislike to the Bill, and it was very reasonable that the Council should know what he was going to do with it. The amendment he had moved would have the effect of taking the business of the Council over the five o'clock adjournment, and that would give the Minister plenty of time to consult his colleagues. The Bill was in the hands of the Council, and he had known a Bill before to-day taken out of the Minister's hands and carried through the Coun- cil in spite of him. That had occurred two or If he had intended any dis- three times. courtesy to the Minister he would have moved that the Bill be immediately proceeded with. If the honourable gentleman put it up as the first order of the day for Wednesday it would be all right. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he could not do that, as it was private members' day. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Well, Thursday, then. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY thought the best way to deal with the matter would be to ask the Council to allow the third reading to be post- poned till the following day ; but, if this course was not adopted, he must oppose the proposal of the Hon. the Minister of Education to place this Bill below No. 12 on the Order Paper. If placed in that position it might never rise to the surface again. While that doubt remained it was necessary to take care that the Bill arrived at such a stage that it would go back to the other House and in due time receive the assent of the Governor. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND said he had been member of the Council for thirty years, and had never known a question of this sort to be raised before. The invariable practice had been for the Minister representing the Go- vernment to take the Bills in such order as was most convenient to himself ; and he thought the Council would be wanting in courtesy in raising any opposition to the Minister post- poning this or any other Bill if it suited his convenience. He was responsible for the con- duct of public business in the Council, and no Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker doing in postponing the third reading of the Bill, for which he, no doubt, had a sufficient reason. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON asked the Minis- ter if he would give the Council something like a guarantee that the Bill would be brought up again this session. He wished to know whether the Minister was pandering to a small minority in the Council and to two or three individuals outside. If he would give such a guarantee he did not mind the order being postponed, but he did not want the Bill to be killed in this way. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he was in somewhat of a difficulty. He would like to answer the honourable gentleman, but after the words he had used as regards his possible action he did not feel inclined to do so. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON said the proper course would be for some honourable member to take the Bill up and carry it through. The Hon. Colonel PITT thought the better plan would be for the Minister to ask that the Bill be made the first order of the day for the following day. Private members would have plenty of time to get their Bills through after- wards. The Hon. Mr. ARKWRIGHT objected to such a course, as he did not wish to imperil a Bill of which he had charge by having it put down after a measure the consideration of which was likely to occupy a whole day. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY thought the Bill should be made the first order of the day for Thursday. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said the Hon. Mr. McLean, in moving his motion, had given a promise that, as soon as this order was reached, if put down after No. 7, the Council would re- consider whether the Minister wanted more time. He did not think the Minister was reasonable in the way he was treating the Council. He could bring forward the Bill on the following day if he so desired. The Bill had few amendments in it, and he would have plenty of time, and there was no necessity for putting this Bill down in the manner the honourable gentleman proposed. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND disclaimed any desire to treat the honourable gentleman with any degree of discourtesy, and he would be very sorry to do so. He would suggest to the Minister that he should simply say that if he got the Bill in time he would consult his col- leagues and bring it on that evening. That would give him all the time he wished, and get rid of the very unpleasant position in which they all were at the present time, and would enable them all to feel more satisfied with the course that was being adopted. The Bill now was not the property of the Government --- it was the property of the Council ; and it was not reasonable to ask members to agree to any course which would unduly put the measure out of its proper time and opportunity for con- sideration. The Council divided on the question, "That the word ' seven ' stand part of the question." 