main school and the side-school should be put are not appointed to the higher positions ; but they are given positions, and the salaries at- together, and the payment of salaries be ap- taching to them are, in many instances, very portioned ; but it does not say in what position fair ones. When, however, it comes to the the teachers are to rank. I have asked two or teaching profession we are told that the female three members of the Commission on this point, teachers of the colony are unable to stand the but so far I have not been able to get any infor- mation. I do not want to detain the House at strain put upon them in teaching children. That is the only argument we have heard, and any length, but the question of a colonial scale of salaries is one which has been engaging the it is an argument that is utterly worthless. attention of the members of the teaching pro- The female teachers do not admit it, and I want fession, and I believe they are anxious for it. to place one or two facts before the House in But, while that is so, in passing this Bill we this connection. I am told that the most diffi- must see that justice is done both to male and cult standard is the Fifth, and that the hardest female teachers, and equal pay given for equal work is done there ; and, accepting that as cor- work ; and, if it cannot be done in any other way, rect, I have obtained some particulars of the I trust the Committee will devise some means schools in the Canterbury districts, and the whereby female teachers will be paid for the work done there by the female teachers. I want specially to deal with the question work they do, and that the worth of their work whether female teachers can stand the strain will be recognised. or not. In one of the leading schools the first a few words on this measure, because I believe assistant mistress is at present teaching Stan- that those members who say the least will in dard IV. with eighty-four pupils. She has all probability be the best friends of the Bill. previously taught Standard VI. for five years ; Standard IV. for four years ; has been in the However, there are one or two matters which I cannot allow to pass without alluding to. In profession for eighteen years, and never had any the first place, my principal objection to the Bill other than ordinary term holidays. In another is the treatment which the aided-school teachers school the first assistant mistress is teaching receive. For years past the rule has been to Standard V., seventy-one pupils , has previously make a fixed grant per head to children attend- taught Standard V. for eight years ; Standards ing those schools. This only allows the teacher IV. and V. alternately for five years; has been twenty years in the profession, and never had to obtain in some cases a living-wage. It is true that in respect to some Boards-notably in any other than ordinary school holidays. In the South Island-grants of £5 per head have another school, first assistant mistress teach- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 been made, the householders of the district ing Standard IV., seventy five pupils ; previous experience, Standards IV. and V., Standard V. making up the amount of the minimum salary to, say, £65 or £70, but no such limit is provided for three years continuously ; teaching nine here. It seems to me that this Bill does not years and a quarter, and only four days and a provide enough, at the rate of £5 per head for half leave of absence-one half day per year. I children attending aided schools, for we must mention these as instances of the work done by recognise that many of those schools have only female teachers in the position of first assistant an attendance of from eight to fourteen children. mistress, and could give five or six others. The The fact is that those aided schools will still be work done by the second assistant mistress is in an unsatisfactory position even if this Bill equally important and onerous, and yet in the should become law. For other schools a mini- face of these facts we are told that female mum is fixed, and the teacher is assured at teachers cannot stand the strain of the teaching least a living-wage. But in the case of aided- profession. Some of the most difficult work in the important schools of Canterbury is done school teachers the same state of things pre- by female teachers, who have stood the strain vails as in the past, and in many cases their lot is not an enviable one. In connection with for years, and who, in addition to the ordinary country schools I see that the Schedule only school - work, have had to teach domestic provides for pupil-teachers where the attendance economy and physical drill, and are also re- is ninety or more. This allows very few pupil- sponsible for the general behaviour of the girls. teachers being trained in country schools, and It is absurd for any member of the Commis- the result is that the teachers in country sion or of the House to say they cannot stand schools are almost invariably teachers ap- the strain ; they are able to do so, and get pointed from the city schools ; and the natural equally good results with the male teachers. result is that they are dissatisfied with their Some members say the lady teachers are in surroundings when they go into country dis- altogether a different position from the male tricts, and this to some extent militates against teachers-they marry and go out of the pro- their success. I should be pleased if some fession. But the male teachers do not stay provision were made providing for the train- in the profession if they see a chance of getting ing of pupil-teachers in the country schools, a better appointment in any other profession. which would benefit both teacher and children Then, there is another question -- and I hope materially, because teachers used to country some member of the Commision will deal with life would be more suited to country-school it-in regard to the question of side-schools work. The teachers have sound reason for where they teach up to the Third and the complaint with regard to their salaries. It is Fourth Standard, and which are practically now some thirteen years since any alteration in sole charge of a female teacher. The scale was made, and at that time the alteration was proposes that the average attendance of the Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- I only intend to say 