for the Bill ; but he believed that if the House consented to this vote to-night members would hear no more of the Teachers' Salaries Bill, because this vote placed a sum of money in the hands of the Minister at his absolute discre- tion. And when members looked back to the circulars the Minister distributed last year among the Education Boards of the colony, relative to the £8,000 then voted, they knew how much discretion he possessed. There would be no need whatever for the Bill if this vote were passed ; and the friends of education in the House seemed to have lost sight of the fact that all the difficulties of the past year would be repeated. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said, If the Minis- ter would agree to strike out the words " as directed by the Minister of Education " the objections of honourable members would be removed. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN explained, as a matter of order, that no alteration could be made in the wording of the vote by the Com- mittee. The Committee must accept or reject the item as worded. An amendment of the wording could only be submitted by Governor's message. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said that, under the Public School Teachers Act of last year, any grant in addition to the statutory capitation could only be expended after con- sultation with the several Education Boards, and in such a manner as the Minister and the Boards agreed. If the Boards did not agree with the Minister under the Act the Minister had no power to spend the money. Mr. HALL-JONES said, the Act of last year was not for one year only, and he hoped the Public School Teachers' Salaries Bill would pass this session ; but should that or any other Bill be passed, the distribution of this amount must be in accordance with that Act, which over-rode the estimates. Mr. MASSEY .- That is the point : Does it : Mr. HALL-JONES said the honourable mem- ber would soon see what the Auditor-General had to say about it. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said there was not a word about direction in the original Act. As the thing appeared now, there seemed to be a desire to take the power out of the hands of the Boards and put it in the hands of the Inspector-General. Mr. HALL-JONES said, he would undertake to say that, if the measure now on the Order Paper did not pass, and the Act of last session was not repealed, the distribution would be made in accordance with the Act of last ses- sion. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said the extra vote for teachers' salaries, granted by the House last year, had not yet been distributed as far as the Otago Board was concerned. The department desired to give a portion of the extra money to the high-salaried teachers, but the Board thought that the larger portion of the sum should be given to country teachers Mr. Tanner contended was the intention of the House when the Act was passed last year. In connection with the petition presented by the member for Wellington Suburbs, he wished to say that, where separate schools had existed for many years in some districts, it had been thought better to amalgamate the boys' and girls' classes. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) was willing to accept the Minister's statement that, in the event of the Bill on the Order Paper not passing this session, the money would be distributed in accordance with the Act of last year. He might say he did not think the Bill would pass in its present form, because it was not satisfactory either to the country teachers or to the people in the country districts. Vote, £19,590, agreed to. Industrial Schools, £16,182. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said there were only four of these schools. Did it require two Inspectors to inspect these four schools ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said there was a vote for the maintenance of private industrial schools, and he would like to know why the Minister had not seen his way to assist the Anglican Orphanage, established by Bishop Neville, in Dunedin. It was doing useful and valuable work, and ought to come within the generosity of the Government as other private institutions did. No reasons could be given why Saint Mary's should be refused. Mr. HALL-JONES could not give a definite reply to the honourable gentleman, but believed there was a difficulty about the institution not conforming with the regulations of the department. He would, however, look further into the matter. Mr. T. MACKENZIE asked, If they were willing to come within the scope of the regula- tions, would the Government grant them assist- ance ? Mr. HALL-JONES said, If application were made the case would then be considered. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) wished to ask the Minister where the home for weak-minded and epileptic children was situated. Mr. HALL-JONES said this was a new de- parture. It had not been started yet. Mr. ELL hoped the institution would be- started as soon as possible, especially when he told the honourable gentleman that there were- children of eight years of age in the lunatic- asylums at the present day. Mr. HALL-JONES said the object was to- relieve the asylums of these children. Vote, £16,182, agreed to. Vote, School for Deaf-mutes, £3,503, agreed to. School for Blind, £410. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) would like to ask the Minister if he thought it was probable that any sum would be placed on the supplementary estimates to assist the Auckland Institution for the Blind in the direction of building fireproof buildings ? Efforts were being. made to raise funds to erect such a building for the blind in that city, and it was very desirable- 