antiquities, and archaeological matters of in- terest to the people and in connection with the people of the country. I find there, also, that they are very liberal in the expendi- ture of money for such purposes. They have passed a law which has for its object the retention in the country of all relics and other matters already mentioned. This law is applicable both to Europeans and native residents of that country, and they prohibit through the Customs the exportation of any- thing of the kind. That is to say, any one going into Egypt to buy up curios and works of art such as he would wish to take away, and such as are being taken away every day from this colony by visitors, would find that he was un- able to do so because of the restrictions placed thereupon by Act. We propose, Sir, in this country to follow on the same lines, and give effect to the general interest, which has now assumed national proportions, by complying with the wishes of the people of this colony, and have some measure on the statute-book which will assist us and our societies in con- serving to this land what properly belongs to it. The State, I am glad to say, views with favour all the suggestions that have been made in this particular direction, and it is for this purpose that this Bill is now brought forward. I take this occa- sion for specially thanking many eminent gentlemen in New Zealand for the services and assistance they have given in promoting the ohject in view-notably Mr. Percy Smith, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. Hamilton, and other leading members of scientific bodies which have for their duties and functions the carrying-out of work akin to what is proposed here. My opinion is that we ought to establish a State museum, and it should be in Wellington, being the most central part of the colony and the seat of Government. I think the most suitable site for the purpose would be the Parliamentary Grounds, at the back of the buildings, used at present for lawn There would be nothing gained by tennis. passing this Bill if we had no building wherein to preserve, catalogue, and arrange our collec- tions. I think the colony should put up a substantial building for the purpose, fireproof and of ample size. In that building we should have collected all the relics it is possible to collect, and all articles of historical value, carvings, and the works of art of past genera- tions. I am certain that the Native race would fall in with this view, and would assist in filling the museum by making valuable contributions from their own repositories. I am certain the leading people amongst the Natives would look upon a national museum in the light of a place wherein they could store their family heirlooms -those which they would not part with for any monetary value. Space could be provided wherein each leading family could store their heirlooms in such a museum for all time. Then, it would be necessary to establish some system for the proper cataloguing of whatever is col- lected in the museum. For this purpose we should have expert men to form a central and men in the various districts to undertake collec- tions from their various localities ; and by a properly carried out system we could get good results though late in the day. I admit the time is rather late for setting about a work of this kind, but there is still sufficient material left in the country to make a very good collec- tion with the assistance of the Natives. In connection with this we are also encouraging another branch of scientific research which is allied and associated with the one dealt with in this Bill. I refer to the literature and historical records of the Maori race. A portion of the museum could be set apart as a library for Maori history, records, and literature particularly affecting the race. Then you will have stored under one roof the his- tory of the records, traditions, laws, mystics, and economics of the Maori, together with illustrations of their handicraft and art, as represented by their carvings and manufac- ture of garments and implements, agricul- tural and otherwise. This Bill proposes to restrict the exportation of Maori relics from the colony, as we have reason to believe and know that many valuable articles are carried away by visitors who have the money to secure them. By regulations we will have to provide the necessary machinery to give effect to that. The Bill also declares that the Government -- the State-should have the first right to pur- chase any collection, or any work of art or col- lection, in the colony. Of course, on the State declining, if it did' so, the owners of such treasures should alienate them in any way they liked. It might be felt by honourable members that the measure goes too far, and I know that in certain quarters objection has. been voiced in respect to what are considered the drastic proposals of this Bill. It is said that it will interfere with an industry that is being carried on in certain localities. For instance, in Auckland there are one or two. there who have made it a business to collect the most valuable articles they can get hold of. In many instances collectors are moved by purely patriotic motives. For years some have been engaged in this calling as a trade, and they sell to those who visit the country and desire to take away curios with them. Well, it will be rather hard to interfere with any one so engaged,. and it is not the intention of the Government to be so hard on them. If the Bill contains anything that will press severely on such occu- pations, I will be quite prepared to receive suggestions from honourable gentlemen with the view of modifying the measure whenever it may be necessary. The main object of the Government is to place the State in such a position that it will have the first right to buy what it may consider necessary or of importance to the State, and what should be stored up in a national museum. The State will be quite prepared to pay a reasonable price for any- thing it requires in that behalf; but after the State has exercised that right it should no longer interfere with those who carry on the business of collecting these articles and 