where the work was carried on in shifts. It was right that a certificated first-class engineer should be in charge of a dredge ; but it was never his intention, nor that of the House, that for each shift there should be in charge of that shift a man with a first-class certincate. As a matter of fact, he was informed they could not obtain sufficient men who were holders of first-class certificates to take charge of the shifts on dredges. The object of the Bill was to remove these difficulties. The 2nd clause provided that, in the case of a gold-dredge, the holder of a first-class certifi- cate must be in general charge of the dredge, but in the case of others in charge of shifts a second-class certificate would be sufficient. Clause 3 provided for an extension of time, in order to allow those who had been drivers in the past and had not had time to obtain service certificates, to apply for them. The provisions of clause 4 were an omission from the previous Bill. A case had occurred where a man had been in charge of a marine engine. The vessel was wrecked, and the engine had been erected to drive the machinery of a saw- mill. According to the Act of last year the man who had been driving the engine at sea could not be permitted to drive the same engine on land: Clause 4 was to meet such a case. Bill read a second time, and committed. # IN COMMITTEE. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister of Marine) https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 moved the following new clause : - " Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the principal Act, any person who has for not less than three years been in charge of an engine the cylinder of which exceeds in area one hundred and forty-four circular inches shall, after having received his second-class service certificate, be entitled to be examined for a first-class certificate under this Act." Clause agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. EDUCATION BOARDS ELECTION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. On the motion of Mr. HALL-JONES (Minis- ter for Public Works), the following new clauses were added to the Bill :- "1A. (1.) Not later than thirty-eight days befor . the date of the election the Returning Officer shall, by advertisement in a newspaper circulating in the district, notify the number of vacancies, the date on which nominations will close, and the date on which the election will be held. "(2.) Nominations shall close at five o'clock on the afternoon of the twenty-second day before the date of the election. "(3.) No person shall be eligible as a candi- -date for election unless he is nominated in writing by at least two electors, and the nomi- nation-paper, bearing the candidate's consent in writing, is received by the Returning Ofhcer before the nominations are closed. before the date of the election the Returning Officer shall notify in manner aforesaid- "(1.) The number of members to be elected ; " (2.) The full name of every duly nominated candidate ; and "(3.) The day on which the elections will be held, and hour at which the poll will be closed ; and shall also forward to the Chairman of each School Committee in the district a sufficient supply of voting-papers for the use of such of the electors as are members of that Com- mittee. "]c. The two last preceding sections are in substitution for sections seven and eight of the principal Act, which sections are hereby accord- ingly repealed. "4. (1.) In the case of every extraordinary vacancy the election shall be held on a date to be fixed by the Board, being not later than the fiftieth day after the vacancy occurs. " (2.) This section is in substitution for sec- tion six of the principal Act, which section is hereby accordingly repealed." Bill reported and read a third time. # FISHERIES ENCOURAGEMENT BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2. -- "(1.) The bonus which is authorised by 'The Fisheries Encouragement Act, 1885,' to be paid for canned and cured fish shall, not- withstanding anything in that Act to the con- trary, be paid for the year ending the thirty- first day of August, one thousand nine hundred and two. "(2.) During the three years next after the last-mentioned date a proportionate part only of such bonus shall be payable, that is to say, - "(a.) For the year ending the thirty-first day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three, one-half of the respective rates of bonus authorised to be paid by the said Act shall be payable ; and " (b.) For the year ending the thirty-first day of August, one thousand nine hun- dred and four, one- hird of such rates so authorised ; and "(c.) For the year ending the thirty-first day of August, one thousand nine hun- dred and five, one-fourth of such rates. "(3.) From and after the last-mentioned date the bonus aforesaid shall altogether cease to be pavable." Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) moved, That subsection (2) be struck out. Subsection (2) struck out, and motion as amended agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. HOSPITALS AND CHARITABLE AID BOARDS ELECTION BILL. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it had been frequently brought under the notice of the Government, both by 