lington were no use until they were formed and metalled ; and who was to bear the cost of that formation and metalling? In outlying and suburban districts perhaps it was not necessary that they should be metalled for more than a width of 20 ft., and formed for more than a width of 40 ft .; but where the land was cut up for settlement the cost should be borne by those who owned the land, or otherwise it would have to be borne by the taxpayer. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the Minister must not go beyond the limits of the question. Mr. HALL-JONES said that in that case he would say that the whole matter was under consideration, and before the session closed a Bill would be brought down to meet some of the difficulties that had been brought before the Government this session. # INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBI- TRATION BILL. On the order of the day for the com- 7.30. mittal of this Bill being called on, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said, I wish to move the following instruction to the Com- mittee: That it be an instruction to the Committee on the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to further amend the prin- cipal Act in the direction of bringing the Crown and the departments of State, and the workers employed by them, under the provisions of the Act. The reason I move this as an instruction is because last ses- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 sion, when I wished to amend the interpre- tation of " employer" in the same direction, I was met by an objection that this could only be done by Governor's message, as it was prac- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero tically an appropriation clause. In order to avoid this, I am moving by way of an instruc- tion to the Committee that they ought to do this. On bringing on the amendment last session, I was met by the Premier with the argument that it was a motion to reduce wages. That was not so ; but I had to put in a proviso that wages could not be increased, because I had to move it in that form in order to conform with the rules of the House. That, however, can- not be said of this instruction. It is a definite instruction that workers under the Crown ought to be included under the Act. This principle was accepted by the House last session by a majority of two, and the Crown was put into the interpretation of " employer." That clause, however, was struck out in another Chamber, and a clause at the end of the Bill, which was then clause 113 and now clause 118, and which was also struck out last session by the Labour Bills Committee, was, when the Bill went through Committee of this House, reinstated in the Bill. This proved that last session the Labour Bills Committee wished to include the Crown under the definition of "employers," and this House wished also to | It is merely an opinion that some such clause include them, and the proposition was only thrown out in the Upper House. In regard to the general contention that workers under the Crown ought to be included in a Bill of this Mr. Hull-Jones arguments against. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I rise to a point of order. When do you rule is the proper time to raise the question that this proposal is not admissible ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - When the honourable member hands in his amendment. Mr. SEDDON .- I rise, then, to a question of order. The proposal is that the Crown should be made parties to the Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act, and that there should be taken from the Crown its prerogative. The Arbitra- tion Court-and the same applies to Concilia- tion Boards, probably, but the Court, at all events-has the power of either increasing or reducing wages, and therefore, if the Court was to give an award increasing the rate of pay which had been sanctioned by Parliament, the power is being taken from Parliament and from the Crown and vested in a Court. Whilst I am quite willing to debate the question as a ques- tion of policy, I say that any proposal whereby burdens may be placed upon the people can only come down by message from His Excellency the Governor and from the Crown. The honour. able member will not dispute that it might be that the Arbitration Court would give an award to pay in excess of the vote by Parliament, and consequently the power of the Crown and of Parliament is interfered with. The honour- able member may argue that he is proposing this simply as an instruction. But it is equal to the House passing a resolution, and a reso- lution whereby burdens upon the people are involved, and that can only be done by a message from His Excellency. It is a very important question, and I take it that if the instruction were now passed it would be a direction to the Committee, and that when we reach the Committee stage then the same ques- tion would be raised as was raised last time ; and if the ruling was that it could not be passed, then we are asked to vote for a nullity at the present stage. But I take it that this is a resolution of the House-that it is a reso- lution taking from the Crown its right to im- pose burdens, and that no such power should be given to any one else. This is delegating that power to the Arbitration Court-to an outside tribunal. That is my contention, and I leave it with confidence to the Chair. Mr. HERRIES .- Speaking to the point of order, the Premier's argument is very good, as far as my judgment goes, if it applied to a new clause to be added to the Bill. You, Sir, I think, ruled last session that that would be out of order ; but this is not a new clause, it is simply an instruction, and it can only be re- garded as an expression of opinion by the House. If it was a clause, I could quite under- stand its being ruled out of order, according to your previous ruling ; but this does not propose to make any change or to impose any burdens. ought to be put in the Bill. And, if it is carried, it will be open to any one to move in the same way that I did myself last year, and it would : be perfectly in order for the Crown to bring 