them to increase their present rate of speed. An Hon. MEMBER .- What does Victoria do? Mr. W. FRASER .- Victoria does not send her mails by these steamers. Do not let the honourable gentlemen misunderstand me. I do not argue against subsidising steamers to carry our produce to the Home markets-no- thing is further from my mind; but I say that a proposal to subsidise cargo steamers and make them the only vessels carrying our mails. is impracticable ; it cannot be done. How long do members. suppose that the people of the colony would submit to their mails taking forty to forty-five days to go Home? I say there would be a howl from one end of the colony to the other. That aspect of the case may appeal, perhaps, to those who have produce to send Home; but those who have studied the matter know perfectly well it cannot be done. I say, by all means, if you consider it necessary to send produce to South Africa, let us subsidise a line of steamers there, and you will find me voting for any such pro- posal. If you find the price of produce has fallen so low, and you desire to help the pro- ducers of this colony, and you can effect that by acquiring cheap freights and by subsidising steamers, you will find me supporting that ; but I will not pretend to say that is the only means by which you should carry on your mail- service. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Fr'isco service is not the only one that carries our mails. Mr. W. FRASER .- I know that ; but it has https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 been suggested that instead of either the Fr'isco service or the Vancouver service, or the Federal service, we should simply subsidise our ocean- going steamers, and I combat that argument. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Sir, I have no doubt that when we are in Com- mittee the whole of the details of these several resolutions will be gone into very carefully, and I can only conclude by saying I do hope, what- ever arrangements are made, either with Mr. Spreckels or with the Federal service, that the Government will keep steadily in view a line which I, and I am sure a majority of this House, look on with favour-the Vancouver line-and that whatever arrangements are made the door will be kept open to secure that service even- tually. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- Sir, I ap- proach this subject with an unbiassed mind. Until yesterday afternoon I was more in sym- pathy with the San Francisco service than I was with the Federal line ; but after having heard the discussion last night, and after having read and studied the figures the Post- master-General put before us, I have come to the conclusion that on almost every point it is not to our advantage to have anything more to do with the San Francisco line on the condi- tions submitted to us for approval. Sir, I would like to refer briefly to some of the .speeches that were made this afternoon. The member for Masterton stated that this was a question of trusting or of not trusting the Post- master-General. It is nothing of the sort. We, on this side, are not distrusting the Postmaster- company, and honourable members on the other side are not putting implicit trust in the Post- master General simply because they say they want to subsidise a foreign company. It is a question of whether it is a right and profitable thing for us to subsidise the Spreckels line or not. An honourable member this afternoon dwelt with a great deal of force and unction on the wickedness of our subsidising the P. and O. and other lines subsidised by the Federal Government, because they carried Lascar crews. Is the honourable member not aware that during the past ten days that Govern- ment has carried a motion that none but white men shall be employed on vessels carrying the mails of the Federal Government ? The honour- able member said, " In supporting that service we would be supporting a 'sweating' company." Is the honourable member aware of the hours worked by the men on board the steamers of the Spreckels line? Because, if he is not, I will tell him what these hours are. The men on the Spreckels steamers are roused at five o'clock in the morning : they have coffee at half-past five, and then they work on from six in the morning, with intervals for meals, till six in the evening, and then have to keep watch and watch all night. Yet the honourable mem- ber says that the owners of that line are all that is good and righteous, and that if we support other lines we will be supporting "sweating" companies. He also got into a state of indig- nation because we should have to ask the Federal Government to take our mail-matter at the two shillings rate. I would far rather ask the Federal Government of Australia than I would ask the Messrs. Spreckels. The mem- ber for Wakatipu demanded that we should have logic, and should have nothing to do with sentiment. I will give him some facts and figures which I think will fill him full of logic. I admit that the San Francisco route is the quickest route, and when you say that you say everything that can be said for it ; but I say it is not the cheapest route. Now, as I have said, I have listened with a great deal of attention to the speeches delivered in the House on this question, and I wish to express my admiration of the logical, calm, and well- reasoned speeches delivered by the member for Franklin and the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). And I wish to say that if all the Auckland members adopted the same atti- tude as those two honourable members the proposals in respect to the San Francisco ser- vice would be much more popular than they are. One Auckland member has spoken of the " mailed fist," and in this connection I think that many honourable members have mistaken the meaning of the term "mailed fist." They seem to think that it is a fist sheathed in steel and supported by a forest of spears, shaken in defiance against those opposed to the San Francisco mail. I think, however, that the honourable member meant nothing of that sort. He doubtless meant, or at least I hope he meant, a hand full of letters-it was a fist full of mails, or letters, and it was only an 