made against the officers of the department, he did not think the Committee had done justice to them. The charges were that the valuers had made unfair valuations and un- equal valuations, had acted corruptly, and im- properly altered the assessment roll, had attempted to destroy the independence of the Assessment Court, and caused a feeling of alarm in the district, and had entered into a conspiracy with political opponents, and so forth. In view of these very serious charges, and the ample refutation of them by the wit- nesses in the case, he did not think the finding of the Committee did justice to the officers con- corned. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the adjourn- ment of the debate. He thought it was only right members should see the evidence, and he did not think they could discuss this matter until they knew where they were. The state- ment made by the last honourable gentleman might be borne out by the evidence or other- wise, but they did not know. He thought the debate should be adjourned until this day week. Debate adjourned. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) rose to a point of order. It had not struck him how this discus- sion was being burked after the statement made by the member for Auckland City. He felt, as a member of the Committee, that there was a reflection upon him, and he wished to have an opportunity of clearing it. He wanted to ask whether there was any method by which he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 could secure an opportunity of refuting the very serious reflections that had been made on the Committee. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able gentleman had lost his opportunity when the Hon. the Premier moved the adjournment of the debate. # COOK AND OTHER ISLANDS GOVERN- MENT BILL. On the motion, That this Bill be 3.0. read a third time, Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said .- Mr. Deputy-Speaker, I propose to divide the House on the motion for the third reading of this Bill, should I be fortunate enough to get another teller, in order that I may place my vote on record against the Bill, and in that way register my protest against it. Last year. on the 28th September, in haste and without sufficient consideration, this House passed a resolution authorising the Government to annex these islands. The resolution was as follows :- " That whereas it is desirable in the best in- terests of the colony, and of the inhabitants of certain islands in the Pacific hereinafter men. tioned, that those islands should be annexed to this colony : This House therefore approves of the alteration of the boundaries of this colony and consents to the extension of the said boundaries so as to include the Cook group, including the islands of Rarotonga, Mangaia, Atiu, Aitutaki, Mitiaro, Mauke, Hervey (Manuai) ; also the following islands : Pal- Mr. Fowlds (Danger), Rakaanga, Manihiki, and Penrhyn (Tongareva)." I am strengthened in the statement that the House last year passed that resolution in haste and without sufficient consideration, for, in studying the debate which took place upon it, I . observe that the public works estimates were being distributed by the messengers amongst the members of the House while the debate was" proceeding, and, when an honourable member who was addressing the House called attention to the very marked indifference with which the subject was treated by honourable members all round the House, the Hon. Mr. Hall-Jones interjected to explain that "They are looking over the Public Works Statement." The Hansard report, at page 401 (Volume 114), photographs the state of the House on that day. History repeats itself. To-day the public works estimates have been circulated. There are from fifteen to twenty members now present in the House, and, while the Premier is asking us to adopt a Constitution for the government of a group of islands two thousand miles away, a proposal which will eventually land this country in endless trouble and expense, members are out in the lobby and elsewhere searching the public works estimates with breathless haste to discover whether there is put down $500 to bridge a creek here or £300 to make a piece of road there. And this is legislation ! Following upon the adoption of the resolution of the 28th September, the Premier, on the 20th October, beaming with effusiveness and joy, announced to the House that he had received a telegram from His Excellency the Governor, who had just returned to Auckland from Rarotonga, stating that he had annexed the islands. To the Premier this was equivalent to the con- quest of a new world. It was to him a new toy. Now, I hold that, the islands having been formally and officially annexed, it is not necessary that this country should pro- ceed any further in the matter-that the Civil organization, such as it is, which the Islands have is sufficient for all their purposes and requirements. I said on the second read. ing of the Bill that I considered the Bill a mistake. I still consider the Bill a mistake ; and, if it is not a mistake, I ask why it was not brought down earlier in the session, so that the House should have ample time to consider it. The object evidently is to rush it through during the last hours of the session. The honourable gentleman tells us that if the Bill is not passed great disappointment will ve felt at Home-meaning, I presume, by the Home authorities in England. What does it matter to us whether there is disappointment on the part of the Home authorities or not ? What have they to do with it ? What do the people of this country care what they think? There is too much of this syco- phantic veneration for the Home authori- ties. We are getting very tired of it. It is we who have to bear the cost of the annexation, and the attempt to govern these islands according to a highly civilised method 