custodian a certificate of exemption from Part IV. of the Principal Act in the form numbered nine in the Third Schedule to the principal Act. "(3.) When issuing the certificate of exemp- tion the Magistrate or Registrar shall transmit a duplicate thereof to the Vaccination Inspec- tor of the vaccination district in which the child is resident, and the Inspector shall enter a minute thereof in his register. "(4.) The application shall be supported by a statutory declaration and by such other evi- dence as the Magistrate or Registrar in each case thinks reasonable, and no fee shall be payable in respect of either the application or the certificate. "(5.) The effect of the certificate shall be to exempt the parent or custodian named therein from all liability under Part IV. of the principal Act in respect of the non-vaccination of the child named in the certificate : " Provided that where the child's parent or custodian is resident outside of a borough the application for exemption may be made to and the certificate granted by a Justice of the Peace. "Section one hundred and seventy of the principal Act is hereby repealed." Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) moved the excision of the proviso. The Committee divided on the question, " That the proviso stand part of the clause." AYES, 32. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Allen, E. G. Flatman Massey Arnold Fowlds Meredith Atkinson Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Barclay Graham Rhodes Buddo Guinness Smith, G. J. Carroll Hall Tanner Collins Hall-Jones Ward Colvin Houston Witheford. Duncan Hutcheson Tellers. Ell Kaihau Hornsby Field Lawry Pirani. NOES, 11. McNab Seddon. Herries Lethbridge Millar Tellers. Palmer McGowan Fisher Mckenzie, R. Russell, G. W. Fraser, W. Majority for, 21. Proviso added, and new clause added. Bill reported, and read a third time. TIMBER EXPORT BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting the draft of a Bill intituled " An Act to impose a Duty on the Exportation of Timber," and recommending the House to make provision accordingly. On the question, That the message, together with the Bill, be referred to the Committee of the Whole for consideration, Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said 4.30. he would take that opportunity of pointing out that this proceeding was entirely irregular. This was a Tariff Bill-a Bill affect- VOL. CXIX .- 77. by Act. It could not be introduced in this irregular way. Attention having been called to the matter, that was sufficient for him. If difficulty hereafter arose under this irregularity the honourable gentleman himself was alone responsible. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he understood the Bill proposed an export duty of 3s. per 100 superficial feet on logs (round), logs squared with axe or saw, and half-logs, or such higher duty, not exceeding 5s. per 100 superficial feet, as the Governor by Order in Council deter- mines; and an export duty of 3s. per 100 superficial feet on flitches of any particular kind, or pieces of such size as the Governor by Order in Council from time to time determines, or such lesser duty as the Governor by Order in Council determines. Sir J. G. WARD .- Cannot you see the reason for that ? It is in the interests of the country. Mr. PIRANI was not talking about the ad- visability of imposing a duty. The only point he wanted to direct attention to was that the Governor in Council had power to move the duty up or down as the Ministry pleased. It seemed to him an extraordinary thing that the Government could not find out at once what was a suitable duty. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he might be able to solve the little knot they were getting into if he said that it might not be necessary to impose any duty at all. He hoped it would not be necessary. There was just a possibility that might be so ; but if matters remained as they were it might be in the interests of the colony to take action. All the people in the timber trade in Auckland, Hawke's Bay, Taranaki, the West Coast, Marlborough, and Southland-all interested in the industry-advised the course the Government were now taking. Mr. HERRIES .- They did not advise that the Government should have absolute power. Mr. SEDDON .- They advised us to do it. Mr. HERRIES .- Let us do it straight out, then. Mr. SEDDON said, No; that would not do. This was, as it were, an Act of reciprocity be- tween the Commonwealth and New Zealand. As for the reason for the measure coming down at that time, he wished to say that there was a no-confidence motion on in the Common- wealth Parliament last week, and to have done anything that might have prejudiced either of the parties would have been ungenerous and unfair; and even at the present time he would not like to pass an export tariff, because it might be used against the colony by either party in Australia. It was desirable to keep on friendly terms with our neighbours, and it would be an unfriendly act, until we saw exactly what they were going to do, to pass an export duty. He was taking the double security of introducing the Bill into Committee of Ways and Means and then the Committee of the Whole; and he wanted to put the Bill on the Order Paper that night, so that it might bo circulated immediately. 