do say so. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Who are you treating with, then ? Mr. SEDDON .- Opportunity is given in this Bill to the majority of the shareholders in value to decide, and if a majority of the shareholders in value hold a meeting as provided for in this Bill, and accept our offer for the property, per- mission is given to purchase. But there may be reasons why a director or directors are not prepared to sell, while the shareholders them- selves, by resolution, are prepared to dispose of the property. Now, if you get into a situation of that kind, and if you look at this Bill, you will understand the situation at the present moment. I take now, Sir, as a business-man, a statement of the assets and liabilities in the balance-sheet. The railway and rolling-stock is set down at $952,492 12s. 6d. Very well; of course, there would be interest charged during the time of construction. The directors have since that written off £191,255 4s. 10d., bring- ing the capital value to £761,237 7s. 8d., that is the cost of construction as shown now in the company's statements. If the Government decided to take over the line under the original agreement we should have to add to that 10 per cent., which would bring it up to about £839,000; and issues might arise, and on those issues you must go to arbitration ; and if you do it might cost you more for the line-leaving out the land and the assets altogether --- than what we are paying for it under these pro- posals. I am going to prove that. Taking https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 £761,237, as shown in the company's books as the cost of the line; to that you must add 10 per cent., and the company would probably wish to add something more. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Captain RUSSELL. - Their books have nothing to do with the cost of construction. Mr. SEDDON. That is exactly why I say you cannot definitely take it on the $761,237, with the 10 per cent. added ; other claims might arise, and with arbitration you might be run into a million of money. That is the position. Mr. J. ALLEN .- But we do not know. Mr. SEDDON .- You must take it that, when the Government take the responsibility of sub- mitting a proposal like this to the House, we are not likely to do that unless we have all the information fully before us. Then, there are the freehold lands, $51,221. You have the balance due by land purchase of £51,819. You have the deposit, with accrued interest, of £40,527. Then, you have the railway stores £10,000, and sundry, #2,000. The cash balances amount to £37,269 14s. 11d. These make a total of £954,365 14s. 3d. The liabilities are as follows : Debentures, £680,000; sundry creditors, £4,429 Is. 10d .; debenture interest accrued, $7,265 16s .; appropriation for dividend at 3 per cent. to shareholders for half-year, £5,150 : making a total of #696,844 17s. 10d. ; which deducted from the assets, £954,365 14s. 3d., leaves a balance of assets of £257,520 16s. 5d. This, on 170,000 shares, equals £1 108. 3}d. per share; and I undertake to say that under these terms and conditions it is a little the land and everything, and the line handed over as a going concern. As to taking the other course, I do not blame the honourable member for Hawke's Bay in suggesting what he did, as to dealing with it under the original agreement, but there is a question of doubt in respect to the original cost of construction ; and, from what our own officers say they are prepared to undertake in respect to it, and from the information before us, and from the actuarial working out of the position by the experts, and also by Mr. Hudson and our other officers in the Public Works Department, we can only come to the conclusion that the taking over of the line on the terms mentioned in the Bill will be a good thing for the colony. We say the working of our own lines will be made easier if we do this, and that the very heavy impost on the settlers along the line and those along our own lines, owing to the short- distance rates now charged, will be done away with. Under all the circumstances, I advise the House, even at this late stage of the session, to approve the proposals contained in the Bill. And I believe there is a general disposition on the part of members to accept it. I felt myself some diffidence in bringing the matter forward at this stage of the session, and no one can regret more than I did that the negotia- tions should not have been completed sooner, and that it was thus left to the last moment. I would have made this speech on moving the second reading of the Bill, if I had thought for a moment that the Bill would not be generally accepted ; and if I made a mistake in taking it for granted that it was generally acceptable I hope honourable members will pardon me. Probably, if I had made these remarks then, the Bill would have been through before this. I can only give my assurance to honourable members that this matter has been carefully investigated, and that our experts advised the Government to acquire it if we can get the rail- way at the price proposed. That is the advice given to the Government, and we give it to the House; and when the thing is concluded I am prepared to give members the report of our officers, and if they do not then agree that what we have done is a good thing for the colony, whilst not inflicting any wrong on the shareholders, I hope I shall not remain very much longer on these benches. I could not give any further assurance than that ; and as to the quotations for shares on the market, I do not think there is 10 per cent. on the market. The shares are held, and very firmly held, in London and in this colony by gentlemen who know what the value of the property is. I say, if we miss this opportunity, as time goes on and we extend our own lines of railway and extend our settlement, we are bringing up the value of this property all the time. Captain RUSSELL .- Not under the Act. Mr. SEDDON .- I know what the honour- able member is alluding to. We can certainly reduce rates ; or perhaps the honourable gentle- man refers to the total cost of construction, and that by the Act, it does not matter what the amount of business is, they are tied down 