Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 3 .- " The Governor, by Order in Coun- cil, may from time to time direct that any of the laws in force in New Zealand shall be observed in the said Islands, either in whole or with such modifications as in his opinion are expedient for the good government and welfare of the inhabitants." Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved to insert. after " shall," the words, "have operation and." Amendment agreed to. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved to insert, after "expedient for the," the words, "peace, order." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to insert, after "New Zealand," the words, "other than the laws relating to the sale of alcoholic liquors." Amendment agreed to. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) moved to called ' Federal Ordinances ' in the case of the strike out the words, "by Order in Council," Federal Council, and ' local Ordinances ' in the for the purpose of inserting " by and with the case of the Island Councils. consent of Parliament." Amendment negatived. to be called the ' Niue Island Council,' consist- Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved to ing of not more than nine members, who shall strike out the words "either in whole or with from time to time be nominated by the Go- such modifications." vernor on the recommendation of the Resident Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended Commissioner made after consultation with the agreed to. Arikis and inhabitants of the Island." Clause 4 .- "(1.) Subject as aforesaid, the Courts of justice in existence in the said tion (1), to strike out the word " shall," before Islands at the commencement of this Act, and the word " continue," with a view of inserting the Judges and officers thereof, and the juris- the word " may." diction, practice, and procedure thereof, shall continue until other provision is made : Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved, "Provided that the jurisdiction of the High in subsection (2), to insert, after "In Niue Court shall extend to all the said Islands. Island," the words "hereafter to be known as "(2.) There shall be an appeal from the de- the Island of Love." cisions of the High Court of the said Islands to Amendment negatived, and clause as amended the Supreme Court of New Zealand, and thence agreed to. to the Court of Appeal of New Zealand, in such Clause 8 .- " (1.) Subject to this Act, the said cases and subject to such rules and regulations Councils shall have the following powers respec- as are from time to time made in that behalf tively, that is to say,- by the Governor in Council with the concur- "(a.) The Federal Council shall have the rence of any two or more of the Judges of the Supreme Court. "(3.) Appeals to the Supreme Court may be heard and determined at any sitting of the Supreme Court in New Zealand, or, whenever so determined by the Governor in Council, by any Judge of the Supreme Court sitting at "(b.) Each of the Island Councils (other Rarotonga. "(4.) The rules and regulations made under this section may provide, inter alia, that ap- peals to the Supreme Court may be by way of case stated, with the legal argument (if any) attached thereto in writing, and it shall not be necessary in any such case for the parties to "(c.) The Niue Island Council shall have the appear either personally or by counsel." Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) moved, in subsection (2), to strike out the following words : "the Governor in Council with the concurrence of." Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) moved, That pro- gress be reported. "Provided that such Federal and local Ordi- Mr. Seddon nances shall have no force or effect until ment also negatived. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved to strike out from subsection (3) the words "whenever so determined by the Governor in Council." Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) moved, That the Chairman do leave the chair. Motion to leave the chair negatived, and amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, after the word " Rarotonga," the addition of the words "on such dates as shall be appointed by the Governor in Council." Words inserted, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 7 .- "(1.) The Federal Parliament and the Native Councils existing at the com- mencement of this Act shall continue, but shall hereafter be called the ' Federal Council' and 'Island Councils,' respectively, and the enactments made by them shall hereafter be "(2.) In Niue Island there shall be a Council, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved. in subsec- Amendment agreed to. same power to make Federal Ordi- nances for the government and wel- fare of all the said Islands and the inhabitants thereof as at the com- mencement of this Act it possessed in respect of the Cook Group ; than the Niue Island Council) shall have the same power to make local Ordinances for the government and welfare of the inhabitants within its jurisdiction as it possessed at the commencement of this Act ; and same power to make local Ordinances for the government and welfare of the inhabitants within its jurisdiction as any other Island Council has in re- spect of the inhabitants within its jurisdiction : 