put on that line. I want fair treatment, and I believe the Otago people themselves have suffi- cient consciousness of what is right that they will admit the statement I am making, that we are not receiving fair-play, and are not being dealt justly with. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- The turn things have taken this evening is funny in the extreme. We are not having a debate on the estimates or the financial allocation of the moneys, or whether or not the moneys should have been so allocated, or so much expended ; but it seems to me-considering the great interest taken in the matter, and gauged by the number of mem- bers in attendance at the present time-every one is well satisfied with the estimates. At all events, I think if I was to gauge the opinion of members, it would be this: not that there is too much on the estimates, but that there is too little; and they are open for as much more as the Government are willing to give. The last speaker, Sir,-like his leader, Captain Russell, and the member for Bruce,-is one who opposes borrowing money. Mr. MONK .- Yes; but I want my fair share of what is borrowed. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member is like many others : he is quite prepared that the Government should increase the indebtedness of the colony, but says, "I won't help them to do it ; but if they do it I want a good share of the money." Mr. MONK .- Is that not right ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. I say those who have to take the responsibility and the opprobrium certainly should have the lion's share of what is obtained, because they have to take the respon- sibility. Mr. MONK .- Then, why not exempt us from the taxation ? Mr. SEDDON .- I cannot exempt the honour- able member, because the Government has always been, as the honourable gentleman knows, generous. I say, if you take the relative population and contribution from the North of Auckland-from the honourable member's dis- trict-it will be found that the allocation to that district of moneys from the capital account is fairly reasonable. We cannot be expected to do more than we are doing, and I think, under all the circumstances, the honourable gentle- man has no reason to complain. But, Sir, he has lived a long time in the world, and he must complain now, in case, if he seemed satisfied and said nothing, honourable members might take exception that we were giving him too much. So I understand the honourable member wishes to see what is allocated ; and I may say I hope he will not lose any sleep, because the Govern. ment will stand by the estimates and by the amount put down for his district. I hope that will satisfy him, and I think if I had told him that before he would not have spoken at all. However, I rose to take part in the debate in reference to the extraordinary charge made against the Government to-night by the honourable member for Bruce and the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay. Sir, the | ing-stock out of working-expenses. consistent, and seldom logical. He is consis- tent in one thing only. I will admit that he is consistent in trying to prevent a large borrow- ing policy, but he is illogical in respect of this amount which is charged against additions to open lines. The honourable member started by saying that nothing should be paid out of loans and expended on additions to open lines. That is what he started with, and he had not gone very far when he drew a parallel be- tween the Commissioners' expenditure and the expenditure under the Minister for Bail- ways and his predecessor; and he stated that the Government were severely to blame because we did not in 1894 give the Com- missioners the amount they asked - namely, £46,000. Captain RUSSELL .- No; I said you could not blame the Commissioners. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I take it that the inference was, we ought to have granted the Commissioners that amount, because he com- plained of the small sum which they had received. The whole speech was this : You gave too little to the Commissioners ; you are taking too much now. In fact, he started by saying that we should take nothing at all now, that there should be nothing at all expended upon additions to open lines ; secondly, that the amount was too large; and, thirdly, that we had not given enough to the Commissioners. Now, the honourable member gave us a com- putation, and stated that during the three last years we had spent $725,000 on additions to open lines, and he endeavoured to convince the House that the whole of this amount was spent on maintenance, and on a class of work which ought to be charged to working-expenses. The honourable member laboured that very much indeed. I cannot understand, myself, why the honourable member cannot from the railway returns see clearly and distinctly that there were charges made, and properly charged against capital account, which could not, and should not, to my mind, be charged against working-expenses, and which never were in the past charged against working - expenses. It is true the amount required during the Com- missioners' term of office was small. During the years 1888, 1889, 1890, 1891, 1892, 1893, and 1894, if you take the traffic on the lines, you will see there was no necessity for new wagons, or very little necessity for them ; no new locomotives were required, no new stations were required, and very little relaying was re- quired. There was such a state of things existing that there was no necessity practi- cally for charges against additions to open lines. I will prove that from the statement made by the honourable gentleman. We voted to the Commissioners between 1891-92 $43,000 ; in 1892-93, £12,612; in 1893-94 we voted £18,978 ; and in 1894-95 we voted £40,000 ; and I may tell the House that they did not spend the money we voted them. An Hon. MEMBER .- They paid for new roll- 