all parts of the district are treated alike. There are also one or two other amendments in it ; but I take this opportunity of saying that there is a very strong disappointment in the country because the Government have not been able to get through this year the Local Authori- ties Act. The country people were in hopes that we should pass a Bill this year consoli- dating the county laws, and putting them in a better position. The municipal laws have been consolidated and put on a better footing, and the country people are anxious to be put on the same footing. There is also the question of voting. In municipal matters, if a man has property worth half a million he has but one vote ; but if he happens to live in the country, and has two or three thousand pounds' worth of property in different districts, he has three votes in each. Surely the town and the country should be put on the same footing in this respect. I hope the Government will see their way next session, before the county elections, to bring down a Bill dealing with the voting in country districts, and putting the people there on the same footing as those in the towns are at the present time. Bill read the second and the third time. COOK AND OTHER ISLANDS GOVERN- MENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This Bill embodies what is thought necessary in order to provide for the satisfactory continuance of government in the Cook Islands since they have been made part of the Colony of New Zealand. It was by the will of Parliament that the annexation or attachment of these Islands to New Zealand was consummated in the presence of His Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwall a few months ago; but really the Islands have http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero been dependent upon New Zealand for most of their government, and certainly most of their light and leading, and, by a curious condition of things, the inhabitants of the islands are the first cousins, or cousins a very short distance removed from our own Maori fellow-subjects in New Zealand. The two people quite under- stand each other ; their customs are very simi- lar; and therefore it is right and proper that the Maori race should, so to speak, be brought into one connection under the Government of this colony. The first thing that the Bill proposes to do is to continue the Ordinances, the local laws, and customs and usages at present existing there, qualified- so far as they should be qualified-that they must not be repugnant to the general prin- ciples of humanity. But, so far as I know, the Natives of the Cook Islands have been quite accustomed to parliamentary procedure, and I have never heard of their interfering with law and order in any shape or form. They may sometimes have had to put the closure on, when debates in their Councils got a little hot, but that is not the only place I am aware of where that thing happens occasionally. Clause 3 points out the intention of the Bill- namoly, that such laws as naturally apply to Hon. Mr. W. C. Smith served. The Courts of Justice are to be pre- served, and they are to have an opportunity to appeal from their High Court to the Supreme Court of New Zealand, and thence to the Court of Appeal of New Zealand. The Government may from time to time appoint some fit person to administer the government in the said Islands, who will be called the Resident Com- missioner. We have had the right of appoint- ment of the Resident Commissioner in the Cook Islands since the year 1889, or a little before - I think, since the last year of the Atkinson Administration, when Mr. Moss was appointed. Since then, New Zealand has had the privilege of appointing a Resident, and of paying his salary. No doubt the fact of a New Zealand Resident being appointed has had & good effect, and has done something towards keeping up the connection between the Islands and New Zealand, and the Islands, as far as trade goes, are connected with New Zealand, and this connection has therefore done a great deal to facilitate-I will not say an annexa- tion, because that means the absorbing by & superior of an inferior, but the attachment of those Islands to the Colony of New Zealand. Clause 6 gives the Government power to ap- point a tribunal or officer to inquire into the Native lands and customs, and generally to assist in the settlement of titles to the land. Of course these are questions which always crop up in countries where the original tenure to the land is tribal or communal, and which civilisation has a tendency to develop into indi- vidual tenures. Generally speaking, the follow- ing clauses continue the existing government of the Islands. I have had the privilege of studying some of their State documents, and I think they provide for the payment of mem- bers of these Councils - Federal Councils, Island Councils, and Niue Island Council. There are a large number of Councils, but the pay provided is exceedingly moderate. Cocoanuts must be a cheap commodity in these islands, and members of the Council must be very much more reasonable in their ideas of what they ought to receive than we are in this country. It looks at first sight, perhaps, that these Councils are too numerous, but, no doubt, the success of the government of these Islands very largely depends upon in- teresting all the Arikis or chiefs who have on their shoulders the responsibility of keeping the peace and maintaining the welfare of their different tribes. It is very much better that they should be brought in to co- operate, as they do now, by means of these Councils. Then, Sir, there is the matter of trade. Sec- tion 9 provides, -- "(1.) There shall be paid on all goods im- ported into the said Islands duties of Customs in accordance with the New Zealand tariff. "(2.) No drawback shall be paid in New Zealand on goods shipped to the said Islands. "(3.) All goods the produce or manufacture of New Zealand, and all goods on which duty has been paid in New Zealand, or which are admitted Into New Zealand free of duty, shall 