tive of the Crown it was the duty of Mr. Speaker and of every member of the House to see that there was no such invasion of their privileges. Captain RUSSELL .- It is your duty to pro- tect His Excellency in this House. Mr. SEDDON replied that he was not com- menting on His Excellency, but on a despatch which had not been sent at the time, but which was now public property and in possession of the House. This had been used in debate. Who had brought it up ? An Hon. MEMBER -You did. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member was wrong. It was the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty who had brought it up, by saying that the reason why it was disallowed was that the language used in the Bill was not in accordance with what the Acting-Governor said should be used. The reason why the Bill was held over he had already explained The Admiralty claimed that no colony had a right to use the blue ensign-that it had the preroga- tive in respect to the use of this flag, and that it was only given to yachts and to colonies on application to the Admiralty ; and that if they made this flag the flag of the colony, and that was assented to by the Crown, then vessels belonging to New Zealand could fly the flag without application to the Admiralty or the consent of the Admiralty. And, then, they said it could only be used by the Naval Reserve, and not by merchant vessels. That was the ground the Admiralty gave for not assenting to the Bill ; but they had forgotten that in 1869 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 they gave the colony the right, so far as New Zealand steamers were concerned, to use that flag, and the Board of Trade since, with the consent of the Admiralty, arranged to have the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero flag with something embossed upon it. What had struck him was this : The first Bill was general in its application, and it was only intended to be used as a flag on shore for schools, public buildings, and as a flag for New Zealand. The difference between this Bill and the one introduced before was that the flag was to be used for land purposes. This flag was to be used so far as New Zealand steamers were concerned, but, in respect to other steamers, ap- plication had to be made to the Admiralty before it could be used. That took away the objection of the Admiralty, in his opinion, and that was why the Bill was introduced. Now, with regard to the question raised by the member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher), who said that the design exhibited in the lobby was incorrect, great pains had been taken to get the position of the stars mathematically correct, and the information was exactly copied from the Ad- miralty official book, and therefore there was no error in the position of the stars. With regard to the small fifth star, which was some- times discernible, that was not as a rule placed on the flag. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is on the Australian flag. Mr. SEDDON said, That was so, but as a rule that small star was omitted. The Education 1 the stars upon the flag mathematically correct. If he was not mistaken, the member for Waite- mata and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), who . ere authorities on flags, had said that the stars generally placed on the flag were wrong, and that their position as indicated on the design now in the lobby was correct. However, the point was this : He understood they wanted to have a New Zealand flag. They had this design, and the Bill went through, and on a slight technical ground, on the advice of the Admiralty, the matter was held over. Rather than press the matter he thought it better to meet their objection by t is Bill, which he had no doubt would receive the Royal assent. Bill read a second time. The House adjourned at half-past twelve o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 22nd October, 1901. First Readings - William Crothers Fitzgerald - Egmont National Park Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Fisheries Encouragement Bill, Inspection of Machinery Bill. WILLIAM CROTHERS FITZGERALD. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. JENKINSON, it was resolved, That the petition of William Crothers Fitzgerald, of Wellington, Public Vaccinator, praying that the balance of costs and expenses incurred by him in defending a certain suit be paid to him by the Government, be referred to the Government for considera- tion. EGMONT NATIONAL PARK BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, in moving" the second reading of this Bill, said it had been rendered necessary because of the local difficulty which surrounded New Plymouth and the neighbourhood. Honourable members knew that in certain localities in the North Island road-metal was difficult to get, and it was found that the Act of last year setting apart this National Park prevented the supply of what was necessary for the construction of roads and maintenance of them. It would be seen that this Bill only endeavoured to give powers which might very safely be given to the Board. First, it allowed the cutting and re- moving of bare timber only ; secondly, it gave power to win or remove stone or gravel for making roads ; and, thirdly, it gave the Board power to construct tramways for the removal of such timber or road materials. Then, the Board may make by-laws under the principal Act describing the conditions under which the 