and reproduced from some of the pulpits of the colony until the most innocent were led to believe that the members of the House had committed one of the greatest crimes possible to be committed. It was anticipated by some that when the discussion took place on this Bill some of this warm, exaggerated language would be repeated. I am sure, how- 12.30. ever, we must be pleased with the moderate tone of the debate to-night, and with the desire that evidently exists to do each other the justice of speaking and voting as they con- scientiously believe to be right. The question of payment of members is one that is past de- bate. It is a question that is now recognised as being right not only by the Liberal or the Radical people of our colony and the Old Land, but also by those whom we consider the Conservatives. There is not likely to be a return to the time when there was no payment of members. The Liberal party, especially, has protested time after time that the members who serve their country in the Parliaments of the world should have some remuneration, and this has been brought about by the belief, as was stated to-night by the leader of the Oppo- sition, Captain Russell, that the poorest man, if he had the ability, should be permitted to enter Parliament and represent those who sent him there. To-night, Sir, a considerable amount of attention has been paid to those who are looked upon as labour representatives. It has been said it is impossible that a man who is taken from his bench should go back to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that bench in three or four years as good a tradesman as he was when he left it. It has been contended that it is impossible for that man to go back to his trade in the recess ; / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero and, on the other hand, some have said that a member should be able to go back to his trade during the recess, so that he need not be dependent on his honorarium for his livelihood, otherwise he would become what has been termed to-night a professional poli- tician. Now, let me say this : that the labour representatives in this House-I believe I speak for the whole of them -do not ask the sym- pathy of the other members or the support of the other members for the labour members per- sonally. We are as independent as any other class of members. If the House thinks it is wise to reduce the honorarium to £100, we will be found here doing our duty as we are to-day ; and therefore I think it is the right thing that each member should vote in the way he thinks right for him to vote, and not out of sym- pathy for any one. I trust that when this session is closed we shall not hear from the public platform or see in the public Press that any member of Parliament has stated he did not wish the amount to be passed for him- self, but that he voted for it as others required it. Sir, we do not require it unless it is a fair thing; we do not ask for anybody to vote for us out of sympathy, because we can live without it. Let me put this view to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay : Suppose a labour member leaves his bench and comes to Parlia- VOL. CXIX .- 73. own city. He has been a good worker, and has received a fair salary. He goes back to his employer. Would that employer put up with that member of Parliament for the next nine months ? The fact of the matter is, if he returned to the workshop the bell on the door would be ringing every quarter of an hour, and the in- quiries would be for the member of Parliament, and that somebody was calling on him as a member of Parliament, and consequently the whole management of the business would be upset in consequence of this one person being employed in that manufacturer's establishment. If a member of Parliament went out of his shop or factory at any time-it might happen to be dinner-time-you may be sure that he would not return again that day. Besides, the life of the city member is such that he could not pos- sibly do so. The numbers of deputations that he has to attend to, the numbers of meetings that he has to be present at during the day, would prevent him getting a position in the ser- vice of any employer ; and consequently he must either look out for a business of his own that he might attend to during the recess, or else he must live upon the amount of honorarium he is granted by the State. To-night we have been told, and told honestly, by a large number of members that they believe £300 is a fair amount to be placed at the disposal of members, but they do not think this is the right time to vote it. Now, in my own opinion, the whole ques- tion rests thus : In the first place, what is the right amount ? And, having come to a conclu- sion as to that, what is the right time to vote it? We have been told by some that £300, in their opinion, is a correct sum, but, not having communicated that thought and not having been advised by their constituents, they do not think they are justified in voting it at the pre- sent time. Very well, in my opinion every one of these representatives should do what the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) has done: they should stand up in their place and tell their constituents that $300 is a fair sum in their opinion, and that they will vote for it after they have con- sulted their constituents, whom they believe to be their employers. Then, there are those who think it is a right thing to vote for the £300, but that it should not apply to the present Parliament, and that it should only apply to the next Parliament if a Bill should be passed next session. Now, we are not all blind or thoughtless, and the majority of us value our position in this House. We recognise we have opponents, and will have opponents at the next election, and we an ticipate some of the tactics and some of the speeches that will be made at that time. Now, Sir, supposing this Bill comes down in the dying hours of next session and it is passed, and we vote for it taking effect in the Parlia- ment following, what will that meet with ? Our opponents will tell our constituents that, "These members of Parliament voted for an increased honorarium, of course believing that they were coming back to the House to enjoy 