Zealand numbers, roughly, 30,000 people. The good they do is admitted, and the tremendous sum they pay every year saves the Government a very large amount in the distribution of charitable aid. To my mind, something ought to be done in the way of exempting their pro- perty from rating, and that could easily be done in the Bill by an amendment. So far as charitable aid is concerned, in Wellington alone these friendly societies have paid away this year the sum of £3,000-that is to say, they have saved the Government the expenditure of £3,000 in one year in the way of charitable aid ; and it seems to me the least the Government could do would be to amend the Bill so that friendly societies' buildings should be exempted from local rating. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- There is one rather important point in connection with this Bill. I think it would be better for the Premier to either make it mandatory or leave the matter as it is. It is rather hard on a local body that it should have to take the responsi- bility of dealing with a large question of this kind. 1 may point out to the honourable gentleman that the question in some cases is larger than it may appear to be at first sight. I will take an institution which is in my con- stituency-the Magdala Home-an institution from which I believe very excellent results are obtained, and one which does work of very great value. I approve and commend the resi- dent clergy of the Catholic Church, who have it in charge, for the excellence of their work. Now, that institution not only has buildings which are of value to a very large amount, but the institution does work of a social reclamatory character ; and, if I am not mistaken, there is a considerable amount of land farmed in connec- tion with it. They also carry on, as the honour- able member for Avon reminds me, a large laundry business in connection with the insti- tution. The point I am wishing to bring out at the present time is that if you are going to apply this Bill to the whole of that property, you are going to throw upon the Road Board the responsibility of either granting this request or of refusing it. Mr. SEDDON .- This Bill will not cover that. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It is distinctly a charitable institution under this Bill. I think there is no question that the Magdala Home would come within this Bill. I wish to point out that the people in that locality- the Hals- well Road District, for example-would be asked to lose that amount of rates, and they would also lose the subsidy on the rates. Mr. SEDDON .- We should make that clear- that it should be, as I have already said, subsi- dised under charitable aid. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- If I am not mistaken, Mount Magdala does receive a subsidy, and therefore comes under this Bill. Mr. SEDDON. - Not under the Act. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- This does not say that. It says " in receipt of assistance by way of subsidy from the public funds." Mr. SEDDON .- It was intended to be sub- Mr. Wilford stitutions Act. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Surely the honour- able gentleman has noticed that the clause ex- pressly exempis those in that way subsidised. It says, "not being an institution within the meaning of 'The Hospitals and Charitable In- stitutions Act, 1885.'" I do not know whether I read the Bill correctly, but that is as I under- stand it. I understand this Bill is intended to deal with cases which do not come under the Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act, and which do receive subsidies from the Govern- ment on the ground that they are institutions for the relief of the poor and needy. Mr. SEDDON .- The home referred to was the Orphan Home in Wellington, and they are getting assistance under the Charitable Aid Act. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I do not know whether I am correct, but I think this Bill gives power to exempt from rates all institutions that are charitable ones, and which receive assist- ance from time to time from the public funds. In this case, the point I wish to make is this : I think the people of the Halswell Road Board Dis- trict will not only lose the rates, but also the sub- sidy on the rates. That is what I want to point out. Therefore I shall support the proposal, if it can be given effect to, of my honourable friend the member for Wellington Suburbs (Mr. Wilford). I think that in a case of this kind the lands should be relieved from rates, and that the proper plan would be for the Government to make up to each district affected the amount of rates it would lose by these exemptions, and that, instead of leaving the responsibility on the residents, it should be made mandatory in every case, removing altogether these buildings from taxation. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I would like to point out, in continuation of the remarks of the honourable member for Riccarton, that under the Land for Settlements Amendment Act which we passed some four years ago it is competent for any organization in the colony which esta- blishes orphanages and reformatories to exercise the right to acquire up to 100 acres without competition in any block of land that might be acquired under the Land for Settlements Act. Now, if that power were increased in a district it would mean that not only the buildings on such block of land would be exempt from local taxation, but the whole of that block of, say, 100 acres. In view of the provisions of this Bill, it is quite possible that, under the operation of the Act I have referred to, persons or organiza- tions might decide to exercise this right, and consequently such blocks of land would be ex- empt from local taxation. That would be a very serious loss to local bodies, and would tend to dislocate the finance of the local bodies in such districts. I point this out to the right honourable gentleman, who is no doubt aware of the provisions of the Land for Settlements Amendment Act to which I have referred. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I do not understand in this Bill the exception made to institutions within the meaning of "The Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act, 1885." I looked up 