a reasonable consideration is given to the dis- coverers, they ought to be considered Crown property. Of course, there are those who have collections of these valuable articles, and Mr. Craig, in Auckland, has some beautiful carvings that probably are two hundred years old ; and I believe it is a description of art that is now un- known. In fact, I have paid no less than 11s. for a small photograph of one of these carvings. I think it is essential this Bill should go through quickly, in order that the Government should get into its possession all these very magnifi- cent works. Another thing that may be done in connection with securing New Zealand works of art, I think, is that the Agent-General might be empowered to secure at auction sales in the Old Country many articles that are there offered for sale. When I was in England I heard of a valuable collection that was likely to be sold soon. It was contained in a little seaport town on the west coast of Cumberland, and I went to see these articles. The majority of them must have been there over seventy years, and I never saw more beautiful speci. mens of New Zealand greenstone implements and carvings than I found in the little sea- port town called Whitehaven. Very frequently sales occur in auction-rooms near Covent Gar- den Market, and I have frequently seen such articles disposed of there at exceedingly low prices. For instance, I lost an opportunity of securing a moa's egg, which was actually sold at #4 10s .- an egg that, if I had been in the room when it was sold, I would willingly have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 given $50 for. Mr. HERRIES. - Was it damaged ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- It was almost intact. So that, now the Minister has taken this matter up. I hope he will place a sum in the hands of the Agent-General with instructions to look up any Maori works of art that may at any time be offered for sale in England. I thoroughly agree with the honourable gentleman in his ideas about establishing a museum. I think a very excellent plan has been prepared by Mr. Hamil- ton, whose name ought to be most honourably associated with this subject. I believe he is the chief promoter of it in this colony, and there is no more competent person to suggest ideas to the Minister. I do heartily congratu- late the Minister on the step he has taken. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .-- As I repre- sent one of the chief tourist districts of the colony, I think it only right that I should say something on this Bill. I join with others in the congratulations offered to the Hon. the Minis- ter for introducing the Bill, and it is none too soon. That valuable treasures have gone out of the colony every one will admit, and steps ought to be taken to stop them, so far as pos- sible. And I am quite with him in the establish- ing of a colonial museum ; but I regret to see, on looking through the estimates, that I find no sum down for a colonial museum, and I trust on the supplementary estimates a sum will be found, because I hold this museum is a natural enrollary to this Bill, because if any one has any curio they wish to offer for sale the Government | the price that was asked for it. Now, I could not buy it unless they have a place to store it, and consequently it would be detained in the colony at the expense of the person who has it. But I must say, in the interests of the tourists, that I am bound to criticize this Bill, as I think it is far too drastic in its provisions. Now, Sir, it does not only include Maori relics, but it also includes, as the interpretation clause says, "any article of historical or scientific value or interest relating to New Zealand." Well, Sir, that is a very wide term. It may cover almost anything that the tourists buy in the colony. The Bill also does not apply only to tourists : it applies to any individual leaving the colony to go Home, even if he has been born in the colony. And it will also apply to any works of art they may have got the Natives to make for them and paid for out of their own pocket. They will not be able to take them out of the colony unless they offer them to the Government first. Now, for instance, we have all seen the beautiful carved pataka in Lord Ranfurly's drawing-room, which, I believe, is a modern work, and made for and paid for by him ; and we have also seen other patakas, walking sticks, bowls, et cetera, carved by the Natives at the present day. Well, under this Bill the people who have ordered them would not be enabled to take them Home, if they desired to do so, without first offering them to the Government. Also, as the Hon. the Minister knows perfectly well, the Maoris often make presents to pakchas they like-not always very valuable ones-and people might like to take them away as connected with some Maori they know, or for other associations; and vet if they were going to the Old Country they would have to offer them for sale to the Govern- ment. And under the 4th clause, which seems to me altogether too drastic, the Government, if they decline to purchase, can also lay an embargo on them going out of the country. It seems to me that it is possible that this clause might be used as a way of unfairly reducing the price. Now, for instance, there was a specimen of the Notornis mantelli caught about a year ago somewhere about the Sounds, and I understand the Government would not give the price that was asked, and I think it was secured by the Dunedin Museum eventually. Mr. McNAB .- It was secured by the Govern- ment and deposited in the Museum. Mr. HERRIES. -- Well, I think the man wanted £200 for it, and it was secured for $150. Now, supposing a foreign museum had offered, say, $400 for it, would it not be right for the Government to give that man the sum of money that it would be worth to another insti- tution ? They could under this Act say, "No; we shall not purchase at the price you want, or that other people have offered you, but we will not let you take it out of the country, and therefore you have to come down to our price." I do not say that will be done, but it would be quite possible by this clause, unless it is amended, that it could be made the means of endeavouring to reduce the price of a thing which was honestly worth 