be a general Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he had no hesitation in ruling that this was not a local Bill. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said he would read a petition from the Mayor, City Council, and citizens of Wellington, opposing this Bill. It was as follows :- "To the Honourable the Speaker and Members of the House of Representatives of the Colony of New Zealand, in Parliament assembled. "THE petition of the Mayor, Councillors, and Citizens of the City of Wellington humbly showeth,- "1. That, whereas by resolution of the Coun- cil passed on the 29th day of August, 1901, the reserve known as the Salamanca Road Reserve was granted to the Victoria College Council as a site for their university college, on the follow- ing conditions :- "(1.) That land of equal value within the city be vested in the Corporation as a public reserve ; and " (2.) That the exchange be carried into legal effect and the University Col- lege buildings commenced within five years : " And whereas the Victoria College Council, by letter dated the 17th day of October, 1901, agreed to accept such site on the above condi- tions, and informed this Council that the Go- vernment had been asked to draft a Bill to carry them into effect. "2. That, without any notice to this Council, a Bill intituled the Victoria College Site Bill was introduced by the Right Hon. the Premier into the House of Representatives, purporting to carry out the arrangements entered into be- tween the two bodies interested, but that such Bill does not in any way do so, inasmuch as it provides that land from the Wellington College Site Reserve, not exceeding ten acres in area, may be given in exchange for the site granted for the University College at Salamanca Road, the eastern boundary of such land to be coin- cident in whole or in part to the eastern boun- dary of the said reserve. "3. And whereas your petitioners are advised that the land thus proposed to be given from the Wellington College Site Reserve consists of the most inferior portion of the reserve, and thus for the purposes of the city is practically useless : "4. And whereas your petitioners consider that the Bill, being one dealing with local in- terests, should have been made a local Bill, in order that the opportunity of discussing its provisions might have been accorded to them, with the view of a measure satisfactory to all parties interested being passed ; but that such Bill has been made a Government measure, and therefore they have been deprived of the opportunity of discussing it : "5. Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Bill should not be proceeded with in its present form, and also that it should be made a local Bill, in order that they may have Mr. Seddon mittee on the subject. "6. That, whereas it has been suggested that the Government should be asked whether, instead of depleting one educational institu- tion for the sake of providing another, they will be prepared to grant to the Wellington City Council that portion of the Wainui-o- mata Forest Reserve which lies within the watershed of the Wainui River and its tribu- taries, whence the City of Wellington obtains its chief supply of water: Your petitioners consider that this land, although of little value for Government purposes, should form part of the Wainui-o-mata Waterworks Reserve, and they therefore humbly pray that the Govern- ment will be pleased to consider whether they can see their way to grant it in return for the reserve proposed to be granted by the city as a site for the Victoria University College. "And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray, &c. "The seal of the Corporation of the City of Wellington was hereunto affixed this 4th day of November, 1901, in the presence of- "JOHN SMITH, Jun., Deputy-Mayor. " R. M. TOLHURST, Councillor. " R. TAIT, Acting Town Clerk." He had no desire to import into the debate any of the differences of opinion which had arisen in the past with respect to this question. They had now reached a stage when, in the in- terests of the College, all parties were agreed that something practical should be done. The majority of the citizens of Wellington would not be satisfied with any other site for the Col- lege than the Mount Cook site. It seemed, however, that they would be required to bow to superior force in this matter in order to avoid inflicting great injury upon the Middle District University College for a number of years to come. The City Council therefore entered into a provisional agreement with the Council of the Victoria College, to which were affixed two con- ditions clearly set forth : First, that the land to be given in return for the valuable reserve in Salamanca Road should be of equal value : and secondly, that provision should also be made in the Bill compelling the University College Council to utilise the site for the specified pur- pose within a certain number of years. Mr. SEDDON .-- I will put that right in Committee. Mr. HUTCHESON said he was familiar with both sites, and he could say without hesitation that the ten acres-the strip of land behind the Wellington College - was of absolutely no value as a reserve for the city, but it did take away the elbow-room, as it were, of that college. The six acres in the Salamanca Road. if they were to compute the capital value on the basis of recent sales of land in that vicinity. would produce to the City Council £10,000 at a moderate estimate. Of course, it would be en- tirely beneath the dignity of the Premier to consult the City Council with respect to this Bill. and so it was submitted to this House without the Council ever having seen it. Mr. SEDDON said, When the Bill was sent 