him any locality in which the total number of miners employed exceeds three hundred unless such miners are employed within a radius of fifty miles."" The Committee divided on the question, "That the new clause be read a second time." AYES, 19. 'Allen, E. G. Parata Heke Barclay Smith, G. J. Kaihau Lawry Tanner. Collins Lethbridge Colvin Tellers. Ell Mackenzie, T. Field Millar Hornsby O'Meara Mckenzie, R. Guinness NOES, 31. Allen, J. Hardy Monk Herries Pirani Atkinson Hogg Stevens Bennet Bollard Hutcheson Thompson, R. Thomson, J. W. Buddo Lang Carroll Willis Massey Duncan Witheford. McGowan McGuire Fowlds Gilfedder McNab Tellers. Meredith Graham Carncross Russell, G. W. Hall-Jones Mills Majority against, 12. New clause negatived. Bill reported, and read a third time. MILITARY PENSIONS BILL. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- Sir, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 most members are aware of the object of this Bill, and I do not think it is necessary for me to take up the time of the House in moving the second reading. I move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Some time ago I put a question to the Right Hon. the Premier asking him to extend the operations of our Pensions Act with respect to those who have served the country in South Africa; and I understood him to say he would bring down some amendments to widen the operation of our Act. The Bill only to a very limited ex- tent extends the Act of 1866, and I very much regret that we are not now bringing our legisla- tion with regard to our soldiers in accord with the Imperial pensions scheme, as set forth in the scale of Imperial pensions in the " Royal Warrant for the Pay, Appointment, Promotion, and Non-effective Pay of the Army, 1900." Now, I will in a very few minutes show that these amendments, even though they extend the operation of our Act, do not go anything like so far as the provisions of the Imperial Act. Even with these extensions of our original Act military pensions are made generally to apply only to men who have received wounds in action, and may be paid to their widows and certain near relatives. Provision, however, is not made for anything other than wounds re- ceived in action. The Act of 1866 does ap- parently go a little further, and provides for pensions to widows under conditions other than wounds in action. See clause vii. (b) :- "If the officer, Native chief, non-commis- sioned officer, or private died from illness brought on by the fatigue, privation, and ex- posure incident te active operations in the field before an enemy within six months after his being first certified to be ill, the special pension fixed in the annexed scale may be allowed." That is the only exception which is made. I wish very briefly to point out to the House that the Imperial warrant goes further, and it gives what are called disability pensions, and provides for pensions for wounds, injuries, sunstroke received in action, or in the performance of military duty, or on account of blindness caused by military service. The Imperial warrant goes even further : it says that a pension may be given for a disability caused by climatic discaso or exposure in the field, and a pension on a smaller scale may be granted in other cases where the disability is due to other causes. Our Pensions Act, even with the proposed amendments, does not cover such cases at all. I submit that our men may have suffered just as much from the climate and exposure as from wounds received in actual warfare; and the permanent result of such disease to their con- stitution may be such that some of them will not be able to work again, or they will only be able to do a small amount of work. Yet these men have served their country, and are suffer- ing from the result of disease caused in the way I have indicated. If it is right for us to give a pension for wounds received in action, then I think it is equally right that we should give a pension to men who may suffer through disease incurred in course of the cam- paign. I cannot move any amendment in the direction of increasing the pension, because I shall be told that I am increasing the charge on the funds of the colony, and that such an amendment must be brought down by Go- vernor's message. I do appeal to the Minister to consider what I am saying with regard to the extension of the Military Pensions Act to the cases I have stated. I would ask him even yet to bring down a Governor's message to extend the operations of the Act so as to in- clude these cases. They are included in the Imperial pensions, and I see no reason why they should not be included in our Pensions Act. The Imperial Pensions Act has a wider operation than our law will have even with this amend- ment. Our Act refers only to widows, mothers, sisters, and children where the soldier suffered through wounds, and I do not think it goes any further than that; but I think the Imperial Act goes considerably further than applying to widows and to those who are de- pendent on men receiving injury or death in going through the campaign. For instance, in the case of disability contracted in the service, but not caused by the service, they may award a temporary pension not exceeding three years. and that may be renewed upon certain condi- tions. I am quite aware of this fact : that it is useless for me to talk any more about the matter if Ministers themselves, who only have the power to make these additional amend- ments, will not consent to do so. The Premier has just come in, and I will briefly tell him 