this privilege of seceding from the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, they never took such action. And I do not think it was ever thought by the leaders of unions that they would ever take such action in the future ; but, as I pointed out once or twice in Committee, it was a very unfair position in which to put a very large body of men who might be registered under the Trade-Union Act - that of being dictated to, and brought under an award that might be agreed to by seven men who chose to form themselves into a union and register under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act. I then pointed out that in many cases large unions are under the authority and direction of their executives, which may have their head offices in Australia or England ; and to say that because these unions cannot abide by all the rules and regulations laid down under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and there. fore cannot register under it, and in some cases are not allowed to register under it-to say that this large body of men should, through no fault of their own, be placed under the direc- tion and will of any seven men who chose to form themselves into a union and register is most unfair. They might actually form a union at the instigation of the employer, for a purpose which might be understood between both parties when the union is formed. A case might be brought before the Conciliation Board or Court of Arbitration, and an award that would be totally unjust in many instances to the general run of workers might be framed by the Arbitration Court, and a large https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 body of men who cannot bring themselves under the Arbitration Act would be bound by that award. Now, I think that is surely sufficient evidence that many members who voted on that particular question of trade-unions did not vote with a full knowledge of what they were doing. It was said by many members, who did not know, I suppose-I will give them the credit for not knowing, at any rate-that it was a one-sided measure if the provision regard- ing trade-unions was not put in. It was said that trade-unionists, if they liked, could come in under the Act, and it was asked " Why should they not do so? " It was also asserted that in many instances, if the award proved irksome, they could work till such time as would enable the award to be fulfilled, and could then secede from the Arbitration Act, and so render the work that had been done by the Arbitration Court nugatory. But those members who were members of the Local Bills Committee, and had heard the evidence taken there, should, I would have thought, have brought some sense of justice to bear on the matter, and have given us credit that we were urging the privileges of trade-unionists, and asking that they should at least be put on an equality in the Bill, which they would have been if my honourable friend Mr. Rigg's amendment had been carried ; but even these members of the Labour Bills Com- mittee would have none of it. They said, " No; unless these trade-unionists choose to register .under the Arbitration Act, and have all the dis- privileges of the Act." Now, surely when the Hon. Mr. Twomey was talking about justice, and of jamming conciliation down the people's throats, it was only justice to put trade-unions on terms of equality in the Act. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Why do they not register ? The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I have just said it is quite impossible for some of the large unions to register unless they forego the right of partaking in the benefits of their unions, in the way of death-benefits, sick-funds, et cetera. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Will you name one ? The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I think, the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .-- No, it is not so. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I have reason to believe that it is so. Then, there is the Amalgamated Society of Engineers ; and if there is a branch society of boilermakers who belong to the English Amalgamated Society it would be entirely debarred from registering, because no executive holding the reins of office, and having the head office out of New Zealand, would allow a branch to participate in the funds they have built up for years if they were to come under an Act which might compel them at any time to disburse more of the funds than is laid down by the rules. The evidence that was given before the Labour Bills Committee by, I think, almost every witness who gave evidence, went on the lines I have just indicated. We had the evidence of Mr. Young, who was very keen on this point, and who totally objected to it. I must confess, in fairness to the Hon. Mr. McLean, that Mr. Young threw out a hint that it might be wise if unions should be allowed to withdraw from this Act at the expiry of an award if they chose to do so, and thus throw the shipmasters into a quandary. I do not think that was the inten- tion of the union. I have never, in my experi- ence with unions-and I have mixed with them for many years-found that they were desirous of doing anything that was unjust. There is another point in the evidence that I think I ought to allude to. It was touched on by Mr. Naughton, the president of the Wellington Trades Council. He says,- " In section 5 the Council opposes the inser- tion of trade-unions, and we oppose the inser- tion of the word ' trade-unions ' in all the other clauses. We object to the inclusion of trade- unions in order to make them attachable to an award. We think there is no necessity for it, inasmuch as all unions now registered under the Trade-Union Act are also registered under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We believe if it is done there will be a multi- plicity of unions that do not now exist, and where there is one dispute now we will have a great number of them." I may point out, however, that there are some branches of influential unions which may have their executives at Home, and which may not be allowed to register under this Act. If 