was told to-night that I had misled the mem- ber for Riccarton. I did nothing of the kind. What occurred in respect to the interjection I made to the member for Riccarton was this : The honourable member said that if this was " the cost of the entertainment, from a food point of view, and so on, of the Royal party at the different centres throughout New Zealand, I have not another word to say in connection with the whole matter." To which I rejoined, " That is just what it is." Later on members will see my speech, and they will find that I said, " The member for Riccarton asked & question very fairly in these words : 'Does this include the extra cost entailed upon His Excellency during the visit of their Royal Highnesses ?' That is exactly what the Bill provides for, and nothing else." Therefore, I repeat now it is the extra cost thrown upon His Excellency during this visit, and we are asked simply to meet that ; and upon being called upon to meet that we have had an attack which I say we should be wise, for the sake of the history of this country, to strike for ever out of the records of this House. When members come to coolly read it they will say, " The Premier was quite right when he made that suggestion." And then, Sir, what advantage has been taken of this opportunity ? It has been made the opportunity for an attack upon the Government. Well, Sir, I say now to the House and country, if by that course. an attack has been diverted from the King's repre- sentative, I am delighted that the attack should have been made upon us, and not upon the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 King's representative. And, Sir, I do not do that simply from my constitutional position as defender of His Excellency, but because I prefer that it shall be taken to-night as an attack upon the Government rather than it should be an expression of members' opinions, or that the people should be led to believe outside our colony that this is the opinion of members respecting the King's representative. If it goes forth to the world that the opportunity has been availed of to attack the Government, then, I ask, where are those gentlemen who on an occasion of this kind would use it for party purposes ? I ask them to realise the position in which they are in. And, Sir, what have we not had brought into this debate? We have been told that it has been done to exalt the Prime Minister. Sir, the Prime Minister requires no exalting on conditions of this kind. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who said that ? Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member for Palmerston. Mr. PIRANI .- He said nothing of the sort. Mr. SEDDON. - That bears out just what I say, that when honourable members in cold brood read what they have said-and the honour- able gentleman is not the only one to which this will apply-my opinion is that a great propor- tion of what they have said will be struck out of the report of their speeches. I am bound to take the honourable gentleman's assertion ; but what was it he wanted to make out? He said that we had given a refund of the Customs, that we had given an increase of salary, and that VOL. CXIX .- 11. this had been done with a view of exalting the Premier in the mind of the representative of the King. That is what the honourable mem- ber said. An Hon. MEMBER .- Nothing of the sort. Mr. SEDDON .- That is my recollection of what was said, or, anyway, the inference the honourable gentleman intended we should draw, and the honourable member followed it up by saying we had received more favours from the Governor than any Government of the colony. Mr. PIRANI .- I never said anything of the sort. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, Sir, it is of no use ; if the honourable member denies that then he will deny anything. Then, we had reference made to the Duke of Edinburgh's visit which was paid to this colony. The very course which it is said we ought not to have taken was the course then taken; but can you show me that, amongst the representatives of Parliament of that date, there was anything like the debate that we have had to-night? Can you show me where there was an account furnished? And, Sir, they had the same voice then as they have to-day; but then there were no members of the House who would do as members do now. Again, I say if we wanted proof of the decadence of the members of the House you have it by com- paring what has occurred now with what took place on the occasion of the visit of the Duke of Edinburgh. Then, we are told that the Go- vernment have no right to bring down any Act affecting the Governor. Sir, what did the Im- perial Government do quite recently in the House of Commons ? And what has the Im- perial Government done time after time in respect to the Royal family? On various occasions they have brought down measures affecting the Royal family, and those mea- sures have been received and dealt with by the representatives of the people at Home in the spirit that this should have been dealt with-in a manner creditable to our nation. Of course there are a few in the House of Commons, just as there is a small selection here-a small coterie-that probably took up the attitude that some have taken in this House to-night ; but I say they do not represent the voice of the British nation. Then, we were told that this was a mistaken course. Now, I should like to ask honourable members this question : How are you going to reimburse His Excellency unless you pass this sum on the esti- mates or authorise it by Act? Has any honour- able member even thought of endeavouring to show how that could be done ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The charges should have been made to the Government direct, and not to the Governor. Mr. SEDDON .- Then they would just as safely have been paid if they had been charged to the honourable member for Waitemata; they would have had the same chance of pass- ing this House. We brought them down on the estimates; and then what was I asked to do? I was told that the proper way was to bring it down by Bill, so that the Bill could go to the Imperial authorities and to the King for 