this Bill the Government intend to continue the bonus up to the year 1902, and then, by gradually diminishing, do away with it in three years after that. I think this question has been discussed more than once when the esti- mates have been going through ; and I under- stood, if my memory serves me aright, that a promise was made that the bonus would be done away with some time ago. I do not know whether this is so; but, Sir, I would like to know, and I think the Minister ought to have told us, what the exportation of canned and cured fish has been for the last few years. This would give us some evidence as to whether it was worth while continuing the protection of this industry. It may be that it is, but I do not know. And then, Sir, I think the Minister ought to have enlightened us as to the effect the Commonwealth .tariff will have on the industry, and whether, with the continuation of the bonus, or with a reduced bonus as suggested, there will be any prospect of a trade with the Australian Commonwealth. As I understand it, there is a considerable tariff proposed on canned and cured fish by the Commonwealth, a tariff that will exclude altogether the im- portations from New Zealand even under existing conditions, which include the bonus. Now, if the tariff that is proposed to be put on will exclude canned and cured fish from Australian shores, even with the bonus, I would like to know what is the good of re- ducing this bonus and making it still more difficult to send these commodities to Austra- lian shores. I understand, Sir, that the duty will be so heavy that we shall not be able to send fish there even under existing conditions. Now, it is a little difficult to find out from the table of the exports what really is the amount of canned and cured fish exported, for it seems to be included with other articles, and one can hardly separate them without some trouble. Apparently the total amount of potted and preserved fish -- and I presume this heading includes the fish referred to- exported last year was of the value of $8,819, and 336,004 1b. in quantity. That included fish that was not produced in the colony. That produced in the colony and manufactured in the colony amounted to 278,112 1b., and of that I see that 99,000 1b. was sent to the South Sea Islands. I do not know whether these are part of New Zealand now. A portion of the South Sea Islands is certainly part of New Zealand, and I presume part of this 99,000 1b. went to the Cook Islands. The largest export of potted and preserved fish went to the South Sea Islands, the next largest export was to Western Austra- lia, then after that to New South Wales and Victoria, and then to Natal. What I would like to know from the Minister, in reply, is whether this industry is worth a bonus to pro- serve it ; and, if it is worth a bonus, and as Victoria and New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia, and Tasmania take a very large proportion of the whole export, what the result of the Federal tariff will be to the trade. It seems to me that if the industry to continue the bonus in full. I am only putting it in a speculative way. I do not know but that it may be necessary to con- tinue the bonus to keep the industry alive ; but it ought to be shown clearly to us that the industry, first of all, is worth conserving by paying a bonus for it; and then it ought <!-- PageHeader="1" --> to be shown that, if we do continue the bonus, that will be sufficient to allow the trade to be carried on, notwithstanding the heavy tariff that has been placed on this particular food product by the Commonwealth. I think the Minister ought to be a little more clear, and put particulars before us with regard to the Bill. It appears to me that the Bill, by re- ducing the bonus, will kill the industry alto- gether. I cannot understand how an industry, relying on a bonus so long for its existence, can, under the existing circumstances, be expected to live if the bonus is reduced. I myself should be glad to see the bonus done away with if only. it was clear that the industry is sufficiently on . - its legs to stand alone. Mr. SEDDON. - It was so arranged last 1 year. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, I am aware of that; but what made me rise to speak is that the con- 1 ditions this year have altered on account of the tariff the Australian Colonies have put upon it. They were the largest receivers of that food product from us. Taken altogether, they re- ceived the largest amount of what we exported, and, if we are still to continue to send this pro- duct there, I take it it will need this bonus, and perhaps more than the bonus, to keep the trade alive. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I will sup- port this Bill, but I regret that it does not go far enough. The continuance of the bonus is absolutely necessary to assist the development of this industry. It is an industry which is yet in its infancy, but is capable of infinite expan- sion. As the honourable gentleman who has just sat down has rightly said, it is to the South Sea Islands we must look for an increase in the export trade in canned fish. A great quantity of canned fish goes to Samoa and Fiji. An Hon. MEMBER .-- What fish ? Mr. NAPIER .- Mullet. The imports into Samoa of canned salmon from Canada are con- siderable, and the German Trading Company there, and also the Australian. merchants, prac- tically flood the market with fish that is in- ferior to the New Zealand mullet. If mullet has only to face fair competition with Canadian salmon, I do not think it has anything to fear in the markets of the world. The canning of mullet now gives employment to a very con- siderable number of men and youths in the North Island, and I believe, if the Government gave some assistance in the way of supervision to the fishing industry, that this particular trade would be very largely developed. The canning- factories were started originally by colonists who had very little knowledge of the industry, and who were not acquainted with the conditions under which the canning-factories in Canada are worked. If the best information were ob- 