and of workers affected by the indus- trial dispute." These sections are all the sections of the prin- cipal Act referring to the Conciliation Board - the election of the Board, vacancies to be filled, appointment of Chairman, quorum of Board, absence of Chairman, and acts of Board. All the clauses referring to the Conciliation Boards under the original Act the honourable gentle- man moved to repeal ; and when I said an at- tempt had been made to do away with Conci- liation Boards I said that which is correct. It is here in black and white in the honourable The honourable gentleman's amendments. gentleman also said that the members to be elected under section 35 of the principal Act should have jurisdiction to try industrial dis- putes that might be referred to them by the Governor. Now, section 35 says,- " The Board of each industrial district shall consist of such unequal number of persons as the Governor determines, being not more than five." He repeals every clause in the Act as far as Conciliation Boards are concerned, and he says the members to be elected under section 35 should have jurisdiction to try industrial dis- putes that might be referred to them by the Governor. Therefore my statement was ab- solutely correct. The honourable gentleman did away with the Boards, and said that all dis- putes were to be dealt with by the Court, but they were to be referred to the Court by the Governor. In subsection (2) the honourable member proposed, --- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 "The Governor may make regulations pro- viding, on the filing of the dispute, for the election of the members of the Board, such members to be elected by the unions of em- ployers and of workers affected by the industrial dispute." There is his own amendment: it is in pos- session of the House. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many voted for it ? Mr. SEDDON .- It does not matter how many voted for it. The point is that the honourable member tried to do away with the Boards, and, when he could not do so, he wished to give the option to either party to go to the Court. I say, then, that anything I stated was correct. An attempt was made to do away with the Boards. I looked on the amendment to give to either party the right to go to the Court with suspicion. Now, anything I said was not said with heat ; and, as far as the employers are concerned, I did not want to say a single word against them. I desired that employers and employed should work together for the common good, and if a warning was given by me it was not by way of a threat. I ask employers, not- withstanding the power that is being given to them, to utilise the Conciliation Boards. Mr. WILLIS .- Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentleman is in- correct in saying that I endeavoured to do away with Conciliation Boards, because my clause was moved with the intention of setting up Boards of Conciliators composed of the em- ployers and the employed. If the Premier Mr. Seddon drafted he is welcome to do so ; but he has no right to say that it was my intention to do any- thing that was not fair between employers and employed by means of conciliation. Directly the member for Palmerston showed me what he proposed to introduce I gave way, and said his amendment was a better one than mine, and that I would be pleased to see his amendment take the place of the one I had brought down. That shows clearly there was no intention on my part to do away with the Conciliation Boards. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I regret that the Premier, under the guise of a personal expla- nation, has attempted to be unfair not only to the member for Wanganui, but to those who sup- ported that honourable member in the action he was taking in regard to this amendment. The Premier says the intention of the amendment was to do away with the Conciliation Boards. There is nothing in the words of the amendment to repeal section 35 of the main Act. What is section 35 of the main Act ?- "The Board of each industrial district shall consist of such unequal number of persons as the Governor determines, being not more than five, of whom- "(1.) One (being the Chairman) shall be elected by the other members in manner hereinafter provided ; and " (2.) The other members shall, in manner hereinafter provided, be elected by the respective industrial unions of em- ployers and of workers in the indus- trial district, such unions voting separately and electing an equal num- ber of such members : "Provided that an industrial union shall not be entitled to vote unless its registered office has been recorded as aforesaid for at least three months next preceding the date fixed for the election." That is not repealed, and that is the main pro- vision for the constitution of Conciliation Boards. But what has been repealed, or would have been if the first amendment of the mem- ber for Wanganui had been carried, was the procedure in electing those members ; and, pro- bably rather foolishly, the amendment pro- posed to place in the power of the Government the right to prescribe what the procedure should be. That is the only difference ; and I maintain this: that the amendment as proposed by me, and accepted by the Premier, goes very much further in the direction that is indicated by the member for Wanganui than his own amendment, and I was surprised when the Premier objected to the amendment of the member for Wanganui and accepted my amend- ment. I am very glad indeed that the Pre- mier has, on second thoughts, decided to accept the verdict of both Houses of Parliament. Just now he expressed his disappointment that in this matter the Legislative Council had not acted as the revisory Chamber-the Premier's opinion of a revisory Chamber being one with which he does as he pleases, irrespective of whether he is right or wrong. It has been an unfortunate thing in the past that the other 