are as good ; and not only that, but the calls on the Government, and consequently on the members of Parliament, are very much greater in New Zealand than they are either in Vic- toria or New South Wales. Again, in both those countries-this matter was referred to by the Right Hon. the Premier-many of the mem- bers can and do go to their homes every evening, though in some cases it may be a hundred and fifty miles into the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- They have better rail- ways. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am much obliged to the honourable member for putting in my way the opportunity of giving a free advertisement to our railways. As a matter of fact, our railways beat theirs hollow. If you want proof of that I will refer you to the eulogistic editor of the Scotsman, who travelled through the colonies not so long ago. He said the New Zealand railways were excellent. He praised them gene- rally. He was a hard-headed Scotsman, who went through our colony with an observant eye, and I believe he gave expression to what he felt. The reason they can go to their homes, or many of them, is that both Melbourne and Sydney are the centres of their two countries, and every- thing converges upon them. Here it is not so ; our towns are more numerous and our country is scattered. Now, regarding the Wellington members : I do not believe in making any dis- tinction as to locality in the payment of mem- bers of either branch of the Legislature. I am https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 disposed to think that, while some other mem- bers may entertain a different opinion, the members of either branch of the Legislature should be remunerated without any distinc- tion as to locality-unless you adopt a sys- tem of disfranchising the seat of Government altogether. However, so long as there is payment of members there should be no dis- tinction in the payment to members of either branch of the Legislature as between Welling- ton, Auckland, or any other portion of the colony. That is my opinion, and I desire to express it with due deference to those honour- able gentlemen who hold a different opinion on the matter. There is no doubt that men living close to the seat of Government, by comparison with those who live at a distance, do not find anything like the same disabilities that are experienced by those living at the greater dis- tance. A man can carry on his own ordinary avocation here during the day-time if he re- sides in the place. Mr. ATKINSON .- During the whole of the day ? Sir J. G. WARD .- No; I do not say the whole of the day. Mr. HUTCHESON .- My experience is to the contrary. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, the honourable member ought to know, of course, and I am not going to cross swords with him over that ; but, at all events, the honourable member who resides here, or who can reach his home easily, is able to do without making provision for a second home, and that is an important factor advantage of living here must realise to the fullest extent. Personally, I know what differ- ence it means myself-the difference it makes of having a home here and having another home in the far South-and therefore I can speak with the experience of a year or two, and I say there is no comparison whatever. The member who is able to live here has comforts and conveniences which he could not expect to have if he were living away from his own home. So I say, when considering a matter such as this, those who are able to get easily to their own homes-such as those who reside all the year round at the seat of Government-have advantages that are not possessed by other members of the House whose circumstances compel them to live at great distances from the seat of Government, and consequently have to maintain practically two homes. Now I come to the question of leave of absence. I believe members should, over a session, be entitled to a fortnight's leave of absence, instead of ten days. I am of the opinion that before they come under the penalty of £2 a day they should be entitled to a fortnight. I have had experiences as a private member of requiring to go to my own home, and if I did so only once in a session it took more than five days, and as a consequence a reduction of £2 a day was made in my hono- rarium; and I know that there are members who have occasion to go home during the session, and who would go more than once if they did not find themselves under the penalty of £2 a day, therefore, I say, it is a great deterrent against a member going home. And when members do go home during the session they are frequently inter- viewed by their constituents, and are there at work nearly all the time. I say, in the face of what I know from my own personal know- ledge, there appears to have been an absence of consideration in those framing the conditions for the payment of members of Parliament. I am speaking now for my fellow-members more than for myself. I now reside here, and it does not affect me personally any more than the increase of the honorarium, which honourable members know does not apply to any of the Ministers. The country does not want mem- bers to come here and spend their time at very great inconvenience to themselves without ob- taining reasonable payment for their services ; and I feel sure it does not wish them to come here, year in and year out, at a loss to them- selves. But I urge that while some honour- able members are of the opinion that this matter ought not to be settled without going to their constituents, yet if you are prepared to advocate what you consider to be a rea- sonable consideration for members of Parlia- ment, it does not matter whether you do so on the public platform or at any other time, for in any case you have to accept the responsibility before your constituents when- ever that occasion may be ; and I can only my- self say that I believe, if the great majority of the members of this House were untram- 