them a debt of gratitude for their loyalty to us in all our endeavours. But, when I say we owe them a debt of gratitude, I do not think we are paying that debt by keeping them in leading-strings. If the country owes a debt to the Native people, we can only pay it by encouraging them in their individual efforts by placing them on their land and leading them to a higher life, and we should not be afraid of the expense of doing so. I do not say that it is proper, out of the finances of the colony, to open up roads through purely Native lands. I think the land ought to pay for its own roading ; but I realise this : the ascertainment of title is the preliminary step to further progress, and that cannot be done for the Natives unless there is money at our disposal in some manner or another for that purpose. Why, then, should not the State set aside a certain sum annually for the express purpose of defraying the ex- penses of discovering the title of every portion of Native land ? And that must be done on a system. Instead of the present system of peri- patetic Native Court Judges, who start their Court, wo will suppose, first, at Wairarapa, say, in November, then move on to Wanganui in December, and pass on to Hawke's Bay in January, and so on unceasingly from one part of the colony to another, spending half of their time in travelling and delays, and wasting half of their energies in hearing about titles in that part of the country which they forthwith are going to leave, the Judges of the Native Land Court ought to be located in definite centres, and those Judges should be instructed to ascertain- and this should not interfere with the ordinary Native Land Court Judges ascer- taining the titles in other parts of the country where transactions are already in progress -- but there should be fixed Courts with centres, as for example at Wairarapa, Hastings, and Wanganui, and others at Gisborne, Hawera, et cetera. Then let the Judges proceed to inquire into the title of the nearest piece of land adja- cent to the place where the Court sits. Now, in many instances that will be land situated right in the heart of European settlement -- a piece of land over which the Maori title has not been extinguished. From each centre the exami- nation into titles should be worked in concentric rings, taking first the piece of land nearest to the Court, and then passing on to the piece of land next in proximity, and ever outwards, so that they would extend gradually, week by week and month by month, abolishing the Native com- munal title, and establishing those who are the rightful owners of the land. And in ascertain- ing the titles to the land from each centre, the Judge would gradually be acquiring knowledge of the ownership of the other adjacent Native lands in the district. A Judge who is acquiring infor- mation regarding a piece of land in Wairarapa is no doubt acquiring, almost unconsciously, much information connected with many pieces of land adjacent to the place where he sits ; but all the knowledge is at present lost, because the Court may immediately be ordered to Poverty Bay, or somewhere else, where all the conditions Captain Russell rapa, and consequently all the information of value towards the extinguishment of title in the Wairarapa is wasted, because some other Court comes and takes up the inquiry three months after. The advantage of this scheme that I suggest is that it would not be a dis- turbance to the Natives in the remote parts of the country, where they are unprepared for the Land Courts. They would not be disturbed ;. but, year after year-it would take several years to extinguish the title-but year after year the zone of settlement would be extend- ing outwards, and gradually the Native titles throughout the colony would be extinguished, and individual holdings would be universal .. The first thing after ascertaining the title is to make sure that a sufficient amount of land is set aside for each hapu, and that it should be rendered absolutely inalienable, so that what- ever should happen that hapu will be prevented from coming to want. There should be sufficient land reserved for each person on which to produce pork, and grow corn, wheat, and other crops. It is true there are many whose holdings would be small, and many whose holdings would be extremely large, and those who have large holdings should be en- couraged to part with a certain portion, either to individuals or to the Crown, so that they may have sufficient capital to improve their remaining estate. I have no objection to a Maori aristocracy; the word aristocracy is frequently used, but there is no meaning at- taching to it ; we are all equals in New Zealand. The ultimate result of any land-law will be, not that the Natives would have too large estates, but too small. In the cases where the Natives have no land at all it is the duty of the Govern- ment, by some means, to provide them with it. They ought not to be allowed to starve. But they should be made self-reliant, intelligent men, rather than reduce them to the con- dition of having to apply to the Charitable Aid Board, or be the recipients of old-age pen- sions. We all of us know, all through life, when three or four men enter into a co- partnership, one does all the work, and the whole of the others are sleeping partners. That will be the position of the Natives under such a scheme as is proposed in the Bill ; three or four will do the actual business, and the remainder of the beneficiaries will be reduced to the position of idle recipients of small rents. Is a system of making Maoris trustees likely to work well for the administration of Native lands? When I was listening to the honour- able member for the Eastern Maori District talking about trustees, and so forth, I could not help remembering what one hears constantly about the honourable gentleman, and I could not help recalling the fact that an application had been made to remove him from such a position. Then, let us go a little further back. In the inception of the Native Land Court system in 1862 or 1865, under the original Native Land Courts Act, only ten grantees were allowed to be named in any Crown grant-of course, to act as trustees for the 