have a double debate on the question of Native lands. The Maori Lands Administration Bill has been blocked to-night by the honourable member for Napier, and will probably come on to-morrow or the next day. We are now spend- ing time on a general discussion on Native-land legislation. I think it would be much better if we were to confine ourselves to the questions involved in the Bill before the House, and get the Bill passed. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Judging by their speeches, the honourable member for Egmont and the honourable member for the Northern Maori District are evidently afraid that it is intended to introduce legislation to bring about free-trade in Native lands. Sir, I have heard of no such suggestion from either side of the House. But the present state of things can- not be allowed to continue. Native lands -- millions of acres - are locked up, and, in conse- quence, the progress of the colony, and par- ticularly of the North Island, is retarded. We have patched up and tinkered with our Native-land legislation for the last ten years; and what is the position now? Why, Sir, we are very much worse off than before. Last year a Bill was placed on the statute-book which was to be a remedy for all the evils of Native- land legislation, and the effect has been that not a single acre of land has been dealt with under that Act. The thing is an absolute failure; and now we have a Bill which proposes twenty-two amendments upon the Act of last year. The real remedy for the Native-land trouble is to individualise the titles. It would not have been necessary to introduce the Bill if that remedy had been in operation some time ago. We ought to individualise the titles, give each Native his own piece of land, and make it inalienable, so that he cannot sell it. There is no reason, though, why he should not lease it. Then, the balance of the lands should be dealt with in a similar way to that in which the Crown lands are dealt with. I would do no injustice to any aboriginal natives, but I would have them to understand that the law of the colony applies to them the same as to Euro- peans, and that, above all things, they must not be allowed to stand in the way of settle- ment. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- I think the remarks of the honourable member for Egmont should not be allowed to go unchallenged. He spoke about free-trade in Native lands, and said that if we went back to that the Natives would be left landless. I would point out to members of the House that in the olden days, when free- trade was allowed in Native lands, there was a law in force which compelled a purchaser, be- fore he acquired land from the Natives, to see that sufhcient was left for them to live upon. But what is the case since the Government attained the pre-emptive right ? The (Govern- ment has bought the last acre from Natives, and even the interests of minors have been bought. The Natives are in a worse position than they were when there was free-trade in land. In the old days a Native had a fair Mr. Fowlds desired from one purchaser they could go to another; but now the Government fixes the price for the land, and the Natives have to take that price if they sell the land. That is what has happened since the Government ac- quired the pre- emptive right ; and we know that at certain times, when the Natives require money, they sell their land, as they have done to the Government in many instances, at about a quarter of the proper value. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I should hardly have risen, Sir, but for the attitude taken up by the honourable member for Napier in this discussion. The honourable gentleman has made exceedingly grave charges against the legislation of the Government, and charges which, coming from any other quarter, might have very considerable significance attached to them. But knowing, as members of the House do, the exceedingly mercurial temperament of that honourable gentleman, and that usually when he rises to his feet his impulses run away with his judgment, I doubt very much whether the serious charges he has made against the legislation of this colony in relation to Native <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> affairs will be treated seriously either outside \-.- the House or in this Chamber. The honour- able gentleman is one of those members who sit in very close contact with Ministers, and \--- ---- when the necessity arises he is one of those to whom is handed the "black-book." I do not know whether it will be possible to put the honourable gentleman's speeches in the "black-book " and turn up any of his ut- terances to the electors of Napier which would justify the exceedingly strong com- ments he has made to-night regarding the Native legislation of this Government. He \---- has stated that they have been exploited by Europeans outside for selfish purposes-a very nice remark to come from an honourable gentleman who handles the " black-book " in the interests of the Government when any other 1 member gives expression to his views in a 1 manner not pleasing to Ministers. However, let that pass. Now I would like to say one or two words with regard to this Native-land question, which has been mentioned by almost every speaker that has addressed the House. Having myself lived for a considerable part of <!-- PageHeader="\---" --> my life in the districts of Waikato and Mana- watu, I have seen something of Native - land What is the position ? We have matters. had it stated by the honourable member for the Northern District and other members to-night that the Maori lands at the present time are lying undeveloped. Now, what is it the busi- ness of this country to do ? I say it is not to permit free-trade in Native lands, and thus allow the land-sharks, who perhaps are repre- sented upon the floor of this House, to put their hands upon huge blocks of Native territory as they have done in days past ; it is the business of the Government, as a paternal Government, not to despoil the Maoris, as has been done in \-- the past, but to introduce a broad and definite system in connection with the Native lands. We have in the Advances to Settlers Depart- 