Islands. "(e.) Without bloodshed or embroilment with other nations, to gradually introduce a uniform Government organization throughout Polynesia. "5. To stop the traffic in forced labour, more is required than mere force and vigilance. As long as Her Majesty's vessels are engaged as at present, they no doubt offer a check to labour traffic ; but they also make the profits of the traffic larger, and thus evidently encourage it. To permanently stop forced labour, there must be opportunities available to free labour. "6. Your Excellency is aware that I have felt much interest in a proposal made by Mr. Phil- lips, that a trading company should be formed in England, with the view of absorbing by its commercial power a large share of political con- trol in the Islands. The object proposed by Mr. Phillips, excepting that of a chartered labour traffic, I approved ; and your Excellency, I be- lieve, communicated the substance of Mr. Phil- lips's ideas to the Secretary of State. I have since thought very carefully over the matter, and there are two points in respect to Mr. Phil- lips's proposal which seem to me to require serious consideration, and without providing for which I am not certain the proposed com- pany might not lend itself to retard instead of to advance the civilisation of the Islands. Those points are-(1.) That, in order to obtain the necessary capital, every consideration be- sides that of the mere acquirement of profit https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 might have to be abandoned ; (2.) That Mr. Phillips's proposal does not provide that amount of direct and powerful governmental control which, in my opinion, should be stipulated for, in the interest of the helpless natives. "Taking all these circumstances into considera- tion, and not forgetting that New Zealand, by assuming the largo responsibilities proposed, would have the right to the contingent advan- tages the island trade will confer, I am inclined to recommend, - "(a.) That New Zealand should encourage the formation of a powerful company to colonise the islands of the South Pacific, by offering a guarantee of 5 per cent. for forty years on the share capital. " (b.) That the Government of New Zealand should appoint the managing director and secretary here, and the manag. ing director in London. " (c.) The object of the company to be to civi- lise and settle the South Sea Islands, by opening up profitable production and trade in connection with them. "(d.) The company to establish factories and plantations at different islands, and to acquire by purchase some already established. "(e.) To acquire lands, and to let the same on terms calculated to promote pro- duction. "(f.) To arrange with chiefs to cultivate produce, and to dispose of it on agreed terms. Mr. Seddon to the islands. " (h.) To lend money and give assistance to settlers to establish plantations. "(i.) To open up steam communication be- tween the different islands, and be- tween them and New Zealand. "(j.) To discourage the removal of islanders from their homes for labour purposes, by affording them occupation on their own islands, or on islands ad- jacent. " The Government of New Zealand to stipu- late, in return for guarantee,- " (a.) That the company give facilities and reasonable pecuniary aid to the mis sionaries. " (b.) That, whilst affording inducements to free labour, the company abstain from employing forced labour. "(c.) The company to own at least six steamers between the islands, and between the Islands and New Zea- land ; and to fix the times so that New Zealand shall be in communica- tion with the principal islands at in- tervals of not more than a month. " (d.) The company to establish in New Zea- land at least one cotton factory, at least one woollen factory, and at least one sugar refinery. "(c.) That all the produce the company ob- tain at the Islands, or which is ob- tained from the lands of the com- pany, be forwarded to New Zealand. "(f.) That all goods sent by the company to the islands be shipped from New Zea- land. "(g.) That on all produce the company pay the Government of New Zealand 5 per cent. royalty. " (h.) That on all goods shipped to the Islands, other than those the produce or manufacture of New Zealand, the company pay a royalty of 74 per cent. "7. The ultimate object which I have in view is, the establishment of the Polynesian Islands as one Dominion, with New Zealand the centre of Government : the Dominion, like Canada, to be a British dependency. "I venture to think that these proposals, if carried out, would save Great Britain large expenses in connection with the repression of slavery, whilst the Imperial prestige in the South Pacific would be maintained. "JULIUS VOGEL." The honourable member for Wellington City \- - forgot all about this. An Hon MEMBER .- When was that ? Mr. SEDDON .- This was in 1-84. Now, I 1 may say that long before these proposals were made Sir George Grey had drawn attention to the matter, and in connection with this the name of Mr. Seed, our Secretary of Customs at the time, in my opinion, ought to be closely allied and ever mentioned with respect when- ever the question of the settlement of these Islands is brought up for discussion. 