In many cases where the same Judge has dealt with other blocks, and the agents have been there, distorting the facts and endeavour- ing to puzzle all parties, the Judge has some- times given & different decision to what he did in the previous case, and, therefore, trouble and sorrow have been caused to the Natives. I have seen many cases in the Hawke's Bay District such as I have described. During the time that agents were prohibited from appearing before the Native Land Court, and when the Natives themselves conducted their own cases, the system was much more satisfactory in its results. I will explain my reasons for having brought this matter before the Council. There was one case in which a large block of land was being dealt with, and the Natives giving evidence went fully into the question and explained their claims through their ancestors, and their possessions in the block, and the portions which they had worked. I myself had a large interest in the block which was being dealt with. In giving my evidence I showed that one of my ancestors had had over twenty-four eel-weirs in the lake within this block ; and the other parties to this case also described their ancestral eel-weirs. One of the parties also claimed to have an ancestral eel- weir, and he was told by one of the agents that he should go and put in poles to prove that he had such an eel-weir there. Men were sent to erect something which might pass as an eel-weir in this water. Subsequently, it was arranged that the Court should adjourn to the spot and examine these eel-weirs for them- selves, and when they examined the weirs that I had referred to they were all found to be as I had stated. Then they came to the eel-weir referred to by the other parties to the case, and the Judge ordered that the posts supposed to form the eel-weir should be pulled up, and it was found then that they were newly put in, and that the timber was not even New Zealand timber, but English poplar. Now, this device was done at the instance of one of the Native agents, and the case was thrown out because it was quite evident that posts of poplar could not have been put there by our ancestors. There was another very large block of land called Otawha, and the title of it was hotly disputed in the Court, and none but Natives conducted that case on all sides. In the first instance, it was the question of ownership to the ground taken up by the railway-line, and we won this case, and were awarded all the houses and buildings and cultivations of those living on the ground. Subsequently, on appeal, this case was heard again, and it was again conducted by the Natives, and the previous decision was practically reversed, and I myself only got five hundred acres, and the rest of the block was returned to my relatives who had been living there; and this was considered by all a just decision. I had not in the first case urged that I should have all the land awarded to me. In later years the law enabled European Native agents to appear Hon. Mr. Tomoana with the decisions of the Native Land Courts. When this matter was first before Parliament in 1897 we petitioned Her Majesty, and it was as the result of that petition that we had these Bills brought before Parliament. We prayed Her Majesty to try and induce the Government of this country to pass measures which would be satisfactory to the Native people, and as the result of that prayer these Bills were first iu- troduced. When the Act of last year was passed the Natives were well aware of what was being passed, and they were pleased when they heard what was being passed. But it was some of the Native agents that would suffer under the provisions of the Act. I do not wish any- body to suppose that I refer to the Hon. Mr. William Kelly as one of those Native agents, because I know he is only speaking from what he considers a right point of view ; but behind him there may be an agent who is prompting him as to what he should say. I am very desirous, Sir, that this Bill should pass. I feel sure that the Europeans will not allow us to destroy ourselves, and if we come back and sav that this is not exactly what we want you will all be ready to assist us to correct the same. I would therefore urge the Council to pass the Bill as amended. With reference to the Native agents and their work, I would like to quote a Native saying of one of my ancestors : " A house standing out on the fields is there to be burnt ; but if the house stands within the fortified pa, that is a chief's house, and it will stand." We have been so far under the authority of Her Majesty the Queen, and now we are under the protection of His Majesty the King, and I say this Council is like Rongoma- taane, a great fortified pa for the Maori people, which cannot be taken. We are here in Par- liament to consider and amend the laws, the substance of the Treaty of Waitangi. Those who are outside objecting to this Bill are out- side the fortification. Should this Bill not pass, they would be unable to frame a Bul for the Maori people. If this Bill does not pass, they will laugh, ha, ha! Mr. Speaker. I pray honourable members to pass this Bill. Kia ora tatou. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I am sorry there should be any misunderstanding about this Bill. I quite understand those who like the old ways practically think that this new legislation is a leap in the dark. At all events it is a new departure which they do not like. but I can assure them the whole of the colony has got to feel dissatisfied with the old methods as regards Native land, and last year we passed a Bill which gave the Council a hope of a new departure. All this Bill does is to provide that the new departure shall be given effect to. I have already explained that it is almost im- possible in a large Bill like this to supply all the machinery necessary. All the machinery pro- vided was absolutely new and prospective, and therefore this Bill really provides nothing more than in the first instance to provide the neces- sary wheels, or supply the necessary amount of 