xvii. 15, you will find these words :- "Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee, whom the Lord thy God shall choose : one from among thy brethren shalt thou set king over thee : thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thy brother." When we have direct Scriptural authority for what we have done how can we be said to be un- justified in our action. I will now give the House another genealogy-a direct line of descent from Jehovah. The being known to the Jews by the name of Jehovah was known to the Maoris by the name of Io. The names of some of the principal sacred ancestors of the Maori were Io, Rangi, Papa, Teema, Tahuhunuiorangi. should only weary the House were I to trace the descent down through the long roll of inter. vening generations down to Mahuta, but I can furnish the House with a tabulated genealogy showing the descent if it so desires. If I had time I could trace to the satisfaction of the House from these distinguished ancestors our own direct descent Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I rise to a point of order. Under our Standing Orders each member of the House is limited to half an hour in speaking on a Bill. The member for the Western Maori District, speaking through an interpreter, is really limited to fifteen minutes. I ask you whether it is not within your prero- gative to say whether he, speaking in Maori, ought not to be allowed to speak for an hour. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- I think there are occasions when the Speaker should be allowed to interpret the Standing Orders with some amount of elasticity, and when we have a question before the House dealing entirely with the Native race I think we should have the views of the Maori members set forth at length. . I would point out to you, Sir, that on this particular occasion an injustice is being done to the honourable member, not only individually, but also to the whole of the Native race in New Zealand. Owing to his speech having to be interpreted, he cannot express his views within the shortened limits allowed him. No doubt many of the members of this House would be guided by his views, and I sincerely hope you will resolve to use your prerogative and allow the honourable member for the Wes- torn Maori District to speak for half an hour longer. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- However much I may be inclined to allow latitude to the honourable member in concluding his speech by taking up another half-hour, I must be governed by rules and precedents, and the rule is very strict that no member is entitled to speak more than half an hour. However he occupies his half-hour, whether with the assist- ance of an interpreter or relying on himself, I cannot alter the rule and enlarge the limit. I, therefore, must rule against the point of order. Mr. FISHER. - In accordance with your ruling, Sir, given on the occasion of the San Francisco mail-service debate, I move the ad- Mr. Kaihau this Bill to to-morrow in order that the honour- able member for the Western Maori District may continue his speech. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - Who seconds the motion ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- I do. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori District) .- Sir, as it has been moved that this debate be postponed, I understand I am now at liberty to complete my remarks. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .- I do not want to interrupt the honourable member, or say anything at all, but I ask your ruling. The honourable gentleman, although he now I has another half-hour in which to express himself, must confine his remarks, I submit, to giving reasons. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the San Francisco mail-service ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The motion is not to adjourn the debate. It is a substantive motion to get rid of the committal for to-day, and to commit the Bill to-morrow. Mr. KAIHAU. - As this opportunity has been accorded to me, I will proceed to explain to the House what further I desire to say. The posi- tion, Sir, is this : When the movement com- monly known as the King movement was first initiated, certain people went throughout the length and breadth of the North Island, search- ing through the main lines of descent from our ancestors of old times for a suitable person to be their representative head or king. Now, Sir, there was a chief in former days known as Hongi Hika, who was a leading chief of the Ngapuhi Tribe ; and, Sir, I should like the honourable member for the Northern Maon District-the young man named Heke-to li". ten to what I have to say on this head. Hong Hika, Sir, went to England, and he there sough: an interview with the then King of England. and endeavoured to persuade him to establish him (Hongi) as king of the Maoris of New Zealand. When he came back from England. and returned to his people, he found it was nei in their power to establish him as king. They had not the numerical strength nor individual prowess to enable them to enforce his desire. Then the people towards the southern end of this Island took up a similar idea, and the son of the famous chief Te Rauparaha - by name Tamihana te Rauparaha-went to Eug- land to endeavour there to obtain means by which he might be enabled to establish s king over the Maoris. He came back after concluding his visit to England, and he said to his father, Te Rauparaha, " You shall be king over the Maoris of New Zealand." Now. these words were given expression to in the year 1846. Te Rauparaha turned to his son and replied, " No, my son, take that proposs. to select a king back to Waikato. Te Whers whero is the principal chief of that place: it was he who saved my life, and he is the most suitable man." Now, there was a pro- verb or saying in connection with the Wai- kato Tribe which was widely known at that time ; it alluded to the Waikato River, which is 