banished another fifteen thousand in one year -in fact, the opposition of the Catholic and also the Reformed Church with regard to this matter was so strong that it was considered un-Christian to take interest for money lent ; and the consequence was that a liberal interpretation was put upon the Mosaic law to which I have referred, and the busi- ness fell principally into the hands of the Jews. It was held that, while a Jew might not take interest from another Jew, he was at liberty to get all he could from a stranger. Well, the fifteen thousand Jews were banished in one year, and no Jews were allowed to return to England until the time of Cromwell. That shows the view taken in England at that time in regard to the practice. It was left to Henry the Eighth to be the first to legalise usury in England, and he fixed the rate at 10 per cent. But his son, Edward the Sixth, a few years afterwards, repealed it : he did not believe in it ; but when Elizabeth, the virgin Queen, came to the throne, she revived the statute of her father. James the First reduced the rate of in- terest to 8 per cent., Cromwell to 6, and Anne to 5 : and since then usury has continued to exist and flourish. But the most interesting feature of the legislation of that time was that each statute had in it an expression to the effect that it was an un-Christian thing to take interest at all, although, as far as the statute was concerned, it simply limited the evil, it did not prevent it. Such is a glance at the history of usury; and it may be said https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that wherever legislation of this kind has been attempted it has failed. It is compara- tively of recent years that the term usury became so distasteful to the people, owing to the history which I have mentioned, that political economists invented another term for it-they called it "interest," applying the term "usury " only to exorbitant rates of interest ; but I have never been able to find out where the line is drawn. Now, on small loans, money- lenders charge 40 per cent. per annum, and I would like to be informed by any honourable gentleman whether that is usury or whether it is in'erest ? I know of an instance of a young man who once borrowed money to go horse- racing, and, his investment not being satis- factory, he very soon found that his salary, which was £250 a year, could not enable him to pay interest on his debt, which had become compound interest, and had it not been that his father was in a position to go to his rescue, there is no doubt that he must have finally reached the Bankruptcy Court. Well, that is one instance which I know of personally, and I have no doubt there are very many others of a similar character where people fell into the hands of money-lenders, and by paying them an exorbitant rate of interest and compound interest got into such a position that it was impossible for them to pay their debt, and the consequences to them must have been very di-astrous. However, as I have said, I think the Bill will fail. Political economists have agreed upon the point that Bentham's theory attempt to strictly suppress usury will only increase the evil, and I believe that will be found to be the case if this Bill becomes law. Now, as I have said I do not think the Bill is likely to be of much use, I propose to suggest a means by which this matter may be dealt with in what I think will be a more effective manner. When the rate of interest-I use the word " interest " now because I am now deal- ing with modern times - when the rate of interest on the security of land was considered to be too great the Government did not attempt to regulate that by legislation. They esta- blished a money-lending department, and the result was that which we all know: the rate of interest fell at once, and has since then greatly depreciated. Very well ; at first the money was only lent upon the security of country land, and later on suburban land was included. Then, why not extend the prin- ciple to lending money on personal security, and also to lending money on goods and chattels ? That, I submit, is the proper way to deal with a question like this. We have State establishments which do lend out money, and which enter into competition in that line of business. Then, why not go a step further, and do as they do in France : establish pawnbroker's-shops-Mons de Piete? Now, I was very much surprised to find that pawn- brokers were exempted in the Bill that is now before the Council. Why, the ordinary 40 per cent. money-lender is a gentleman compared with the pawnbroker, when you judge them by the rates of interest they respectively charge. I have been looking at the statute dealing with pawnbrokers, and I find that the amount of interest that may be charged on loans for goods in pawn runs up to 80 per cent. Think of that. And who is it that has to pay this 80 per cent. ? The people in the very worst posi- tion - those who find themselves in diffi- culties in a time of depression -and the poor and honest worker has sometimes even to sacrifice his bedding to obtain the means to live-that is, food. And yet he is charged all the more, probably because his necessity is so great. It seems to me that that is entirely wrong. There is a provision in the Act that if the goods pawned are sold, and produce more than sufficient to pay the interest on the loan and the loan itself, the surplus has, on applica- tion, to be paid to the person who pawned the goods. Well, I wonder if anybody ever knew of a person that pawned anything who ever got such a surplus? If there is such a case I would like to know it. Now, I submit, if State pawn- broking establishments were set up throughout the colony, they would be conducted with more honesty in that respect, and many poor persons would receive not only better terms as regards interest, but even if their goods were ulti- mately sold they would honestly receive the balance, if any, as between loan with interest and the price for which the goods were sold. Sir, I am not in a position to amend a Bill like this to carry out the suggestion which I have made, because I recognise it puts the 