Bill. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) rose to a point of order, as to whether this could be introduced as a public Bill. Local Bills were stated to be those that affected particular localities only. This Bill affected only a particular locality, and was not an amendment of the Harbours Act of 1878. It was an amendment of the Nelson Harbour Board Act, a local Act passed last year, of which it is intended to form part and together with which it is to be read. The proposed Bill appeared to him to possess all the characteristics of a local Bill; and, although the Hon. the Minister for Railways gave notice of intention to introduce the Bill on the 22nd August, it only made its advent yesterday after- noon, after having been held in suspense for two months and a half. The Harbour Board of Nel- son and the people in the locality affected by it had had no opportunity whatever of knowing any- thing about what its provisions were. It might, as stated by the Minister, be perfectly correct that the Schedule of the Bill affected a question of public policy, but that was a matter in connec- tion with which power was already given, and it could be dealt with under the existing law. That being so, it was all the more reason why this Bill should be delayed, to give the Nelson Harbour Board and the people of Nelson an opportunity of seeing what was in the other portions of the Bill, which affected that locality only, and had nothing to do with public ques- tions. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member had forgotten to point out that the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Nelson Harbour Board Act formed part of the Harbours Act of the colony. The honourable member knew that the Nelson Harbour Board Bill last session was within an ace of being made a Government measure. An Hon. MEMBER .- It does not form part of the Harbours Act. Mr. SEDDON said it was deemed to be a special Act within the meaning of the Harbours Act of 1878, and that was the same thing. It was read subject to that Act, and he said the Harbours Act of the colony applied to the Nel- son Harbour Board. As to the people of Nelson not having been aware of what was going on, he might say that the honourable member was Chairman of the Nelson Harbour Board, and what was in this Bill had been recommended by the Board. He would read the resolution :- "That the Government be recommended to amend the Nelson Harbour Board Act as follows : In section 3, subsection (3), insert the word ' three' instead of 'two' in the first line. {This would give Waimea County three instead of two members as at present.) Repeal subsec- tion (5) of clause 3. (This would do away with the Motueka Borough representative.) Repeal clause 6. (This clause vests the Motueka Wharf, with its assets and liabilities, in the Board, and provides that wharfage on goods in and out of Motueka shall be paid at Motueka, and be exempt from wharfarge at Nelson.) Strike out the words 'and Motueka ' in the Sir J. G. Ward be to exclude the Borough of Motueka from the Nelson Harbour Board District.)" On the point of order, he might say that any local Bill could be made a Government mea- sure, and be brought in; and if it affected several localities it was a public and not a local Bill. He instanced the Westport Har- bour works and Greymouth Harbour Bill. They became general Acts. This Bill included clauses of local application and also general policy clauses. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said there was a distinct ruling by the Speaker, Sir Maurice O'Rorke, in 1888 on the latter point : that Bills introduced by the Government were not exempt from the Standing Orders relating to local Bills. The fact that the Government took charge of a Bill did not make it a public Bill. If it was admitted this was a local Bill, it might be pos- sible to get over the difficulty by moving the suspension of the Standing Orders relating to local Bills. That was the course adopted in regard to the Greymouth and Westport Har- bour Board Bills. However, he thought the best course to take would be to refer the point for the decision of the Joint Committee on Bills. He would send a notice to the Chair- man asking him to call a meeting at the earliest hour possible. The Bill therefore stood referred to the Joint Committee on Bills. MINING BILL. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said this was a small Bill to make some necessary alterations in the mining law. As the Bill had been in the hands of members for some little time, and as they would fully under- stand the purport of the amendments, he would content himself with simply moving the second reading. Mr .. McNAB (Mataura) asked the Minister if his colleague the Minister of Mines had any in- tention of moving an amendment to clause 3. The matter was brought up before the Goldfields Committee on account of a judgment of Mr. Justice Williams in a case heard in Otago. It was there found that the last portion of clause 3 -the mutatis mutandis provision-would not exactly cover the case of the Commissioner of Crown Lands; and, while it might be said that all the provisions of the Mining Act relating to appeals should be, mutatis mutandis, applied to appeals under this Act, there was this gap to be got over : that the office of the Com- missioner of Crown Lands was not a Court, and could not be said to correspond with the Warden's Court. There was no officer con- nected with the office of the Commissioner of Crown Lands to correspond with the Clerk of the Warden's Court, and the mutatis mutandu provisions laid down here would not enable » person to appeal from the judgment of the Commissioner of Crown Lands, or go through the procedure laid down in the Mining Act of 1898. Then, there was the case relating to the Charlton and Waimumu Streams. He would like the Minister to state what course he in- tended to take in connection with the dredging 