honourable gentleman told us just now that the leasehold interest of owners in perpetuity is taxable. I cannot allude to a previous de- bate, but the honourable gentleman has said before that he knew instances where these in- terests had been taxed. Mr. NAPIER .- No, I did not. Mr. PIRANI .- As I have said, I cannot refer to a previous debate or I would quote the passage for the honourable member : but, leav- ing that on one side, the honouralle member now says there are cases in the North where the unimproved value of the lessees' interests exceeded £1,000; and he said that with the idea of making us believe that they were being taxed. Mr. NAPIER .- They will be next time. Mr. PIRANI .- The honourable gentleman has not succeeded to the Colonial Treasurer- ship yet, and the only person who can say that confidently is the Colonial Treasurer. And, to prove the correctness of his argument, the honourable gentleman said that he knew of a case where the Appeal Court had decided that the owners of a lease in perpetuity were liable to taxation on their interests in the land. Mr. NAPIER .- On the chattel interest, I said. Mr. PIRANI. - The honourable member quoted the case of the Kauri Timber Company as a precedent. But there was no such thing as lease in perpetuity in the question. The whole case turned on leasehold interests in Native land. Mr. NAPIER .- Read the judgment. Mr. PIRANI .- I would not like to invite the honourable gentleman to go outside, as he desired me to do, because I know he always likes to pay attention when he hears common- sense. Mr. SEDDON .- You are frightened of the " mailed-fist " of the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). Mr. PIRANI .- It strikes me that, when I am not afraid of the Premier, I am hardly likely to be afraid of our New Zealand Napo- leon. But the whole point at issue in this kauri-timber case was this: Was the kauri timber part of the unimproved value of the land - part of the taxable value of the land ? It was a question of taxing the timber, not a question of taxing the owners' interests in the land apart from the timber ; and that was what the whole decision turned on, and the Judges very rightly decided that the timber was part of the unimproved value of the land, and that, as it belonged to the lessees, it was part of their taxable interest. Mr. NAPIER .- Chattel interest. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, the judgment extends to over twenty pages, and I do not think the Hon. the Premier would care for me to read it; but it proves what I say. I would like the honourable member for Auckland City to read it over again, because it is evident be has a hazy recollection of what it is. would also advise the honourable member that it is not safe in this House to quote precedents member only consults the Premier I am sure he will indorse that. But the point that is made by those who say that land held in per- petuity is not liable to taxation is this : that while other leasehold land is liable to taxation - both the owner's and the lessee's interest- and that while land that is mortgaged is liable to heavy taxation - both the owner's and the mort- gagor's interest-the lease-in-perpetuity land is practically not taxable at all. Wedo not know what might occur in years to come. There may be some small interest over $500 that will be taxable, but the capital value of leasehold land held under lease in perpetuity will not be taxable for 999 years. That is practically the position, and no decision can get away from the fact. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- Sir, I rather think the holders of leases in perpetuity have been somewhat hardly dealt with in this debate. It is asserted by certain honourable members that they are not being taxed by the Crown. I say that is a total misapprehension. I would be pleased indeed if it were the case that the great majority of the holders of leases in perpetuity were not taxed ; but what is the position at the present time? The lease-in-perpetuity system has been in existence only during the last eight or nine years, and the majority of the settlers who have secured land under that tenure have only been able to get their land cleared and to establish homes for themselves. Many of them are working-men without capital. They have had to borrow heavily, and during the whole of the time occupied in clearing, grassing, and fencing they have been paying rent to the Crown. Local bodies have compelled them to pay general and other rates, and, while many freeholders and large estate-holders have had railways and roads provided free of cost, they have been heavily taxed for improvements that have been made in the shape of roads and bridges. They have had to borrow money for public works. In many places, such as the special-settlement blocks in my own dis- trict and in the districts represented by the honourable member for Pahiatua and the honourable member for Taranaki, nearly the whole of the land settled in this way has been loaded to the extent of 5s. an acre for roading. What does that mean? That those settlers who hold on the average 200-acre sections have had their land loaded to the extent of #50 per section, and on this amount they are now pay- ing interest. That interest is payable for the whole term of the lease, or 999 years. Earlier this session I asked the Hon. the Premier to alter the law so as to allow these settlers to repay the money borrowed within a term of years, in the same way as moneys borrowed are is repaid under the Loans to Local Bodies Act ; and the reply was that the interest was added to the rental, and must be paid perpetually. When men are paying a heavy contribution like that, it is unreasonable for members of the House to say they are not adequately taxed. I contend that if any members of the com- munity are entitled to consideration from the Crown and this Parliament it is the working- 