the Peace Act must have been in force in the Cook Group. There you will have at once a conflict between the Justices of the Peace Act and this so-called High Court. Now, take the Federal Parliament of the Cook Islands, and see how the Europeans are treated there. Would honourable gentlemen believe that this Federal Parliament, which enacts laws for the Cook Group, but which apparently is to have no jurisdiction beyond the Cook Group-though the wording of the Bill is very mystifying- has the following astonishing provisions : No European can vote for a member of that Federal Parliament, and no European can be elected a member of that Federal Parliament. Now, Sir. I have a very clear recollection when Mr. Grattan Grey's case was in evidence, that the Premier said that the very thing the Out- landers were fighting for was to be given the franchise. Now, we find that in our own Crown colony we are proposing by this Bill to set up a Federal Council to enact the laws, and in which no European can have a seat, nor is any European entitled to a vote. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is another thing. Mr. HERRIES .- No. If the honourable member will read the Appendices of 1900, page 15 of A .- 3, he will find " An Act to amend the Constitution Act of 1891," and if he reads clause 9 he will find that,- "Members of Parliament shall be elected by the native-born adults of the Maori population. No foreigner shall be eligible to vote at such election.' Then, clause 10 reads,- " Foreigners shall not be eligible for election as members of the Cook Islands Parliament, ex- cepting only the member for Arorangi, who has already been elected." There was one fortunate man who had al- ready been elected, and so they let him remain. Are we really going to allow this burlesque Par- liament in which no foreigners are to be allowed to have a say, although this Parliament can levy taxes on foreigners, and make laws to which the foreigners are liable? I do not think we should any longer cry out about the injustice the Out- landers have suffered under, when we allow this very matter to go on under our own nose. Then, there is another Act we are re-enacting by this Bill, namely, " An Act to provide for the punishment of Offenders," which was passed in 1899. One clause of this reads very suspiciously like a clause to which great exception was taken when it came from the mouth of the Governor of Fiji. The clause, which is the 7th, reads as follows :- " Any person who shall spread idle or mali- cious reports with intent to disturb the minds of the native inhabitants and the peace of the Cook Islands may, on conviction, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment with hard labour for any period not exceeding three months." Mr. SEDDON .- That, so far as I remember, is either inoperative or it has been repealed. Mr. HERRIES .- Then, it has not been re- ported to this House, and from the latest papers laid before us there is no mention of any repeal. That is what we complain of. Members should not be obliged to drag infor- mation from the Government in this way. The Ordinance of Governor O'Brien is very similar. It reads as follows :- " Any person who shall cause or attempt to cause any Fijian to be disaffected towards the Government, or who shall induce or attempt to induce any Fijian to take any action having for its object the subversion or alteration of the present form of Government, shall be guilty of an offence under this Ordinance, and shall be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment, with or without hard labour, for any term not exceeding six months." Of course the punishment is a little more severe. Then, I should like also to point out this curious thing : that in this wonderful new colony of ours, clause 8 of this Act which I am quoting-of course the Premier says it has been repealed, and I suppose he knows a good many things which we do not-it says,- " Whereas the Federal Government of the Cook Islands is by reason of its poverty unable to maintain an expensive prison establishment, any European or foreign offender convicted under sections six and seven of this Act, or under any section of 'The Criminal Code Act, 1893,' may, subject to the approval of His Excellency the Governor of New Zealand, be ordered to leave these Islands, and, failing to comply with such order, may be deported to any place from whence he had emigrated to these Islands." Therefore, if a man came from England to these Islands and stirred up the Natives, and was sentenced to six months' imprisonment, as you could not put him in gaol, you would have to deport him back to England, as being the place from which he emigrated to these Islands. Where, then, would the punishment come in? But they can sentence you to go and work on an island, as clause 4 makes the Island of Manuae a penal settlement. This is the island to which Mr. Gosset has been sent, and I believe on this island people only have to go and pick copra, and they can enjoy them- selves as much as any one does who has got his liberty. I understand, from people who have been there, that it is by no means a barren island. I think the Premier should have given us more information about these various Acts, and I trust members will thoroughly study these Acts so that they may see exactly what they are doing. Now, with regard to the finan- cial aspect, and expenditure, and the revenue : The Premier made a great parade about his going to take off the duties hitherto charged on New Zealand goods, yet he did not inform the House that instructions had already been sent by the " Countess of Ranfurly " to bring in force the same tariff as in New Zealand. In reply to a question of mine, the Commissioner of Cus- toms informed me that instructions had already been sent by that boat that any duties already collected in contravention of the law would be refunded to those merchants who had imported goods from New Zealand. Up to the time of the arrival of the " Countess of Ranfurly " there they were charged on goods contrary to law. The Commissioner of Customs admitted it. 