polluted source ! Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - The words having been withdrawn, they should not be commented on. Mr. HORNSBY .- Having been withdrawn ! But they were not apologized for. I was told that the expression that I gave voice to in this House was not the expression of the feel- ing of the people of Wairarapa-that I do not re present the people in my remarks concerning this expenditure, and that he (the Premier) would go into the Wairarapa and put the matter to the test. Sir, from my place here and now I challenge the honourable gentleman to come there on to the public platform with me, repeat those words there, and see what he will Ect in response. The member for Napier seems amused. They say there are some people who are very easily amused ; and I say that if the member for Napier will appear on the platform also, as chief henchman, we will give him a " round turn." I say that if, after the Pre- mier has fulminated against me - even as loudly as he did the other night in this House- before the people of that place in meeting assembled-there will be men of both shades of political opinion there-if he will then put it to the test and the people of the district decide that what I have done is wrong and that he is right, then I will hand in my resigna- tion to the Speaker on the following day. That is as fair a proposition as any member of this House can make to any other member, and I make it, and I repeat my challenge, and ask the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 right honourable gentleman to come up into my district and do what on the floor of this House he has threatened he will do. Mr. SEDDON .- You have told me, if I do, that you will resign if a resolution is carried that your action in respect to the matter is not approved by those present. Mr. HORNSBY. - The right honourable gentleman is stating that which is absolutely without any foundation in fact, and he knows it. I have told the Premier in this House before to-night that I am not going to " beck and boo " to him. When I was addressing the people in my electorate in 1899-and any one who feels interested in it can turn up the files of the newspaper and find what I then stated- I declared upon every platform that I would not go into the House tied neck and heels to any man, or to any set of men; that I gave support to the broad principles of Liberalism enunciated by the late John Ballance and carried out by the present Government ; and that so long as they carried out that pro- gramme I would be found fighting side by side with them. But I said something more, for in the manifesto issued to the electors of that d :- trict -it was issued by the thousand, because there were many places in the district where I could not hope to meet the electors, and so this was published far and wide that all men might know on what platform I stood-this is what I said in winding up my manifesto : - " The tendency of late years, on the Opposi- tion as well as the Government side of the for the one great desire to hold or capture the Treasury benches. The war of the 'ins' and the 'outs' has raged unceasingly, until Parlia- ment has become a place for the ' washing of dirty linen,' instead of the discussion and pro- per consideration of measures sought to be placed on the statute-book. If all members would go into the House pledged to support measures - and first clearly define the measures they intend to support-there would be less of strife, acrimony, and personal rudeness. There- fore let the motto and the rallying-cry of the Liberals of the Wairarapa be-as it is the motto of their candidate --- measures, not men." Mr. SEDDON .- Kindly allow me to see my " black book," will you ? Mr. HORNSBY .- The Premier is at liberty to ask for his " black-book " and to search it through, but he will find there no evidence of my intention of coming into this House other than I have stated ; and I think, Sir, he would be consulting the dignity of his position if on an occasion of this kind he were to pay the same courtesy and respect to me that I paid to him when he was addressing the House. I am simply defending myself, and this is the first opportunity I have had of doing so. I think he would be consulting his dignity if he were to permit me to go on without interrup- tion, and then when it comes to his turn he can have his say. As I have said, I am not one of the men who believe in " becking and booing." I have never done it, and I am not going to do, either here or anywhere else. I am reminded by the conduct of some of our public men of a comedy known as "The Man of the World," in which there is a character who says to one of the other parties in the play, " I becked and I booed, and see what I am noo-Sir Perti- nax McSycophant." But the Premier is not going to make a Sir Pertinax McSycophant of me. I am not anxious to please any one in par- ticular. What I came here to do, in common with other members, was to have my say in matters that concern the people, and I say that this is one of the most vital questions that we have had before us since Parliament met this year. This matter of expenditure of public funds aims at the whole structure, so far as we are concerned as the guardians of the public purse. We are sent here to watch the expenditure, and if we cannot do it, if it is no longer possible for us to say what we think about the manner of the expenditure of public moneys without being held up to scorn by the leader of the House, why should we be here at all? We may just as well send along a proxy, and allow the Premier to fill in the proxy and act as he likes. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is right. Mr. HORNSBY .- That is right so far as some people are concerned; but I stand here and state that I will not be placed in that position. An Hon. MEMBER .- You will do it to-mor- row. Mr. HORNSBY .- No, I will not, and I hope I never will ; but 1 do say this : that were we to 