that they have the right without appeal to the people to put their hands into the coffers of the State and make it up? I admit that members of the House have not privileges that some Minis- ters have. If a member's health breaks down he cannot spend £2,000 of the people's money on a trip to the South Sea Islands to restore his health to its normal tone ; and if he wants his private door opened by a servant he cannot get a member of the Permanent Artillery, at the expense of the State, to act as door-keeper. If a member wants messages carried, if 8.30. a member wants to go for a drive or take his family in a cab, he cannot do it at the expense of the State like a Minister can ; and therefore I admit, so far as a member is con- cerned, we have not the advantages and privi- leges of a Minister who chooses to misuse his position. If members come to this House under deliberate engagement with their con- stituents-and on many platforms I have seen members replying to questions on this very question of the honorarium-is it right and is it proper that we, without any reference to the people at all, should raise the amount of our salaries ? Personally, as I said before, I do not think members are paid sufficiently, and I think, if a measure like this were proposed to the people, most probably they would give their voice in favour of it ; but I do not think it is a right or proper thing for members to take the action they are taking without consulting the people. Of course, last year we had what is known as " the £40 steal," which was purely a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 vote put upon the estimates for the purpose of getting a certain Bill through. Mr. HORNSBY .- No. Mr. PIRANI .- Again the member for Wai- rarapa denies that, and I hope on this point we will agree to differ ; but that is my opinion. An Hon. MEMBER. - It is an insinuation. Mr. PIRANI .- There is no insinuation : it is a plain statement of fact. I say, I believe that the £40 was to be put on the supple- mentary estimates last year for the purpose of getting the Public Revenues Bill through ; and the time will yet come in the history of this colony when the passing of last year's Public Revenues Bill will be looked upon as one of the blackest blots in the history of the New Zea- land Parliament. But the Premier would never have got that Bill through had it not been for that £40. Notwithstanding the fact that the Premier can demand a majority on almost every subject in this House, that Bill would never have become law if it had not been for some incentive, some additional reasons than those set forth in the Bill. Now, the Premier has been making comparisons with the other colonies in regard to the payment of members, and has taken us back as far as the sixties ; yet it is only in 1901-forty years after the time the Premier spoke of-that he has thought fit to raise the honorarium ; although he has for the last ten years of those forty years been in office, he has never mooted the subject of an honorarium of $300 to the people of this colony. £240 in our time. Mr. PIRANI .- I say the Premier has never yet, during all the ten years he has been in power, proposed to raise the salaries of members of Parliament to what they were in Victoria in the sixties, and I know what I am talking about. The Premier knows that very probably if he submitted anything of this sort to the constituencies the result might be disastrous to the persons advocating such a proposal. I do not think the circumstances of the colony at present, notwithstanding all he has said, are such as to justify the increase of the honorarium or the increase in Ministers' salaries, and if members will look at the expenditure of the colony for the last six months, they will sce very clearly where they are drifting to. The Government are at their wits' end at present to raise money for the necessities of the public works of the colony. Where have we had announced lately any proposal to float a loan in the interests of the colony ? An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the dear old Uncle-land ? Mr. PIRANI .- I do not think we shall get much money for the colony from there, not- withstanding the Premier's guileless attempts to make favour with the "Uncle-land "; and, notwithstanding the assertion that the circum- stances of the London market are likely to be more favourable to the colony during the next twelve months, there is evidence that the reverse will be the case. And if loan-money is not to be obtained at a reasonable price, how is the expenditure of the colony to be kept within the revenue ? We know as well as possible that during the last few years the Go- vernment have been saddling upon loan a vast amount of the expenditure of the colony which ought to be charged to the Consolidated Fund, by this means making the finances of the colony appear much better than they really are. By putting into the Consolidated Fund moneys like that obtained from the purchase of Native lands, the revenues from land pur- chased with the North Island Main Trunk Railway Fund, and matters of that sort, Government have been enabled to inflate the revenue to an extent that has helped them to declare the large surplus in our finances. But this sort of thing cannot last for ever, and directly the money-market begins to get tight, directly it is difficult to obtain loan-money, so will our finance become more stringent, and the possibilities of obtaining large surpluses vanish. And I say this is not the time, when loan-money cannot be obtained-when the expenditure is going up at such a rate as to frighten anybody who carefully watches it-to put a charge such as proposed by this Bill on the people of the colony. The reason I say this is not the time, is because I think once this measure is on the statute-book there is not the slightest possibility of its being repealed. If the measure was to take effect at the com- mencement of the new Parliament, provided that a resolution of the new Parliament were passed bringing it into force then, you 