perfectly sure that any one who takes a truly scientific interest in collecting these curios- not the man who will buy an article for 5s. with the object of making a monetary profit out of it, but the true scientist-will be only too willing that the colony should keep these relics held in trust for him or others coming after him. In fact, there are collectors in New Zealand of whom I can with perfect safety say that when the Government apply to them they will hand over their relics to the Govern- ment to hold in trust for the owners and for the benefit of the colony; be- cause they have only been collected for purely scientific objects, and it will be suffi- cient pleasure for the man who owns them if he knows they are provided for in a house where he and the world could see and appre- ciate them. If they were placed in the museum which it is intended to build for this purpose, we should find that he would have pleasure in looking at them himself, and that the whole world would not only study and learn to appre- ciate them, but also admire him for his energy in collecting them. Therefore I suggest that when this Bill is on the statute-book the Go- vernment should publicly give notice, not only to Europeans but to Maoris, that they will hold in trust their ancestral curios. If they do so I am certain many Maoris will willingly come forward with relics which they would not part with for all the wealth of the Indies, but for safe keeping would be glad to deposit them with the Government to hold on trust. Just one word more. I had intended to deal with some of the stories of old New Zealand that were so graphically told by the honourable mem- ber for Waitemata. The honourable mem- ber for Waitemata told us, only in more euphemistic language, of the doings of the knights of old and their Spartan bravery. Evidently some honourable members do not credit that story about the tuatara ; and yet the honourable member, on the floor of this House, recognising his responsibility as a truthful man, told it, and, as I do, believed it. I can assure honourable members that some ten or twelve generations ago there were tremendous feats performed by some of the natives of Maoriland. As an illustration, in Heretaunga there was a chief who had the simple name of Tuwhakaperei, and it is a well-authenticated fact that he was a most successful toa, or warrior, and on one occa- sion, when he had annihilated his opponents, he proceeded to cut them up and take their hearts out. He was an epicure, and proceeded to cook these hearts over a fire, and this place is named to this day Te Ahimanawa a Tuwhaka- perei, meaning "The Fire where the Hearts were cooked by Tuwhakaperci." But just as he got them nicely browned, and possibly was gloating over this bonne bouche, he was alarmed by some of his opponents who had survived the slaughter, and who had rallied and returned to reconnoitre. He jumped to his feet, and, from where he was cooking on the side of the stream, it is recorded that, in a standing jump, he jumped two miles and three quarters and three yards. Mr. A. L. D. Fraser Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Why, Sir, it is measured, and his footprints are to be seen there to this day. An Hon. MEMBER .- Next ! Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I tell honourable members this can be proved ; the stream that he jumped over is there now. Then, again, his descendants are now alive, and they have been "jumping " land ever since. There was also a story-I do not know which section it refers to-which is worth mentioning. We congratu- late ourselves in having one spot in the universe where there are no objectionable reptiles. Now, New Zealand, at all events, is singular in that respect, and to account for it we have to go to Maori history, and it is equally as true as the tuatara story and the story of the sensational leap. One of the first ancestors of the Maoris to visit New Zealand was Tamatea Pokaiwhenua. When he came here he found the country in- fested with reptiles, but he had the attribute of the well-known Irish saint who has long passed away, but who is known in history to this day as Saint Patrick. But, instead of driving them out into the sea by an incantation, or the waving of hands, or prayer, Maori history tells us that he (Tamatea) carried with him the sacred fire of his ancestors, and he just set fire to a spot in the North Island and it swept from one end of Maoriland to the other, and no reptile was left alive. And so we find none here to-day, and for this blessing we have to thank the Maori. Now, as to tracing the Natives back to Egypt, as referred to by Mr. Monk, we find that sacred fire was also continually referred to in the old history of Egypt, and that sacred fire above spoken of is supposed to have been brought by the ancestors of Tamatea from their ! original abode on the banks of the Nile. I have taken up rather much time in this interesting discussion, but I hope it may have done some ... good. I know I have greatly appreciated the dissertation of the honourable member for Waitemata, and I sincerely hope the result of to-night's debate will encourage South Island members to take a little more interest-I do not say it disrespectfully-than they have done in the past in Native legislation and affairs. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- The honourable member for Napier, whose remarks I listened to with very great interest and plea- sure, misrepresented me in one instance. He said that the member for Auckland City was afraid it was too drastic a Bill. I added it was too drastic a Bill unless the Government were prepared to buy the relics, because my applica- tion of this sentiment was exactly the same as the honourable member for Napier's senti- ment in regard to Maori land. If the Govern- ment had the pre-emptive right to buy Maori relics and Maori lands, and did not find any money to buy either, and did not allow any private business to be done, it simply meant that Maori relics and Maori lands could not be sold, and it was unfair to the owners and the buyers. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) .- I am sorry to say that, in my opinion, this Bill has been 