Mr. FLATMAN .- Then, Sir, I would like to quote a few figures to show how they are grow- ing. If we take the figures of the Labour Bureau from March, 1899, to March, 1901, we find that in the engineering trade there were 2,240 persons employed on the 31st March, 1899, and that on the 31st March, 1901, the number had increased to 3,620. In the coachbuilding and blacksmith- ing trades the increase was from 2,265 to 3,353 in the same period, and the following table will show the increase in some other trades :- Number of Number of hands emp oyed hands employed for the year end- for the year end- ing 31st March, ing 31st March, 1899. 1901. Saddle- and harness- 871 making 778 Tailoring and cloth- 5,128 4,444 ing .. Hosiery knitting 487 419 Cabinetmaking, &c. 1,200 1,598 Flaxmilling 680 917 Shirt-makers 759 478 .. Range-making 112 57 Woollen-milling 1,528 1,391 .. Sir, this table shows that our manufactures are increasing, for all that is being said against our labour legislation. Now, Sir, with regard to the woollen mills, it has been said to-night that the woollen-mill owners have taken ad- vantage by giving farmers too low a price for That statement should their wool. 9.30. not be made ; because it is the London market that rules the price of wool, as members well know; and it is the British buyers that come here who fix the price of wool in this colony. It cannot be said that our manufac- tures are not increasing ; and Sir, I do not wish to see labour legislation press more heavily on the employer than is just, nor do I wish to see the labourer take undue advantage of the capitalist. The Labour Bills Committee are to be congratulated on the way in which this Bill is now brought down, and I believe it will be acceptable to the colony as a whole when it is in fair working-order. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- Nothing was further from my intention than to speak on the third reading of this Bill, and I consider it is unfortunate that a debate of this kind has arisen in connection with the third reading of a Bill on which I presume there will be no division, about which there is little or no dispute, and which will pass without any real contest. But some of the speeches have been of such a remarkable character that, if they were allowed to go un- contradicted in Hansard and the Press, some- thing in the nature of a false impression might go abroad. For instance, we have been treated to a speech by the member for Masterton, in which he spoke about the dangerous rate at which the unions were going, and the abnormal and terrifying demands they were making. thought to myself, is there any evidence - is there anything to show -whether the demands are of such an extraordinary character by com- parison with other countries? And it struck me the report of the Federation Commission the report, I find on page 19 the following <!-- PageHeader="\- -" --> remarkable paragraph :- " Your Commissioners made inquiries in Aus- tralia as to the rates of wages, hours of labour, holidays, conditions of working, and cost of living of artisans and labourers in Australia. <!-- PageHeader="\--- -" --> It was proved that, so far as rates of wages (ex- cept for overtime), hours of labour. holidays, and conditions of working are concerned, there is generally little difference between skilled arti- sans in Victoria and New South Wales and those in New Zealand." And, further down, we find it stated .- "The cost of living, food, and clothing is in the main lower in Australia than in New Zealand." Now, there you are! You can see the fright- ful length to which these unions have gone ! They have actually got up to something like a level with Victoria and New South Wales ! And here is something further : I defy any man to point out any trade in this colony which is regulated by the Arbitration Court under our labour legislation where it can be said that any man is getting more than a decent living- wage-that is, if he have a wife and anything like a family on his hands. Take the boot- makers' trade. These bootmakers get, I sup- pose, two guineas a week. Some of them may get, perhaps, #2 5s., but that is about the highest, and on that they have to keep a house, a wife, and a family, and also to keep up some kind of respectable appearance. Sir, when the unions have not gone to any greater lengths than these results show, there is mighty little, indeed, to complain of. Nothing is more amus- ing to me than to hear those gentlemen from the country talk about all the dreadful troubles of the farmer, and of his trials and tribula- tions, and saying that if the unions go further, or if they propose wages very much higher, the country will be ruined. Why, turn to the report of this Federation Commission, page 720, and you will find a table in the Appendix giving the value of the production for the year of the agricultural and pastoral industries and the manufactures of the various colonies, including New Zealand. You find by this table that in New Zealand the value of the agricultural, pastoral, and dairying industry-the total of the produce for one year-amounts in value to £17,379,000. And how many people are engaged in those industries? There are 106.000. As a matter of fact there are less than that, because the figures 106,000 are the total number engaged in the agricultural, pastoral, dairying, and mineral industries. I think there are about 80,000 engaged in agricultural, pastoral, and dairying work. Look at the result, $17,379,000 produced in the year : that is to say, #170 for every single person-even supposing there were 100,000 people - engaged in those industries. Surely, the country industries, being far and away the wealthiest, ought to be the last to I complain of decent wages being paid. Then, the honourabie member for Wakatipu gave us a dreadful warning note. He says we are cry- ing, " Peace, peace, when there is no peace !" and he goes on to say that the manufacturers would 