likely to render valuable service. I notice the Otago Education Board condemned very severely the proposal embodied in the report to reduce the number of certificates to two. This is the statement made by the Board :--- "The Board emphatically protests against the recommendation of the Commission that only two grades of certificates of competency be issued by the department, and against the pro- posed non-recognition of university degrees. The Board views this last recommendation as being a retrograde step, and unworthy of a Royal Commission on teachers' salaries; and the Board is of opinion that, if there is to be any reduction in the number of classes of certifi- cates, such reduction should begin at the lowest." Sir, a word on separate schools : At the pre- sent time there are six girls' schools, distinctly separate, under the control of a headmistress and women assistants. There are six others where-though the schools are under a head- master-the sexes are in different portions of the building, and the girls are under a head- mistress. It is desirable that these separate schools should be retained as prizes to our women teachers. Men will inevitably be ap- pointed to our large schools as headmasters, and inducements could be offered to our young women to qualify in a high degree for schools by way of appointments as headmistresses to separate schools and infant mistresses. The women teachers in the Wellington Provin- cial District have drawn up a petition which has been presented to Parliament praying for a continuance of these separate schools. In the finding of the Committee of the House a strong recommendation is made in favour of retaining separate schools and increasing them under certain conditions. A reflection has been cast by one or two members on the women teachers of the colony. No doubt there is a difference in the physical qualification of men and women -that will always be a disability under which women will suffer; but, so far as teaching is concerned, I venture to say, without fear of contradiction, that women teachers are as capable of doing good work and of imparting sound education as men teachers. I am in the habit of visiting some of the city schools in Wellington during the sessions of Parliament, and during the present session I visited the Mount Cook Girls' School. That school has an average attendance of about five hun- dred girls, and I noticed that there is a large class, consisting of some 10 per cent., in what is known as the Seventh Standard- girls who have passed the Sixth Standard, and who are preparing to pass the first stage of the B.A. degree, and otherwise qualifying them- selves for useful positions. These pupils are mostly the daughters of poor parents, who could not afford to send their daughters to the secondary schools. Amongst the scholars who have passed through this school there is a large number of winners of open scholarships given by the Education Board and the Univer- sity, and they have gained these scholarships with credit to themselves and their teachers. Mr. Meredith Their success in open competition showed the thorough grounding they had received in the Mount Cook Girls' School. Sir, a word on the question of equal pay for equal work. I notice that Mr. Hill, Inspector of Schools for Hawke's . Bay, in his examination of the Inspector- General, asked him if he did not believe in equal pay for equal work. The reply of the Inspector-General was that he believed in equal pay for equal burdens. That appears to me to be an abstraction. It may be very good in theory, but I think it would be 1 difficult to apply it in practice. Are we in the habit of doing so at the present time? Are we in the habit of differentiating salaries ac- cording to equal burdens ? Certainly not. Take, for example, the Minister for Public Works-he is blessed with a large family ; while the family of the Minister of Justice is repre- sented by a unit. Are we to differentiate in salaries there? On the principle of equal pay for equal burdens we should have to take at least £200 from the salary of the Minister of Justice and add it to the salary of the Minister for Public Works. On the other hand, if we con- sider the Premier and his large family, surely that gentleman is entitled to a much larger salary than any other member of the Ministry, on the ground of equal pay for equal burden. But we are not in the habit of doing that. In one of the drapery firms doing business in Wellington we find that the head dressmaker, who may be a spinster, is in receipt of £400 a. year, while the dressmaker working at a table, and who has charge of two or three assistants, and who is a widow with several children, receives £1 10s. per week. Again, the as- sumption is that the equal burdens are entirely with the male teachers. I contend that is not a correct assumption. We often find that a woman teacher has aged parents to keep ; but she does not receive the same salary, on the principle of equal pay for equal burden, that a male teacher would receive in a similar position. Then, it often happens that a woman teacher has not only aged parents to keep, but also an invalid sister or brother. Sir, coming to the question of small country schools, I con- tend that it will be the duty of the Government to deal liberally with those settlers who have left the centres of population and have gone back into remote districts, and who have esta- blished themselves in homes in isolated locali- ties, cut off from society, from the advantages of educational institutions such as obtain in the large centres of population, from reading- rooms, libraries, and so forth. It is our duty, at least, to give those parents an op- portunity of educating their children. If the principle embodied in this Bill is adopted- that is, £5 for each child in average attend- ance-a gross injustice will be done to the class of settlers I refer to. The difficulty, how- ever, is not so great as honourable members may think. In Canterbury the minimum salary is $65 a year. In Otago it is $70 a year. That : is what is called the lowest living-wage. The Bill provides that where there are fourteen scholars of an average attendance there will be 