whole industrial district. Now, in the Bill before us, we have in clause 12 a provision which enables the Court to extend an award in an industrial district-an award that has been made previous to the coming into operation of the Act of 1900 -a most extraordinary pro- vision. Then, in clause 13, subsection (4), a Court has power to limit its own award - that is, having made its award it may limit it in the first place to part of the industrial district ; next to any city; and, thirdly, to any town. Then, by subsection (5), if its a . ard is so limited, it may then extend it first, to any person,-here, again, comes in the provision which I spoke of previously, which binds non-unions ; secondly, to any employer ; thirdly, to any industrial union ; and fourthly, to any industrial as- sociation within the industrial district. Now, having limited its award and having extended it again, then the Court under subsection (6) may limit an award made under the Act of 1900. It may limit it, first, to any town ; secondly, to any city; and, thirdly, to any locality. Now, it is worth notice that while the Court may not limit its own award to less than a town, it may limit an award under the Act of 1900 which, perhaps, it never made- to a simple locality. Well, to sum up, we find, taking these clauses 12 and 18 with their sub- sections, an award may be extended, then it may be limited, then it may be extended, and then it may be limited ; and then the Bill goes further, and provides another limitation, be- cause in clause 24 it is provided that where workmen are engaged in different trades in any district for a particular employer the Court may make one award applicable to that business or any branch of it. We have therefore reached the limit of limitation, for it is almost impos- sible to limit the Act to less than one single branch of a business carried on by one em ployer. Well, Sir, this constant limiting and extending, which, to me, resembles playing on a concertina, I regard as absolutely dangerous to the principles of the law, because I cannot conceive how it is possible for any Court of Arbitration to administer such a law as that without doing serious injustice to some em. ployers, and without doing grave injury to many businesses, for I cannot see how it is possible to avoid conflict in the a .ards that are made. If there is any President of the Court of Arbitra- tion who is capable of carrying out such a law in a satisfactory manner I would like to see him ; and, failing that, I would like to have a copy of his photograph, because he must be a But let us suppose-for most remarkable man his term of office is limited-that he is suc- ceeded by another President, and I would ask what will happen then ? It would be impossible that the new President could have full know- ledge of what had been done by his predecessor ; and, acting on the same lines, he must ma- e awards and extensions and limitations of awards which must of necessity conflict with what had been done by his predecessor. Now, why I regard the proposed changes in the law with so much fear is this : that the principle that 1900, was to frame general conditions in regard to industries which would bring about a fair competition ; that you would not have in one locality people working at less cost and com- peting unfairly with people in another dis- trict, or any part of an industrial district. The result of the law as administered up to the present time has been to raise up to the higher standard those who did not previously pay the same wages or give the same favourable conditions of employment. So it has worked out to the interest of the good employer, and it has bettered his business, and made him more prosperous by reason of the fact that it has done something to check unfair and un- healthy competition. When you have con- sidered the importance of that principle to which I have referred, just cast your eye over the measure now before us, and what do you find ? You find clauses in the Bill in which the dratting is altogether out of harmony with other clauses. You find clauses relating to Boards of Conciliation and the extension of awards scattered about all over the Bill. There is no draftsmanship about it, no proper grouping of the clauses, and the whole mea- sure, from a draftsman's point of view, is in such a condition as should not be the case in a measure of this kind. This is characteristic of a great deal of the labour legislation we have had before us in recent years. I cannot help thinking that we have not had a Minister of Labour, except in name, since the Hon. W. P. Reeves left the colony. Suggestions come from all sources-I merely suggest this, I cannot prove it-and they are handed on to the draftsman to be put into shape; then they are thrown down before Parliament and altered by Parliament, and by the time the Bill is passed no member of Parliament knows fully what is in the law. For this reason, and the other reasons I have given, I say that all these provisions in the Bill dealing with the awards should be excised from it. It is the only safe thing to do under the circumstances. Then, we come to clause 21 : this is a direct attack upon one of the most important principles of the law of 1894. It seeks to abolish the Boards of Conciliation in an indirect manner, because it provides that any party in a dispute may refer the dispute direct to the Court of Arbitration. Now, what would happen under such a clause as that? We have our past experience to guide us. We know that in every dispute while you might be able to come to terms with most employers you will find at least one employer who will agree to nothing, and who will take every opportunity to make himself as disagreeable as he possibly can ; and I venture to say that the result under this clause will be that all dis- putes will go direct to the Court of Arbitration. Now, what is going to happen if this is done ? Can one Court of Arbitration do the work previously done by the Boards of Concilia- tion, and do its own work also. I think it is impossible. The work of the Boards has reduced the work of the Court to a minimum, and that is how we have been abl 