as a very important matter. It was thought its importance demands. there that possibly in the future, unless New Zealand joined the Commonwealth of Australia, to learn that this question is recognised as an friction would arise in reference to the trade of important question, because if we were not to the Pacific Islands. However, Sir, the Pro- recognise it as an important question the Aus- clamation of His Majesty the King in declar- ' ralian Commonwealth would. We were just ing these Islands to be part of New Zealand in time, in a sense, in retaining our ancestral has settled that question. Now, it becomes connections with these Islands. At the same necessary that the Parliament of New Zea- time the tendencies of the Europeans, at any land should provide for the government of these rate in Fiji, were that they should federate with Islands, and the mode adopted in this Bill, New Zealand ; but no sooner was that mooted I take it, is the proper one-namely, that the than the Australians immediately endeavoured laws of New Zealand obviously not adapted to prevent it. Now we see in the last day to the Islands should be declared not to be in or two that the Commonwealth of Australia force there, and that the local laws and usages has come to the conclusion that it will annex of the Islands should remain in force. I should New Guinea. I think that one of the best like to ask the Minister one or two questions. reasons we have got for endeavouring to asso- The first is as to whether the Government have ciate these Islands with New Zealand, apart in their possession in New Zealand copies of from, perhaps, the sentimental fact that these such of the laws of the Islands as are written Islands are peopled by the cousins of our own laws; and, if so, I would suggest that they Maoris, is the fact that if they were not oc- should be printed, and should be available for cupied by us, or by some branch of the British the use of members of Parliament, in order race, they would inevitably fall into the hands of a foreign race, and would be a perpetual that we may know what those laws are. Another important matter is that referred to menace to us. We know that if we had not in section 6 of the Bill. Section 6 provides :- urged the Colonial Office to take action they "The Governor, by Order in Council, may probably would not have taken action at all. Therefore we have been very fortunate in the from time to time establish a tribunal or ap- point an officer or officers, with such powers last two years in being able to get these Islands and functions as he thinks fit, in order to ascer- annexed to us. I am sure it will be for their tain and determine the title to land within the own good. I am sure they will be governed as said Islands, distinguishing titles acquired by well as they ever could be. But, for the benefit native customs and usage from titles other- of New Zealand, it is of inestimable benefit to wise lawfully acquired ; and may provide for know that no foreigners will ever get in there the issue of instruments of title, and generally and be a menace to us. Therefore, from a make such provision in the premises as he strategical point of view, I consider that this thinks fit." is a matter that we should look upon as of the I should like to ask the Minister what is the first importance. Next, as regards the inhabi- object of that section. Is it intended to tants, I do not think that, with a Government so familiar with the ways of the Maoris as our enable the natives to deal with their lands Government is, any officer who is sent down and to sell them ; because, if so, I venture to say that a very great mistake indeed will be there to act as Commissioner is ever likely to forget the lessons which he must have learnt made. The Government have an opportunity, in this country, otherwise he would not be with reference to the land in these islands, of selected for the position. A man who is fa- avoiding the confusion which has arisen from miliar with the ways of the Maoris, and with time to time with reference to the lands of the Natives of New Zealand. Here is an oppor- their kindly adaptation to European customs and education, is bound to make a good Ad- tunity for the Government to provide, in the administration of the lands of the Natives in ministrator among a similar people. There- fore, I think it is quite safe to say that the the Islands, for the benefit of the native owners. There can be no harm in the titles being indi- people of the Cook Islands will be treated in the very best way possible. The Hon. vidualised ; but what I venture to suggest is that the law should be so framed that the Colonel Pitt has asked about the Island laws. I understand that copies of them are in the native owners should have no power to sell Assembly Library. I am quite certain that their lands. We all know the reproach against the question of the title to the native land will New Zealand made by the Governor of Fiji, as a reason why Fiji should not be annexed to be dealt with satisfactorily. Then, their cus- New Zealand. The natives were told that if toms, their traditions, and their unwritten law as regards descent and succession to property is Fiji were annexed to New Zealand the white a very important question, and will have to be man would have their land. I trust it is not considered. Certainly the earth-hunger of the intended under clause 6 that the natives shall white man will not be encouraged. It is ad- have power to sell their lands. I look upon mitted, on the face of it, that it is a temporary this statute as merely a temporary one, as the Bill. It is a subject we had to deal with, Hon. Mr. Rigg has said. I trust that by next session a more comprehensive measure will be because, with the approval of Parliament, these Islands were annexed ; but it is admitted to be submitted to Parliament for its consideration ; and I hope it will be introduced at an early only a temporary Bill, and I feel quite certain period of the session, in order that members that next year, with the knowledge the Govern- The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am glad 