at all ; it is to enable the colony to reimburse him moneys expended and liabilities incurred on our behalf, and does not therefore require the assent of His Majesty the King. Now, although not required, I told the House the Bill would be referred to the Secretary of State, and no one knows better than the honour- able member that this Bill will be so re- ferred. The honourable member, after what I stated, I repeat, ought to know it, and this It is a point I wish to make against him. may be information for honourable members that the Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill was remitted for the consent of Her late Ma- jesty the Queen. That action was taken under the Royal Instructions, and the approval of the Home authorities was granted ; consequently, I say, we have the power to pass a Bill increasing the salary of the Governor for the time being during his term of office. Then, after we have passed it, it goes Home for the Royal assent. The King's assent was therefore given to our action in that respect, and vet the honourable member reflects upon His Excellency because during his term of office his salary has been in. creased. I say the responsibility of that in- crease came from us. It was not solicited by His Excellency. It is well known that, while we reduced the Governor's salary years ago, the increased population of the colony and the in- creased demands on any one who represents His Majesty rendered it necessary that there should be an increase ; and that increase was made in good faith, and with the view that it should be accepted at once ; and, after it has been accepted and approved by His Majesty, for the honourable gentleman to say it is unconstitutional and a departure from the Royal Instructions-well, I would like to know what will be said next. Sir, I come now to a few remarks made by the honourable member for Ashley. That honourable gentleman had prepared a table -- it is not the first incorrect table he has prepared-and it seems to me he is determined to place before the country and before the House statements which are incor- rect - I cannot use any stronger term. Sir, what does the honourable member say ? He says there was a refund on Customs duties of $360 to His Excellency, and that we must add that amount to the $7,000 salary, making $7,360. Then, he says we must take the $2,250 and add it to the £7,360; to that must be added $1,000, for renovating and furnishing Govern- ment House, et cetera ; which shows, he asserts, that the Governor this year receives for his own benefit over $10,000. Now, Sir, is not such a statement of the position grossly unfair? In respect to the refund, it was passed two years ago; and I wish to say that the officers on board His Majesty's ships always get dutiable goods free. When this refund came before the House it was put to members that we should give to His Excellency the same privilege that we give to officers commanding His Majesty's men-of-war. The #1,000 was passed last year ; the £2,250 is to meet liabilities incurred on our behalf. I say that to bring these matters Mr. Seddon to me that there is something underlying it that I cannot understand-something that no man who respects the representative of the Crown in this colony can respect. Then, the honourable member says that this sum of $2,250, which is simply to reimburse His Excellency for necessary expenditure, must be added to the amount received by him as salary - a statement that is so far -fetched that a gentleman holding the position held by the honourable member, a gentleman who has. hitherto been careful in his statements to the House and to the country-ought to regret that he ever made it. For myself, Sir, I am exceed- ingly sorry that such a statement was made by the honourable member, and I am now bound to meet it in such a manner that I hope the honourable gentleman, considering his self- respect and the self-respect of the people he represents in this House, and also considering the respect of this House and of the country, will not again compile tables of the kind, and make statements which are so exaggerated and contrary to fact. Sir, time will not permit me to go further than this. Now, Sir, what did the member for Wairarapa wish to convey at the outset, when he said that all that the demo- cracy received was the mud from the wheels of the carriages that took the select few to these functions ? Sir, let me tell that honour- able gentleman that the democracy of this country are as loyal and as willing to pay this bill as any select few ; and I believe, if I may speak my mind freely as regards the working- classes of this country, that they wish this bill footed and desire it to be paid ; and if they were here and could speak for themselves, instead of - shall I say, through a polluted source -- Mr. HORNSBY .- I rise to a point of order. I demand that these words be withdrawn, and I ask that they be taken down. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - The words "polluted source," in the connection used by the Hon. the Premier, are highly unparlia- mentary, and must be withdrawn. Mr. SEDDON .- I withdraw them with plea- sure ; and I ought to have said, through those representing them, and whose views are not in accordance with the wishes of the people repre- sented. I say the honourable member for Wairarapa does not represent, in what he said to-night in respect to this matter, the feelings of the people of the Wairarapa. And, Sir, I will take an early opportunity of ascertaining that in the Wairarapa. I speak freely upon this question, and I say at once that the people of the Wairarapa attended in large numbers and assisted at the reception of the Royal visitors, and I know that there are no more loyal people in this colony. If it is said that the people of the Wairarapa felt aggrieved be- cause they could not be invited amongst the few that His Excellency could invite to Govern- ment House, and that for that reason they would uphold their member's action, I repeat at once that I do not think the honourable mem- ber is representing the voice of the people of the Wairarapa. That is my opinion. Then, Sir, I <!-- PageHeader=":" --> <!-- PageHeader="\----" --> 