member for Palmerston that we know not of, but I am speaking as I analyse the estimates placed before the House, and from them I say His Excellency says that that money has been expended on behalf of the colony ; and it is the duty of the colony to pay it. The honourable member who has just spoken said, without any qualification or reservation, that when last year we passed an Act increasing the Go- vernor's salary it was to meet the expendi- ture that was anticipated in the Royal visit. Such a statement is either wilful misre- presentation or transparent ignorance. The honourable member was in the House at the time, and, whether he voted for it or not, there is the Act on the statute-book, and that Act provided for an increase in the salary of the Governor-not for the present Governor only, but for all Governors until the Act is repealed. The only sum on the estimates in anticipation of the Royal visit was £2,000 for the renovation of Government House. The Act -- the Governor's Salary and Allowances Act - passed last session had nothing whatever to do with the Royal visit. And, secondly, the sum now to be repaid is for disbursements by His Excellency on behalf of the colony. To my mind, it is regrettable for many reasons that the matter has been debated as it has been this evening. It is regrettable that the actions of the representative of the King, especially when entertaining illustrious visitors, should be questioned at all. The member for Waira- rapa evidently does not agree with me. He may have a very good reason for the attitude he takes up, but, to my mind, I do not think it is highly creditable to us to adversely criti- cize this matter. It is not only not elevating to the dignity of Parliament, but it brings our debates down to the low-water mark of degradation. The honourable member for Waitemata said the reason why he would vote against the Bill was because it was a mistake on the part of the Government. If I thought it was a mistake of the Govern- ment - and I go so far as to say it might have been a mistake -- still I think it is a sacred duty of ours to put that on one side and pass this without comment. This surely is one of the occasions when silence is golden. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I can- not help feeling, Sir, that all this discussion to-night has arisen through a mistake which was made in the first place in the manner in which the House has been treated in regard to the expenses of the Royal visit. I feel sure that the discussion itself is evidence of the fact that the House and the members of the House have somehow or other come to enter- tain certain suspicions that there are sums of money which have been expended in connec- tion with the Royal visit of which we know nothing, and we never shall know really what the Royal visit cost. I believe that had the Government come down with a statement of the expenses incurred in entertaining the Royal visitors, even though the sum shown to have been spent had been a much larger amount Mr. A. L. D. Fraser had the Colonial Treasurer been able to say that the colony had decided to entertain the Royal visitors, that it had entertained them, and entertained them as the colony ought to entertain Royal visitors : here is the bill ; this includes every item connected with the ex- penses incurred ; this will be the beginning and the end of the payment of these items when once you have "footed " this bill,-I believe Parliament would have "footed " that bill without a word. I do not think that there would have been any debate or discussion. The colony had decided to entertain the Royal visitors, and it naturally expected to have to pay for it, and I think that would naturally \--- be an end of the matter. The whole of this discussion, I think, has been the result of an : initial error. Of course, I know that it is very well to be wise after the event. I simply now suggest that difficulties of this kind might have been avoided by a little exercise of forethought. I cannot take up the attitude of those who propose to oppose the vote. I must confess that I do not like the position, yet I cannot offer a hostile vote to the payment of the sum. I think that the matter should have been dealt with differently. I may object-as I do object -to the Governor of the colony, of his own initiative, expending public money. I main- tain that this House, and this House alone, ought to exercise the prerogative as to when and how public money shall be expended. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why, he does it every day. Mr. COLLINS .- What I say is that I think the solid principle is that this House ought to exercise the prerogative as to how the money of the colony shall be expended. There is no doubt whatever in my mind that that ought to be so. But, Sir, we boast of our democracy. We decide to entertain the Royal pair, and it is absolutely necessary that they should be enter- tained in a manner befitting their position. Now, as a democrat, I object to allowing the Governor or any other person to bear the burden of the expenses which properly belong to me and to us. I will not, Sir, shelter myself behind the Governor or any one else in this respect. We decided to entertain, we have entertained, and I think it is too late now to complain of the amount spent or the method of the ex- penditure. That is exactly how the matter presents itself to me; and, that being so, I feel that it would be an undignified position to take up any other attitude. I have no word of censure, nor do I desire to cast any slur upon those who take up a different position, but I say that, having decided that we should invite the Royal guests here, they should be properly entertained ; and I think now, as a democrat, that we should not be doing right to per- mit the expense of the entertainment in any degree to fall upon the Governor. Sir, I feel it was a mistake to attempt to enter into any explanation of the detailed items to account for this sum of money. I can- not imagine that the Governor has had anything to do with the paying for blankets, 