ask, Would it not have been reasonable to have included that in the $2,250 for His Excellency the Governor ? His Excellency was the host. In the item read out by the Colonial Secretary were certain articles of groceries and other things which were part of the actual food, and he thought they should have been included in the £2,250 granted to the Governor, because His Excellency was the host. Mr. SEDDON .- No ; he acted as host for the colony. Mr. J. ALLEN said, Surely he was, and His Excellency notified it ; he saw it in the news- papers that he invited Mr. Rhodes to dinner. Sir J. G. WARD said that was not included in it at all. Mr. J. ALLEN said they would want to know by-and-by what the $2,250 was for. Sir J. G. WARD wanted to say that the amount in excess of what was in this item on the estimates had been charged to the Govern- ment. He might mention this, for instance : that there was $20 expended in decorations and flowers in Mr. Rhodes's house ; it was in- curred by Mr. Rhodes, under authority, in de- corating. The trouble was that the accounts had not been sent in the names of the people to the Government direct, but to Mr. Rhodes, and the result was that the Government had to put the amount on the estimates in Mr. Rhodes's name. He was informed that there were some seventy- five people staying in Mr. Rhodes's house-a number of them being servants who went there before the arrival of the Duke and Duchess -- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and they required to be provided for. It was not the Governor nor Mr. Rhodes who had to provide for that. It was the colony. Mr. J. ALLEN understood that everything / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero that took place in Christchurch in Mr. Rhodes's house took place by the direct instructions of Captain Alexander. Then, later on they came to another item in the estimates, connected with renovation, furnishing, alterations, et cetera, of certain residences, and included in those residences were the expenses connected with renovating the residence of the Mayor of Christchurch. He wanted to know whether the charge for renovating the residence of the Mayor of Christchurch was part of the items which had been read out by the Colonial Secre- tary. Sir J. G. WARD .- No, it is not so; only in connection with electric lighting. Mr. J. ALLEN said, Then, there were items connected with the renovating of this residence in Christchurch which were included in the general heading : why should they not all be put under the general heading ? Sir J. G. WARD said he had tried to explain the position to the honourable member. The Government did not want to put in Mr. Rhodes's name more than that of anybody else. Mr. SEDDON .- Strike the item out. Mr. J. ALLEN thought the best thing to do would be to strike it out and bring it down in the proper way. He did not want Mr. Rhodes to lose anything by it, but he did not want him to be placed in a false position. Mr. J. Allen now that the mischief was done, it would only make matters worse to strike the amount off the estimates, as it would appear then that the Mayor of Christchurch had made a demand for a sum of money that had been refused. As a matter of fact, no sum that Parliament would be likely to pass would reimburse Mr. Rhodes for the great expense he had been put to in entertaining the Royal party. The misleading way in which this item appeared on the esti- mates was not only unfair to Mr. Rhodes, but to the City of Christchurch, of which he was Mayor. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked why it was in the case of Christchurch only that accounts for provisions supplied to the Royal party had been sent to the Mayor. What had happened in regard to the accounts for goods supplied to the Northern Club at Auckland, and the Fernhill Club, Dunedin ? Were they sent to the secretary of the club ? Sir J. G. WARD said, in those two cases a contract was made on the basis of a payment of so much per head for the victualling of the Royal party. In the case of the Mayor of Christchurch that was not done. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said it was very re- markable that there should have been this one exception. Sir J. G. WARD said it was not the fault of the Government. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said it could not be called Mr. Rhodes's fault, and why should it be made to appear on the estimates that he was receiving this sum of $247? Sir J. G. WARD said these accounts were in the first place sent to Mr. Rhodes by the tradespeople who supplied the provisions, and Mr. Rhodes had sent the accounts on to the Government. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked if Mr. Rhodes had actually paid this money. Sir J. G. WARD did not say that ; but the accounts had been sent on to the Government with a letter from Mr. Rhodes. There was no object in putting the item as it was on the estimates, excepting to comply in the ordinary way with the requirements of the Audit Depart- ment. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said, Surely the accounts could have been sent back to the tradespeople with a request to alter the name of the debtor. Sir J. G. WARD said, If such a course had occurred to any one, Mr. Rhodes might have been written to and the accounts returned to him; but no one thought such a course neces- sary. It was the colony and not Mr. Rhodes who entertained the Royal couple during their stay in Mr. Rhodes's house. An Hon. MEMBER. - What was done in con- nection with Mr. Nathan's house, Auckland ? Sir J. G. WARD thought there was a contract there also. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said this item of £247 to reimburse Mr. Rhodes for the expenses incurred in connection with the Royal reception in Christchurch bore that interpretation, be- cause later on provision was made in the esti- mates for the alteration of the residences used 