Minister might during the recess go into the matter, and see if it were not possible to grant some measure of reform in connection with the administration of justice. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) trusted the Go- vernment would take into its serious considera- tion the rendering of District Court Judges independent of the Government of the day. He might mention that in New South Wales the tenure of office of District Court Judges was during ability and good behaviour : the Judges had to be barristers or solicitors of seven years' standing, the salary was not less than $1,000 and travelling-allowances, while the civil jurisdiction of the Court was only £200. In Victoria the County Court Judge -which was the same position as our District Court Judges-must be a barrister of seven years' standing: he held office during good behaviour, and his salary was £1,500 a year and travelling-allowances, with £25 per month extra paid to the rotation Judge sitting in Mel- bourne, and he had a retiring-allowance. His civil jurisdiction was $500. In Queensland the Judge must be a solicitor of three years' standing, and he held office during ability and good behaviour. His salary was £1,000, with retiring-allowance, and his civil jurisdiction was only £200. In England the County Court Judge had to be a barrister of seven years' standing, and he held office during ability and good behaviour ; he received a salary of £1,500 a year, and travelling-allowances, and was en- titled to a pension. His ordinary jurisdiction was only up to £50. In New Zealand a District Court Judge must be a barrister or solicitor, and he held office during the plea- sure of the Government. His civil jurisdic- tion extended up to £500; and, apart from that, in bankruptcy his jurisdiction was co-extensive with the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. And here they had the anomaly that there were three District Court Judges, one of whom acted as District Judge only, and received £900 a year ; the other two were Judge Robinson and Judge Kettle. Judge Robinson received £550, and he also acted as Stipendiary Magistrate and Registrar of the Supreme Court ; while District Judge Kettle had to attend to three districts. By the estimates he noticed that Judge Kettle was to receive £600 a year now, and he was Stipendiary Magistrate and also Registrar of the Supreme Court. The position was an anomalous one. There might be some reason why District Judge Ward should receive more than the other two Judges, but the reason was not quite apparent. He was not putting in a plea so much for the increase of salary as for the independence of the Bench. He would like to see the whole Judiciary placed in an independent position. If that could not be got at present, then let them have the District Court Judges appointed during good behaviour, for most assuredly it was wrong to have these Judges dependent upon the will of Parliament for the granting of their salaries. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) would like the Minister to give the House the reasons why Brightwater were to receive an increase of £50 each. Those were the only three Magistrates -with the exception of Judge Kettle-who re- ceived an increase. There were older men in the service who were not receiving the maxi- mum salary. He thought there ought to be some radical alteration made with respect to making up the jury-lists, because at the present time there was no doubt the lists were available to certain barristers, who knew who were to be called on a jury before the case came before the Court. Would the Minister take steps to put & stop to that? He was not talking of 4.0. any particular part of the colony, he was talking of the colony as a whole, and he said that the ends of justice had been defeated in certain cases through persons being able to find out the names of the persons who were going on the juries. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) also wished to refer to the case of packed juries. To his mind, it was simply another indication that juries ought to be swept away altogether. It was well known that if a man had a bad case he wanted a jury, and if he had a good case he wanted a Judge. He had heard it reported over and over again that it was possible to pack juries for certain cases. However, he rose specially to indorse the remarks of the member for Wairarapa. The Minister should certainly take a note of what that honourable gentleman had said. The matter of District Court Judges had been before the colony for many years, and the Minister must be aware that it was the de- sire of the colonists to place those gentlemen be- yond the influence of those who might retaliate if their judgment did not meet with their approval. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) was pleased to find that the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) was taking such an interest in the jury system, and, as one who had had a little experience with juries in the City of Wellington and in one or two other small towns, he would answer the remarks of the honourable member. The honourable gentle- man was absolutely unaware of the subject he was discussing : his arguments were quite fal- lacious. A jury should be a kind of protection to the prisoner, a kind of barrier between the accused and the prison-house. When a lawyer defended an alleged criminal he first of all obtained from the Registrar of the Supreme Court a copy of the jury-list. A copy of this list was also supplied to the Crown. The Criminal Sessions of the Court began on Mon- days, and the list could be obtained on the preceding Friday; and the reason such list was supplied to counsel was, of course, that it might be laid before the prisoner so that he would be able to say if there were among the names those of any persons who were an- tagonistic to him. Then, in the Court the prisoner had the right to challenge six of the persons called by the Registrar, and in that way had an opportunity to keep out of the box any person who might be known to be antagonistic to him. By what other process could a 