Forest Gate Estate-Factories Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past seven o'clock. PRAYERS. # FOREST GATE ESTATE. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) gave notice to ask the Premier the following question : " If any negotiations were in progress, or pending, relative to the acquisition by the Crown of the Forest Gate Estate, in Hawke's Bay ? " Mr. SEDDON (Premier) would answer that at once by saying the Government had decided to give the option to the owners, if they thought fit, to retain the land. It was an optional matter with them. The Proclamation would require to be issued within twenty-one days, but the Government had not yet issued it. Captain RUSSELL asked, Under what clause of the Act was there power to act in the direc- tion the Premier had indicated ? Mr. SEDDON said it could only be done by arrangement. If the parties were satisfied to retain what they had, the Government were quite prepared to let them have it, rather than pay the price fixed. Captain RUSSELL asked why the owner of the Hatuma Estate was not allowed the same option. Mr. SEDDON said there was a slight dis- tinction between the Hatuma Estate and this estate. In respect to the Hatuma Estate the Government did not consider, under the whole of the circumstances, it was possible to act as they were doing in regard to this. Captain RUSSELL .- Then, you are making flesh of one and fowl of the other. Mr. SEDDON said there was a distinction, and in this case there was a slight difference. # FACTORIES BILL. On the question, That this Bill be read a third time, Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) said,-I do not think it would be right for me to allow the third reading of this Bill to pass without con- gratulating the Government upon having carried it successfully through the House, and to touch country," which they have striven to raise, upon one or two questions which are more im- will now be heard no longer, and I think they mediately related to the subject. We have had will realise that in the future farmers and three or four different Factories Acts placed on employers will raise the old cry, if any-and the statute-book, but the Act now about to pass I trust it will be very seldom of labour versus its third reading is a consolidating measure, capital. And on this point I wish to point out which also contains the conditions that were this : that only a few weeks ago, at the Em- contained in the Young Persons Compulsory ployers' Association meeting held in this city, Payment of Wages Act, and I am sure that not one of the members stated that the farmers' only honourable members, but the country as a unions in New Zealand were striving to amalga- whole, will receive this measure with a great mate with the Employers' Association through- amount of satisfaction. During the last two out the colony, with the desire of resisting the months there has been a certain amount of labour legislation or the claims of the Labour unrest in the country with regard to labour party. Now, if this be so, members must im- legislation. A great number of people have told mediately realise that, when you have the em- us that we have gone far enough, and that we ployers organizing both in town and country, should now pause. This unrest, however, has labour must also organize. And, when once you have labour organized and the employers organ- thoroughly considered the subject, and who have not realised the position taken by the Govern- ment with regard to labour legislation. This unrest has been to a very large extent caused by the Press of the colony, and the employers themselves, who, in my opinion, believed that by causing a false cry they could raise a spirit of antagonism in the country to the present Liberal party which might be of service to them in fourteen months' time. Not only, Sir, has this unrest been created throughout the country, but it has also been felt by the labour organizations themselves, in consequence of the extent to which it has been carried. Workers have asked themselves whether it be a fact, as suggested, that the Government, who recently received their majority from the labouring- classes, now had ceased to be their friends, and had determined to look elsewhere for their support. They commenced to ask themselves whether it was a fact that they would have to cease to support, with the enthusiasm they had previously, the party who had served them so well, and who they considered had striven to pass legislation fair and equitable to all con- cerned. But, Sir, I wish to say this: that if there are any persons outside the Government who deserve credit for the Bill as it stands at the present time it is the members of the Labour Bills Committee, who sat during last session and the present session of Parlia- ment striving to put it into form. It is well known that, with the exception of one or two of the members on our side and of the Opposition, who are thoroughly in sympathy with the labour legislation, the majority of the members on that Committee are labour repre- sentatives ; and so the fact that all that which was objectionable to the farmers, to the freez- ing-works proprietors, and the dairy proprietors and others has either been removed from this Act or have been put in such a position that they can work under it with satisfaction and success to themselves, is, I think, a complete answer to the criticism which has been shown during the last few months, to the effect that the Labour party and the Government were likely to run labour legislation to such an ex- tent that it would detrimentally affect indus- tries. I think that the cry of " town versus 