satisfied that the honorarium should be fixed at two hundred guineas. He told his con- stituents that he intended to vote for that amount, as it was fixed by resolution of this House before he was elected. Every honour- able member who was elected since that resolu- tion was passed was entitled to vote for the amount being retained as it originally stood. He would vote for it without any diffidence whatever, and if his constituents did not think his services worth that amount let them get some one else." An Hon. MEMBER .- Was that not a first ses- sion ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, this was a first session ; and sometimes we would get two sessions in the year, which meant £420. I also mention, Sir, the fact which I now recall as regards those gentlemen in another place. We have decided, and I think wisely, that there shall be a complete and full representation of all classes in our country. We have decided, of course, that labour shall be represented there ; and to take a man receiving £3 10s. a week and place him in the Legislative Council at £3 a week, and preventing him from follow- ing his ordinary occupation, and to ask him to go on on these conditions, is, I say, simply keeping a man in genteel poverty. I say the amount we are prepared to give them now-an additional £50, or £200 a year-is reasonable in the extreme, and I believe the House will do well to pass this measure. I feel satisfied that the country will indorse it. I repeat that the amount involved, spread over the entire popula- tion, is almost infinitesimal ; and, what is more, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 I believe that a member serving the country, and feeling that he is adequately remunerated, works with a better will, a better heart, and with better devotion than he does when he feels that he is not receiving what he is justly entitled to. On that ground-that he is en- titled to it, and the country is prepared to award it-I move the second reading of the Bill, trusting that all the members will receive it in the spirit that it is moved and intended, that one member will not endeavour to make capital against the other, whilst in heart believing that the amount proposed is not too great. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- The Premier's speech in support of this measure may be divided into two classes-special pleading and innuendo : special pleading on behalf of an increase of salary for those who are supporting the measure, and all sorts of innuendoes against those mem- bers who may be in opposition to it. Now, I do not think it becomes his position that the leader of the House should anticipate in his opening speech those members who are going to oppose the Bill. In the first place, he put down amongst those who are going to oppose the Bill the wealthy members of this House. With probably two exceptions, the Premier himself is the wealthiest member of this House ; and I do not think the Premier is going to oppose the Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- If that is the position, they are a very poor lot. According to what you Mr. Seddon am. Mr. PIRANI .- I am - in my conscience, which is a clear one - very much better off. If the Premier looks at the land-tax and pro- perty-tax returns he will find that what I say is about correct. I do not think it is at all likely that any member of this House, because he has <!-- PageHeader=". ." --> ample private means, is going to oppose the measure for that reason alone. Then, another <!-- PageHeader="1" --> class of members the Premier said were going to oppose this Bill-and I rather had my doubts, Mr. Speaker, as to whether you were going to allow him to proceed-were those who would not oppose the measure openly and honestly, as well as those who would go into the "No" lobby whilst their desires and wishes were to be in the " Aye " lobby. If that is not calling into question a member's honesty and making re- flections of a personal character-against our Standing Orders -- I am sure I do not know what personal reflections are. Then, the Pre- mier said a reason for passing the Bill at this stage was that we had to reconcile the people to it, and that they would be better reconciled if the system were in force for eighteen months than they could possibly be in three or four months. Well, I never yet heard that any man or woman had any need to be reconciled to what was right or proper. Mr. HORNSBY .- Oh, yes. Mr. PIRANI .- I am just relating my own experience. I am not giving the experience of the member for Wairarapa. Probably he can speak on that point better than I can. Mr. SEDDON .- I have known of a woman marrying a man and then a little while after wanting a divorce. Two years after that she would not part with him for anything. Mr. PIRANI .- When the Premier's experi- ences are of such a nature we can well under- stand why he speaks as he does. My position. I take it, in regard to this Bill is almost exactly on all - fours with that I took upon the Ministers' Salaries Bill and the Governor's Ex- penses Bill. I say that no measure of this sort, affecting members of the House and affecting public revenue, ought to be carried into law until it has been before the people. The Premier says he is a convert to the referendum, and be has actually proposed in this House-his influ- ence does not extend to the other Chamber- measure under which matters of this sort can be referred to the vote of the people. What was he afraid of at the last general election that he did not refer this Bill to the decision of the people ? And what is wrong with the measure. that, instead of referring it to the people ai the next general election, he should want to " reconcile " the people to it eighteen months before the people can constitutionally express their views upon it. Personally, I may say there is a very great deal in the argument of the Premier, that it does not pay some members to be in Parliament at $250a year ; but, then, it does not pay some members at $1.000 a year. And do you mean to say that because members, who are themselves the choosers, decide to come here for £240 a year-because they are losing 