studied the matter at all, and who would have to go from page to page in order to master the details of the evidence given. Then, we are told that this is the first step to impair the Boards. I have heard that before ; but if it is the first step, well, it is not a bit too soon. My own opinion is that it will strengthen the position of the Boards. We are not interfering with the Boards and their appointment and control of the teachers, but we are, very pro- perly I think, preventing Boards from inter- fering with the salaries of the teachers. They often make regulations, and I will undertake to say there is not a Board in the colony that has for years conformed in respect to salaries to the regulations they have themselves made. If they had now to pay according to the regulations a good many of the teachers would have re- coveries to make from the Boards of Education. Now, in regard to the smaller schools, to show the anomalies that exist, I can point to cases where £42 is paid as a salary to a teacher in one district and $85-that is, double the money-to a teacher in another district where they were, perhaps, better able to afford it ; but at the same time I undertake to say that the service that the teacher receiving the smaller salary is required to perform is quite as well per- formed as that of the higher-paid teacher. All that money comes from the one chest-from the Public Account-and yet one teacher receives $85 and the other £42 for the same work. say it is much better to remove anomalies of that kind. Then, coming to the question raised by the honourable member for Riccarton, as to increasing the expense by the multiplication of these small schools, I do not think there is any danger in regard to that. I do not think that that danger exists, because we have a limiting power in respect to the building grant. The Boards of Education cannot put up immense schools ; and in the country dis- tricts there will be expenditure required in respect to building, and I am sorry to say the building grant is limited; but, at the same time, there is that power in respect to the multiplicity of the smaller schools, a danger pointed out by the honourable member for Riccarton. Now, with regard to that class of school called the half-time school, there is nothing to prevent that at all. There is no recommendation in respect to increased salaries to teachers of half-time schools, but in Com- mittee it will be easy to introduce an addition to provide for, say, an increase of 50 per cent. on the salary of the teachers of such schools. The total amount required if that were carried would be $700 a year, so that this is not an insurmountable difficulty. An Hon. MEMBER. - Fix a minimum. Mr. SEDDON .- On the question of a mini- mum there is nothing to prevent that being done now, and I am inclined to think it would be a proper thing to do. I am not at all ad- verse to fixing a minimum, because I think in the case of a young man who has to go and teach at one of these country schools of from one to twenty pupils, I think £2 per Mr. Seddon shilling too much. We could not have it less than that. That is my own view upon the matter ; but I agree that it would have to be carefully safeguarded, and it is much wiser to take the course we are taking, so that we may see how it works, rather than to rush into" diffi- culty that we do not know the end of. Now the Board, I may say again, may require assistance from settlers, in schools below the minimum of twenty. Some settlers-and I think very properly so, considering their circumstances- find the teachers in board and lodgings, which is an advantage, of course, to the teacher, while it is a help to the settler. It is easier for the settlers to contribute in that way than to find the cash. Then, the member for Christ- church City (Mr. Smith) raised the question as to side-schools, and as to instructions being assigned in the Bill. The arrangement as to the position to be held by the head mistress of side-schools has been left, as has every other question of organization, to the Boards to deal with. The Government have carefully avoided, as far as possible, interfering with the Boards' organization and administration. The moment we interfere there will be a danger of wrecking the Bill. The member for Palmerston pointed out a good many things we could have done, but I would point out we can do too much, and the moment we do that we bring op- position against the measure, and the next thing would be that these members would I tell the teachers that the Government wrecked the Bill by interfering with the Boards of Education. Therefore, by keeping the Boards solely and strictly to the teachers, that ground of objection is taken away, and that is why the Bill has been so well received, and that is why I know this Bill is going on the statute-book and going there this session. Then, Sir, I will come to the question raised by the member for Bruce, as to the terrible in- fliction that will be caused by this Bill on the teachers of Otago. I said in my opening speech that I had not received any objections to this Bill. It is quite true I did not receive any, but I have since learned that there was an ob- jection, but simply on minor grounds, from the Otago Education Board. Now, I come to the second-assistant in large schools, and I may say that none of these second-assistants would lose under scale No. 2 at all. If we adopted scale No. 2 to-morrow not a single second-assistant would lose in salary, and as they keep their present salaries for two years under the second proviso of clause 3 of the Bill I do not think there is much in the objection taken under that head. Now, here is the terrible loss inflicted under scale No. 1 : Four teachers lose £2 each, one loses .£5, and the others nil. That is how it affects Otago ; and yet the honourable member says, "Stop, pause ; read the Bill only a second time, and pass it next session." Now, Sir, the minimum salary of schools under twenty in Otago is $70. That is also the maximum, for the scale rises up to £100. All I have said in respect to this question is that probably the small schools in Otago might suffer; but the 