In the early part of last century the American Colonisation Company, at the instance of Clay and others, set up a colony on the west coast of Africa, which they called Liberia. It was a philanthropic attempt to bring about a better condition for these freed people, who were joined by others, and that Republic has been maintained to the present day. But it cannot be said it has been an unqualified success. It has not developed the trade it might have done. It has not paid interest on moneys it borrowed since 1874. As for the people themselves : we find that comparatively few of the children have gone to school. It is, however, only fair to add that it has had great difficulties in con- tending with surrounding tribes. No doubt, for a time, under a Negro leader named Joseph, it made great progress, and the experiment was thought to be successful, but it has degenerated since that time. The next instances are the Republics of Santo Domingo and Hayti. One part of the island was in the occupation of the French and the other in the occupation of the Spaniards, and, without going too far into history, I may say the French took their slaves to help in the War of Independence in America, and those slaves, having tasted a certain amount of liberty, ultimately took the opportunity of freeing themselves. These two republics on the same island were one and the same for a time, but they could not agree, and the consequence has been that for a number of years past you have, on the western side of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 island, the Republic of Hayti with its negroes speaking French, and you have on the eastern side the mulattos speaking French, and between the two there is a tract of land that seems to be the common battle-ground where they meet occasionally to fight out their differences. Pro- bably, of the three republics I have mentioned, Santo Domingo seems to have got on the best, but even its success is very qualified. There- fore, when you come to consider the adapta- bility of the coloured races to govern them- selves, these instances throw some light on the subject, because I think it would be admitted that the African-Americanised negro is a man of very considerable intelligence, and, if they have not made a very great success of their republic, we may ask, how much success can we expect from the natives of the Cook Islands, were we to give them a modified form of our government, and the addition of such assist- ance and advice and control as we may exercise from New Zealand? I think that is a fair question to put. Then, we come to another race-the East Indies. The form of government there is by a Governor-General, who has a Council of five or six, and this Governor-General, with his Council, makes all the las. Under him there is a Secretary of State, with ten members, who carry on the direct work of the Administration. In some parts of India, where the territory is British, the control is direct ; but in other parts, where the princes rule in their respective States, they are controlled by a resident officer, whose principal duty is to preserve the suzerainty of the British information to guide us in dealing with the Cook Islands by referring to India. It is to the United States of America we must turn to. find the only analogous instance I am aware of to guide us. I do not refer to Cuba or the- Philippines or Porto Rico. There there has been a military power set up, which deals with those countries; but it is to the Hawaiian Islands that I wish to allude. We find that these islands were annexed by the United States Go- vernment at the request of the inhabitants ; and we must remember that we are taking over the Cook Islands on account of a similar request. This was formally done by a resolution of both Houses of Congress on the 7th July, 1898. And now I would like the attention of the Minister to this, as I think that the course followed on that occasion might be of some use in guiding us as to our conduct on the present occasion. I need not go through the whole of the resolution, but I will take the more important clauses of it, which will throw light on the work we are attempting to do. The first section is that special laws are to be enacted for the govern- ment of the Islands. The next is that existing. conditions are to exist until legislation is passed, and that the President may remove and: appoint officers ; but existing officers are held in office until such time as a change is made. The next is that existing treaties are abrogated and the treaties of the United States replace. them, and municipal legislation not contrary to the Constitution of the United States, not. enacted for the fulfilment of treaties so ex- tinguished, and not contrary to the resolution, to remain in force till otherwise determined. The next is that Customs laws and regulations are to remain in force until legislation is en- acted. The next, that the public debt lia- bility is assumed by the United States so long as the existing Government and commer- cial relations continue, and the Hawaiian Government is to pay interest thereon. But, Sir, there is a limit to the liabilities taken over by the United States Government, which is four million dollars. And then there is this very appropriate clause, which is, that the President is to appoint five Commissioners, and that two of them are to be residents of the Islands, who are to recommend to Congress. such legislation concerning the Islands as they shall deem necessary or proper. Now, that is a clause to which I call special attention, be- cause it seems to me that in dealing with the Cook Islands the only way you could obtain proper laws, and laws to meet the requirements of the Islands, would be by setting up a similar Commission. I come now to the provisions of the Bill before us. The first point which I desire to call attention to is that the Act is. retrospective-that it comes into force from the 11th June previous. Well, I want to know what will be the position as regards Customs duties. under this Bill. The New Zealand tariff will operate from the 11th June, and this Bill is not yet passed ; how will the duties be re- covered, as between that date and the present time; or have they been taken in advance? 