man who was in possession had practically had his claim acknowledged by the Government wanting to buy his land ? It would be a very dangerous thing to pass this motion, for, al- though it might look very small, there was a principle involved in it ; and, as one honourable member had asked, why should they put on the Government the duty of inquiring into this matter? Besides, the Minister had given the Hon. Mr. Tomoana the assurance that the Go- vernment would look into it. After that as- surance, surely it would be better for the honourable gentleman to take the Minister's advice and withdraw his motion. If honour- able members would only look up the proceed- ings of the Council for 1898 they would see that a very full inquiry was made into this matter by the Native Affairs Committee, and that there was a long report from Judge Mackay, who went into it very closely indeed, and made a very clear statement of the case. That being so, the Government ought to be left to take their own course without this resolution being passed. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY said, as far as he could see, it would do very little harm whether this motion was carried or not. It simply pro- posed to refer the matter to the Government, and this matter had been referred to the Go- When he was vernment on several occasions. Chairman of the Native Affairs Committee in the other branch of the Legislature, some dozen years ago, he had this matter before him on two occasions. It was very nearly thirty years ago, he thought, since the first petition was before the House, and it was thoroughly in- vestigated on more than one occasion, and re- ceived careful consideration on every occasion it was before the Native Affairs Committee. Since he had been in the Council the same matter had been before the Council. In 1897 and 1898 they spent some time in the Native Affairs Committee in going into this matter, and there was a long report from the Com- mittee ; and he was sure, if honourable gentle- men would read the report made by the Native Affairs Committee in the year 1898, and would also read the report brought up in the other branch of the Legislature, they would come to the conclusion there was not very much in the contention of the Hon. Mr. Tomoana. As the Hon. Mr. McLean had said, Judge Mackay gave evidence, and the Judges of the Native Land Court as well, who heard the case. As far as he was concerned, he had no objection to the honourable gentleman's motion being passed and going to the Government if he had got any fresh evidence to bring forward. The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA would like to say a few words with reference to the motion of his honourable friend. If the Hon. the Minister was willing that the Government should in- quire into this matter, then he (Mr. Taiaroa) would say there was no harm in passing this motion, which only proposed that the Govern- ment should inquire as to whether or not the petitioners were equitable owners of this block. With reference to what fell from the Hon. Mr. never been a rehearing of this case before the Native Land Court, and it was impossible for the petitioners now to obtain a rehearing, because, owing to certain circumstances, and possibly the neglect of the petitioners, they omitted to put in their application within the prescribed time, and that was what they had been petition- ing about all these years. They petitioned and prayed that the Native Land Court might be allowed to rehear this case. This petition was dealt with by the Native Affairs Committee in 1897, and the Committee reported that, having made inquiry into the case, they were of the opinion that the petitioners had established a case for inquiry as to their claim to be re- gistered as beneficial owners in the Whaka- puaka Block, and recommended the Govern- ment to inquire whether action should be taken under subsection (10) of section 14 of "The Native Land Court Act, 1894." It would be seen by this report that the Committee were in favour of a rehearing, or, at all events, thought that it might be just as well to grant a rehearing; but, unfortunately, they quoted the wrong section of the Act under which they supposed such application should be made, and when the petitioners referred the matter to the Government they were told this report was drawn up under a misconception as. to the powers given under the clause men- tioned by the Committee. The petitioners then further petitioned the Council on the subject. There was a report of a Committee in 1898, and in 1899 there was a further petition, which was reported on as follows :- "The Native Affairs Committee, to whom was referred the petition of Atiraira Paremata, praying that a law be passed to enable the Na- tive Land Court to rehear all claims to the Whakapuaka Block, and that, pending such legislation, the said block be declared inalien- able, have the honour to report that they have carefully considered the said petition, and taken evidence thereon. " As the Natives interested are desirous of giving fuller evidence on the question at issue, your Committee recommend that further con- sideration of this petition be adjourned until next session." It would be seen the report was not final. It proposed that the matter should be further gone into in the following session, but nothing more has been done, and that was the reason the Hon. Mr. Tomoana had brought forward his motion. He (Mr. Taiaroa) could go very fully into the matter if he wished, but he did not desire to delay the Council. He might have to say more about it on another occasion. It was only right, he thought, the motion should be passed, and the report of the Committee, which suggested that something more should be done, taken into consideration. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY did not understand how the Hon. Mr. McLean could say it would be dangerous to make an inquiry into this case. It could not be dangerous to make an inquiry and elicit the truth. For himself, he thought there was no danger at all. He considered 