remarks that have been made by many members during the present debate, that at the present time, when the Government have the sole right of purchasing Native lands, the Natives are being treated very unfairly in respect to the value they get for their land. Instance after instance has been given in this House. Instances have been given by Mr. Kaihau and others, that the Natives have not received a quarter of the value that they would have received for their land if they had been allowed to deal with outside purchasers. My own opinion has been for years past that the legis- lation should go in the direction, as far as pos- sible, of making the same law for the Natives and the Europeans. If that had been started eight or ten years ago, and the Natives had since then been educated up to it, I do not see why they should not be existing to-day under almost the same laws as the Europeans. It has already been pointed out that this is a matter that all members of the House should be interested in, and I am sure the Native Minister himself will admit it is not a party question. Every mem- ber in the House should endeavour to do his best to improve the Native legislation, not only in the interests of the Natives, but also to encourage the settlement of the Europeans. I have no intention, Sir, to take up any more time, because, although there are certain matters I would like to deal with, they will come before us in Committee. I repeat that I regret the Bill was not brought down earlier in the session. As it is, it would appear that it is going to be forced through the House in a some- what hurried manner-the manner in which Native legislation is usually passed through the House. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- Sir, I have no intention to say much on this Bill. In fact, I had almost given up the idea of discussing these Native Bills, for the simple reason that I do not know what policy the Government have made up their mind to adopt in regard to Native land. Every session Bills are brought in dealing with Native land and are put on the statute-book, and that is all we know about them. I fail to see, then, why we should waste the time of the House in discussing questions of the kind. As a North Island member I feel sick at heart when I see how things are drift- ing : but if I say anything in the House, or if any other North Island member says anything on Native land questions, it is said we are in- terested, and all sorts of accusations are hurled at us. That is why members representing the North Island constituencies do not care to in- terfere in the matter. We have heard it sug- gested many times that the Government for years have been robbing the Natives ; that they have been buying the land for far less than its value. Well, I do not know of any such case. In the North they have paid full value for any blocks of land they have bought from the Na- tives, and I know of several instances in which they have lost money. When they come to road and survey the land, and to lay it out for settlement, they have had in some cases to pay Mr. Lang than the tenants have been able to pay to re- coup themselves for the purchases. If you look at the lump sum paid for a block of land it may appear to be small, but the fact of the matter is that if the Government buy a block of ten thousand acres of land there are, pro- bably, two or three thousand acres of the land which is almost worthless. When the Govern- ment cut up the land they find there is only a small portion which is fit to be offered to the public, and, of course, the rest is useless for all time. Speaking from my experience in the North, I say the Government have dealt very fairly with the Natives. Unfortunately, how- over, the Natives have only disposed of the worst of their land. In the North they hold very valuable estates, and, judging from present ap- pearance, they show no disposition to part with them. I do not now wish to raise the question of what the Government should do in this matter. Neither am I prepared to tender my advice. because I know it would not be accepted. I have got tired of tendering advice upon Native matters ; but in my opinion what should be done is that there should be a settled and definite policy. Years ago I heard the present Native Minister, when a private member, make very able speeches in this House, and fore- shadow a very sensible policy in dealing with Native lands, but for some years back he has kept very silent-we very seldom hear from him. and he does not lay down any definite policy. The practice of the Government now seems to be to bring in Bills to humour the Natives, to please them, as if they were a lot of children, and that practice leads them to nothing. We find that the Natives are in a worse position now than they were years ago. I am not going to oppose the Bill, or take any interest whatever in it. for the simple reason that I do not think it matters very much whether it is passed or not : I do not expect to see any result from it. I believe. yet, that the Natives will see that it is better in their interests and in the interests of the colony that some well defined policy should be laid down, that some national policy should be worked out bearing upon the question of dealing with Native lands, and that that policy should be adhered to, no matter what changes of Go- vernment take place. A definite policy should be adopted, and we should adhere to that and place the Natives in a position of security. We should, as far as possible, encourage the Natives themselves to commence farming opera- tions, to utilise the land and to work it. If we do that I am certain it is the best thing we could do in their interests. I have no wish to say anything further on the Bill. I attach little value to it, and I am sorry to say that the whole of our Native-land legisla- tion has resulted in no benefit whatever either to the Native owners or to the colony. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .- I wish to say a few words before the Bill goes to a second reading. I may say at the outset that I am in a position of some difficulty as to how to vote. If by voting against the Bill I should be voting for the repeal of the Act of last year I should cer- 