as I am concerned, the occurrence is, with me, as though it had never happened. CADET CORPS OF COLLEGIATE AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS. The Hon. Colonel PITT asked the Minister of Education, Whether the Defence Depart- ment will arm the cadet corps of the several collegiate and secondary schools of the colony with the Martini-Enfield carbines now in the Defence Stores, and whether they will do so without delay ? His reason for asking this question was that the whole of the Volunteer corps throughout the colony have been armed with a new and uniform weapon, and in the process of that being done some fourteen hun- dred of these Martini-Enfield carbines had come into store. About nine hundred of them, he believed, would completely arm the whole of the cadet corps mentioned in the question -- namely, those belonging to the colleges and secondary schools throughout the colony-and he thought it would be an excellent thing if the Government would so arm these corps with this weapon. The fourteen hundred that were in store were not of much use for any other purpose, and a very great thing would be ac- complished by having these cadet corps armed in a uniform manner, more especially if they had to come together on any future occasion. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that at the present time there were more corps armed with the Snider than could possibly be supplied with the particular carbines the Go- vernment had got. The Hon. Colonel PITT. - Not in these schools. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, Still there were over two thousand Sniders in use now, and of the weapons referred to a little over a thousand. The question had not been lost sight of. He hoped to see the cadets properly dealt with, both for drill and shooting pur- poses. They would not be dependent on Sniders any longer. WHAKAPUAKA BLOCK. The Hon. Mr. TOMOANA moved, That the Government be requested to make inquiries during the recess as to whether or not there are other Natives having an equitable claim in the Whakapika Block of 30,000 acres, more or less, awarded by the Native Land Court to Huria Matenga, with a view to relief being granted to them. He wished to state that there were certain people who were interested in the title to the Whakapuaka Block, and they had for the last fifteen years been applying to be allowed to set their case before the Native Land Court. He would try to state the matter to the Council. In 1883 the Native Land Court sat to deal with this particular case, and since he had been a member of the Council he had on several dif- ferent occasions urged in the Council that their petition should be dealt with. These persons who had been petitioning-namely, Atiraira and Ngawaina-were of an older branch of the family than Huria Matenga, to whom the land ! tribe, and she and her children then went he referred contained about thirty thousand acres, and he believed if it were sold it would. realise at least $50,000; and this block had been awarded to one single individual, Huria Matenga. Now, he would explain to the Coun- cil the claims of these petitioners. Ngatikuia were the former owners of the block. It was in consequence of Te Wahapiro fighting for that block, and because he killed the former chief owner of the land, that he got possession of it. Subsequent to this, Taiaroa, senior, and the other chiefs of the Ngaitahu Tribe made peace with the Natives of the North Island, and Wa- hapiro ceased to fight any more. Afterwards Puoho also went to the other Island, and asked- the Ngatikoata Tribe to give to him the owner- ship and the command of the Whakapuaka Block ; but the people of Ngatikoata would not agree to give this land to Te Puoho. He there- fore went further south with a war-party, thinking he would conquer fresh lands for him- self. When Wahapiro heard his uncle had gone away he was sorry. He started after him, and when he caught up to him he found the party was fighting against the Ngaitahu Tribe. When Taiaroa, senior, and his fellow chiefs of the Ngaitahu Tribe heard of this war-party they came out to meet them ; but, on the day they arrived at the place where the war - party were, Te Puoho had been killed that very day. Taiaroa, senior, led his party, and claimed the position to him- self, leading them to attack the pa where Waha- piro was, and where Puoho lay dead. Taiaroa called out to Te Wahapiro to come out of the pa, and when Wahapiro heard the voice of Taiaroa he knew this was a chance given to him to make peace, and he came out and went to Taiaroa. Taiaroa then took off his dog-skin cloak, and placed it on Wahapiro as a token that he was to be saved, and when the other chiefs came up they found that Taiaroa had already made peace. Wahapiro then lived there on the strength of the peace so made, and in keeping with the peace already made between Taiaroa and Te Rauparaha and the chiefs of the Island. After he had lived there a few years he came north again, and when he reached the Nel- son district he found that the chiefs of the Ngati- toa Tribe and his own people were selling their land to the Crown. As one of the chiefs he joined with them in the sale, and his name appeared on the deeds of the sale of the land. His name would also be found in connection with all the reserves made for the Natives at the time of that sale. He (Mr. Tomoana) thought the Council must agree with him that this man, Wahapiro, could not have had a small claim to the lands in that part of the country. He would also explain to the Council the reason why Kauhoe went to ask for this When the piece of land for her children. woman heard her husband, Puoho, had been killed she went to Ngatikoata to ask that this land, which had been conquered originally by her own son, Wahapiro, should be given to her ; and this was agreed to by the chiefs of the 