the advantages in New Zealand of manu- facturing, but we do not use a tithe of the power that is going to waste in our streams and rivers. We should direct our at- tention to utilising our water-power by generat- ing electric energy and devoting it to industrial work. We should use our coal more economi- cally by converting it into water-gas and de- veloping it in a gas-engine, and thus get one horse-power out of 1lb. of coal, and transmit the power to the machines by electric wire instead of heavy shafting and cumbrous pul- leys and belts. We should work in this direction instead of talking about protection. America has seventy millions of people to supply with goods, and her manufacturers take care that they are supplied at a very high price to the consumers. The manufacturers have first-class machinery, ample capital, great natural re- sources in the shape of coal, iron, and other raw materials; and they sell dearly to the American people, and ship the surplus all over the world at cost price. That is the American policy, which taxes the farmers chiefly to make millionaires. England has a different policy. She imports the raw ma- terials at the lowest price possible, for she has free ports, her workmen are supplied with cheap food, and she sends her manufactured goods to all parts of the world in her own ships at a profit. The danger to manufactures in England is this : that if America was to lower her tariff and have free ports America could easily compete with the world ; and England https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and other nations would have a difficult task to compete with her. Look at the capacities of New Zealand. Some forty years ago we had not a wood-working machine in the colony ; all the work was done by hand at double the present price. A few years ago butter was unsaleable at 4d. a pound. And why? Simply because the machinery for the various departments of the manufacture of butter and cheese had not been invented. The refrigerating machine, the cream-separator, and the improvement by cold storage and cheaper ocean transit-that is, the brain of the inventor - has done more for the working-man than all the legislation in the world. You talk about the ingenuity of the Americans. Where did America get her inven- tions from but from England ? America simply copied all her best machines from England. The reason why America is so far advanced in the use of machinery is that wages there were very high, and that stimulated them to intro- duce newer machines for certain classes of manu- facture than were used in England. With re- gard to England and her colonies, I have not the slightest doubt in my mind that we can compete with any part of the world on equal terms. England now could for a time under- sell America in her own markets if the tariff was taken off. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - If she makes her own terms. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- How can you compete except on equal terms ? And I am cer- tain myself that any prohibitive duties such as of this country. Let us compare Victoria and New South Wales before federation. Victoria was our nearest market, but she had a heavy tariff, and only took from us what she could not produce herself, or could not produce in suf- ficient quantity. Which was the more pro- sperous colony, protectionist Victoria or New South Wales ? To my mind, New South Wales We were supplying was the more prosperous. goods to the New South Wales consumer cheaper than to the Victorian consumer, and whenever Victoria commenced to export her manufac- tured goods it was a failure. She could not compete with New Zealand. I am in favour of giving every advantage to the workers in our manufactories, but it must be on equal terms all round, both in town and country. Unless there is equality of advantages given to all the result will not be to the advantage of the colony. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I am fully in accord with the proposed amendment the Hon. Mr. Jones has given notice of-that is, exempt- ing the woollen-mills from the operation of clause 19 -- and, for my own part, I would be glad to make further exemptions if it can be shown that by not doing so we are likely to hamper trade and to interfere with factories and establishments where perishable goods are dealt with. While quite willing to reduce the hours of labour and improve the conditions, I think the exemptions named in the Second Schedule should be made, because the condi- tions of employment in those factories could be dealt with very much better by the Arbitra- tion Court. What I am afraid of in passing a measure like this, and laying down hard-and- fast rules with regard to labour, is this : that we are now legislating when things are in a very prosperous condition, and this is not like an agreement for a couple of years or so-it is legislating until such time as the statute is repealed. Now, I think in many cases it would be very much better to allow the particular case to be dealt with by the Ar- bitration Court, and let the Court fix an award for one or two years, or longer if it chooses. We have just given more powers and lati- tude to the Courts, and I shall be content to allow them to deal with points that they must surely be better qualified to deal with satis- factorily than we are. At the end of two years things may be in a very different position to what they are at present, and we may find that at the end of that time we may hold very different views on hours of labour, rates of pay, and overtime from what we hold to-day. I will support the clause for the exemption of woollen - factories, and I shall be willing to support other exemptions proposed by honour- able members if they can show me that they are in the way of allowing factories and other establishments where perishable goods are dealt with to carry on their business with some slight chance of success. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I have only a few words to say in reply. The Hon. Mr. McLean, who, I regret to say, is not here, spoke 