Public Works Fund. On the maintenance and repairs of working railways it is impossible really for any one to ascertain what the true position is now. It will be my endeavour this evening to present to the House as fairly as I can, without any desire to engender party strife or party animosity, some figures in connection with our railway administration primarily, and our public works expenditure collaterally, as they present themselves to me, and I confess the presentment to my mind is very unsatis- factory indeed. I have on various occasions said, and I repeat it now, that the amount of money which has been spent on additions to open lines out of capital account is an improper expenditure, and that it has grown at an enor- mous rate must be perfectly evident to anybody who will take the trouble to examine the figures which are in our possession in the various Appendices to the Journals of the House. Now, I find, on seeking to draw a parallel between the three last years of the Railway Commissioners' régime and the three last years which have just passed, that the moneys spent on additions to open lines during the years 1893, 1894, and 1895 are so widely divergent, are so infinitely less than the expenditure taking place now, that there must be some explanation which we have not yet received as to the cause of it. I find in the year 1893 that the Commissioners only spent a sum of £12,612 on additions to open lines out of the Public Works Fund ; in the year 1894 they spent £8,042; and in the year 1895, during which they were only nine months in office, they spent the sum of £19,276 - making a total, for the last three years of the Commissioners' régime, of expenditure on additions to open lines of £39,930. Now, by way of being absolutely frank, I state that the Commissioners' finance was hampered, and that economy was more or less enforced, and that their economy, in all probability, was too great. But we must ex- onerate the Commissioners of blame, for this reason : that in the year 1894, when the pre- sent Government was in possession of the Treasury benches, and, therefore, controlling the money granted to the Commissioners, the Com- \- missioners applied for a sum of £46,910 for addi- tions to open lines, and the Ministers, who, of course, must have had good opportunities, or should have had good opportunities, for knowing the necessities of the case, refused to grant so large a sum as £46,910, and only brought down a vote to Parliament for a sum of £40,000. Then, no doubt, we shall be told that upon the small expenditure on additions to open lines in the days of Commissioners is made consequent the huge expenditure now being made. But, Sir, that argument will not hold water in the face of the fact that the Government refused to grant them even so moderate a sum as £46,910 that they asked for. And it cannot be pleadod either that they left the railways in a bad condition, because the Government sent round the colony to report on the railways Mr. Hales and a well-known civil engineer, Mr. Napier Bell, who reported that the railways stock had all been kept in good working-order. Therefore I say that, the lines being in good order and the rolling-stock being well main- tained, and the Government refusing to give the Commissioners that sum of money which they required, or considered they required, for the additions to open lines, it cannot be pleaded that any parsimony on their part, or any starving of the railways, can be charged against them. But I ask the House to bear in mind the figures that I quoted-£39,930, being the total expenditure during the last three years the Commissioners were in office for additions to- open lines ; and now mark the amount spent during the last three years. And for the verifica- tion of my figures I refer you to Return 7, D .- 2, and there you will find that in the year 1899. the amount spent on additions to open lines. was £179,952 ; in 1900, £218,357 .; and, last year, £325,025-making a total expenditure on ad- dition to open lines for the last three years of £725,334, as compared with #39,930 in the last three years of the administration of the Com- missioners. Now, surely these figures must. disclose this fact: that there has been gross mismanagement in the past, or there is gross mismanagement now, and that no system of proper maintenance and renewals has ever been in operation. The parallel between the two sums proves that the railways must have been grossly starved in their maintenance at some period of their existence-and that pre- vious starving is the point which I wish to. bring before the notice of the House. I am convinced that the railways are being starved at the present time, so far as the proper charges. to working-expenses out of revenue is con- corned. But when I speak of the sum of £725,000 during the three last years, and the sum of £325,000 which was expended last year, it by no means exhausts the subject, because I find in looking at the expenditure for 1901, that though it is only set down at £325,000, yet in an adjacent column in the estimates the lia- bilities on the 31st March on account of addi- tions to open lines are set down at £400,686 ; so that we have an enormous sum of money spent and committed for on the 31st March last. Well, now, the amount-and that is a. matter which is really worthy of consideration -the amount that was voted by Parliament last year for additions to open lines was the sum of £600,000 only. I say " only," as compared with the liabilities and expenditure. £600,000 was the amount voted last year for additions to open lines ; but, if you add the liabilities to the expenditure, the expenditure and commitments of the Government to the 31st March last amounted to £125,718 more than the vote which was granted by this House. In other words, they were committing the colony to an ex- penditure of about three-quarters of a mil- lion of money, in round terms, for additions to open lines, though they got a vote of the House for $600,000 only. Now, surely these figures must cause the most optimistic believer in the railway policy of the present Government to pause and consider 