ordinary citizen, they do not care for a day or two's delay, and they are not prepared to pay a big subsidy to any company to go via Van- couver or any other route ; but, above all, they are strongly in favour of supporting our own flesh and blood in preference to outsiders. I hope that this feeling which is exhibited in the country will be reflected by the House when we get into Committee, and that the Government will be shown clearly and decisively that, so far as New Zealand is concerned, "No foreigner need apply." Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, in a word my vote is for the abolition of the San Francisco service. Not because I am a Wel- lington member-that is neither here nor there -but because the service has no advantages for However else the colony of New Zealand. this question may be viewed, it is not with us as with the Auckland members and the Auck- land people -- a question of life or death. The people of Auckland, if one may frame an opinion upon their pining and their sighing, are wrapped up in the continuance of this service. They regard it with touching affection. They think, they dream, of nothing but the San Francisco service. It is the apple of their eye. It is the sum of existence-the be all and the end all, before which all else fades into nothingness. They also mistakenly believe that the people of Wellington think and dream of nothing but the San Francisco service. It may be said with per- fect truth that the people of Wellington never give it a thought. The people of Wellington are too busy with their own large commercial https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 interests to devote any special care to the sub- ject. The San Francisco service is to them a matter of the most perfect indifference. How can it possibly give any concern to the people of Wellington, whether or not one additional steamer calls here once in three weeks? So many large steamers arrive and depart every day in the week ! The people of Auckland are a peculiar people. I hear it frequently re- marked that the climate is responsible for this peculiarity. In their nervous anxiety they appear to think that the people of Wel- lington are eternally racking their brains about the San Francisco service. It is this hysterical fidgets and nervous state of swoon which ex- hausts all the energy of the Auckland people, and so they make those fitful and spasmodic spurts which have done so much to keep back the North Island Main Trunk Railway so many years. It is thoroughly characteristic of them ; but at last in that matter they have reached Still it is as well they an age of reason. should understand that but for their peculiar methods the North Island Main Trunk Railway would have been very much further advanced. The question of the San Francisco mail-service is a question which does not affect any particu- lar locality-always excepting, of course, the City of Auckland. Now, of what advantage has the San Francisco service been to the colony of New Zealand as a whole? None, absolutely none. It has been in existence for thirty years, and ought by this time to have de- Mr. Millar what is the fact? The following return, laid on the table of the House on the 25th Sep- tember, 1901-last month-shows what the. passenger and cargo trade has been for the past ten years :- Passengers and Cargo to and fro between Auck- land and San Francisco, and Amount paid for San Francisco Mail-service. San Francisco to Auckland to San Francisco. Auckland. Year. Passen- Passen- Cargo. Cargo. gers. gers. Tons. Tons. 453 298 1891 1,069 601 1892 333 1,099 402 655 1893 272 453 1,241 712 290 436 332 1894 1,673 277 2,067 311 1895 982 3,823 1896 408 377 385 1897 264 5,234 383 633 250 1,151 1898 5,497 347 328 1899 4,539 391 1,381 319 1900 533 1,395 5,141 Totals .. 3,940 3,081 31,383 8,331 So that in ten years, on the route 7.30. from San Francisco to Auckland, the increase has been - Passengers, 21 ; cargo, 4,072 tons. On the route from Auckland to San Francisco the increase has been - Pas- sengers, 80; cargo, 794 tons. And of the cargo brought from San Francisco during the last three years, most of it consisted of railway material, thus interfering with the regular trade between this colony and Eng- land. Now, that is the increase in ten years of a trade which is represented to be of such great value to this country. Sir, I propose to dismiss the padding of the resolutions, for it is mere leather and prunella, and come to the real question which the House has to consider -namely, Whether the San Francisco ser- vice shall be maintained or not. In other words, whether this colony shall be called upon to pay £16,000 or £20,000 a year to secure the Auckland votes in this House. That is the price of the Auckland vote. The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) placed himself in an erroneous position by saying that he would vote against the San Francisco service even if its rejection resulted in those honourable gentlemen leaving the Go- vernment benches. This is not a party ques- tion. Many members of both parties will cross the floor of the House for and against the Go- vernment proposals, irrespective of the existence or the non-existence of the Government. All the Auckland members belonging to the Opposition will vote with the Government. Mr. MASSEY .- That does not make it a non- party question Mr. FISHER .- You will find that the voting 