words the honourable member used. I quite believe what the Hon. Mr. Jones has said now, that he used those words; but they gave certain offence to the Hon. Mr. Shrimski, and the Hon. Mr. Shrimski made use of words -perhaps wrongly, I admit-and he had no right to refuse to withdraw those words when he was asked to do so. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I was going on to say when interrupted that, sitting here, the impression on my mind was that irritation was caused by the honourable gentleman's words : and I am of the same opinion still. As to the words he used, I am not going to split straws about them ; but, to my mind, the words used implied that the honourable member (Mr. Shrimski) was a heartless man. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I did not say any- thing of the sort. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- That was my view, sitting here and listening. I am not saying anything to justify the honourable gentleman who has retired from the Chamber. I say that no man should decline to obey the direction of Mr. Speaker, and that a certain amount of punishment should be awarded; but I also think it will be necessary for the Chairman of Committees and for Mr. Speaker to draw a stricter line when members who are addressing the House make remarks that are irritating to other members. The two honourable members concerned constantly gead each other, and one is just like a red rag to a bull to the other. I think one is just as bad as the other. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, I rise to a point of order. I object to the honourable gentle- man attributing to me remarks which I did not make. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- The question we are dealing with is that the honourable gentle- man has defied the Chair. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Well, Sir, I am only asking that for the future strict discipline should be observed, and I hope that yet we may get over this difficulty. By this time the honourable member has no doubt cooled down considerably, and it may be that he will ex- press regret for not obeying the Chair. I think we should give him an opportunity of with- drawing from the position he has taken up. To do that would smooth matters over very well. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I quite dis- agree with the remarks made by the honour- able gentleman as to this punishment being too severe. I regard it in this way : that it is an offence against the Speaker to defy his ruling, . and it is also an offence against the dignity of Parliament when a member is ordered by the Speaker to withdraw and says he will not do so, and therefore there should be adequate punish- ment. Only the other day I was reading some of the debates in the House of Commons of last ses- sion, and I found that there an honourable mem- ber refused to withdraw certain words when ordered to do so by the Chair. The Speaker was then brought in, just as has been done to-day, and the member absolutely refused to withdraw the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton I think it was for a fortnight, but at least it was for a week. I think that suspension for the remainder of the sitting is a very mild punish- ment, as the conduct of the honourable gentle- man is an insult to the dignity of the Council and of its Speaker. The Hon. Mr. RIGG. - Sir, I am under the impression that the Minister is not taking the right course on this occasion. If he will look at Standing Orders Nos. 239 and 240 he will see there what the course of action should be. It is provided in Standing Order No. 239 that,- " Any member who shall wilfully disobey any lawful order of the Council, and any member who shall wilfully or vexatiously interrupt the orderly conduct of the business of the Council, shall be held guilty of contempt." And Standing Order No. 240 says, -- "Any member adjudged by the Council, for any of the causes mentioned in any of these standing rules and orders, guilty of contempt, shall, upon motion made with notice, be cen- sured by the Speaker, and such censure shall be entered on the Journals of the Council ; and such member may be fined in a penalty, at the discretion of the Council, not exceeding £50, and in default of payment shall be com- mitted by the warrant of the Speaker to the custody of such person or persons as the Speaker shall appoint, for a period not exceed- ing fourteen days ; and it shall be lawful for the said person or persons to detain the said member in custody for the period directed by the Council, unless discharged by order of the Council, or unless the amount of fine shall be paid." Now, I have no desire to see the honourable gentleman taken into custody this afternoon, but I would point out, first of all, that nothing can be done until notice is given, and when notice has been given it is the duty of the Speaker to censure the offending member. After that there may be further punishment by way of fine, if the Council so desires. Personally. I am not inclined to see the honourable gentleman treated with unnecessary harsh- ness; but I do agree with the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith that this is a time when the strong hand is required, and, as generally happens in moments of this kind, those upon whom the responsibility is thrown weaken down, and Par- liament loses a certain amount of dignity. I say that what we have to consider is that the honourable gentleman defied the Chairman of Committees, and that when the Minister in charge of the Council requested him to with- draw the words he refused to do so ; and, further, that, being asked by the Speaker of this Council to withdraw the expression he had used, he persisted in his conduct. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY .- Sir, it appears to me that the Standing Orders the honourable gentleman has called attention to do not bear upon the subject, but apply when there is a call of the Council. If he will read clause 237 he will find that I am right. If in the case of a call of the Council an honourable member does 