whether the principal earning department of the Government service is in a really solvent and paying condition. I venture to say that the figures put before us are misleading, and that the balance of profit shown as the earnings of the railways exists only in the imagination of the Minister for Railways, or of his colleagues, who are jointly responsible with him, but that the profits as stated do not exist at all in reality. For this year we are asked to vote £675,000-that is, $75,000 more than last year, for the additions to open lines. We have seen how the amounts of money proposed to be borrowed have been increased by a quarter of a million, apparently because the Right Hon. the Premier's estimates are as incorrect as he said my figures were- that is to say, in a cool, jaunty, and daring manner he comes down with a Bill, which he ought to have con- sidered long since, and says that it does not come up to what he now requires by a quarter of a million of money. That is only an illus- tration of the way in which the finance is being conducted-in a wholesale manner shovelling out sovereigns with a long-handled shovel to everybody who has influence. First, I would ask, What are those additions to open lines this year ? You may search every document that has been laid before us, and you will find no estimates, no details, of what they are. It is true you get a certain amount, a very slight statement, of what the expenditure was last year ; but how the #675,000 we are asked to vote now is to be expended none have the slightest idea. No details are put before us. I call the attention of the House to this fact : that the amount we are asked to vote for new works this year is $561,000; so that we are actually asked to vote no less a sum than http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero £114,968 more for additions to and mainten- ance, repairs, repaintings, and renewals of existing lines - fancy, $114,968 more! - than we are invited to spend for new works. It is well that the salient facts should be put before honourable members, so that they may realise what we are doing. For the life of me, 1 cannot understand how it can be said that this is a proper system. And it seems to me that our system of book-keeping must be in a most extraordinary condition when such things as these are tolerated without attention being called to them. That there is a considerable portion of the vote for additions to open lines, and that that is a necessary and proper ex- penditure to charge against capital, I fully admit ; but, that the whole of it is a fair charge, or that nearly as much of it should be charged to the Public Works Account as is now being charged, I hope that my time will allow me to convince the House that it is radically improper. We are told that our rail- way-lines are earning a profit of £3 9s. 8d., or, at any rate, something over 3 per cent. The excess of our earnings over our expendi- ture last year is set out by the Budget as $599,389. You will see that that amounts to £76,577 less than it takes us to keep our rail- ways in proper working-order and fit for carry- Captain Russell told that I have not made my figures sufficiently clear to the House. What I wish to point out is this : that these charges to open lines, to a certain extent, ought to be debited against the earnings of the railways. And therefore when we talk of the dividends paid there should be large deductions - especially if the books are kept on a proper system-there should be large deductions through the working-expenses from the dividends, so as to meet the necessary charges of the working - expenses. There is another thing that strikes me in connection with our system of railways-namely, that we do not know what is being charged to capital account and what is being charged properly to working-expenses. There is no real informa- tion on the point contained in the State- ment, and I say that all those charges ought to be clearly set before us, so that they can be readily understood. What I assert is that a fair allowance should be made for depre- ciation. We have now practically a capital of twenty millions of money in our railways. Asa matter of fact, I believe that, though the actual capital is set down at a sum of eighteen millions and some odd thousands of pounds, if the books were kept properly it would be found that a great deal more than twenty millions have been spent. To show how the expenses of our railway- construction was predicted some years ago, I will quote a passage from a statement made on the 28th June, 1870, by Sir Julius Vogel. He said,- " I suppose that some fifteen or sixteen hun- dred miles of railway will require to be con- structed, and this can be effected at a cost of £7,500,000, together with two million and a half acres of land." That shows how utterly different the fore- casts were to what our conditions are now and to what were then anticipated, and it shows the difference between the realisation and the an- ticipations of Railway and Public Works Minis- ters. The evidence goes to show that the pre- dictions made in the past have been falsified altogether, and it is reasonable, I think, to con- clude that they will be just as much falsified now. Now, what should be the proper depre- ciation to make on a railway capital expendi- ture of #20,000,000, and what should be proper depreciation to make on our rolling- stock ? We have a capital of £2,636,333 in rolling - stock. These questions the Govern- ment can ascertain, and there should be a depreciation account set up to supplement and replace the rolling-stock which is now running and wearing out, and so prevent the huge calls now being made on loan-money to replace the rolling-stock, which ought to be supplemented from time to time by a sinking fund for the replacing of everything that is being worn out. I find that a sinking fund of 3 per cent. on the rolling-stock, which I should \`say would not be an extortionate amount to deduct for wear-and-tear in excessive main- tenance, would be, on £2,636,000, a sum of £80,000 a year. I find in to-day's paper that the Manawatu Railway Company has written 