Works) moved, That the words " two hundred and fifty thousand " be inserted after "one million." Amendment agreed to, and consequential amendments made in clauses 3, 5, and 14. Schedule. Mr. HALL-JONES moved to strike out the amount " $500,000" in respect to construction of railways, and insert " £600,000 " ; in respect to the amount (£300,000) for additional rolling- stock for open lines, et cetera, to strike out the figures " 300,000 " and insert the figures "400,000 "; in respect to land - settlement and goldfields development, to strike out the figures " 150,000 " and insert " 200,000," making the total amount £1,250,000. Amendments agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. The House adjourned at ten minutes past three o'clock a.m. (Tuesday). # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 29th October, 1901. First Reading-Second Readings -- Third Reading- Trustee Amendment Bill-Industrial Concilia- tion and Arbitration Bill-Maori Councils Bill- Old-age Pensions Bill-Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill-Public-school Teachers' Salaries Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Aid to Public Works and Land Settlement Bill. # SECOND READINGS. Coal - mines Bill, Pariroa Native Reserves Bill, Local Bodies' Goldfields Public Works and Loans Bill. # THIRD READING. Evidence Further Amendment Bill. TRUSTEE AMENDMENT BILL. Consideration of the following reason of the House of Representatives for disagreeing to new clause 6A :-- "The House disagrees with new clause 6A, for without some restriction it means an un- desirable extension of the existing law ; but if the clause was so amended by having provision made for obtaining the consent of a Judge of the Supreme Court or a District Court Judge to the registration of any share, in that case there would be no objection." . The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, as this clause was one moved by the Hon. Mr. Bolt, perhaps that honourable gentleman would in- dicate what he desired with regard to the objec- tion taken by the other House. The Hon. Mr. BOLT said the intention of this clause was to limit the liability of trustees from a deceased person. It was intended that the liability of the trustee should be limited to the liability of the deceased had he been alive, and the clause provided that the trustee should get the consent of the directors of the company before he got registration ; and in the event of the deceased being only legally entitled to the shares on the ground that he had bought them from some other person who was the registered holder, then the trustee should get the consent of that other person. The exception taken to the clause by the House was certainly very peculiar and very indefinite. It simply said it meant an undesirable extension of the existing law. He failed to see, provided the directors or the registered holder, as the case might be, gave consent to the registration, why there should be any objection to the claim. How- ever, he had no objection to falling in with the wishes of the House in regard to the matter. and if he were allowed a little time he would have the clause redrafted and transmitted to the House with a view of obtaining their con- sent. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- That cannot be done. The Hon. Mr. BOLT would, then, move, That the Council insist on the clause as originally drawn. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said, in his opinion, there was a good deal more in this clause than some people imagined. The Bill was a very important one, and at this period of the session one did not like to risk the loss of the measure for the sake of this clause. This had been a very debatable point for a long time, and he did not know that it was wise, without a good many restrictions, to give further powers than were already given. He thought the clause should not be insisted on. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said, if the Hon. Mr. McLean's suggestion were adopted the clause would be lost, although the Council desired a change in the law. Why should the trustee of a deceased person be liable for the whole of the debts of a deceased person with regard to calls made by companies ? An Hon. MEMBER .- They are not liable. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY understood that was the law at the present time; otherwise he did not see the necessity for the clause. He thought it would be best to draw up reasons for insisting on the clause, with a view of having a Conference with the other House. The Hon. Colonel PITT hoped the Council would insist on the clause, because, if a Confer ence were held with the other House, there should be very little difficulty in coming to an arrangement to meet the case. The law at pre- sent was that the executor, unless he registered as the owner of the shares, was not liable. The shares went to him not by transfer, but by transmission, and he was entitled to sell them and have some other person, nominated by himself, registered as the purchaser. If he allowed himself to be put on the register as the owner of the shares he would be liable for calls. The sole object of this clause was to allow him 