Crown to either House of Parliament is in the nature of a verbal message, delivered by com- mand, by a Minister of the Crown to the House of which he is a member." But that only applies when a member of either House is arrested for any crime at the suit of the Crown. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- The Minister has the confidence of the Governor, and he has full power. Mr. PIRANI .- We are to understand that this message is delivered by command of His Excellency ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I presume the Premier would do nothing without the consent of His Excellency. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 under consideration. The Committee divided on the question, "That all the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the clause." AYES, 21. Russell, W. R. Atkinson Laurenson Buddo Smith, G. J. Lethbridge Massey Tanner Collins Mackenzie, T. Willis. Ell Meredith Graham Tellers. Hardy Monk Herries Hutcheson Russell, G. W. Pirani. Lang NOES, 29. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Napier Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Heke Arnold O'Meara Carncross Hornsby Parata Carroll Houston Seddon Kaihau Colvin Stevens Fisher Lawry Symes McGowan Flatman Ward. Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Gilfedder Barclay McNab Guinness Hall Mills Hogg. PAIRS. For. Against. Allen, J. Hanan Bennet Pere Bollard McLachlan Fraser, W. Duncan McGuire Smith, E. M. Millar. Morrison. Majority against, 8. Words struck out, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 2. - "(1.) Every member of the General Assembly shall be entitled to receive payment in relation to his attendance in the discharge of his parliamentary duties at the rate of two hundred pounds per annum if a member of the Legislative Council, and three hundred pounds per annum if a member of the House of Representatives. "(2.) This section is in substitution for the first paragraph of section four of ' The Payment of Members Act, 1892,' which paragraph is hereby accordingly repealed." section (1), to strike out the words "two hun- dred," with the view of inserting " one hundred and fifty." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question." AYES, 28. Hall-Jones Allen, E. G. Napier Arnold Heke Palmer Parata Barclay Hogg Carncross Hornsby Stevens Carroll Houston Symes Colvin Kaihau Ward. Fisher Lawry Flatman McGowan Tellers. Guinness Mckenzie, R. Gilfedder Hall McNab. Mills NOES, 25. Russell, W. R. Atkinson Lang Buddo Smith, G. J. Laurenson Lethbridge Collins Tanner Thompson, R. Ell Massey Fowlds Mackenzie, T. Willis. Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Graham Tellers. O'Meara Hardy Hutcheson Rhodes Herries Russell, G. W. Pirani. PAIRS. For. Against. Fraser, W. Duncan Allen, J. Hanan McLachlan Bollard Millar Morrison Bennet Pere Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 3. Words retained. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, That the words "three hundred " be struck out, with the view of inserting " two hundred and forty." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question." # AYES, 28. Hall-Jones Allen, E. G. Napier Palmer Arnold Heke Parata Hogg Barclay Seddon Hornsby Carncross Carroll Houston Stevens Kaihau Ward. Colvin Fisher Lawry Tellers. McGowan Flatman Gilfedder Guinness Mckenzie, R. McNab. Hall Mills NOES, 25. Russell, W. R. Lang Atkinson Buddo Smith, G. J. Laurenson Tanner Lethbridge Collins Thompson, R. Ell Massey Mackenzie, T. Willis. Fowlds Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Tellers. O'Meara Graham Hutcheson Hardy Rhodes Russell, G. W. Pirani. Herries 