he was. I say that is not correct. I say that thirty years ago he was better off than he has ever been since. I say the share the workers have received of the general prosperity is not proportionate to what the employers have re- ceived. Therefore one cannot wonder at the general discontent among the factory workers in the colony. The Hon. Mr. McLean was ex- ·ceptionally unfortunate in speaking about the boot trade; he spoke of the increase of the wages of the employés in that trade. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- No; the reduction in their wages. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Perhaps that is what the honourable gentleman intended to say, but I took a note of it at the time, and I under- stood him to say "the increased wages." The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I said that the wages of the bootmakers five years ago were higher than they were now. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- I am sorry I mis- understood the honourable gentleman. Then the honourable gentleman referred to importa- tions in the boot industry, and there was a sug- gestion that these importations were encouraged by the reason of factory legislation. It has already been explained how the boot importa- tions have increased, so I need not refer to that ; but I would point out that the way to deal with a matter of this kind is not to reduce wages, but to raise your tariff and encourage local industry. I have seen in the premises of a large manu- facturing firm samples of boots made in Mel- bourne, for which I have paid 15s. 6d. and 16s. there, indented here at 9s. 6d. I have seen, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 also, samples of American boots which were im- ported here at a price with which we could not compete. Then I saw the very best sample of local industry as far as this firm was concerned, and I found that the principal part of the boot was made of imported English leather, with colonial leather for the sole. And, so far as this firm is concerned, their principal trade is in the cheaper kind of boots. That would seem to point to the fact that it is not the factory legislation so much that is at fault in regard to the boot trade as the inferior leather produced in this colony ; so that in discussing a matter of this kind we have got to take all things into consideration before we can arrive at a proper understanding of the question. I have suggested that we should raise our tariff and protect our industries. If this were done the number of men employed in the boot industry-and women too- would in- crease ; but in order to be successful it would be necessary to make some provision for the importation of suitable leather for the purpose of making a far superior class of work. Now, a reference has been made to a clause in the Bill which fixes the day's work for an adult male worker at eight hours, and harvesting has been mentioned as a case where this limita- tion of hours might be a serious injury to a farmer. The same argument is used in regard to other industries, such as freezing companies. The answer to this argument is that there is no limitation of the hours fixed that a man may hours out of the twenty-four, and keep it up till the man dies of exhaustion, and there is nothing in the Bill to prevent it. What would happen is this : After a man has done an eight- hours task he is entitled to payment for over- time. The Labour Bills Committee, I think, showed a very reasonable spirit when amending this Bill. There was a give-and-take on both sides. When I say that, I mean those who spoke in favour of the employer and those who spoke principally in favour of the worker; and it was admitted that there were certain in- dustries which might suffer if you would not allow a boy under the age of eighteen to work longer than forty-five hours a week. This was recognised, and an endeavour made to meet the case by reducing the age to sixteen. It was felt that this would have an indirectly good effect, because it would result in the employment of older boys, and therefore give the younger ones a longer period at school. As regards women and girls, they will not be employed for more than forty-five hours in the week; but there are certain provisions which permit a certain amount of overtime. Evidence was given that the reduction of hours from forty-eight to forty-five would act against the interests of the employer in the case of wool- len-mills, as the workers were dependent on the work of the women and boys. But it does not seem to have occurred to those managers who gave evidence that it is only necessary for them to put in extra machinery, at which women and girls could be employed, in order to preserve the balance of their business. The work of the men starts at the beginning of the process, and not at the end, and if there is too much work at the beginning you have only to add to your plant and employ more hands to overtake it. It will be seen that the Labour Bills Committee has struck out the schedule of the Bill contain- ing exemptions. I am inclined to think that there are one or two industries mentioned in it which should receive special consideration. For instance, the making of jam at certain seasons of the year. But what is characteristic of those who support the schedule is that every interested party wants his own industry exempted, and approves of the Bill applying to the industries of others. I trust the Bill will pass, for, as amended by the Labour Bills Committee, I con- sider it an exceedingly reasonable measure. It does not go as far as other Factories Acts which are in existence. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where ? The Hon. Mr. RIGG. - Take the case of Victoria, for instance, and take New South Wales. I am inclined to think that in some respects the English Act is more advanced than this Bill. I say again this is a very reasonable measure, and one that should commend itself to the Council. The Hon. Mr. PEACOCK .- The honourable gentleman began his speech by saying that the workers do not receive wages in proportion to their employers' profits, and went on to say that, in walking along the street and seeing the big stores, he felt sure the country was prosper- 