form Bills for the good of the people, and carrying the same through the Legislature, and being instrumental in convincing the majority of members that it was good they should pass into law. The honourable mem- ber gave me an opening to-night. He must admit now that he had forgotten, or pro- bably he had not taken notice of, what had gone before, and when he coolly stands up to-night and tells the House I am simply an opportunist, that I am dealing with this ques- tion for the first time after other people had educated the public mind for it, and when he says the Premier only steps in because he knows it is the right time, I simply say there must have been some education of the public mind on this question prior to 1891, because it is there in the statute-book. I could take a coal- mine to-morrow under the Public Works Act ; the only thing is I might have a resolution of the House in which they might say, " You shall not work it." It is put in the 12.0. negative position. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why was that put in ? Mr. SEDDON. - It was put in because there were men in the House then of the same stamp as there are to-night-men who are afraid, and because they were afraid to go ahead they put, as they called it, a brake on the Premier. Mr. MASSEY .- Does the Act of 1891 give you authority for raising money ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes; under the Public Works Act I can take any coal-mine in the colony I like. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where will you get the money ? Mr. SEDDON .- In the same way as we got it for the Cheviot Estate. We had no money for that, yet we gave #260,000 for it. Money ! why, we will get the money right enough. I wish to say this : We are told that there is no provision made to recoup the capital. 1 say there is provision made here- necessary provi- sion, because every ton of coal that is taken out of the mine reduces the capital value. Then, we are told that there are no companies making money in New Zealand. The West- port Coal Company have made a large amount of money. Money has gone to capital account to an extent of over £100,000, and, while they have averaged 5 per cent. in dividends, they have used £100,000 for the improvements of their properties. Then, the Kaitangata Mine was sold out the other day, and a clear profit was made as between the original owners and the present company of, I believe, $90,000. Yet the honourable member for Bruce talks to us about no profits being made by these mines. I say they have made profits in the past, and they are making profits now. Coming to the ques- tion as to the application of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to the coal-miners, I say the same as I said the other night- you must take care not to place in the hands of respon. sible persons the right of taxing the Govern- ment. You must have some safeguard, or otherwise you will be creating a grave breach of our Constitution. In saying that I was willing coal-miners I used the expression "within certain limits," and the honourable member for Bruce will ultimately have to apolo- gize for making the statement that the did. The honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) asked me this question : " Has any pri- vate arrangement been made for taking up a coal-mine ? " My answer is, emphatically, No. Although there is the power to have done that under the existing law, I have not done so, nor would I negotiate until I had the full power given me by Parliament. I say that I could, under the Public Works Act, and also under the Mines Act of 1891, do that, but then I should immediately have to submit resolutions to the House and Council, and I prefer to get full and extended powers, which are provided by this Bill. An Hon. MEMBER. - State bank. Mr. SEDDON .- You are not going to draw me off coal. I am not going to have a printing- press, bale of paper, and greenbacks. That is what the honourable member for Christchurch City wishes me to do. I desire, Sir, to say again to the member for Dunedin City that, in regard to the Cardiff Mine, that is now the pro- perty of the Government. We will have to re- sume occupation of it, because the company have thrown it up, and the company owe us money. The plant is complete, and the report of the Commissioners appointed is that by the expen- diture of £12,000 to £14,000 we can get to the Cave area. There is a million tons of coal in sight, but since that report an opinion has been expressed that there are really two million tons, but they recommend some prospecting before finally going to the expenditure of $10,000. That is the position as far as the Cardiff Mine is concerned. The Government have been to no expense about it, except to the extent of £1,000. In regard to the site for a State coal-mine, I may say the report that has come to hand is of a favourable character ; but there are complica. tions in connection with it, as the properties are still held by defaulting companies. There are matters that preclude me from saying anything further on the point at present, and it is owing to that fact I have not seen my way hitherto to lay the report on the table. However, when these difficulties are over- come the report will be presented to the House. Of course, members naturally ask that the Government should be careful in this matter. I admit there is a grave responsibility in the departure, and if it meant that we were to work all the coal-mines of the colony I have no doubt there are some members who would op- pose it. However, members may rest assured we will make no mistake. Before a mine is touched it would be well to get the opinion of three or four experts to say where the railway should be placed, where the tunnels should be commenced, and where the coal should be laid. The start that has been given to many a coal- mine in the colony has often been such as to lead to failure. My own experience teaches me what should be done, and if there is the slightest chance of disappointment or failure 