expenditure on Public Works Account for Lands Department and roads at $300,000, they would have £427,000 that the Lands Department cost the colony. The total land revenue was only £270,000, including £78,000 for cash sales. We lived in a country that had been settled some fifty or sixty years, and we had the delusion some years ago that the lands were going to be a source of revenue, and would relieve the country of taxation. It was doing nothing of the kind. The land revenue went into the Consolidated Fund, but far more was taken out of loan-moneys each year. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) wished for infor- mation regarding the item, " Advances to co-ope- rative workmen's dwellinghouses, £235." Was that amount placed on the estimates to provide dwellings for those sent to the country districts from the larger centres of population ? In his own district, notwithstanding the fact that the local man was seeking employment, eleven men were sent from Oamaru to work on the roads. That was manifestly unfair to the settlers in that district, who were promised work as an inducement to take up land. He wished also to protest against notices being sent out to the effect that men would not be engaged on the roads whilst men were required for harvesting in the South Island. CLASS XXVII .- DEVELOPMENT OF GOLD- FIELDS. Vote, Development of goldfields, £50,000, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 agreed to. CLASS XXVIII .- PURCHASE OF NATIVE LANDS. Vote, Purchase of Native lands, £30,000, agreed to. CLASS XXIX .- TELEGRAPH EXTENSION. Vote, Telegraph extension, £40,489, agreed to. CLASS XXX .- RATES ON NATIVE LANDS. Vote, Rates on Native lands, £650, agreed to. CLASS XXXI .- CONTINGENT DEFENCE. Contingent defence, £180,000 .. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) thought the amounts spent on each item ought to be given, and he moved to reduce the amount of the vote by £10,000. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) wished to know if it was the intention of the Government to send drill instructors to the rifle clubs in the back country. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) .- No. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) said he had received a letter from a member of the Fifth Contingent stating that he had been back three months and had not been able to get any money. Mr. SEDDON said that was all nonsense. The men had all been paid. He himself had received three similar letters from men, two of whom had overdrawn £6. There were a num- ber of these men who had left no addresses. Mr. O'MEARA thought it was unfair for the Customs Department to levy a duty on uni- forms. how they proposed to distribute the overcoats represented by the item in the estimates. Tho sum of $2,000 would go a very small way to- wards distributing overcoats amongst eighteen thousand Volunteers. He would also like to know in what way the item for saddlery was to be expended. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty), regarding the submarine-mining vessels, desired informa- mation as to why they had been ordered, and when. The House had given no authority for this expenditure of £22,000, and the vessels, from a defence point of view, would be utterly worthless to the country. Mr. SEDDON said they had been recom- mended two years ago. One was for Auckland, the other for Wellington, and they were neces- sary to make the defence complete. They had been authorised last year, and provided for in the lump sum for harbour defences. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked if the Defence Minister had heard of the fact that, when a shilling in postage stamps had been sent to the Defence Office for a service ribbon, the department had replied, returning the stamps, saying that the amount was correct, but must be forwarded by postal note. Mr. SEDDON had not heard of this before, and said that such a thing was not likely to occur again. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked whether 3.0. the Minister considered £5,000 & suffi- cient sum to provide rifle-ranges for the other parts of the colony, when it took £2,550 for Wellington and Dunedin alone. The vote for water-bottles ought to be struck out, as they were, in his opinion, in this country unneces- sary and useless, and only calculated to induce young fellows to simply fill their water-bottles with other beverages than cold tea. He hoped the Minister would see that shooting was en- couraged, and, in order to do this, would see that rifle-ranges were provided wherever there was a Volunteer corps. Mr. SEDDON, in reply to the member for Ellesmere, said the vote taken for overcoats this year would take them over the 31st March. Tenders were now in, and he preferred, himself, to keep the money in the colony. With respect to the member for Pahiatua's question, he re- mitted the duty on the caps if the Volunteers themselves imported them. As regarded the question of rifle-ranges, mentioned by the mem- ber for Egmont, the amount he was asking for would meet all his requirements. The £2,000 that had been expended in Dunedin was owing to the purchase of land at Pelichet Bay. With respect to the water-bottles, the Defence Com- mittee recommended they should be procured. We must have them in case of necessity, even though we kept them in stock. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) asked what the item, " Saddlery, £2,000," meant. Mr. SEDDON said it was for material to be kept in stock. The Committee divided on the question, " That the vote be reduced by £10,000." 