land was the property of the Queen ; section 2 said that they went by direction of the Queen ; and consequently there was no doubt that they fully understood that the property they assigned was the property of the Queen in New Zea- land ; and it had to be so before the Queen could send it away. It was sent away as the property of Her Majesty, and it remained so unless she elected to relieve herself of that property. Mr J. ALLEN .- What about the Fifth Contingent ? Mr. SEDDON said the Fifth Contingent were Imperially equipped, and everything was paid for by the Imperial authorities-horses and everything. There might have been spare horses taken ; he had known officers who took spare horses, and he had known cases where friends had sent out horses to South Africa, and where horses had been bought in South Africa. In those cases he would give a certifi- cate for sale to the Imperial authorities, but on no other ground. He hoped the feeling would not become general, and there would not be any disappointment; and he hoped no im- proper claims would be made, because if claims were made now it would detract from what had been done by the colony and had been accepted by our kindred at Home. It must not be for- gotten that they had very heavy claims on them. An Hon. MEMBER .- What was done with the horses left behind ? Mr. SEDDON said any trooper on leaving would hand his horse over to the remount ·officer. It was well known that there was an agreement between the Australian Colonies and New Zealand that no horses or cattle should be allowed to enter any colony from South http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Africa. An Hon. MEMBER .- The men did not know that. Mr. SEDDON said he thought they did. It was generally known that the horses could not come back, and he had regretted the fact, be- cause after a man had had his horse with him through a campaign of this sort he naturally became attached to it ; but owing to the danger from rinderpest it had been inadvisable to relax the regulations. He was sorry any re- marks should have been made tending to create ill-feeling. It had been said by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that the best men had not gone to South Africa. That was a reflection on the men that went; and it was evident that the best men had not gone -as the honourable gentleman and the mem- ber for Palmerston were still in the colony. He hoped they had heard the last of 9.0. this question. He might say that, in \- respect to rifles, there also appeared to be a misapprehension on the part of some of the men. It was said that after the arrival of the men at Beira they were told the rifles were to be their own property. Well, the officer com- manding, upon whose authority this was stated to be, had officially intimated to him that he had said nothing whatever about it, nor could Mr. Seddon currency. So it was in respect to this $28 for the horses. It had no doubt been mooted in South Africa that the men would be paid for the horses, and hence the misapprehension. Under this agreement those horses were the property of the Crown. If some of the officers in South Africa had sold their horses, there must have been some special circumstances attending the sale; and no doubt there were isolated cases where the horses were private property where a sale could have been made. As he had said before, if any case came before him he would have inquiry made, and if it were proved that the horses were absolutely private property and were not assigned to the Crown, then he would give the certificates, not otherwise. Bill read a third tine. RAILWAY CLASSIFICATION AND SUPERANNUATION. On the motion for going into Committee of Supply, Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) said he had the following amendment to move: That it is desirable that the House should formulate proposals for the further classification and superannuation of the railway servants, in order that the necessary provision may be made on this year's estimates. He thought every honourable member would agree that the railway servants were much underpaid. Let them take the Stationmasters of every grade, for instance, and compare the salaries they received with the salaries received by the Post- Office officials of the same grade, and it would be seen there was a great difference in favour of the Post-Office officials. Now, he held that Stationmasters, like all other railway servants, had great responsibilities cast upon them. Life and death was in their hands, because if they made a mistake it might cause serious loss of life ; and even if there was little damage done they, at any rate, would be put back seven or eight years in the matter of promotion, if not dismissed altogether. He did not wish it to be understood that he was arguing that the Post Office officials were overpaid, but he said that in order to do justice to the railway servants, more especially the railway Stationmasters and clerks, they should at least be brought up to the same standard in the matter of salary as the Post Office officials. Now, these men had been promised for years that a new classi- fication list would be brought down by the Government, and that their salaries would be increased. Judging from the answers to the questions on this subject given by Ministers in the House, there was very little likelihood of the railway servants having a new classification list this session. He hoped the Government would take the matter seriously into their con- sideration, and bring down a classification list and a superannuation scheme for the railway servants. At one time, some twelve or thirteen years ago, railway servants who were retired or who met with an accident got compensation. That had been done away with, and railway 