to reduce the age of boys to sixteen, on ac- count of the fact that they will then be liable to overtime. "2. Clause 18, subsection (1), (c) : Five hours is too great an interval between meals. "3. Clause 19 may be agreed to. "4. Clause 19A is unduly extending time of employment of women and boys engaged in woollen-mills, and an undue concession to one trade, which is liable to cause irritation in other trades. "5. The amendments in clause 20 relative to the overtime of persons employed in the saw- milling trade are objectionable, as the employ- ment is irregular, and cannot be evenly distributed over the different days of the working week, necessitating long hours being worked on some days. "6. The amendments in clauses 21, 22, and 23 are consequential on the definition of ' boy ' in the interpretation clause. "7. Clauses 31, 32, and 33 relate to holidays in factories, and may be agreed to, being largely consequential, except in clause 32, sub- section (1), (a), where provision is made for the printing of weekly papers. "8. The amendments in clause 42, subsec- tion (2), and clause 65, subsection (1), are im- provements, and may be agreed to.' The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to one o'clock a.m. (Wednesday). https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 6th November, 1901. First Readings-Second Readings-Third Readings- Bills Discharged-Payment of Members Bill- Public Health Bill-School Attendance Bill- Old - age Pensions Bill-Factories Bill-State Coal-mines Bill-Local Bodies' Loans Bill- Public Trust Office Bill-Cook and other Islands Government Bill-Tour of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York-Military Pensions Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Criminal Code Bill, Railways Authorisation Bill, Public Trust Office Bill, Military Pensions Bill, New Zealand Ensign Bill. SECOND READINGS. New Zealand Ensign Bill, Railways Authorisa- tion Bill, Criminal Code Bill. THIRD READINGS. Criminal Code Bill, Railways Authorisation Bill, New Zealand Ensign Bill. BILLS DISCHARGED. Shops and Offices Bill, Property Law Amend- ment Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I beg to move the Payment of Members Bill. The pro- posal is that members of the Legislative Coun- cil shall get £200 as the annual sum payable to them, and members of the House of Repre- sentatives £300. Clause 3 is as follows :- "Subsection one of section five of "The Payment of Members Act, 1892,' is hereby amended by the insertion of the word ' four- teen ' in lieu of the word ' five ' where the same occurs in the said subsection." That gives more latitude to members than heretofore. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. # PUBLIC HEALTH BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives, disagreeing with one of the amendments made by the Council in this Bill, and transmitting the following reasons :- "1. Provisions of this clause may entail some hardship upon back-country parents if they had to appear at the Stipendiary Magis- trate's Court to claim certificate of exemption ; and the Magistrate might be apt to give a hard- and-fast ruling. "That while smallpox is not in New Zea- land the danger of unvaccination is not so great." On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, it was resolved, That the Council do not insist on its amendments. Motion agreed to. SCHOOL ATTENDANCE BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives, intimating that this Bill had been passed by the House with certain amend. ments, in which they requested the concurrence of the Legislative Council. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the amendments be agreed to. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY asked, What was the amendment in regard to Maori schools ? He wished to call the attention of the Minister to the fact that there were a number of Maori schools and mixed schools in the colony, and in his district he noticed Maori children playing about the streets instead of attending school. He thought the Truant Officer should be in & position to compel their attendance. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, One of the amendments made in the other branch was that the Bill should apply to Maori schools as well as to European schools. Motion agreed to. # OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives, disagreeing with two of the amendments made by the Council in this Bill, and transmitting the following reasons :- "The amendment made in clause 3 changes the original intention of the clause, and limits it to the preliminary inquiry by the Deputy- Registrar. 