not to press the amendment. The intention has been simply to follow what has been the rule in addresses of this kind. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- There is no more loyal man in this colony than I-every one who knows anything of me knows that ; but I decline to lend my name to the sickening I shall vote stuff contained in this resolution. for the amendment. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I do not wish to labour the point that has been made. In voting for the amendment, I do so not from any want of loyalty to His Majesty the King, or to our Empire, but I do so as a protest against the terms that are employed in the resolution. Also, I am not prepared to say that, in the eyes of the Almighty, whose name is used, any one person on this planet is dearer to Him than another. I read many years ago, " Are not the hairs of your head all numbered ? " That was not addressed to Royalty. I protest against language like that contained in this resolution being inserted in an address as from the Parliament of New Zealand. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- In view of the opinions expressed by members, I would suggest to the Premier that he should with- draw the resolution, recast it, and bring it down at half-past seven, and then a unanimous vote would be given in favour of it. Mr. SEDDON .- Probably we might do that at once. I would rather have a unanimous vote. I would suggest adopting these words : " In thankfulness to Almighty God for protect- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ing them from perils by land and sea." An Hon. MEMBER .- Stick to the amendment. Mr. SEDDON .- I cannot strike out all refer- ence to " Almighty God." Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- I would ask honourable members not to press this too far. We are making ourselves look very ridicu- lous. If this amendment is carried you might as well give up our public prayers altogether. I hope the House will not act hastily. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I would not have risen to speak at all but for the remarks of the honourable member who has just sat down. No one in this House desires to do away with the invocation of the name of Almighty God in the opening of our proceed- ings. I intend to vote for the amendment, not because I object in any way to the use of the name of God in prayer, but because I believe the name of the Almighty ought not to be invoked unless it is done in a reverential and proper spirit. To commit ourselves to a state- ment, as it were, by resolution, that a special Providence had been watching over the Royal pair who visited this colony, is unbecoming to this House, and is not in accordance with a true spirit of reverence. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I take it that this discussion is rather intended as a protest against the nature of the telegrams and messages sent during the past year or two to England, which have been lengthy, wordy, and very seldom of a really dignified character. All we want to do now is to congratulate the Royal I express, if you like, our hope that they have returned in sound health, and that their journey has proved beneficial to themselves and to the Empire. I consider the earlier part of the address, which appears to meet with general approval, really embodies everything that is re- quired, and if anything at all should be added it might, as a way out of the present diffi- culty, be in the direction I have indicated. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- The Premier will understand now that he has brought this on himself by postponing other business in order to enable him to bring in this resolution after the usual hour for adjourn- ment. I am going to vote for the Premier's resolution because I think it is a right one, but I think it is about time the House asserted itself and claimed its right under the Standing Orders to arrange the business. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- It was understood that we should resume the order of business at half-past seven, and I wish to get this resolu- tion sent Home, as members will see by'cable that their Royal Highnesses have arrived at Portsmouth. The House divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the resolution.' AYES, 27. Allen, E. G. Hall Seddon Hall-Jones Smith, G. J. Bennet Buddo Lawry Stevens McNab Steward Carncross Carroll Thompson, R. Mills Colvin Ward. O'Meara Palmer Duncan Tellers. Fowlds Parata Flatman Fraser, A. L. D. Russell, W. R. Hogg. Gilfedder NOES, 18. Russell, G. W. Herries Allen, J. Barclay Hornsby Thomson, J. W. Willis. Lang Collins Fisher Massey Tellers. Hutcheson, J. Meredith Graham Hardy Pirani Tanner. Heke Majority for, 9. Words retained, and resolution agreed to. # INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBI- TRATION BILL. On the question of the consideration 7.30. of the amendments made by the Legis- lative Council in this Bill, Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) said, -- There will be disappointment somewhere in respect to the course which the Government take in regard to this matter. It has been alleged that the Government, and myself in particular, desire to set ourselves against the will of a majority of both Houses of Parlia- ment. I say there has never been any ground for that statement-there has been nothing whatever to warrant it. I repeat now what I said on another occasion - namely, that I think the important departure in the policy 