at an advanced age, and perhaps in bad health they can claim a pension, but sometimes they think it much better to get a lump sum down. The Government is very reasonable, and these cases are all dealt with on their merits, and I do not know of any rule which will operate beneficially in every case. At all events, the railway servants are, as a rule, very fairly treated, and I am sure that this Bill proves that there is a desire to show them every con- sideration. Bill read the second time, committed, and re- ported. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I move, That this Bill be now read the third time. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- Sir, before you put that I should like to say one word of thanks on behalf of the railway men, and partly on behalf of myself, for the very kind and con- siderate manner in which the department and the Minister have met the request of the railway servants in regard to the classification we have now passed. The Minister was good enough to invite the executive of the Railway Servants' Society to come to Wellington to discuss the matter with him, and there were other repre- sentatives of trades working in the railway work- shops also sent as delegates to Wellington to try to alter one or two of the classes that had been introduced into the Bill. In almost every case where the railway men consider they had been hardly dealt with both the department and the Minister gave the utmost consideration to the representations, and in many cases al- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tered the classification to suit the requirements of the men. On the third reading of the Bill I think it suitable that I should thank the Rail- way Department and the Minister for this con- sideration, more especially at this time, though almost always consideration has been shown to the men, and in several instances alteration has been made in the classification ; although the classification had been based on experience, yet, on hearing the statements of the men, the classes were altered to a certain extent to agree with the views of the men. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- There is a note of dissatisfaction in my honourable friend's observation that the men did not get all they asked for. Well, I understand this will cost the colony £30,000 a year. What I would im- press upon the Council is that I think the rail- way servants are treated with extreme liberality. The working-men in the country-that is, the farm labourers-get nothing like the considera- tion ; and, instead of speaking as he did, I think the honourable gentleman ought to have said that the Government have been liberal in their treatment of the railway men. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is what he did say. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- There was a note of discord in his remarks. He said that they did not get all they wanted. I recognise that the railway servants have to perform very arduous duties, and that they have great re- sponsibility ; but we must bear in mind that they can only be paid in accordance with the rate of wages ruling in the colony. I may a splendid organization, and that the farm labourers have none, and therefore the latter have not the same means of bringing their grievances under the notice of the Government. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY .- I cannot agree with my honourable friend who has just sat down that the farm-labourers and farmers have no organization. I think the only farm-labourers who can come to the Government and ask for a concession will be those in Government em- ployment. The honourable member has said that the concessions made to the Railway De- partment will cost the colony £30,000 annually. I look upon that as something extensive, but as long as the colony gets an adequate return for it I have no objection. I know that the rail- way employés all over the colony, especially in that portion with which I am best acquainted- that is, the Newmarket railway employés, near Auckland - have been complaining that they were not getting sufficient wages. If they get an increase in their wages I think they deserve it, and I am only too pleased to think that the concessions which have been made have given satisfaction to them. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON. - I desire to mention a case of a railway employé in Dun- edin who was injured in the railway service, and the department offered him the miserable dole of £25. I brought the case under the notice of the Minister, and I hope my honourable friend the Minister of Education will also bring it under the notice of his colleagues. I think that £100 is the least this man should receive. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- I think the farmers have very little to complain of in the way they are treated by the Railway Department. They have been given a great many concessions. They get manure carried at a very cheap rate, and also their produce. The farmers also get instruction from the Agricultural Department gratis on a great many matters affecting their interests, and altogether they ought to consider themselves very well treated. An Hon. MEMBER. - They keep the colony. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- They may do so ; but this would be a very poor colony if its popula- tion was simply made up of farmers and agricul- tural labourers-in fact, it would be a sort of Tom Tiddler's ground, with little life and less wealth. I think the farmers are not sufficiently generous to acknowledge the great advantages that they are getting from the railway system. If they appreciated those as they deserved to be they would be more liberal than they are on many occasions. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- As a matter of personal explanation, I would like to say that I did not want for a moment to complain of the treatment the men had received. Quite the opposite. I was only too pleased that they had received such consideration. How the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly construed my remarks into a complaint that they had not got all they asked for I cannot understand. I never expected they would get all they asked for, and I think they were remarkably well treated. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I want to ex- 