rogate from the actions of those who fought in New Zealand, because no men were more heroic than those who fought in the early Maori War. I say the time has changed, and that the pensions altogether ought to be on a higher scale. I do not consider a scale such as is in the Military Pensions Act, of a private from 1s. 6d. to 3s., is a sufficient inducement or recompense for men who " have lost two limbs or both eyes from wounds, or being so severely wounded as to be totally incapable of earning a livelihood, and to require the assistance and care of some other person." These are in the first class, whereas the third degree, who are men "able to contribute towards earning a livelihood, although rendered by wounds unfit for the ordinary duties of a soldier," only get 8d. to 2s. Of course, we all know the minimum is what will be taken, and these men will get 8d., and not 2s. I say that is not a worthy payment to give to our soldiers at this time, and I can- not understand why the omission was made of the sisters in the Act of 1900. Now we come to the Bill, and I will ask the Premier, What is the use of putting these schedules to these Bills ? I can understand putting in the schedules of names and the numbers of the men, but to put in a schedule of the next-of-kin I cannot under- stand, because I believe it can be argued that the next-of kin represent the relatives ; and, being in the Bill as a schedule which is part of the Bill, it may be argued that no other relatives than those named in the schedule can obtain pen- sions in case of the death of the contingenter. Mr. SEDDON .- Only for purposes of identifi- cation. Mr. HERRIES. - In all military matters the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero name and number is quite sufficient identifica- tion for the rank and file. Surely it is not in- tended to exclude any other relations except those mentioned in the schedule. I thought it was a mistake last session that the Bill was encumbered with a schedule of the names of the next-of-kin. I remember last session the member for Mataura pointed out a great many errors and omissions in the Southland district, and, if that is so, there must be a large number of errors in the names of the next-of-kin of the . men coming from other parts of the colony. If there are any errors in the schedule they may affect any claims that may be made. For in- stance, supposing the name of the next-of-kin is spelt wrongly, or a wrong address is given, the consequence may be that it might be con- tended that such person is not entitled to the pension, and the Government may refuse to grant the pension. I do not think the schedule of the next-of-kin ought to be in the Bill at all. It is only confusing things. The Premier has said that it is only for the purpose of identifica- tion ; but I say, if the number of a soldier and the place where he comes from is not sufficient identification in a colony like New Zealand, I do not know what is. The next-of-kin, as I have said, who are rightly entitled to a pension under this Act, may be refused a pension in conse- quence of their not being in the schedule as the next-of-kin. in which there are no next-of-kin at all in the schedule. Mr. HERRIES. - Yes ; and it may be possible that when a next-of-kin does apply the applica- tion may be refused for the reason that the name is not in the schedule. We know what red-tape means. We know the difficulty that some of the men have had in getting the money which they have hardly earned. I have heard of cases of several men of the First Contingent who have been unable to get their back pay, and all through red-tape. Well, when the pen- sions come to be applied for the same red-tape may come in, and it may be said, " You are not in the schedule of the next-of-kin, and there- fore you can have no right to claim a pension." I do not think the next-of-kin should be put in at all. I do not know whether I can move to strike it out in Committee. That is the mis- fortune of having these Bills brought down by Governor's message. We are so bound and tied up by the rules of the House that, as happened the other evening, the Chairman of Committees had to rule against himself in moving a clause. I trust the Premier will find out whether this next-of-kin list has any legal effect or not. It is part of the Bill, and I believe it has a legal effect. I believe it defines the next-of-kin who are entitled to claim the pensions. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where is that mentioned as to the next-of-kin ? Mr. HERRIES .- In the schedule. An Hon. MEMBER .-- What are they there for ? Mr. HERRIES .- The Premier says they are there for identification, but I say it fixes them as the next-of-kin and the proper claimants for the pension in the case of death or maiming of any of the troopers. I hope the Premier will take into consideration this question. I intend to move to strike out the next-of-kin if I can when the schedule comes before the House, and I trust the Premier will consent to that, because it seems to me only to encumber the Act, and it may lead to complication. I hope the Premier will consult with the Law Officers on this subject. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - This measure which we now have before the House has brought to my mind memories of the past, memories of what occurred about this time last session. I remember when the Hon. the Premier introduced a similar measure to this at a rather late hour - nearly two a.m .- I re- I felt exceedingly sick, and I monstrated. made a speech then that for some time after- wards I thought would be the last speech I should ever be privileged to make in this House, and I think the Premier used some unkind ex- pression about the sting, like a lady's postscript, being at the end, or something of that sort ; but when I received my Hansard proof I could discover nothing unreasonable in it. But be- fore I remind him of that speech I would men- tion to him the experience we are having in parliamentary Committees of the continuous application of petitioners from the remains of the Defence Force-soldiers who risked, and in 