going on very slowly. So far as Canterbury is concerned it has a right to have this connec- tion. Whereas other parts of the colony are having large sums lavished on them from the Public Works Fund, Canterbury prac- tically gets nothing at all. The lands have been sacrificed, and have been locked up for all these years. I am surprised at the Canterbury members. If I was off these benches-if I was a member and not a Minister-I would know the reason why. We want to have the line completed, and bring the line up to the Cass on the Springfield end. Members will see that we are compared with other districts and main trunk lines not going quite fast enough, and they should take a share of the responsi- bility. It is during the session that Ministers are always pressed for expenditure ; but, as 1 have said, we must be moderate in our expen- diture, and it is the intention of the Govern- ment to ease off the expenditure. An Hon. MEMBER. - Metal our 1.0. roads. Mr. SEDDON. - As far as metalling the roads in the summer time is concerned, it costs twice as much as during the winter; in fact, you lose a good deal of the metal I want members to realise they must take their fair share of responsibility. It is unfair for mem- bers to press on the Ministry all this expendi- ture, and then, when we have expended the money at their request, turning round and telling us we are galloping to a deficit. The honourable member for Bruce is as bad as the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 rest. Why, Sir, of course, I know nothing about the estimates myself. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. SEDDON. - I see them when they are printed. Members will have noticed the dis- consolate face of my colleague the Minister of Lands last week. He came to me with about £200,000 for roads on the supplementary esti- mates, and I had to say, "That will never do. I have only £325,000 left of the loan- moneys." Then, of course, he cut them down to £100,000, and he said, from what members had said to him, it would be a moral impos- sibility for him to do with anything less ; " In fact," he said, " I have promised this." I then said, " You must break that promise to the ex- tent of two-thirds ; ₺32,000 is all you can get." Now, I believe that £32,000 has not given general satisfaction, but I want honourable members to know I am not responsible. I do not know what the allocations are. I do not know the particular works. It is not the duty of the Colonial Treasurer. It is his duty to find the moneys, and he has to find out what are reasonable requirements, then to ob- tain his ways and means, and then he gives to the other Ministers the distribution of the par- ticular amounts. I will conclude my few remarks on this by saying that the position, as far as the Opposition and the Government are concerned - or, rather, the members on this side of the House-has been unique. First of all, we had an announcement made by the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay that he was not Mr. Seddon did not say so in the House last session, although he told me personally-but this time he made the announcement that there was no leader of the Opposition. Mr. FISHER .- Still you termed him the leader of the Opposition. He was like clay in the hands of the potter. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not think so. At all events, the position has been as I have ex- plained. When we wanted to fix the order of business in measures of policy, we have had this situation : depending on the support of members of the Opposition-at least, those who formerly belonged to the Opposition - and though their arguments suggested that they would vote with us, we found they voted against us just the same as before; and one of the results has been that some members of our side of the House have taken pity on those members, and have shown them the different points where the Government was assailable. And, Sir, I have been surprised, when their services have been voluntanly offered, that, instead of being accepted in the spirit intended, members on that side have taken umbrage and said, "Oh, no; there are four or five on these benches, and each of us considers he is going to be leader. We are not going to have Government supporters helping us, and we refuse help from such a source. And we resent it, and we will not go into the lobby with Mr. Fisher, the member for Wel- lington City." Mr. FISHER .- But there is much in your story. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, Sir, it has had an- other development. It has developed some candid friends. Now, if there is one thing in our political life that I do detest it is the candid friend-the friend who is ever watching over your interests, who professes a deep concern for your welfare ; but whenever he can, and as fast as he can, if I may say it, politically cuts your throat. These candid friends are not at all respected by members of the Opposition side of the House, nor are they esteemed by members on this side. Still, they are there, and, as I have said -- not here of course, because it would not be permitted here-but as I have said about the fly in amber, one wonders how they ?: there. However, we survive all that. The work of the session when it comes to be sum- marised and fairly inquired into, will show that we have placed upon our statute-book this session measures which are of great importance for the good of our colony. I will not weary members by mentioning the various Acts. but I may say that the Factories Act, thai was passed yesterday, is in the intere-ts of the great body of the workers of this country. It is a great improvement on the existing las. and in respect to many industries that are in- jurious to health it enforces considerations trai were previously denied. It also protects the youths. It has not gone as far as I should like it in respect to boys, but at all events those be low eighteen have protection now that hitberto did not exist. Then, as regards women and 