fear on our part. If we have done no wrong what have we to fear ? Why should we hand over £130,000 of the moneys of the ratepayers ? I only wish I had sufficient assistance in the House, and I would move that that report be sent back to the Committee for further con- sideration. Mr. HORNSBY .- Then, move it. Mr. PIRANI .- Let them do their own dirty work. Mr. McGUIRE .- I think it is work any member should do in the interest of the tax- payer ; and I also think the Committee is most generous in making the recommendation they did, seeing that no honourable member admits any wrong has been done to the debenture- holders or shareholders. Now, I know where a wrong has been done, and I could point out, were it not that I do not wish to take up the time of the House, how a great injustice has been committed against the ratepayers in the harbour rating district of Taranaki ; and I could make out a good case, but I have no desire to take up the time of the House until half-past five. However, on the question now under con- sideration, I think it would be in the interests of the colony to have a division, and in order that this may be done I move, That the report be sent back to the Committee for further con- sideration. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I may say that I do not intend to support the payment of this money. Some years ago I was a member of the Public Accounts Committee, when this matter was gone into very fully, and I came to the conclusion that, instead of the colony being indebted to the shareholders of this company or to the debenture-holders, the people of New Zealand have suffered considerable damage at their hands. It looks well, no doubt, to be very considerate and amiable, and to talk of acting generously towards them. To be kind and benevolent is a very agreeable thing, but the question is whether, as trustees of the public purse, we have the right to be generous. Should we not also be just ? And, in order to bo just to the taxpayers of the colony, the whole of the facts connected with the Midland Rail- way scheme from the beginning require to be taken into consideration. From the first it was a project that would hardly bear inspection. We had a company, originally formed with a capital of a quarter of a million of money, undertaking a work which was estimated to cost between two and three millions. They made an agreement with the colony that this work should be completed within a term of ten years, and when the ten years expired how much of that work was finished? Only one-fifth of it : seventy-five miles of railway out of a total of 235 miles. That was their way of carrying out their bargain with the colony. Then, when they found, as they rapidly did, that their ori- ginal capital was exhausted, they had to go upon the London money-market to raise de- bentures ; and how did they raise the money ? Can it be suggested or insinuated that they were backed up by the credit of the colony ? Why, pounds' worth of debentures, and there was a clear profit of 13} per cent. handed over to the debenture-holders. In addition to that they were to receive 5 per cent. on those deben- tures. Now, I do not like to use objectionable words regarding the men who invested their money in this transaction, otherwise I would say they acted the part of usurers or speculators. They were certainly looking forward to con- siderable profit from this undertaking. When I mention these terms it must be evident to members that the security was not looked upon as being first class. Now, Sir, what happened a few years ago? The company, as well as the debenture-holders, fought out the question of compensation and damages most bitterly ; and when they were compelled to accept arbitra- tion, what was the finding? The claims of the company briefly were these: They considered that faith had not been kept with regard to the amount of land handed over to them ; and in the second place they stated that, in contravention of the contract, and without proper cause, the Government took possession of the railway, and converted the same to their own use. Because of this seizure they claimed that they were entitled to £1,817,900, together with interest at the rate of 5 per cent. on £845,000 de- benture capital from the 14th January, 1895, till the date of the award. The award was made by the Hon. Edward Blake in De- cember, 1895, and in this award he found that the company had no claim whatever for damages. He awarded that there was such unreasonable and inexcusable delay by the company in the prosecution of the works, and also such a wilful breach of the contract, as on either ground to justify the exercise by the Government of the statutory powers en- abling them to take possession of and assume the management of the railways. He also found that the power had been rightly ex- ercised, and that the company had no claim against the Government of the colony, or right of recovery of any money. Yet in the face of the award of the Arbitration Court, and after the case has been thoroughly investigated, we are asked now to hand over £130,000 of public money to the shareholders and debenture- holders. I maintain that the debenture- holders, in going into the bargain, knew that the security was not first class. With all these facts before us, I consider we are not justitied in stultifying ourselves, and practically ad- mitting that we have been fighting a bad case. We are asked to eat the leek, and bite the dust, at the request of capitalists in another part of the world who know that they have no claim against the colony, and figure as petitioners after they have exhausted every possible remedy. Not satisfied with liti- gation, have they not tried to blast New Zea- land's credit? If we tolerate such a claim as this, what will it mean ? That unscrupulous people with spurious claims will be induced to blackmail the colony on the London money- market. After what they have done in their efforts to discredit the colony on the London 