whether he knows anything about Native legis- lation ; that is my honest belief. I will prove to the hilt that this experiment of committees dealing with the land has been long tried ; first they had power to collect rents, then they had power to ascertain title, succession, alienate lands, et cetera, and it is now proposed in this Bill to give the same powers. The Government appointed a Commission, consisting of Mr. Hanson Turton, Sir John Gorst, and others, to go through the North Island and inquire how it was the Natives could not adapt themselves to the powers given. What was the report? That the administrative powers given were unsafe, as the Natives would be influenced by bribery, corruption, or relationship, and that any legislation of the kind would be unwork- able. The Act was repealed. Similar proposals were brought down again in 1882, and again in 1886, but not a single transaction is reported. Then, there was the Act of Mr. Ballance of 1886. I will trace each one of the measures, and it will be found that the principle of the Act of last session and of this Bill is exactly the same as has been attempted to be carried out for years past. It has been admitted that last session a lot of Natives were induced to come to Wellington in order to afford the Govern- ment some assistance in preparing their legis- lation. Yes, Natives imported from the wilds of the Waikato to assist in framing Native land legislation. What was it the Native Minister said to the Natives at Rotorua subsequent to the visit of their Royal Highnesses? He re- gretted that the legislation was unworkable, and that amendments would have to be made https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 so as to make it operative. One old chief said to the Hon. Mr. Carroll, in reply to this state- ment of his : "I am glad you have to bring down more amendments, because I am an old woman and have not much longer to live. For nearly forty years I have been waiting for a law that will enable me to deal with my land, and each year a Bill has been brought down under which, we were told, our land was going to be administered finally for our benefit. But we are still waiting for the law that will do this, and now I am living only for more amend- Do bring down your amendments, I ments. cannot live much longer." An Hon. MEMBER .- Is she living still ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I believe the poor old lady died. Now, these Councils have taken the whole of the power out of the hands of the owners of the land. Why should not the Native owner be allowed to lease his own land ? Why should it be placed in the hands of irre- sponsible persons? The expense will be some- thing enormous. The honourable member for Clutha (Mr. J. W. Thomson) asked what the expense will be. He says we have cut down nearly £12,000 of expense by getting rid of the Native Land Court. Does he think that by the legislation that is now brought down the Native Land Court is done away with ? It still goes on ; because any one dissatisfied can appeal to the Court. Then, there are six districts created, each of which has a President, who Mr. A. L. D. Fraser district two Europeans are appointed by the Government and one is appointed by the Natives, and three Natives are elected by the Natives themselves. Now, the Government does not pay them ; it is the unfortunate land- owners, and I fail to see any justice in that. If I am a Maori, why should I have to pay seven people to administer my land for me when I can do it myself? It simply means that the whole of the land will be tied up, or eventually pass into the pockets of the so-called administrators. I have seen the Natives going to the Native Minister's rooms last session and this session, and I have letters from them in my possession. They say, " For Heaven's sake let us lease or sell our land, in order that we may pay our debts. We are summoned in the Court, and we have not a sixpence in our pockets to pay liabilities we have incurred, and yet all the time we are worth, possibly, $20,000 in landed estate." Take the case of leases that have fallen-in during the last twelve months. A gentleman in Hawke's Bay was visiting the birthplace of the Native Minister a few weeks ago, and he informed me that he could not be- lieve that a certain piece of land which he saw there was the one that he had been acquainted with. The lease had fallen in by effluxion of time, the Natives could not lease it again, and it was now the home of sweetbriar and other noxious weeds. The Natives, instead of bless- ing their Minister, were actually cursing bim. I tell honourable members, Sir, that the un- rest of the Natives is so great over this legis- lation, that when they realise what their posi- tion is I do not think that even the Native Minister, if he stood for any Native district again, would be returned to Parliament. I have said the expense is going to be great. I need not say that the Natives are to pay for this and for every trivial matter that is going to be taken to the Board ; they are bound to go before it, and they have got to pay the inci- dental expense. What class of Europeans will you get for 10s. a day to deal with interests possibly of the value of $50,000 or €100.000? I ask honourable members, South Island or North Island, to look at this thing in a busi- ness way, in a just way-that we are going to place the ascertaining of the titles, the suc- cession to, the partitioning of, and the definition of Native interests in the hands of Europeans to be appointed by the Government at 10s. à day. And we are to have Natives appointed also at 10s. a day. What does it mean ? Give me £100 and I will square the whole lot of them. The Government themselves say, as regards the Native Assessors, they cannot trust one of them. Up till 1894 a Native Assessor had a voice in all decisions given by a Judge of the The Premier, when Native Land Court. he was Native Minister, learnt that these Native Assessors could not be trusted. What was the result ? He amended the law in the Act of 1894, and laid it down in section 18 that the concurrence of the Assessor in any judg- ment or order was not necessary ; and yet they are now proposing to put four Natives in their 