of what had already appeared in the main estimates. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) protested against what he considered to be an excessive amount paid to the Governor during the present session of Parliament. He was, however, not prepared to offer any further opposition to the item being restored if that was the wish of the House. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said he also voted for the excision of this item, and the vote was the strongest indication the House could give of its objection to the most unseemly and lavish expenditure of money that had taken place during the past year. If he thought he could do the slightest good he would call for a division against the motion to recommit. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said that he put the question to the Minister in charge of the item-it was not the Premier-whether this amount of $50 was not, as being in excess of the amount fixed by statute for the Go- vernor's allowance, illegal but for the Public Revenues Act of last session. He was of opinion, also, that, as it was increasing the Go- vernor's emoluments, the Appropriation Bill would require to be reserved for the Royal assent if that item was not struck out ; so that it appeared to him that honourable members were simplifying the Premier's position by striking the item out. Mr. HALL-JONES said he pointed out in Committee on this vote that since the time there was a Governor in New Zealand this item had always been borne by the colony. It https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was part of the contract entered into by the colony with the Governor, and therefore the colony should carry it out. The late Auditor- General used to pass the amount when voted on http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the estimates in the usual way; but the present Auditor-General would not do so without a vote on the estimates specially indicating that it was in excess of the Governor's Salary and Allow- ances Act. On the motion to consider the resolutions reported from Committee of Supply, Mr. SEDDON moved, That the item, £50, Government Houses, struck off the vote of £1,050 for public buildings, be restored. Motion agreed to. Resolutions agreed to. PUBLIC WORKS BILL. A message was received from the Legislative Council to the effect that the Council had passed this Bill with certain amendments. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the amendments be disagreed with, and that Mr. Field, Mr. Barclay, and himself be appointed Managers to draw up reasons for so disagreeing. Motion agreed to. Subsequently, Mr. SEDDON brought up the following reasons assigned by the House for disagreeing with the amendments made by the Legislative Council in this Bill :- "1. That the Bill is intended to remedy great loss, inconvenience, and hardship which is being suffered by numbers of property owners ' The Public Works Acts Amendment Act, 1900'; and also to prevent the unsightly ap- pearance which streets will present if that sec- tion remains unaltered. "2. That the amendments of the Legislative Council, if agreed to, would result in the con- tinuance of the evils above referred to." He moved, That the reasons be agreed to. Reasons agreed to. Subsequently, a message was received from the Legislative Council, forwarding the follow- ing reasons for insisting on the Council's amend- ment in this Bill :- "The proviso struck out would, if passed, throw additional expense on the local autho- rity in connection with the widening of streets." Mr. SEDDON moved, That the House do not insist on its disagreement with the amendment made by the Legislative Council. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said he thought the proviso which had been struck out was the only part of the Bill which was of any use. He would sooner see the Bill hung up alto- gether than see it passed without the proviso. Motion agreed to. APPROPRIATION BILL. This Bill was read a first time. On the question, That the Bill be read a second times, Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said, - Sir, I desire to take advantage of the present opportu- nity, as it is the only opportunity I shall have before the session closes, to read to the House . correspondence which passed between myself and the Assets Realisation Board in reference to an offer I made to purchase a portion of the Glentui Estate. I do not intend to take longer than I possibly can in placing the matter before the House and the country. It is not my in- tention in this speech to go into the question. What I intend doing is to read the corre- spondence. During the last week I wrote to the General Manager of the Assets Board, and I have obtained from him copies of all letters written by me to the Board, and of all letters written by the Board to me. The correspon- dence between myself and the Board was as follows :- "Wellington, 30th October, 1901. "SIR,-Copies of my letters addressed to you in 1898, re an offer to purchase a portion of the Glentui Estate, having been destroyed by fire in May last, will you be good enough to give me copies of the said letters ?- Yours, &c., "R. MEREDITH. "The Manager, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington." " Assets Realisation Board, Wellington, 1st November, 1901. "DEAR SIR,-I am in receipt of your favour of 30th ultimo, and in response to request therein have pleasure in enclosing copies of letters received from you in the connection .- Yours truly, " WALTER G. FOSTER, General Manager. "R. Meredith, Esq., M.H.R., Wellington." 