all South Island men, they mean to have their hands as deep into the public purse as possible while they have the opportunity. Mr. SEDDON .- The Farmers' Union started in Auckland. Mr. FOWLDS .- Yes; with the object of doing justice to Auckland. I repeat, in all seriousness, that it seems to me that the Go- vernment have come to the conclusion that the Farmers' Union has sounded the death- knell of their administration ; and I am satis- fied that no Government that takes their place on the Treasury benches will ever again, if it fairly represents the people of New Zealand, submit to this House proposals so unfair and so unjust to the people of the North Island as those contained in the present Public Works Statement. I do not know that I need labour the point further ; it is no use going into de- tails. The idea of giving a paltry £15,000 to the North of Auckland railway is absurd -a district where people have been living ex- pecting a railway for more than thirty years, and a district that has paid more towards the taxation than any other portion of the colony. It is nothing short of a disgrace to vote £15,000 for that district, and at the same time to vote £100,000 to each of the two other railways I have named. I recognise that no alteration can take place until we get fair representation of the North Island on the Government benches, and the only thing I can do is to leave the settlement of the question to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Farmers' Union and the Government, and I hope the influence they will exert will be suffi- cient, at any rate, to insure that justice is done. My friend the honourable member for Waihemo made a furious attack on my colleague from Auckland about being a pro- fessional man with no business training. I should say that one of the first essentials of any good business training is to produce honesty, and where is the honesty in an honour- able gentleman standing up and trying to justify a proposal so absolutely unfair to a portion of the colony as are the proposals con- tained in the Public Works Statement? I hope this is not the kind of business training we may expect to result from going to London for two or three years. We want something that will recognise between right and wrong. and I say that this Public Works Statement and the pro- posals of the Government do not discriminate between right and wrong in the allocation of public money. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentle- men disputed my figures regarding the money spent on Auckland railways. I said $2,750,000 had been spent in lines in connection with Auckland. Mr. FOWLDS .- I suppose you consider the New Plymouth-Wellington line to be in con- nection with Auckland. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I find it is exactly as I said. I will give the honourable gentle- man the figures :- Total Expenditure Lines of Railway. and Liabilities, 31st March, 1901. S. Kaihu Valley 55,059 16 1 Kawakawa 88,952 5 9 Whangarei to Kamo Exten- 147,023 19 0 sion 112,394 14 Helensville Northwards 1 Kaipara to Waikato 1,180,246 1 8 .. Cambridge Branch 51,110 9 9 Waikato to Thames- Hamilton to Te Aroha 139,366 14 8 Te Aroha to Thames 0 184,157 2 Paeroa to Waihi 15,056 1 0 Thames Valley to Rotorua- Morrinsville to Lichfield. . 161,583 9 6 Putaruru to Rotorua 192,831 13 11 Marton to Te Awamutu- North End 414,877 3 1 .. South End 436,434 18 2 . .. .. That makes over $2,750,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- You have not got the rolling-stock in. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - The rolling-stock comes to over two millions. Now, the honour- able gentleman took exception to my statement regarding the proportionate population of Auckland, and he said the population of Auck- land was greater than the combined population of the Provincial Districts of Otago and South- land. Mr. FOWLDS .- So it is, according to the census. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Here is the official Year book of last year-the latest publication. It gives the whole of the population of that magnificent District of Auckland at 165,000, whereas the population of the Provincial Dis- trict of Otago, which embraces Southland, is a great many thousands more than that. It is 174,000. I therefore say that, in stating the population of Auckland at about one-fifth of the whole colony, I was very much nearer than if I had quoted it at one-fourth. My figures are also absolutely correct in other respects, and, if necessary, I can quote fully from statis- tics to show that Southland had $20,000 for roads, Otago $15,000-total, $35,000; while Auckland had over $92,000 for roads during the same period. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I did not intend to speak to-night only for the statement made by the Premier in the course of his speech that the absence of desire for discussion proved that the members of the House were well satisfied with the Public Works Statement and estimates. Members of the House, I think, have recognised there is nothing so futile as to attempt to im- press on the present Government the desira- bility of distributing the public funds according to the requirements of different parts of the colony. Year after year an attempt has been made to do this, but a majority of members of the House vote just as the Government desire 