set at defiance by the caprice of one member, as was now being done. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) said, If he was in order, he would point out that last year a new Standing Order to meet this very difficulty had, on the suggestion of Mr. Speaker, been passed by the Standing Orders Committee, and was included in the Committee's recommenda- tions to the House, but the report had not been brought up by the Government for con- sideration. Subsequently, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, In reference to returns that had been ordered by the House, he hoped he was not out of place in asking that Mr. Deputy-Speaker give instructions to the officer of the House to send to the various departments and ask that these returns be supplied. Speak- ing as the head of the Government, and he was sure he could speak also for his colleagues, he would say that they had not in the slightest way impeded any returns being granted. In fact, it was their desire that they should be got ready and laid on the table. He hoped that in the departments there would be no unnecessary delay ; but on one or two occasions when he had mentioned the subject to the heads of the departments they had told him they could not get them quicker unless they got instructions to put on an extra staff. Of course, he could not see his way to authorise that ; but he hoped that a gentle reminder, through instructions from Mr. Deputy-Speaker, would have a bene- ficial effect. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that he would do as suggested by the Hon. the Premier, and that he would also ask for a report as to when the returns would be ready. # WELLINGTON GAOLS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Justice, Why the tenders for medical comforts, also bedding and clothing, for gaols have not been submitted each year to the Visiting Justices, seeing that the cost of the same in Wellington greatly exceeds that in Auckland, although Auckland has more prisoners than Wellington ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said that medical comforts were tendered for an- nually, and the tenders accepted were invariably those recommended by the Visiting Justices. Bedding and clothing were made at the gaols, and could not be tendered for. Under this item for last year there was a balance in favour of Auckland of £17, and on the previous year there had been a balance in favour of Wel- lington. MEDICAL COMFORTS FOR THE WELLINGTON GAOLS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Justice, If the medicine and medical comforts procured for the Wellington gaols are ordered and certified to by the Gaoler ; if so, will he give instructions that for the future the Gaol Surgeon shall issue the orders for the medical supplies ? that the medicine and medical comforts procured for gaols were always ordered by the Gaol Surgeons, and they were now required to sign vouchers for such before they were certified to by the Gaolers. # WILLIAM CLAXTON. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether he will remit or reduce the fine of $2 and 13s. costs imposed upon William Claxton by three Justices at the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court, Wellington, on the 18th September, for having driven across the Queen's Wharf, Wellington, while the train was within half a mile of the crossing at the wharf? This appeared to have been a par- ticularly hard case, that a man should have been fined £2 and 13s. costs for crossing the railway-line at the Queen's Wharf while the train was within half a mile of the crossing, that being the offence according to the regulations. He had made some inquiry into the case, and he found that the man who was driving this express was not within 30 yards of the train when it passed, and there was not the least danger, but merely the fact that he was within the prescribed distance of half a mile. Of course, he did not want to reflect on the Magistrates who heard the case. They heard all the evidence bearing on the matter ; but even if the man were technically guilty, and he was within the half-mile limit, he thought the fine imposed upon him was too heavy. If he had been fined 1s., with costs, that would have been sufficient warning that express-drivers must not cross the railway-line within reasonable distance of an approaching train. Under the circumstances he thought the Minister might well remit the whole fine, leaving the man to pay the Court costs, which would be sufficient punishment for him, and also sufficient warning to other express-drivers. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said this matter had not been brought either under his notice or before the department. If Mr. Claxton made application for a remission, he would make inquiries and see if that remission was justified. # HABITUAL INEBRIATES. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Justice, If he will this session intro- duce legislation for more effectually dealing with that class of inebriates to which his attention was drawn some weeks ago ? Some few weeks ago he drew the attention of the Minister of Justice to the class of inebriates who were here referred to, and he wished now to ask the honourable gentleman if he would introduce legislation this session dealing with this particular class of offenders. He thought he had explained, at the time he referred to, that both the Magistrates and the Justices of the Peace found it was extremely difficult to deal with this class of inebriates. They could scarcely be sent up for medical treatment. They were a vicious class, and a continual menace both to the peace and morality of the 