New Zealand. Where they had so large a part of the cost borne by the State, he was of opinion that only those should be members of a Board who were elected by the people. The member for the Bay of Plenty had objected to the " one man one vote." As he (Mr. Hall-Jones) had said before, seeing that all classes were so interested in these institutions, it was only right and pro- per to say that there should be "one man one vote " on this question. With regard to the question raised by the member for Avon, he would point out that there was a report laid upon the table each year referring fully to the hospitals of the colony. Mr. TANNER .- Yes ; but not to charitable aid. Mr. HALL - JONES said the honourable member would find in that report the receipts and expenditure in connection with charitable aid, but there was no special report. Now, with regard to the case mentioned by the honourable member for Riccarton about the Sel wyn electorate, it was a large electorate, with a population of something over thirty thousand ; but if, as provided in the Bill, the election of the member of the Board was held at the same time as the election of the member for the County Council the only additional cost would be the printing of the ballot-papers, and for that he believed the whole cost would not be more than from £5 to £7 10s. for the whole county. A Returning Officer had to be appointed for the election of members of the County Council, and the only extra cost for the election under this Bill would be the cost of the ordinary advertising and the printing of the ballot-papers in connection with this matter. He was confident that the Selwyn County would not grudge the £5 or £10, cost of printing ballot- papers. Honourable members had suggested that the Bill should be held over till next ses- sion, because the Counties Bill would not be passed this year. Why not pass this Bill now, and, if the Counties Bill did not pass this year, include it in that Bill next year? The Act would have had a year's trial, and any amendments which were found to be necessary could then be embodied. He hoped the House would not oppose the second reading, but would even allow the Committee stage to be taken that night. Bill read a second time. TRUSTEE BILL. On the question, That the amendments made in this Bill by the Legislative Council be agreed to, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the amend- ments made by the Council seemed to be that they had included a clause with respect to property which trustees were not allowed to in- clude at present in trust estates. He was not sure that it was a wise thing, and he should think, if amendment was necessary, it should only have been done by order of the Court. It should have been safeguarded so that the Court might order it. He would move, That the House disagrees with the amendment, with the VOL. CXIX .- 38. believed it should be safeguarded. Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON moved, That Mr. Atkinson, Mr. McNab, and the mover be a Committee to draw up reasons. Motion agreed to. PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE BILL. Mr. SEDDON ( Premier) said that the amend- ments necessary in this Bill were of a purely technical character. In the operation of the existing law it had been found inconvenient and conducive to loss, and unless a change was made some estates were bound to suffer. There were many estates of a certain class that came into the hands of the Public Trustee, who desired to sell. The majority of those in- terested desired that a sale should take place, as it would be in the best interests of the estate. Some of the beneficiaries, however, might be in the Old Country or elsewhere, and could not be communicated with or become parties to the sale, and, in the meantime, as the law now stood, the Courts could not order a sale, and thereby there was a loss to all con- cerned. The Public Trust Office, in the course of its administration, had found it was necessary. The Board itself was composed of men who had only the one interest at heart -they wished to do the best possible in the interests of those concerned - and he thought it would be safe to amend the law in the direction indicated by the Bill, and allow the Board, under the circumstances, to dispose of a property. He might give a case in point : Under the law at present, a land might become burdened with noxious weeds, and if it was not cleared heavy charges might be made against the estate ; while if the land could be disposed of at once it would be in the best interests of those concerned, and would relieve the Board from a loss which was caused as the law now stood. He moved the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HERRIES asked if the honourable member would explain the clauses of the Bill. Mr. SEDDON said he would do so. There were only three clauses in the Bill, and their object was simply to give the Board power to dispose of the property. At present no sales would take place unless the parties interested were consenting parties. That was all that was in the Bill. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said he had followed the Premier's remarks very closely, but did not understand the intention of the measure from the speech delivered. The marginal note of section 24 of the Public Trust Office Consolidation Act of 1894 was : "Where next of kin cannot be found, Trustee may pay residue of estate to widow." That seemed to be a totally different clause from the one the Premier was speaking about. Mr. SEDDON. - No. Mr. G. J. SMITH said the Bill before the House said :- Section 2 .- "The principal Act is hereby amended as follows : (1) As to section twenty- 