honourable members wanted to get a pledge from the Government that they would have an opportunity of being appointed later on. This was an innovation, and in all his parliamentary experience he never remembered seeing on the Order Paper questions of this kind. It should not be encouraged. All sections of the com- munity had a right to have their claims taken into consideration, and have representation in another branch of the Legislature. One of the most material matters to be taken into con- sideration was the question of age, experience, and fitness. # MINISTERIAL INTEREST IN MEAT COMPANIES. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether they are aware that persistent and uncontradicted statements are being made in various newspapers of this colony to the effect that private interests of various members of the Ministry are operating to prevent any attempt by the Government to make any change in the condition of the meat-market of the colony ; whether they are aware that such statements are gaining credence among the meat-producers of the colony ; and whether the Government will make a statement to the House on the subject ? He had no desire, of course, to pry into the private affairs of any Minister, nor did he insinuate that he thought for a moment any member of the Ministry would allow his pri- vate interests to stand in the way of the general good of the producers of the colony. But there had been a strong feeling for some time past throughout the country districts that the Go- vernment was not taking that interest in the meat-market question that the colony had a right to expect, and he confessed he shared that feeling. That being so, one could not be sur- prised that there was a growing feeling that there was some truth in the reports seen reiterated in the Press, that the private affairs of Minis- ters were standing in the way of their doing the good they might be expected to do. He thought the Ministry would be glad of this opportunity to make the position clear, and dispose of the rumours he had referred to once and for all. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the question was a most extraordinary one, and bore its own contradiction on its face. In the first place, he had not noticed the statements, and if such statements had been made they were absolutely unwarranted and unfounded. Not a single member of his Administration had any interest in any of the meat companies -not a single one. On the contrary, when they had been asked to obtain the fullest information they had done so, and would continue to do so; and they would go further. Their policy was to break down mono- poly. If such statements had been made, he wished to give them the most unqualified denial. # RIFLE CLUBS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister of Defence, When it is proposed to supply Go- vernment rifle clubs with up-to-date rifles ? Mr Seddon Martini-Enfield rifles now supplied to rifle clubs were up to date in every way, except that they were not magazine rifles. They were the same bore and the same barrel as the magazine arms. Mr. MONK asked what was being charged for the rifles. Mr. SEDDON said, Cost price, and two years to pay it in. # LYTTELTON FORTS. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Minister of Defence,-(1) Whether recommen- dations have been made to the Government as to the advisability of altering the position of the guns on the south side of Lyttelton Har- bour ; and (2) whether, if these recommenda- tions have been made, the Government intends to act on them, and, if so, when ? Mr. SEDDON (Defence Minister) said recom- mendations had been made as to mounting on the north side of Lyttelton Harbour the guns now in Fort Ripa. The Commandant asked on the 2nd July, 1900, whether any action was to be taken, and Cabinet ordered details of ex- penditure to be submitted. Details of expendi- ture were submitted by the Commandant, esti- mated at $25,000, and on the 6th July, 1901, Cabinet decided that no action was to be taken. Each must take its turn. The Government certainly could not see their way at present to set apart #80,000 or £100,000 for this special purpose. # APPOINTMENTS TO LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, Whether, when recommending to His Excellency the names of those to fill the vacancies in the Legislative Council, he will take into consideration the fact that the manu- facturing community is greatly under-repre- sented in the Council? He asked this question in consequence of the questions which had been put by the member for the Bay of Plenty and the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold). These honourable gentlemen were looking after the welfare of the medical and the farming interests, and the manufacturing community should not be lost sight of. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the reply he had given to the other questions would also apply to this one, and he might state that what he had said in regard to the other questions had already had a beneficial effect. In making future appointments the Government would bear in mind the various industries of the colony and the fitness of persons for the position. Mr. PIRANI. - It will be the first time. Mr. SEDDON .- That question might be raised if ever it was urged that the honourable member for Palmerston should be called to the Council. # APPOINTMENTS TO LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) asked the Premier, Whether he will, in making appointments to the Legislative Council, remember the claims 