Board some one who had something to do with and understood small land - settlements. By doing that he would do justice not only to himself and the department, but to the small settlers in the Wellington District also. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) believed that this question was one that should be answered. An Hon. MEMBER .- There are too many can- didates. Mr. DUNCAN said it was not exactly that there were too many candidates ; but, as soon as it had come under his notice, the opinion he hsd formed was that they should get a man from nearer the interior than any one on the Board at the present time. He thought they should have some one from Mangaweka, or somewhere in that direction. They should, if possible, get a suitable man from that part of the district. Such a man could get to Welling- ton in one day, and. though it would be at some expense, there would be the advantage of having one who was amongst the back bush settlers. They had Mr. Stevens on one side, Mr. Reese on another, and Mr. Hogg on another, and the district of Mangaweka was not represented as he would like to see it. That was under con- sideration, and he hoped soon to arrive at a decision and make an appointment. LAWRENCE-ROXBURGH ROAD. Mr. BENNET (Lawrence) asked the Govern- ment, If they will take over and maintain the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 main road from Lawrence to Roxburgh until the railway is extended in that direction ? He was sorry to have to bring this matter up again this session. He had brought the matter before the Government last session, but was afraid they had not given it the consideration it deserved. He would point out that there was a large amount of dredging-machinery car- ried over it. There was also a heavy traffic in coal to the dredges. The cartage had been very heavy on the roads since the dredges had been built, and had cut them up badly. The cir- cumstances were certainly such as to merit consideration. He might also point out that a very large quantity of gold was being got out of the district at the present time; it was the largest yield for twenty - eight years. During eight months of the financial year gold worth $400,000 had been got in Otago, although the river had been higher than it had been known to be for many years; and he expected that during the next few months they would get gold worth $200,000. He thought this was a fact that was worthy of considera- tion. Further, there were a great many men employed on account of these dredges. The material for road-making was of a very in- ferior class, and the heavy machinery that was taken over the roads did great damage to them, some of the loads being as much as 10 tons in weight. He thought the Government certainly ought to take the road over as far as Roxburgh, aud if that were done then they could get along. He hoped the Government would see its way to sum as would go in the direction indicated. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) 4.0. said, What the honourable gentleman had stated was quite true ; but this was an abnormal traffic. It had been created by the development in the dredging industry, through which they had been getting this enormous quantity of gold ; and the heavy traffic that passed over this road was such that no man could keep it in order in winter-time. If you went and metalled it now all the way, in three weeks' time it would be a quagmire. It would be impossible to keep it up. He remembered the time when very nearly as much traffic for as large a population as they had now was taken through to the Dunstan without a road at all, and they had to find their own roads as best they could. Of course, that was not the case now, and the only thing now was to put the road in order at the beginning of summer and let them do their carting then when the road was dry. But if they were to do it in winter-time, when 10.ton loads were passing over it, the best stuff they could put on would not keep it up. Therefore they would have to take advantage of the finer weather, and the Mines Department would have to do some- thing. The Government had already given something, and they would have to give more, in order to keep the road in order. But he did not think it would be the right thing to take it over and absolve the county from all responsi- bility. Mr. BENNET just wished to make a short explanation. The Minister of Lands was under the impression that the traffic was as heavy in the early days as it was now. In those days it was simply for the good of the miners, but now it was not only for the good of the miners, but for the whole of the settlers in that district. He believed there were 10 tons carried now for every ton that was carried in the early days. WELLINGTON PUBLIC ABATTOIRS. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Government, Whether they intend settling the question of the site for public abattoirs for the City of Wellington ; and whether the Minis- ter has given his approval for any particular site ; and, if not, why not ? Under section 15 of the Slaughtering and Inspection Act the power of delegation from the Wellington City Council to the Meat Export Comany was taken away, and it was then settled that the Wel- lington City Council should themselves erect abattoirs for the city. There had been a great deal of controversy between several of the mem- bers of the City Council and the small butchers as to the proper site for the abattoirs. Two sites were proposed, one at Ngahauranga and the other midway between Ngahauranga and Wellington. There were increased facilities at the latter site, as well as paddocks for the depasturing of stock, and these facilities were supposed to make its advantages paramount ; but he believed the City Council was in favour of the site at Ngahauranga. Now, he under- stood the approval of the Minister was re- 