prepared to admit, as a matter of honesty, that it is the fastest service we can have, but I believe that the question of speed is not one of supreme importance. Certainly to my con- stituents the opening-up of export markets is of far greater importance than a few days' speed in the mails. If the Frisco service were being conducted, as it was a short time ago, by the Union Company of New Zealand, or even by a British-owned line running under British laws, I would not have the same objection to it ; but I do object, as a New-Zealander and a representative of a farming constituency, to the money of this colony being spent in sub- sidising a service that is set up in the interests of America. That great country has fenced herself round with a protective barrier, shutting out our produce, and has actually driven our own line of steamers off the ocean highway between Honolulu and San Francisco by her maritime laws. Therefore, when the time arrives, I shall be prepared to vote against the continuance of the San Francisco mail- service. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- The question of a mail route to the United Kingdom is of great importance to this colony, and I am pleased that the House has to decide this question of the mail-route. This course is commendable when the subject is one of subsidising a foreign line of steamers. I shall try to explain to the House what is my opinion of the service, and what we are losing by offering to Spreckels and Co., an American-owned line of mail steamers, the sum of $28,000 between sea and land car- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 riage of our mails to England. In considering these mail-services, one must consider the question of its being practically the only ser- vice between here and the United Kingdom. The honourable member for Franklin disputed the assertion of the member for Dunedin City, that there is an alternative route offered to the public of New Zealand by which to send their letters. According to the official time-table of 1901, I find that there are the following routes, -the 'Frisco route, the Vancouver route, the Brindisi and Naples route; and then there are the Direct steamers. Thus, there are four different routes, but three of them are marked with an asterisk, and the footnote states that letters must be specially addressed or they will be sent by the Fr'isco line. I think if the honourable member for Franklin will look at the time-table he will see that what I have stated is correct : that the Post Office authorities send the letters by the Fr'isco route unless they are specially addressed to go by another route. Thus only one route is favoured by the Post Office authorities. The proposals before us are for another Fr'isco mail-service con- tract. to the exclusion of any other mail-service by British steamboats, and this after the Govern- ment putting before the House and country last session that one year's temporary service was to be provided for at a rate of 10s. 5d. per pound for letters. We now propose to offer Spreckels and Company a reduced rate, 7s. 6d. a pound for letters, Is. a pound for books, Mr. G. W. Russell papers, and in addition the Auckland Harbour Board is asked to give free wharfage and dock accommodation to their ships while they re- main there. An Hon. MEMBER .- It has always done so. Mr. BUDDO .- Well, this must be considered as another payment to Spreckels and Co., be- cause they must go there on the inward route vid Auckland. I am not aware how much that amounts to, but it is probably a very substantial sum. I now come to the question of how much value to the colony of New Zealand is this par- ticular mail-service vin San Francisco, and, on looking at the return of the Post and Telegraph Department, I find that we received rid San Francisco 595,717 letters, and via Brindisi by the Orient Steamship Company 500,382. Prac- tically we have received as many letters by the Suez route as by the San Francisco one. Then, looking at the number we have sent, I find that we have sent from this colony 535,029 letters via San Francisco, and vid Suez 209,877. Now, considering these figures, I put it to the House whether this service is worth the amount of subsidy which it is proposed to give to Messrs. Spreckels and Company; and in considering the question we must bear in mind, not only that the sum of 7s. 6d. per pound is to be offered for letters, but also that we are offer- ing a most extravagant sum for carrying books and newspapers. The amount offered for books and packets is 1s. per pound, and for newspapers 6d. If that is compared with the amount paid by New South Wales to the same company it will be seen that there is an enormous difference. New Zealand pays, say, 8d. per pound for what New South Wales pays 4s. 6d. per hundredweight. On that basis we pay £3 14s. 8d. for what New South Wales pays 4s. 6d. This is an eye-opener in mail- carriage, and we ought to consider how long we will go on paying 3d. to 34d. postage per copy for weekly newspapers to the Old Land. The daily papers convey very little impression of our colony to friends in the Old Country. and many settlers would hail with delight a cheaper newspaper postage for our well-got-up weekly journals to send to friends at Home. Now, what is the amount of traffic with the Atlantic ports? I wish to show how little reason there is for maintaining this particular Pacific line. Last year our imports from the Atlantic side per ocean-tramp or sailing-vessel amounted to $687.906 in value, and from the Pacific side, $87, 403 ; and we exported to the Atlantic ports of the United States, $387.614 worth, and to the Pacific coast, $45,885. Practically then, the trade we have from this particular line is fined down to very small parcels. Then, this trade is even now decreas- ing. for in 1898 we sent $1,423.544 in value of exports to the United States, and in 1899 only $1,208,808 worth. The fact of the matter is. that most of our exports to the United States of America are of equal value in London, and would bring quite as much if the Auckland Province would send its exports direct by other routes. The exports were : From Auckland, 