be accounted for by the difference in climate ? In 1893 the daily average number in Auckland was 134, and the cost £167; the daily average number in Wellington was 122, and the cost £536. All the way down for ten years there was the same difference in the figures. He was of opinion that in the Wellington Gaol there was but little control in the matter. He under- stood that tenders were not called for the bed- ding and clothing, and, as a matter of fact, it appeared that the taxpayers' money was being disbursed too freely. In ten years the differ- ence amounted to £1,426-in Wellington the expenditure on clothing and bedding during that period was £4,332, and in Auckland £2,906, a difference of £1,426. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) thought this matter wanted some explanation. He would be the last man in the House to com- plain of any proper expenditure of money on medical comforts for prisoners, but he would ask members to look at the average number on the sick-list in the two gaols. The daily aver- age on the sick-list in Wellington Gaol was 0.81 males, and 0.70 females ; in Lyttelton the daily average on the sick-list was 1.03 males, and 0.99 females. The average was greater in Lyttelton than in Wellington. And what was the cost of medical comforts? Lyttelton spent £42 11s. 5d., and Wellington £209 11s. 8d. It appeared to him that if the matter was susceptible of any explanation such as the Minister had suggested, it was practically accusing the gaol authorities in other places of not having done their duty to those who were sick. Such medical comforts as had been referred to by the Minister were practically unknown in the Lyttelton Gaol : some of the items were supplied, no doubt. He wished to call attention to another matter-the Hokitika Gaol. Did the Minister of Justice not think it was time that gaol was closed? The daily average number of prisoners was thirteen, and to control those thirteen prisoners there were a gaoler (at a salary of $400), a surgeon (at £50), a matron (at $50), and two warders (at a cost of #230). The average wage paid per prisoner was therefore $45 per annum, while in other gaols of the colony it was about £30. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) quoted the 8.0. following figures to show that the cost for each prisoner in the gaol at Auckland was very much less per annum than in any other gaol in the colony : Net cost per prisoner per annum : Auckland, #19 1s. 3d. ; Dunedin, $38 11s. 8d. ; Hokitika, £56 11s. 3d. ; Invercargill, £29 9s. 1d. ; Lyttelton, £21 10s. 9d. ; Napier, £48 78. 7d. ; New Plymouth, £69 10s. 2d. ; Wanganui, ₺58 11s. 3d .; Wellington, $26 8s. 3d. It appeared from this that the Auckland Prison vas a model one so far as keeping down the cost was concerned. In the last report from the Chief Gaoler at Auckland he said,- " With a greater number of prisoners, and a larger staff of officers, I could push on work in the quarries more energetically than at present, and so hasten the completion of the new prison. There is also a very great demand for road- metal for country districts where no stone can Mr. Hogg has a most valuable asset in this Prison Reserve -it contains a practically inexhaustible supply of fine stone, eminently suitable for building or road-making, and for which the demand is sure to increase as years go by. On this account I look upon Mount Eden Prison as a perfect place for the employment of prisoners in almost any number ; for, although not far from the city, it is to all intents and purposes isolated, and hundreds of men could work on the reserve without in any way coming in contact with the public. The work can be done at a minimum cost with a maximum gain, and without in the slightest degree competing with free labour. For these reasons it would, in my opinion, be a great misfortune if by any means this reserve were curtailed or alienated, as I consider that so long as the Government hold this land the problem of suitable employment for prisoners is solved." Now, seeing that the cost of maintaining prisoners in the Auckland Gaol was so much less than in other parts of the colony, it might be as well for the Government to send some of the long-sentenced prisoners in the south up to Auckland, as obviously it would be in the in- terests of the taxpayers of the colony that they should be sent there, on the understanding, of course, that they should be taken to where they came from when their term of imprisonment expired. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) understood that in Auckland the prisoners were making roads and planting trees, and otherwise competing in the labour market. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) would like to see the Government come down with a comprehen- sive scheme by which the prisoners could be made to pay for their cost to the colony with- out interfering with private enterprise. They could be employed on harbour-works, breaking stones for roads, and so on. When a mole, for instance, which he believed some time in the future would be run out to the Sugar Loaves at New Plymouth, to be decided on at that place, that was a work on which all the pri- soners in the colony could be utilised for the next twenty years, and ultimately produce a harbour for the large and fertile district of Taranaki. They could also be employed, he suggested, in breaking up and distributing from the Mount Eden Reserve scoria metal to the local bodies in the Auckland District, where in the winter the roads were almost impassable. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) sug- gested that the prisoners could be very profit- ably engaged in vegetable growing for a time, especially in this district, where this class of work was practically confined to Chinamen, and they could carry on their work until they had wiped the Chinamen out of the land by competition, and then Europeans would have a chance. He now wished to allude to a note which had been struck by most of the gaolers in their prison reports, in reference to sending to the different gaols people suffering from delirium tremens. In regard to the Dunedin prison the Gaoler said in his report,- 