that is not so, and the prices will not afford that remuneration to our producers which, up to the present, they have been enjoying on pro- duce sent to Australia. Of course, that is a matter for the future. There is enterprise here, however, and there is quality, and all that is required is to have our produce got up in such a way as would make it tempting to the British consumer, so that our producers may get a fair share of the markets there. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I hope, Sir, after the expressions of opinion from all sides of the House, and from representatives of all parts of the country, the Government will consent to strike out clause 2 of the amending Bill, so as to retain the bonus for some time to come. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Waitemata and other speakers, this industry gives employment to a large number of people, and brings a considerable sum of money into the country ; and, though its extent is small, it is steadily expanding. I noticed lately in the Auckland papers that quite a number of people are engaged in whitebait-fishing in the Waikato River, and canning the fish, and that large quantities are being sent away. I do not suggest that the bonus should be continued indefinitely, but I think the time has not yet arrived when this industry can stand alone. I am of opinion, therefore, that the Bill should be amended in such a way as to provide for con- tinuing the present bonus for another five years https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 at least. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, the fishing industry, though assisted in the shape of bonuses since 1885-sixteen years -- has made no substantial progress. The honourable mem- ber who has just sat down has stated that it is a large industry employing a great many hands. I fail to see that such is the case, judging from the export value of the fish sent from this country, as shown by the " Statistics" for 1900. I find, under the head of " Dried, pickled, and salted fish, 7 tons, value £116; potted and pre- served fish, 150 tons ; frozen fish, 436 tons ; and ova of the value of $207. Total, 583 tons ; value, $18,849." Now, while I agree to a bonus in preference to any other form of pro- tective taxation-forasmuch as one can see the end from the beginning -yet at the same time it appears to me we are putting our hands into the pockets of the many and extracting there- from money in order to put money into the pockets of the few. If there is one thing in the Bill I admire more than another, it is the feature of finality. Subsection (3) of clause 2 says, " From and after the last-mentioned date the bonus aforesaid shall altogether cease to be payable." Now, one honourable gentleman referred to the probability of a market in the South Sea Islands. I do not think that market will be very large unless there is a considerable influx of European population. An. Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Na- tives ? Mr. MEREDITH .- They will be able to catch fresh fish in abundance around the coast of their own islands, and it is not likely that much fresh fish at their doors in the surround- ing seas. Indeed, I should not be at all sur- prised to find that, under the form of govern- ment we are about to give the Cook Islands, they will become competitors with us-that they will capture a portion of the world's markets, and in that way enter into competition with us. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- I observe that this Fisheries Encouragement Bill practically limits the operation of the bonuses offered to the fishing industry, so that they may cease al- together in 1905. I should have preferred de- ferring the consideration of this for another year at least, in view of the very great altera- tion that is proposed in the tariff of the Australian Commonwealth. I have an im- pression that we must in the course of the next year or two,-if we are to remain as we are, outside the Commonwealth,-revise our own tariff. The tariff that is proposed for the Commonwealth has been spoken of as a revenue- producing tariff, but I am convinced it is a highly protective tariff, and we must now realise that in the near future it must consider- ably alter the position in regard to the tariff we have now in force in New Zealand. In deal- ing with this matter, I have not the slightest doubt we have to consider the question of ex- pediency a great deal more than the question of principle in taxation. The granting of a bonus is not a healthy way of encouraging an industry; but mere expediency may prompt us to adopt it, and, at any rate, we have the example of France and Germany with respect to the establishment of the sugar-beet industry. Something will have to be done in the direo- tion of protection for the New Zealand produce trade as against the hostile tariff proposed by the Australian Commonwealth. The Govern- ment have recognised that the fishing industry is not giving the results that were anticipated by this bonus system ; but it is proposed to make it self-reliant by slowly reducing the bonus. In view of the proposed protective tariff in Australia, which has put us in a posi- tion that we did not anticipate, I suggest to the Government whether we should not, at least, allow another year to pass before we make any definite change in connection with our fisheries. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I hope that in dealing with this Bill we shall not go into the question of the tariff as applied to Australia. I think it will be sufficient for members to know that the Government have the matter now under consideration. Mr. MASSEY .- You have heard expressions of opinion all round. Mr. SEDDON. - I had the same opinions before the situation eventuated, and I ventured the opinion on the floor of the House last ses- sion that I feared the Commonwealth tariff would be less protective than the Victorian, but considerably more than the New South Wales tariff. An Hon. MEMBER .- I believe it is more pro- tective than the Victorian. 