through with me, and he is still doing his work with the Seventh Contingent at the front. He is in the hands of Trooper Bradley of the Seventh. Some of the officers and men of the Fourth sold their horses to Imperial officers in South Africa, and received the money there. It does not seem fair to me that they should do that, and those of us who kept our horses right through to get nothing. I could have sold my horse at Klerksdorp last December, but we were told we would receive £28 compensation from the Im- perial Government." They did not expect to get paid for the horses as long as they were campaigning, but when they came back and found, as the Premier had stated, and as this letter had stated, that other people had been allowed to sell their horses, it seemed very unfair that those who stuck to their horses should neither be allowed to sell nor bring their horses back. In this case the man took his horse right through the campaign, and it was now serving with the Seventh Con- tingent, and surely some compensation should be given to that man and others in the same position. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) did not know what the arrangements were in the other parts of the colony, except in so far as the signing of this agreement by the men ; but he knew that in the Provincial District of Otago, where the honour- able member for Bruce came from, and the con- tingents in connection with which he had had a great deal to do, there was not a single man in the contingents that went from Otago, outside some of the officers-who might have purchased https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 extra horses and taken them under special ar- rangement-that owned his own horse ; nor was there a single man belonging to the Fourth and Fifth Contingents who had the slightest idea that the question would be raised as to compen- sation being paid for their horses. Mr. HOGG .- You supplied a lot of the horses. Mr. McNAB said that was apart from 8.30. this question. All the horses got in Otago were supplied to the Crown, and there were cases-there were none in his own district, but there were cases in other parts of Otago- where he believed the committees accepted from men before they selected them the gift of the horses that these men offered. The horses were then handed over to the Crown, and the men were selected. That did not happen in the district with which he was immediately concerned, but he believed it had been done in more than one case. He had had a good deal to do with the sending of men away from his district, and he never heard or saw it printed in the Otago papers that there was any intention whatever of refunding money for the horses. How could they have expected it to have been so, seeing that the Imperial authorities had accepted equipped contingents ? What had the Government of the country got to do with the equipment of contingents? They had nothing to do with it ; and if applications were to be made, surely they would have to be made to the Imperial authorities at whose request these horses were to be provided. Then, in regard I to the horses that were killed in South Africa, surely if the men expected to get paid for these horses they would equally be entitled to get paid for those that were destroyed. Mr. MASSEY .- They do not say so. Mr. McNAB said, They would not have said anything in this case if it had not been for the opportunity of getting the subject ventilated in the House, and through members raising the question of getting this money. If they had never received encouragement from some of the public men in this colony the claim would never have been put forward, and it was a great pity this question had ever been raised. He had no doubt, himself that, if representations had been made to the Imperial authorities, and any certificate were required for the horses provided in this colony, the Premier would be glad to give it ; but directly they did this they would have every committee sending in its claims, because the men had no mere right to get a refund in respect of the horses than the committees had. An Hon. MEMBER .- The committees found money, not horses. Mr. McNAB said there was no use in the honourable member telling him what the com- mittees found ; he knew perfectly what they found ; and he thought it was a very great pity that any committee in the colony had allowed men to provide their horses, for the result was that very many men were sent with the con- tingents simply because they had money to pay for their horses, and the men who had not money to pay for their horses were set aside in their favour. That sort of arrangement ought not to have been tolerated for a single moment. He knew in some parts of the colony all the men were put on the same footing, and if a particular man had offered half a dozen horses he would not have been selected for South Africa if he had not otherwise been competent. Looking at the agreement, the honourable member for Bruce contended that the horses were only the property of the men when they were in New Zealand, and directly they got over the three-miles limit there was a transfer to somebody else. He did not think there was anything of the sort meant by the agreement. He thought the men might be well satisfied with the honour they got in being sent away to represent the colony in South Africa, in having survived the conflict, and in being able to return home to pursue the duties they were pursuing. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) was rather sur- prised that these claims had been brought for- ward for horses that were left behind in South Africa, because he thought it was distinctly understood-at any rate, it was understood in his own district, which was one of the first to equip and send away upwards of forty men- that the men should find their horses, while the district found the equipments and passage- money for men and horses afterwards. Surely if it was right that the horses should be after- wards paid for, it was right also that the equip- ment also should be paid for ; and he was sure that when these things were given there was 