rect statement of the assets of the company? Nobody is able to prove it. It has not been before the Public Accounts Committee or any other Committee of the House, and we cannot tell whether it is correct or not. The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) says there is a reserve fund of $76,000, which is not shown here at all in the statement of assets. Well, I say, to ask us to legislate in a way like this, dealing with a million of the colony's money, Seems to be the very height of absurdity, and I cannot understand why we should be asked to do it at this late hour. The Premier says he could not bring it down before, but the news- papers have been teeming for some time past, at any rate, with what purports to be the fact that the Premier was willing to offer 30s. a share. If the Premier had that in his mind, why did he not bring this Bill down at an earlier stage, and then we would have been in a position to authorise negotiations with the Manawatu Railway Company ? Mr. FISHER. - What is the use of asking why, unless you can get them in a vice ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- The only way to get him in a vice is to say that the Bill shall not go through. I shall have to thoroughly discuss it, and understand what every single clause means. I would like to ask if any commission is to be paid. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. J. ALLEN .- None whatever? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. ATKINSON .- Who to? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not know. But it does seem to me that the basis of the calcula- tion is made upon this statement of the assets, and that the statement of the assets is in- correct. And if that is so, then the whole Bill may be on a false foundation. I cannot understand why members can consent to passing legislation of this kind, and I do sub- mit there can be no harm, having got to this stage of the session, in waiting another six months-at any rate, until the early part of next session. We shall be meeting again in about six months' time or a little more, and if the Right Hon. the Premier is going to the Coronation we may be meeting in three or four months ; but, at the very latest, we shall be meeting in seven months' time. Now, what harm can there be in delaying the negotia- tions-in fact, the negotiations may go on, but what harm can there be in delaying an Act authorising the actual purchase for another six or seven months? The negotiations could then be completed and laid before us, and we should have an opportunity of going thoroughly into the matter, and seeing whether the colony is advised to go in for this at a fair price or not. Under the existing conditions it is impossible to say whether what is offered is fair or not. do not know at what price the shares are in the market, but the honourable member for Hawke's Bay said 24s. But how are we to know that ? We ought to have time to find out what is the value of the shares. If the Mr. J. Allen buying " a pig in a poke." Sir J. G. WARD. - I did not make the state- ment that I do not know. I said that not 10 per cent. of the shares are upon the market. Mr. J. ALLEN. - The honourable gentleman \- a short time ago, across the floor of the House, said he did not know; and, if he does not know the market price of the shares, how can he say that 30s. is a fair price ? Mr. SEDDON .- Contrast this arrangement with the present Act. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I say, we cannot contrast it. I have tried in the few minutes I have had the Bill in my hand ; but we have not the de. tails, and cannot contrast it. Mr. SEDDON .- We have had them com- pared. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It may be satisfactory to you, but not to the members of the House ; and it is not right for us to accept even a Minister's statement that this is correct. We ought to prove it to ourselves. When dealing with such a huge amount of money, I do not think it is right that we should be asked to decide within a few moments. This Bill ought to have been on the table of the House some days ago. Sir J. G. WARD .- We had not the au- thority. Mr. J. ALLEN .- What authority have you now that you had not a month ago ? Mr. FISHER .- It will not be necessary for him soon to bring it here at all : he will do it himself. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Of course, he may do many things himself, and may do this as he does with the estimates - get the authority of Parliament after he has done it. That is one way of doing these things ; but I submit there can be no great harm if the Bill is allowed to go over till next session, and until we have an opportunity of looking into the matter. I do not feel inclined to vote for the second reading. for I may be voting entirely wrong. We have had no opportunity of looking into the thing in such a manner as to satisfy ourselves whether it is right or wrong. For instance. here is clause 6, in which is stated the basis of the agreement. I cannot tell whether that is a satisfactory basis or not. Then, clause 6 says,- "The values specified in the Schedule herete. which have been represented by the company to be the correct values of the correspond- ing assets as on the thirtieth day of August. one thousand nine hundred and one, shall be deemed to form the basis of the agreement for sale and purchase, and the purchase-money shall be computed and the rights of the parties under the agreement shall be regulated accord- ingly." Apart altogether from that basis of agree- ment, I suppose what led to the directors of I the company intimating to the Premier that they were prepared to consider the agreement is that an additional $16,845 is to be paid by way of purchase-money. The colony is to take that liability upon itself. 