Adelaide, and, I think, Brisbane. It is no use minority of one, which was very " hard lines " talking about how they were treated. We all -but still he had no doubt, when there had know with what hospitality representatives of been a little more time for reflection, and if this colony would be treated in every one of he lived to bring the measure forward again, the places I have mentioned ; and were they to some of those who had acted, perhaps, without remain an impecunious and unresponsive body the fullest consideration of the reasons he had of gentlemen, who might be considered not of given for voting for the measure, would alter the highest class? We expect our Commis- their minds. He begged to move, That the sioners, when they go abroad, to live like repro- Council do now adjourn. sentatives, and to be able to pay their way; and I think it was understood that in sending the thanks of this Council were due to the Hon. those gentlemen their expenses in Australia the Minister for the very considerate and able would be considered. I am sure that both way he had conducted the business of the Go- those Commissions - the Teachers' Salaries vernment in the Council. Commission and the Federation Commission - have performed services which the colony ought ment that by stating that, as a rule, he was in to thank them for, and esteem as absolutely accord with the Hon. the Minister. Of course, above money and above price. They have done on one occasion there was a little difference of a valuable service for their country. They have opinion between them, and he humbly sub- mitted he was right on that occasion. How- cleared up ground which some people were almost afraid to touch. In the case of the ever, he hoped they would get on as cordially Federation Commission some people were afraid next session as this one. to touch the question. They thought, if they did, they would tumble down the whole com- was one of those who was not ordinarily sup- mercial condition of the colony, as if it were posed to support the present Government, he built on the top of a pack of cards ; whereas the had very great pleasure in testifying to the Commission went straight to the mark, and courtesy displayed by the honourable gentle- found out what was the position of affairs, and man towards all members of his party, for brought up a very solid report indeed. I am which he was very much obliged. He supported obliged to the Hon. Mr. Reeves for bringing the Minister when he was right, and voted against him when he was wrong ; but he would forward this matter, and I consider that when like to see him a little more Liberal from his members of Parliament-who should be men of known character and experience-are appointed point of view. on Royal Commissions they should be paid as much as any other gentleman. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- As a matter of (Friday). personal explanation, I gathered from what the Hon. the Minister said that he was under the impression that I was not in favour of reasonable expenses being allowed to the Royal HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Commissioners. I tried to explain in my few remarks that there was nothing of the kind in my mind, because no one has a greater appreciation of the work done by the First Readinga-Second Reading-Third Reading- Federation Commissioners and the Education Commissioners than I have. I contend they have done their duty well and faithfully, and the paltry sum that has been placed on the estimates to pay them for their extra expenses, to my mind, is not enough. I did not say a word against it, and I only trust the Govern- ment will take steps to further increase the allowances to Royal Commissioners. Bill read the third time. ADJOURNMENT. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, At the last stage of this eventful history, which was to ring the curtain down, he only desired to thank honourable members of the Council for the consideration they had given him in the conduct of the Council's business. He had endeavoured to do his best, and if he had o'clock. given any satisfaction at all in the conduct of the business, it had only been because the members of the Council had been exceedingly generous to him, and had always supported his .endeavours-he would not say his measures, The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON would say that The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY would also supple- The Hon. Mr. PEACOCK said, Although he Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at three o'clock p.m. Thursday, 7th November, 1901. Primary Education Reserves-A Correction- Reserves and other Lands Sale, Disposal, and Enabling and Public Bodies Empowering Bill- Timber Export Bill-Factories Bill-Nelson Har- bour Board Bill-Victoria College Site Bill- Death of the Hon. J. A. Bonar, M.L.C .- Native Land Claims Adjustment and Laws Bill-Re- serves and other Lands Sale, Disposal, and Enabling and Public Bodies Empowering Bill- Midland Railway -- Victoria College Site Bill- Native Land Claims Adjustment and Laws Bill -Reserves and other Lands Sale, Disposal, and Enabling and Public Bodies Empowering Bill- Midland Railway-Manawatu Railway Sale and Purchase Empowering Bill-Public Works Bill- Flax Grading and Export Bill-Victoria College Site Bill-Dunedin City and Suburban Tramways Bill - North of Auckland Railway -Supply - Public Works Bill-Appropriation Bill-Public Works Bill-Business of the Session-Adjourn- ment. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at eleven PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Light-line Railways Bill, Land Bill. 