that the resolution referred to statements made by members of Parliament outside the House. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - I will accept the honourable member's assurance that the members' speeches referred to were made out. side this House ; otherwise I cannot allow it. Mr. FISHER .- It is so, Sir, but I will show further on that statements of this nature were made long before Parliament met, and I will also show by whom they were made. At the Labour Day demonstration, held on Wednes- day, 9th instant, at the Basin Reserve, Mr. Naughton, President of the Union, who was first to speak, said :- "The object of that demonstration was the attainment of an eight-hours day. . had been said that they should cry a halt in labour legislation. If the request was that they should cry a halt in legislation of the kind he had referred to, and which they were determined to secure, he could give an assurance that to ask that was of no avail." Now, my point is this : I wish it to be noted particularly who it was who was the first to charge the labour unions with "riding the labour laws to death." And who was it ? Mr. McLaren says, " It was not the unionists who were riding the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to death : and the Premier should have lectured the employers, and not the workers." Mr. Naughton says that, "if the request was that they should cry a halt in labour legisla- tion that request would be of no . https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 avail." Mark what follows. See how the Pre- mier changes his position. At the Labour Day demonstration, in answer to the comments which had been made by Mr. Naughton, Mr. McLaren, and other labour representatives upon his statement that the labour unions had been "riding the labour laws to death," Mr. Seddon said, " So far as the working of the machinery of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act was concerned " Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must ask the honourable member to show how this bears on the Factories Bill ; that refers to the Concilia- tion and Arbitration Act. Mr. FISHER .- I propose to show that my remarks apply to the whole question of labour legislation, and I submit that comment of this kind, affecting the whole question of labour legislation, is relevant to any discussion on a Factories Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I think not, be- cause there is another Bill on the Order Paper dealing with that particular question. The honourable gentleman's remarks would be quite in order on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, not on the Factories Bill. Mr. FISHER .- Allow me to point out, Sir, that this Bill deals with the Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act. Subsection (3), clause 18, says :- "Where in any award of the Arbitration Court, whether made before or after the passing of this Act, provision is made for limiting the working-hours in any trade, this section shall in respect to such trade, and so long as such Mr. Fisher subject to the award." And, in the interpretation clause,- "' Arbitration Court ' means the Arbitration Court established under 'The Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900."" Well, Sir, speaking at the Demonstration Day celebration, Mr. Seddon said :- "So far as the working of the machinery of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act was concerned, there had probably been some ground for complaint. Complaints had been directed against one side. The represen- tatives of employers on the Conciliation Boards had been more to blame than the representa- tives of the workers." This was what was known as "the turning It process." The Premier was now doing what Mr. McLaren said he should do. He was now " lecturing the employers." And he was doing it well, for he goes on to say,- "There had been no conciliation at all so far as some representatives of the employers on the Boards were concerned. He had been carefully watching what was going on, and he was a plain, blunt man, and said what he knew to be the truth." But which is the truth-what he is saying now or what he said before, about the workers "riding the labour laws to death "? He still goes on,- " As to assertions which had been made that the demands of the workers were excessive, he maintained that it was not too much for men to take steps to improve the position of themselves and their children, to have some hope for the future, and to have some little comfort in their home life. In doing that they were only doing what was right and just, and what they were entitled to do as free men." No living person can dissent from that state- ment of the Premier, but at the same time it indicates on his part a complete change of front in regard to his statement that the unions were "riding the labour laws to death." It will be seen that my main purpose in rising to speak on the third reading of this Bill is to show who it was who first called for a halt in labour legislation,- who it was who first said. there must be a halt,-so as to enlighten the speakers at the mass meeting and the speakers at the Labour Day demonstration. In criti- cizing the procession, and the proceedings generally on Labour Day, the New Zealand Times, in a leading article, said :- " One can therefore readily understand the comparative indifference which prevented the proper and due display of unionistic strength in the procession. But in the face of the recent assertion that the labour organizations were in danger of 'riding the labour policy to death ' the calmness will have a good effect." If there should be any remaining doubt as to the origin and the authorship of the words that the labour unions were "riding the labour laws to death," I propose to give some further proof. The Wanganui Chronicle of the 16th August, commenting upon the statement of the Premier on this subject, says,- 