impressed my mind with the idea that he had a grievance against the Government because the men had not got all they asked for I would not have risen. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I think the utter- ances of the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly with reference to agricultural labourers were misunderstood. The impression conveyed to my mind by his utterances was that the agricultural labourers were not organized like other people and other trades, and consequently they were utterly neglected. Very well, I think that is abso- lutely true; but the agricultural labourers after this session will have no ground to complain against the Government or the Parliament of New Zealand. If they like to organize and insist upon getting proper recognition of the value of their labour they can take the same means that other people adopt to get proper wages and proper consideration in every respect. There is no doubt, too, that the Hon. Mr. Bolt is perfectly right in saying that the present Government has behaved in a very friendly manner towards farmers and towards agricul- tural labourers. They have settled a great many of the latter class upon the land, and put into positions of affluence men who were practically penniless. That is within my own knowledge. Now, as regards farmers, what has the Govern- ment done for farmers ? The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I do not wish to interrupt the honourable gentleman, but what has this to do with the Railways Classifi- cation Bill ? The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I was wondering . https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 what the honourable gentleman was discussing. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I have only fol- lowed out the beaten track before me, and it looks very invidious that two or three honour- able gentlemen have been allowed to follow this same path and my doing so is objected to. If I am wrong, then two or three others who have preceded me have been wrong and no notice was taken of it. That is what I object to, Sir. If you rule me out of order I, as I have always done, will obey your ruling. As it is drawing late I will not persevere. I happen to belong to an agricultural district, and this is one of the things I understand. I do not think the honourable member has any right to call me to order. I think he might have allowed you, Sir, to be the judge of whether I am in order or not. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- The honourable member must confine his remarks to the Bill. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I submit that the classification of Civil servants is not a good system, for the reason that it does not afford proper incentives to officers to raise themselves in the service by merit, and thus the State does not get the best services of the best men. The State ought to have the services of the cleverest of our employés, who should be placed in the foremost positions. Classification militates against that I am very glad to say that this Bill widens the opportunities of the employés in the lower grades and the clever officers to come to the front. That will be one of the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly consequently, I think that this is a great im- provement on previous legislation. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- There has been so much heterodoxy talked about farmers and the railway servants that I am almost in- clined to make a speech, but at this time of night I think I had better not. I must, how- ever, make a remark or two with respect to the farmers, and as to how much they are helped by the railways. The railway servants have got a great many privileges which the farmers have not got. It is, however, like the old fable of the belly and the other parts of the body. If we quarrel one with the other what will be the result ? We must all pull together. I do not say that we should not endeavour to get what benefit we can, but if the farmer is thriving the railway servants should get some consideration, and therefore you must not grudge the railway servants getting a small rise when the authori- ties think they ought to get it. When one portion of the service is endeavoured to be assisted and placed on a better footing, then some other section of the community immedi- ately demands that its position should be im- proved. I remember the old signboard in the Home - country known as the "Five Alls," representing the King, a soldier, a clergy- man, a barrister, and a farmer, with the legend below: "I govern all; I fight for all ; I pray for all ; I plead for all ; I pay for all "-the last under the figure of the farmer. Well, that is an old superstition. We are better learned now ; and I am quite sure that it is of no use trying to set one class against another, or to suppose that if our railway ser- vants are badly treated our farmers will be any the better served. Of course, farmers have their rubs and their troubles ; we all have. If they had not their rubs and their troubles they would not be as good men as they are-or as their wives are either. We always hope that better times are coming. I think they have fairly good times as it is, but we all look for better. I do not think there is any reason to bring up this question of farmers against rail- way servants. Railway servants work every hour of their lives in the public service, many of them at the risk of life ; and I may say that in all my experience I have never met with a railway servant in the colony who was not courteous, intelligent, and pleasant, and whe was not willing to give the public what service ought to come from a man in his position. Bill read the third time. CITY OF AUCKLAND LOANS CONSOLI- DATION AND AUCKLAND CITY BOR- ROWING BILL. On the motion, That the Bill be committed, The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said he wished to ask the honourable gentleman whether he was prepared to limit the rating-power of the City of Auckland Borough Council to that allowed by "The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900." At present, if the Bill was passed as printed, it appeared to him that, as the Bill appeared to override "The Municipal Corporations Act, 