Friday, 27th September, 1901. First Reading - Levels and Waimate Counties' Boundaries Bill-Mr. Diack's Petition-Death of the Hon. M. Holmes, M.L.C .- Imprest Supply Bill (No. 4)-Railways Classification and Super- annuation-Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Masterton Public Park Management Bill. LEVELS AND WAIMATE COUNTIES' BOUNDARIES BILL. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) brought up the report of the Committee on the Levels and Waimate Counties' Boundaries Alteration Bill, to the effect that the Standing Orders had been complied with, and the Committee recom- mended that the Bill be allowed to proceed. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) said that it was only fair to the member in charge of the Bill that he should inform him that, when the Bill was in Committee, he would move the amend- ment standing in his name on Supplementary Order Paper No. 47, which was as follows :- " All that area in the Land District of Can- terbury known as Lower Pareora Riding of Wai- mate County. Bounded towards the north- east by Levels County ; towards the south-east by the ocean ; towards the south generally by a line along the middle of the Otaio River from https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the ocean to a point opposite the road forming the eastern boundary of Section No. 19525; thence towards the north-west generally by a right line to and by that road past Sections Nos. 19525, 16154, 17707, 23809, 20739, and 20755, through Sections Nos. 8132 and 8131, past Sections Nos. 8130, 8129, 8128, and 8127, through Sections Nos. 6226 and 6225, past Sec- tions Nos. 19872, 14704, 19874, and through Sections Nos. 7105 and 3511 to the Pareora River, and thence by a line to the middle of that river, the boundary of Levels County aforesaid." His reason for moving the amendment was because of representations that had been made by a majority of the residents in the Upper Pareora Riding, who were opposed to the Bill. ## MR. DIACK'S PETITION. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) brought up the report of the Railways Committee on the petition of Mr. Diack, and moved, That the report do lie on the table. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) moved, That the petition be sent back to the Railways Com- mittee for reconsideration. The report was to the effect that the claimant had no claim on the Government, and the Committee no recom- mendation to make. He might inform the House that this was the case of a farmer who was driving across the line near Waikouaiti, and in order to run no risk had waited until after the ordinary trains had passed. While ballast train conveying some empty trucks unexpectedly came along. The men on the ballast train had a clear view for some 150 yards before reaching the sheep, yet they did not blow any signal until within about 20 yards of the sheep, when the train dashed into them. There were about sixteen injured, and fourteen were killed, making a total of thirty sheep. The train went 100 yards be- yond the sheep before it was hauled up. He thought, considering all the circumstances of the case, the matter was very serious. If the farmers of the country were to have trains sweeping on to them at odd times it was quite time the settlers should understand the posi- tion and Government were given to understand that the farmers would not stand such treat- ment. He ventured to say that if the railways were privately owned such a thing as this would meet with reprobation at once, and com- pensation would be enforced, but because the Go- vernment owned the railways the settlers were to have their stock slain and yet not to have their claims considered at all. He could assure the Ministers that the Farmers' Union now formed would make the Government "sit up " in such cases as this, when, through the carelessness of their men, damage was done, for, bad the men been on the outlook, was it not possible for the men to haul the train up within 150 yards, seeing that the trucks were empty ? It would have been different if the trucks had been heavily laden, for in that case something might have been said for the department. He would quote from a statement made by Mr. Diack, the farmer who had lost his sheep. It said :- " Perhaps we should give you some idea of how it occurred. On the 17th October, 1900, my sons, together with three other lads, were removing a thousand ewes and lambs from one farm to the other, and to take every precaution of the ordinary trains they waited until the last train before noon had passed-namely, our quarter to eleven. And to their surprise the empty ballast train, unknown of its running, or even the engine whistling, rushed round the corner, which, when measured, gives the driver a clear view of 150 yards from the crossing. The train rushed on at full speed and crashed into the sheep, killing there and then on the spot fourteen, and breaking the legs of six, which had to be destroyed, and eleven died afterwards, besides the lambs that were mother- less. Had the driver been on the lookout, or had he given us due warning, the sheep could have been saved. As it was he whistled when he was within 20 yards of the sheep, when the train was brought to a standstill 100 yards past the crossing, which means 250 yards from the time the engine came round the corner until it was pulled up. Do you not think 250 yards is an extraordinary distance to travel with seven empty trucks before it can be stopped? Surely this can be put down for carelessness on the part of the driver." He claimed that farmers had the right to have ordinary protection, and in this case he 