amendment, and one of the directions in which it should be amended was that indicated by the honourable member. The Government would have to bring down amended proposals-it was too late this session-or otherwise they could not expect to have the best service, and they had not got the best Civil Service. Motion agreed to. REVIEW OF REVIEWS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, I wish to lay before the House the correspondence with re- spect to the payment of £260 for an advertise- ment in the Review of Reviews. I move, That the correspondence do lie on the table, and be printed. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I think it is a most improper thing to get correspondence from outsiders with reference to the proceedings of the House, and to embody that correspon- dence in the Journals of the House. Mr. SEDDON. - It is the correspondence, from start to finish, as to how the contract was made, and I was asked by the House to give it. Mr. PIRANI .- I have not seen the whole of the correspondence, but I have seen one letter and it is utterly misleading. The letter I saw stated that the objection taken in the House to that article was because it boomed the Premier. There was nothing of the sort. The only refer- ence to the Premier in the course of the discus- sion was the fact that the Premier's photograph figured so largely on the pages of that article- that the Premier was shown in every costume but the costume of nature; and I believe the article would have boomed very much more if that omission had been remedied. But, so far as the contents of the article or the matter in the article were concerned, no exception was taken in the House at all; and yet Mr. Fitchett, and his coadjutor Mr. Stead-be- cause Mr. Stead, mind you, has also taken up the cudgels on behalf of the Australasian Review of Reviews-this gentleman who, we have been told by the Premier, has nothing whatever to do with that publication, has taken up the cudgels on behalf of the Premier and the Australasian Review of Reviews. Now, there is no greater proof of the argument used in this House in reference to that article than the fact that Mr. Stead has taken the mantle of defence upon his own shoulders, and has defended the position in connection with the Australasian Review of Reviews. The Premier was hitherto, I believe, under the impression that Mr. Stead had nothing to do with the Australasian Review of Reriews. Now he will probably believe that his impression was a mis- taken one, and that the Rev. Dr. Fitchett is not the sole proprietor of the Australasian edition. The objection I have to this corre- spondence is that it is based on a misrepresen- tation-I mean the statement that the House objected to the article because of its contents. It was not the contents of the article, nor even the photographs, dainty as they were, that were so much objected to; it was the framing in which that article was placed that the great Mr. Seddon thing in the reasons that the objectors urged, it is confirmed by the publication of Mr. Stead's defence of the position. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- As one of the strongest objectors to the payment of this £260 to the Review of Reviews, I wish to make a few remarks in order to make clear the posi- tion so far as I am concerned. The objection to the payment of £260 to the Review of Reviews was not that it gave too great promi- nence to Mr. Seddon, the Premier of this colony. My objection to the payment of $260 to Mr. Stead, or of any other sum to Mr. Stead, was that he was a man strongly suspected to have been suborned to write in the Boer interest, and he was condemned by a vast majority of the people of England accordingly. I stated flatly and plainly that secret-service money-the moneys of the Boers-had been circulated extensively in America and England, in order to influence journals of a type who were open to influence of that kind ; and I put it as a hypothetical case that it was not impossible that Boer secret- service money had been circulated in Austral- \-- asia in the same way. This correspondence contains the defence, it may be called, of the \---- Hon. Mr. Seddon, by the Rev. Mr. Fitchett, editor of the Australasian Review of Reviews, and of Mr. W. T. Stead, the editor of the English Review of Reviews. No defence of the kind was necessary. If that is the object of the correspondence, then I say that neither the defence of Mr. W. T. Stead nor the defence of the Rev. Mr. Fitchett in any way touches the objection raised in this House, and therefore the correspondence is utterly and entirely value- less. I fail to see the object of bringing the correspondence here now, as it has already been published throughout the colony. I objected to the payment of the £260 on the ground that while this colony of New Zealand was proud of the position it had taken up in reference to the South African War, it was not proud of the 1 payment of £260 to a man who was an un- doubted ally of the Boers and an enemy of the British Empire, that man being Mr. W. T. Stead. He is the largest owner of this Review of Reviews, and we have no right to pay the money of the colony to an enemy of this colony, and of the British Empire as a whole. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I can only say, I think we ought to know what was cabled Home to cause Mr. Stead to say that the arrange- \- ments made with the Review of Reviews were not with a view of extolling or praising Mr. Seddon at all. My own opinion is this-I have no doubt about it-that Mr. Ross, the correspon- dent of the Times in this colony, has sent Home a cable saying that the debate and the objection was taken because the article was praising Mr. Seddon, the Premier, and that we were using the money of this colony for that purpose. Mr. FISHER .- That was not my objection. \-- Mr. SEDDON .- That was not the honour- able gentleman's objection. The real reasons of the objection, I say, in my opinion, were not sent Home at all, and that is on a par with ! 