year 4 per cent. was the maximum rate fixed then, the same as in the Bill now before us. Does he expect that the Government is going to pay a higher rate of interest for money than the ordinary market rate ? Decidedly not. Would any private man pay 4 per cent. for money that he could obtain for 3} per cent. ? Then, it was suggested that the Government did not stand well on the London money-market. To ascertain this we have only to take the last reports from the newspaper, dated London, 26th October ; and what is the position of our securities in London? With the exception of New South Wales 4-per-cents we top the market. Here are the figures :- - South New New Vic- Queens- South Zea- Aus- - land. toria. land. tralia. Wales. £ s. d. £ s. d .: £ s. d. £ s. d. £ 8. d. 114 0 01111 0 0 107 0 0 112 10 0 4 per ... cent. 105 0 0 102 15 0 104 0 0 103 0 0 107 0 0 34 per cent. 93 .0 0; 94 10 0 96 5 0 91 15 0 97 0 0 3 per cent. \- If you want any evidence as to how our credit is looked upon in the Old Country you could not get better evidence than the quotations of our loans. An Hon. MEMBER .- You do not get your money there. Mr. HALL-JONES .- We obtain our money https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 where we can get it on the best terms. The member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) made a reference to the votes upon the estimates not being spent, and I would point out that one cannot exactly predict what votes will be all expended. It happens on some works that early in the year you think the money voted is necessary, and then find later on that you can- not with a proper regard to economy expend it, and no man would be justified in spending money under those circumstances. The honour- able member has promised to come with me to Springfield, and when there I will show him the work we have in hand. The class of labour we When wanted there most was tunnel hands. that tunnel-work is finished - there are several tunnels of a fair length-one will be able to travel from Christchurch to the West Coast in a single day. We have been pushing on that work, and, whilst we had this large vote, we did not get the opportunity of spending it ; but if the vote had been at the service of the department from the beginning of April, we would have been in a position to make much greater progress. There are some works you cannot economically spend large sums of money on. The same thing will happen this year ; but I could not tell the House which votes will not be fully expended. Then, again, it is not uncommon to transfer votes, but it is not, perhaps, wise to make transfers ; and, as the money was not required for the Midland Rail- way, a part of the vote was used to assist other works. If the transfer had not been made the position would not have been one bit altered, terfered with. Very satisfactory progress has been made since the 31st March, and the ex- penditure this year will be higher on this section. The member for Palmerston made a most ridiculous statement about some tons of iron having been buried at Makohine or Manga- weka. It is a serious matter for any member of the House to make a statement of that kind, reflecting so unfairly upon the officer in charge of this work. I do not believe there is one tittle of truth in it. I have sent a telegram to the officer in charge explaining what has been said and who said it, and asking him for any in- formation upon the matter. I hope to have a reply to lay before honourable members when dealing with the estimates to-morrow evening. Some honourable members know Mr. Sneddon, the officer in charge. I believe he is the best man in New Zealand for the class of work he is engaged upon, and, in fact, the best man in Australasia. But I do object to hear a state- ment made in the House, without anything in substantiation, which severely reflects on the integrity of a man whom I believe to be carry- ing out his duties in a satisfactory manner. I believe he has done his duty, and has done his work as well as any man could have done it. There has been so much said on points which I shall have the opportunity of dealing with on the estimates that I need not refer to these matters now. Just one remark, however, again in regard to Auckland and its position on the estimates this year. In railways Auckland "takes the cake" with an appropriation of £175,600 ; in buildings, £36,174; and in roads, £149,054. These are the three main items, and in each case Auckland's vote is very much higher than that of any other province in the colony, both in roads and railways. Now, about the liabilities : As I have mentioned, there are some accounts cannot be got in by the 31st March. Then, there are works which, although they are only authorised, are properly entered in the books as a liability, and yet not one penny has been spent upon them. Still they are liabilities ; but they are only what I call book liabilities, because that work is to be done, and will be done, so soon as the amount is again authorised by the House. An Hon. MEMBER. - Then you will not have the money. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Oh, we have plenty of money to meet all our requirements. Mr. HERRIES .- Then, why are you dis- charging hands ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- We are not discharg- ing hands. Only, in cases where contracts are finished, it sometimes happens that the men employed do not immediately get work on another job; and some few have been put off for misconduct. In some cases the men leave of their own accord. I move, Sir, the second reading of the Bill. Bill read a second time and committed. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2. -- Colonial Treasurer may raise £1,000,000. 