opposed that Bill on its second reading. By all accounts the Act of last year has not proved to have had any good effect up to the present time. This Bill, however, is certainly in the direction of improving it, and therefore pro- bably the best thing to do is to vote for the Bill and endeavour to make amendments in Committee which will make it an improvement upon its present form. With that view I have proposed certain amendments which appear on the Order Paper. The honourable member for Napier has suggested other amendments, and there are also amendments suggested by the Minister and by other members, all of which, it seems to me, have a tendency to improve it. If the Bill is passed with some of these amend- ments it will certainly improve matters; but it seems to me, and I say it again, that the Bill of last year, even when amended by the Bill of this year, will leave things in a worse state than before the Bill of last year was adopted. Under the Act of 1894 and its amendments. which constituted the law before the Bill of last year came into force, a fairly satisfactory condition of things ob- tained. There were Native Land Courts set up for the purpose of dealing with the question of the titles to Native lands. There was, under the Act of 1894, satisfactory restrictions upon alienation and provisions for incorporating the owners and dealing with large blocks of land and other beneficial provisions. Under the Act of 1895 there was provision safeguarding the alienation restrictions within proper limits, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 under the Act of 1897 there was a very useful provision indeed, whereby the Natives were allowed to convey lands to a trustee, who had power to deal with them as specified in that Act, one of the principal objects being the power to mortgage to Government lending depart- ments, and I know of cases where that Act has proved very useful. Altogether, the existing law, before the Act of last session came into force, was very satisfactory so far' as it went, and it would have been better had we, in- stead of passing the Act of last year, grafted on the law, as it stood then, some provisions for the purpose of remedying the defects of the then existing law, and so enable the Natives to get full benefit from them. It seems to me that one of the greatest sources of com- plaint as to the law, as it stood before the Act of 1900 came into force, was the maladministration of that law. I know of very cruel cases indeed where Natives possessing tens of thousands of pounds' worth of land were prohibited from dealing with it, and these Natives were in some cases left in a state of destitution. I know of one exceedingly painful instance where a woman died in extreme poverty -a woman worth ten thousand pounds of in- alienable property which she was unable to make any use of. That, it seems to me, was the main defect in the law as it existed before the Act of last year came into force. However, we have the Act of last year, and until it is repealed probably the best thing is to amend it so as to make it suit, as far as possible, the Native lands. But I would draw the attention of the House to the fact that under the Bill of last year nothing whatever has been done. The Act up to the present time has proved absolutely abortive. There have been no Councils under it dealing with Native lands. No Maori Land Councils, no Papatupu Block Committees, no Papakainga certificates; there has been literally nothing done ; the Act has proved unworkable, and the object of the present Bill is to render the first Bill workable. I fear, however, that whatever we do will prove a botch ; we shall have to alter it again next session, and then again, and so on until we shall get sick and tired of altering it, and finally we shall have to repeal the whole thing. Speak- ing for the Natives in my district, they were practically unanimous against the legislation of last session, and they have lodged petitions to have themselves absolved from the operation of the Act of 1900, and are quite prepared to go back to the old state of things. With regard to the suggestion of the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty-and it is a proposal which has always received the support of the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay, as to the indi- vidualisation of the titles-it seems to me that that is really the solution of the Native diffi- culty. But, if I understood the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty correctly, he did not consider it at all an undesirable thing that the Natives should be left in a landless con- dition. Mr. HERRIES .- I did not say that. Mr. FIELD .- I am glad to have misunder- stood the honourable gentleman, and to find that he did not say that ; because it seems to me that whatever happens, even if the lands of the Natives are individualised, we should take the greatest care to leave inalienable in the possession of each Native sufficient land to sup- port that Native and his family. One of the amendments which I propose to move to the present Bill is a clause which will render it quite certain that the beneficial Act of 1897 is still in force. As I have said, that Act 5.0. has had very beneficial results in many cases that have come under my notice, and, in any case, it seems to me that it should be made perfectly plain in this Bill whether that Act is or is not still in force. I bave been in- formed outside by competent authorities that if this Act comes into force, and if it is left to the Native Councils to borrow on the land, and there are no longer to be any trustees under the Act of 1897, no money will be lent on Native land which is being adminis- tered by Councils. At present the Govern- ment lending departments readily lend money on Native land, where there is a good margin of security to trustees, appointed under the Act of 1897. Regarding the statements that have been made as to the Government buying Native land too cheaply, I agree with those speakers who say that there are many flagrant cases of the Government buying Native land at a price far below what would be given by private in- dividuals-cases where the Government Land 