question in my mind now is whether our in- dustries are in such a flourishing condition at the present moment that they can afford to stand up against the legislation with which we are ha- rassing them every year. This Bill, no doubt, although it has been amended to some extent by the Labour Bills Committee, is certain to prove harassing to our industries at a time when they can ill afford to be harassed. Every one can see, if he only looks at the signs of the times, that our industries are falling away, and we should, at all events, take care that we do not put them out of existence. I have no doubt myself that, given fair-play, the manu- facturers in our colony can hold their own. But you have to give them fair-play in order to enable them to compete with .the outside world. We hear it said of late, "Never mind what is outside; never mind any one that is outside: let us look to ourselves, and try and reduce our hours of labour, and let us live happily." Well, that would be very good, and I believe in a man getting as big wages as he possibly can, and doing good work for them ; not as a certain gentleman in this Council said, " He believed in big wages and doing nothing for them." We have to compete with the outside world, and if we are able to give good wages, then with all my heart I would say, let us give them, but let us exact labour from our men in proportion to the amount we pay, so as to compete with other people. Sir, I cannot very well refer to discus- sions on other Bills, but I may say that we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have heard dissertations on this subject by men in this House who ought to know better, and, in my opinion, do know better, and still they talk as if they had no knowledge. Sir, is it / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero right of us, knowing the true position, to persist in contracting business and in seek- ing to open the door for other nations? If we look at the increase of our Customs-and we glory in the increase of our Customs- is not a lot of that increase at the expense of our in- dustries ? I say you have only to take out the items and you will see what it is. I do not like to be repeating myself, but we have sent away a large amount of money to America for railway-carriages. If we had looked after our needs in time, if we had allowed our young people to be trained, and seen that they were trained, there would have been no necessity to send money out of the colony for foreign manufactures-foreign manufactures that are a disgrace to us. These carriages are badly constructed, and weigh three or four tons more than our own carriages did, and the extra ex- pense of hauling those three or four more tons along the lines will be an annual charge on the department. It is, to my mind, monstrous that we should be throwing away our money in this way. Then, look at the hundreds of thousands of pounds that are going away from this country for goods which our own people could manu- facture. Coming to another industry, which has the strongest union that has ever been in New Zealand - the Bootmakers' Federation-what is the condition of that industry now? Why, VOL. CXIX .- 65. we could have stopped its destruction. They talk about the ruinous foreign competition, and say, "Oh, it is only the surplus stock of America." They can manufacture there as much surplus stock as they like to send here. If we allow it to come in and trammel our industries in this way, then I say it is an injury to our colony. Let us see what the result has been to this boot trade owing to the restrictions we have put upon it. Men have started importing, and the process of importa- tion is just like a wave going along, because if one imports every one else will rush at the busi- ness, and the industry is ruined. What was the condition of that industry at the last sitting of the Arbitration Court? Did they not, with the tacit consent of the men themselves and every one connected with the trade, do away with all "logs," and with all the restrictions on machinery, and give a free hand so long as the wages did not come below a certain tally ? That was a proper thing to do ; but why was it not done four years ago ? for had it been we would have had no imported boots at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- Experientia docet. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .-- Yes ; but is it wise for members of this Council to support such legislation as we have had when they know better? And are there not more in- dustries going to the wall too? Are we not importing cloth and made-up garments ? We should not import anything of that kind, and yet by this Bill we are further harassing our woollen-mills. All the evidence proves that the woollen-mills are worked one-third by men and two-thirds by women and boys; and, if you restrict the labour hours of the boys and women to forty-five hours a week, how is it possible for them to keep pace with the men, whose duty it is to attend to the machinery ? An exemption has been made of these mills in every Bill so far, because they are struggling, and in anything but a prosperous condition. In the Labour Bills Committee I endeavoured to have the woollen-mills again included in the schedule of exemption ; but that was de- feated. Then, Sir, it will be shown by my vote that I voted for the doing-away with all the exemptions. It was not that I have no sympathy with the exemptions ; but if you will not let in a case of urgent necessity, why let in the others ? If you are going to harass one, why not harass the lot ? Therefore it was that I voted to throw out the exemptions. Then, Sir, we have had a great deal of discussion in this Council about the Farmers' Union. Why should not the farmers, who are thoughtful men, have union ? It has been maintained here that the labourers of the farmers will rise up against them. Sir, the people in the country are thoughtful people; they know the difficulties of the farmer - how on the last day, when his crops are ready for harvest, a gale may come up and threaten to destroy half of it. And do you think these labouring-men have no sympathy with the farmer ? They are not like the workers in towns-they do not meet in council with their officials; but these matters are discussed 