Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I quite admit it. Sir J. G. WARD .- I can assure the honour- able gentleman that the facts contained in my speech are entirely correct, and I am very glad he has accepted them as correct. I would like to point out that in replying to the member for Hawke's Bay I was not in any way dealing with the wagons purchased in England. I was giving a hypothetical case, and I said : Sup- posing a thousand wagons cost £100,000 ; when the honourable gentleman interrupted me. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am glad the honourable gentleman admits his former state- ment is correct, and not the one he made just now. Sir J. G. WARD .- I admit nothing of the kind. I made no incorrect statement just now. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- The Hon. the Minis- ter for Railways has been using an argument this evening, so far as I can judge, against a case that has never been set against him. No- body ever objected to the expenditure of bor- rowed money upon increased rolling-stock where the railways required it ; but the honourable gentleman knew perfectly well what the argu- ment of the member for Hawke's Bay was. But it was an argument he could not meet, and therefore he set up another condition of things which he knew he could meet, and knocked that down. What is the use of that kind of argument ? Nobody objects to the ex- penditure of borrowed money when the legiti- mate needs of the capital account renders neces- sary that expenditure. No doubt the number of miles opened has increased, and the passenger and goods traffic has increased, and we are all perfectly satisfied, and there never has been any objection in the House to voting money or bor- rowing money for the purpose of meeting that increased traffic, both in regard to passengers and goods. But, Sir, the honourable gentle- man has missed the whole point. The point is this: that, with regard to the expendi- ture of capital account money, the result so far of a search into the Railways Statement is to find that a different condition of things exists to-day than what existed seven years ago, and we want to know the reason why a different condition of things exists in New Zealand to what exists in any of the other colonies of Aus- tralasia, so far as I can judge. The member for Hawke's Bay referred to New South Wales, and the Minister for Railways met that by stating that some few years ago two millions of money were granted to the Railway Commissioners there to renew their lines. He went 9.30. too far when he said that money was used for renewing rolling-stock. Nothing of the kind. It was used to straighten the lines and improve the grades, and provide for heavier rolling-stock. But, leaving New South Wales out of the question, can the Minister for Rail- ways or any of his officials, or any one con- nected with the department, tell me of any other colony that is doing what we are-draw- ing so strict a line between capital account and revenue expenditure. Sir J. G. WARD .- Some are spending more out of revenue than we are. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Not a single one of them is spending out of capital on such items as we are. I do not know whether it has come into existence since the honourable gentleman took charge or whether it came into existence during the Hon. Mr. Cadman's time; but whenever it came in it has had a great effect on the so-called earning power of our railways. But what has happened is this : Almost imme- diately after the Commissioners went out of office things which were charged to working- expenses were transferred to capital account. And if honourable members will look up the last report of the Commissioners they will find in 1894, with regard to the position of the lines and appliances, the following report :- "From the reports of the Chief Engineer and Locomotive Superintendent in the Appendix it will be seen that the permanent-way and rolling-stock are being kept in good order and repair. The work' of the two departments controlled by these officers result in the im- provement of the railway property : the one by the construction of heavier and more powerful engines, and the other by strengthening the bridges and lines to carry heavier trains, so conducing to economy in working. The cost of these operations and the providing and relaying of the main lines with heavier steel rails is borne out of the vote for working-expenses, although a portion of it might fairly be charged to capital account." That was followed up to 1894. Now we have an entirely different state of things. We have so strict a balance drawn that we cannot follow it ; we have no means of ascertaining how much is charged to capital account and how much to working - expenses. What we practically do is to charge the difference be- tween the cost of the light rail replaced by a heavier on to capital. In replacing a bridge they do the same thing. A better explanation ought to be given of the change in the working of the railways than the Minister has given. In every case where a heavier rail is put in the balance is charged to capital account, but how much more no one can say. It is impossible for any one, without having a minute inspec- tion into the accounts, to say whether the line between capital and working-expenses is drawn justly or unjustly. But in regard to the prin- ciple itself : Is it a fair principle to charge the difference between a heavy and a light rail to capital account ? The Minister says it is not a right thing to have a depreciation ac- count in regard to the railways. I admit that ; but does he mean to say that at any time of their existence, after they were first laid down, they were equivalent to their original cost ? Sir J. G. WARD .- They are better now than ever they were. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes; and why? Because we have heavier bridges and rails, and so on. What I want to get at is this : the railways are built for a certain sum of money, and the day they are built that money should be there ; but six months afterwards it is not there. Every one who has had anything to do with railways or 