classified as a libel. Mr. HERRIES .- The Postmaster - General would be liable. Mr. BARCLAY .- I am not prepared to give an opinion on that-possibly he might be ; but assuredly the man who wrote a letter to his opponent or to any person with whom he was angry would be liable under that provision. It is quite true what the honourable member for Wellington City says-that section 4 is the same as section 3 in Lord Campbell's Act. There is & difference in the punishment, inasmuch as five years is the penalty under Lord Campbell's Act and it is only three years here. When we get into Committee on this Bill evidently v e shall have a very long talk or wrangle about it, and I think the best course for the Premier to adopt would be to send it to the Statutes Revision Committee, where the various legal luminaries and coming Attorney-Generals of the House could consider it and ultimately bring it down in a proper shape. That is the best way to deal with the matter to prevent a long and unprofitable debate. and to clear the nebulous state in which the law is at the present time. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - The member for Wellington City (Mr Atkinson), in the course of his speech, said that under the libel law the truth of the statement was a complete answer to the action. Well, Sir, unfortunately I happen to have experience of the very reverse. I remember a case where a doctor in Palmerston North imported from the Fiji Islands, in batches of two or three, seven islanders to work for him as grooms and cooks, and " a generally useful." He kept them for a short time, and then they were turned adrift on the colony. They were nearly all young men, and, although he had entered into an agreement with the Fiji Government to return these coolies to the islands if he did not continue to employ them, owing to the fact that the bond made in Fiji was not enforceable in New Zea- land no notice was taken of it, and these coolies were set loose in the colony. Commenting on this in the Manawatu Standard, I pointed out that one of the first acts of the late Jobn Ballance when he came into power was to get the Governor to refuse to license labour vessels for the " black bird " traffic ; and yet, notwith- standing that fact, the system that was so strongly objected to by the late Mr. Ballance, of importing black labour under contract, still ob- tained in New Zealand, and, although vessels were not licensed by the New Zealand Govern- ment for that traffic, people in New Zealand could go to those islands, engage black labour on certain terms, bring them to the colony, ignore those terms, and repudiate the obli- gations solemnly entered into. I might say that amongst these coolies was one coolie who had received a sentence of three years' im- prisonment for manslaughter for attempting to murder the wife of his employer in Fiji. The case was tried in Wanganui before Judge ; in which the article is to appear. The same Edwards, who held that the article accused the doctor of manslaughter, of murder in the highest degree, and other terrible offences, and : the Premier in the San Francisco Chronicle, Mr. Barclay which resulted in a verdict for £100 damages, with costs. Therefore, although every word said in that article was absolutely truthful, although the most shameful traffic was allowed to be carried on under the guise of the law, obligations repudiated, and agreements set at defiance ; although a very undesirable class of settlers were being liberated in the colony, the very fact of daring to draw attention to such a thing going on was held to be a libel even under the present libel law of the colony. With regard to the Bill before the House, I say it is a travesty on legislation. I do not think the Premier seriously intends it. I cannot think for a moment that he intends to place on the statute-book a law which makes libellous the addressing of a letter from one man to another man whom the libel concerns. Mr. SEDDON .- I am informed that is the law in England. Mr. PIRANI .- The honourable gentleman may be informed so, but he will find it is not so. The idea that a man who writes to a creditor dunning him for his debt, and making remarks about the non payment of this debt, or casts ridicule upon a man, under this law may be put in gaol for daring to do so, is the greatest nonsense ever embodied in a Bill. The only point I can conceive that has induced the Premier to bring in a Bill of this sort is that he wants to put down the caricaturing of himself in the columns of the illustrated papers. I notice the Windsor Magazine only the other day had a caricature of the Premier and my- self, which was the reverse of complimentary to the Premier ; and I understand that if anybody sold that magazine in this colony, under the law the Premier has introduced he would be able to put him in gaol for daring to commit such an offence. An Hon. MEMBER .- Could you put them in gaol, as well ? Mr. PIRANI .- No; because it is compli- mentary to me, and that could not be libellous. But what is to become of the right honourable gentleman if he suppresses these useful and ornamental illustrated papers, that keep the Premier everlastingly before the public? What would the Premier be without the Auckland Observer, the Free Lance, and the Christchurch Spectator ? Why, those three journals do more to popularise the Premier in the public eye than anything the Premier does himself. Mr. SEDDON .- What about yourself in the Standard ? Mr. PIRANI .- No, there is no parallel -- there are no illustrations in the Standard, and no one could compliment me without illustra- tion, for it is the Premier's proportions which naturally excite the admiration of every one. Now, there is an article in the Windsor in praise of the Premier, and that article is written by a lady-Mrs. Myers. But her sentiments about the Premier appear to vary according to the paper lady who writes in such high terms of the Pre- mier in the Windsor Magazine writes also about 