before the House, and I am not going to move a motion at this hour of the night. If there is anything to be said, it is better that it should be said when I move the motion that writs should be issued. Mr. MASSEY .- I was going to ask the leader of the House to move a motion providing for the issue of the writ at the earliest possible date, in order that the new member, whoever he may happen to be, may take his place in Parliament. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- I would point out to the honourable member that it is now half-past four o'clock, and that it is entirely new business to ask questions. The honourable member objected the other night to a new order of the day being called on at three minutes past twelve o'clock, and I must object to questions being put at this late hour, Mr. MASSEY .- I have done my duty by suggesting that there should be no delay. Mr. SEDDON .- I am not going to commit a breach of the Standing Orders. No new motion can come on after twelve o'clock, and if I were tempted to do it the honourable member would no doubt take exception to that. What we have to do is to confine ourselves to the Stand- ing Orders. Mr. MASSEY .- Then, I hope we shall con- tinue to confine ourselves to the Standing Orders. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The House adjourned at half-past four o'clock a.m. (Friday). LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 11th October, 1901. Third Reading - Maori Antiquities Bill - Money- lenders Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Royal Visit Expenses Bill. MAORI ANTIQUITIES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I trust that this Bill will commend itself to the Coun- cil as one that, perhaps, might have been taken into consideration a few years earlier, because there is no doubt a great many of our relics and antiquities have been taken away from the country, and it is possible that any New-Zea- lander who really wishes to study Maori art and Maori fauna will have to go to the British Museum and other establishments in Europe to study them satisfactorily. It is nothing new for a country to protect itself in these matters. A century ago the Continent of Europe was overrun by the Emperor Napoleon, who, at the point of the bayonet, took out of each country whatever he thought was most valu- European metropolis at the cost of the coun- tries which produced these works of art, and to add a false and adventitious value to his supremacy in Paris. I simply quote that as showing to what free-trade or forced trade in curios of the kind may lead to. We have not yet got to such a pitch of cultivation that I have heard that there is any great run on some of our New Zealand pictures. I do not believe we require to protect them yet in this direction ; but I am sure we do require to protect our- selves so as to keep in our country proper representative specimens of the ancient Maori art. which stands by itself, and we certainly ought in this country to have sufficient speci- mens to enable any one who wants to study the subject to study it in New Zealand, the coun- try of its birth. In this country we have never fallen away from our attachment to and our admiration of our fellow-subjects. We have always felt they were a peculiar race, who had their own merits and their own arts, and those arts in their own line were worthy of admiration ; and the result is that there is no globe-trotter who comes round with money in his pocket who does not want to take away a Maori house or some specimen of old art, which the country ought, at all events, to be consulted about. I am not quite certain whether the Bill goes far enough in that direction. I think the Italian Act absolutely prohibits people from parting with pictures-they may be family heirlooms -and even although the family may be in the last pinch for want of money-and untold money could be got for some of them ; but, if my memory is correct, the Italian Government absolutely prohibits the sale of these works of art to anybody outside Italy, determined that if any one outside Italy wants to study Italian art they must go to Italy to do it. Therefore we are justified in saying that any one who wants to study Maori art should come and study it in Maoriland. The Bill, as I said before, is perhaps on the considerate side to the purchaser of Maori relics, because the only con- dition against exportation is that any relic should be first offered to the Government, and that the Government should decline or accept. Well, we all know what Go- vernments are. We all know that Colonial Treasurers sometimes close down their pockets, and the money cannot always be provided to buy these articles when perhaps articles of the kind ought to be purchased. At the same time I would like to differentiate, and assure the Council that on many occasions the present Government has risen to the occasion and secured for the colony very valuable works of Maori art, and I am certain that as long as the present Government is in power the same thing will be done. Of course, other Govern- ments may come into power, and therefore I admit that a Philistine Government, which did not recognise any obligations to posterity and had no reverence for previous history, might possibly not avail itself of the occasion of pur- chasing some of these relies. I am quite cer- tain that the measure goes in the right direc- 