a tie there was to be decision by lot. He did not see that that was very wrong. It had been suggested that the matter might be decided by the casting-vote of the Speaker, but that was not very satisfactory either, because the Speaker might not care to give his vote on such an occasion. For his own part, he thought that the proposals which came down to the Council from the Committee were very fair and very wise, and that if the Council itself went into Committee to try and devise some better scheme it might not succeed half so well as the Select Committee had. However, perhaps the best method of dealing with the matter now would be for the Council to go into Committee and discuss the amendments which had been suggested by honourable gentlemen, and if they did not succeed then in devising something which would be satisfactory the matter could be referred to the Select Committee again ; but he would like to point out, while he was speak- ing, that in all these amendments there was really no change suggested. For instance, after the provision that "the election shall be by ballot," the Hon. Colonel Pitt suggested the insertion of the words "for which purpose the Clerk shall deliver to each member a printed list of the names of members of the Council, and on which list each member voting shall place a cross against the name of the member for whom he votes in each ballot." He had no objection to that method, which was already implied in the draft prepared by the Committee, and he thought that it would be satisfactory to the Council. That was a matter also that was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 discussed in the Committee. Then, paragraph (f) stated, "Where a question arises, owing to equality of voting, as to which member shall be omitted from any subsequent ballot, such question shall be determined by an independent ballot." The Hon. Colonel Pitt was moving that the difficulty should be decided by lot, but he (Mr. Jones) would point out to him and the Council that section (g) would have to be altered if his suggestion were adopted, because it was provided there that the vote shall be taken a second time, and that if there is again an equality of votes the Clerk should decide by lot which member shall be elected. It would be undesirable, he thought, to have recourse to decision by lot until it had been discovered that the Council could not possibly arrive at a decision in any other way. He thought it would be more desirable to go into Committee on the matter than to discuss it in the Council. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK would like to point out that, if the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly's mo- tion was carried, then they really would refer the matter back to the Committee with an " instruction " to do a certain thing, and that certain thing was merely to burke this proposi- tion altogether, and to return to the old system of open nominations, which had produced more or less scandal during the last two or three years in the Council. What this set of rules was in- tended to attain was that the nomination and election both should be by ballot, and that there should be no person proposed before the Coun- Hon. Mr. Jones Council supported by a Minister. If the Com- mittee's report was adopted they would attain the end they had in view-namely, that of get- ting rid of open nominations. He desired once more to point out that the proposal to refer the matter back to the Committee for consideration, with the instruction indicated, was that they should provide again for open nomination, which was a mere return to the Council's former position. The Hon. Mr. BOLT hardly saw the neces- sity of referring this back to the Committee again. The report of the Committee was, to his mind, very clear and very concise. It had been stated it was very cumbersome, but he did not see that that charge had been proved against it. He did not agree with the Hon. Colonel Pitt in regard to the nomination clause. There was no necessity whatever to refer the matter back to the Committee for that pur- pose. If that clause was put in he did not see that it would be an improvement, and it would certainly lead to a lot of discussion afterwards. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE said, With refer- ence to the question of referring back to the Committee, he might state this question of nomination was fully discussed in the Com- mittee, and the Committee almost unanimously decided that the single vote by ballot would really nominate the most eligible men in the Council, and if three or four were nominated they would know then who were really the candidates. As to there being perhaps eight or ten or twelve members nominated, he thought that was begging the question. He hoped the Council would not send the matter back to the Committee, as it would only be a waste of labour on their part to discuss the question over again. There was another point he would allude to, and that was the question of going into Committee on this matter. It would be almost impossible to find time to dispose of it if they were to take each paragraph seriatim, and each member was to speak three or four times on each question. It would be eleven o'clock that night before they could hope to finish. The amendment was, by leave of the Coun- cil, withdrawn. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH moved, That the Council go into Committee on this question. The Council divided. AYES, 11. Barnicoat Pinkerton Taiaroa Gourley Pitt Tomoana Harris Rigg Twomey. Smith, W. C. Jones NOES, 20. Kelly, T. Ormond Arkwright Kelly, W. Baillie Shrimski Smith, A. L. Bolt Kenny Feldwick Louisson Swanson McLean Walker, L. Jenkinson Montgomery Jennings Walker, W. C. Johnston Morris Majority against, 9. Motion negatived. 