deep water at Opua." The hope that this statement would be ful- filled had buoyed up his district for many years. At present there was a considerable gap between the present terminus at Hukere- nui and Kawakawa to the extent of fifteen miles. Several extensions had been made since the time he referred to in the direction of Kawakawa, and now it was proposed, in viola. tion of the assurance given in 1891, to extend the railway southwards from Whangarei to Grahamstown. The broken gap that existed from Hukerenui northwards towards Kawa- kawa left the line useless, while the extension southwards to Grahamstown would only benefit a few people living about the Township of Whangarei. For that benefit the whole of the people up north were to be deprived of the use of this railway. It was cruel treatment to break faith with them in this way. He moved, That the vote for this railway be reduced by £1, as & protest against the breach of faith in extend- ing this line southwards from Whangarei before the connection with Kawakawa was completed. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said the honourable member for the Bay of Islands was playing an extraordinary part, and had made same remarkable statements in connection with this railway. In the first place, the people at Whangarei made no agreement with the Minister for Public Works in 1891 that no further extension should be made from Wha- ngarei southwards until the line was completed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to Kawakawa. It was true the honourable member got the Minister for Public Works to insert in his Public Works Statement of that year the passage which the honourable mem- ber had quoted, but he (Mr. Thompson) was not consulted, nor were the people of Wha- ngarei. All the honourable gentleman had said about the agreement was pure misapprehen- sion or imagination on his part. He was also incorrect in his statement about the manner in which the vote for the Penrose Junction was transferred in 1891 to this railway. He (Mr. Thompson) secured that vote for the district with the assistance of Mr. Shera, the then member for Auckland City. All the other Auckland members were consulted, but Mr. Shera was the only one who agreed to the transfer. Twenty-two miles of the railway had been constructed from Whangarei northwards, but, unfortunately, the Railway Wharf at the Whangarei end was built on a mud - bank which had only 4 ft. of water, and the result was the whole trade of the port was crippled, although the railway, which was one of the best paying lines in the colony, would yield double its present returns if it were extended to deep water at Grahamstown. In the in- terests of the railway itself, it was absolutely essential to make this Grahamstown extension, and until it was made the full benefit of that line would not be realised. Many of the con- stituents of the honourable member for the Bay of Islands were just as anxious for this ex- tension to deep water at Grahamstown as the people of Whangarei were. VOL. OXIX .- 56. support the motion of the member for the Bay of Islands. The proposal involved in the exten- sion of the railway from Whangarei to Grahams- town was one of the most outrageous ever made in the colony. If the line were completed for the fifteen miles from Whangarei to Kawakawa it would then be open right through to Opua, where the boats for Sydney used to call in for coal ; and the cost would not greatly exceed the cost of making the extension to Grahamstown. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said the central line would never pay in the way that this extension would pay. Instead of this line being a swindle, it was a fact that many of the people in Auckland had lived for the past twenty years by swindling the people of that district. Mr. HALL-JONES said he did not think the member for the Bay of Islands was justified in moving for the reduction of this vote. In regard to the Whangarei-Kawakawa extension, eight miles was now under construction, and the work was making good progress. It would bo unwise on a railway of that class to take in hand more than eight miles at a time, because it would increase the cost of the material, which had to be carted to where it was re- quired. That eight miles being finished, it would then be a question for the House next year to authorise another section being put in hand. This extension from Kawakawa to Grahamstown had been approved by almost every Minister for Public Works ; and, in fact, had it not been for the action of one Minister- who was not now living-it would by this time have been completed. A late Minister for Pub- lic Works, a member from Auckland Province, strongly advocated its completion to deep water. An alternate course had been suggested - namely, the dredging of a channel up to the wharf at Whangarei. That would necessitate a considerable cost in the first place, and also a continual cost in the way of dredging to keep the channel open. Common-sense would say that, if it was going to cost £14,000 or £15,000 to dredge a small channel, and also a con- tinuous cost to keep that channel open, and that by an expenditure of double that amount a railway could be formed to touch the water where you would get a depth of 21 ft. at low water, the wisest course was to adopt the latter alternative-namely, construct the railway. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) said 11.0. it was very important that this line should be extended from Whangarei to Grahamstown, and then an adequate amount of money should be spent on both sides. If the line was constructed with more rapidity there was every hope that the back country inland from Kawakawa would be utilised in the near future, to the benefit of the districts, and of the colony as a whole. The Committee divided on the amendment, " That the item be reduced by £1." AYES, 29. Bollard Atkinson Allen, E. G. Collins Arnold Barclay 