O'Meara Tanner Thompson, R. Seddon Tellers. Smith, G. J. Hornsby Ward Willis Stevens Palmer. NOES, 21. Atkinson Lang Rhodes Lethbridge Russell, G. W. Ell Fisher Massey Russell, W. R. Fowlds Meredith Thomson, J. W. Fraser, W. Monk Tellers. Parata Allen, J. Hardy Pirani Herries. Heke Hutcheson Majority for, 13. Resolution agreed to. Second and third resolutions agreed to. Resolutions reported to the House, and agreed to. COMPANIES BILL (No. 2). Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Rail- 4.0. ways), in moving the second reading of this Bill, desired to explain that the House passed the second reading of this Bill and re- ferred it to the Statutes Revision Committee ; and at the same time the same Bill was intro- duced in the Legislative Council, and it was also referred to the Statutes Revision Commit- tee. The Statutes Revision Committee made certain amendments in the Bill referred to it by the Legislative Council, which amendments were shown in this Bill. In order to prevent duplication of the Bills, and as he had ex- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 plained the Bill on its second reading pre- viously, he now moved the second reading of the Bill, with the amendments of the Statutes Revision Committee as passed by the Legis- lative Council. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked if the Bill had any bearing on mining companies, and would it prevent the abuses which had taken place in connection with mining companies ? Sir J. G. WARD said that was a question he could not answer, but his opinion was that it had no direct bearing on that matter at all. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said he wished to explain-as the Postmaster-General apparently did not know-that nearly all the mining companies and dredging companies floated in Dunedin were registered under the Companies Act. An Hon. MEMBER .- Registered under them : that is quite a different thing. Mr. HERRIES said, Therefore the whole of the Companies Act applied to them. For the information of the honourable member for Wairarapa he would say that he believed the amendments in clauses 8, 12, and 17 were put in to meet some of the abuses which had taken place in connection with mining companies. The Mines Committee recommended that all mining companies should be registered under the Mining Companies Act. He thought that should be done. Clause 45 apparently provided that the Mining Companies Act and the Companies Act should be worked together. Perhaps the Minis- that provision out. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) thought they were making a great mistake in mixing up mining companies with ordinary companies. The majority of mining companies were carry- ing on their operations under this Act. Under the Mining Companies Act any shareholder had a right to inspect the books of the company, but if mining companies registered under this Act shareholders would be deprived of that right. This Bill should simply deal with com- panies other than mining companies. He would suggest to the Minister that he should allow this Bill to stand over, and next session bring down separately a Mining Companies Bill and a Com- panies Bill. Bill read a second time. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved the following new clause :- "Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, sections thirty-two and thirty-three of 'The Mining Companies Act, 1894,' shall apply to all mining companies registered under 'The Companies Act, 1882,' or any of its amendments." New clause agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. NELSON HARBOUR BOARD BILL. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said that when the Nelson Harbour Board Bill was before the House last year it contained a schedule of certain reserves, and at the time the Railways Department apparently did not observe that in the schedule conveying the land to the Board there was property which ought not to have been included in it. Among others was one of the railway reserves in Nelson, and that was, he understood, not permitted in any other part of the colony. The departmental officers had brought it under his notice, and it was therefore decided to ask for authority to eliminate the reserves in question and put them in the position they were previously. It could, of course, be done by Proclamation ; but, as the mistake was originally made by allowing it by Act to be included in the reserves of the Harbour Board, he thought it well to take a similar course to have it remedied. The Schedule of this Bill was intended to convey back that portion of the reserves to which he referred to the position from which they should never have been taken. The revenue of the Nelson Harbour Board was largely made up from the goods passing along the Nelson Wharf. That wharf was erected by the colony and was maintained by the colony ; and, that being so, this reserve could not be taken away from the railway, as that would, of course, increase the cost of running the railways of that district. The other sections of the Bill referred prin- cipally to the Marine Department, and by arrangement the Minister of Marine would explain those portions of the Bill; and it was unnecessary for him, therefore, to go into it. 