why should not a labourer skilled in handicraft have his capital protected, and even the right to sell his labour in the highest market? I agree with the honourable member for Mas- terton in giving a word of warning : in labour legislation we have gone quite far enough, and I would say, let us now have industrial peace and quietness. All this labour legislation is, according to a Judge from Australia who lately visited our colony, on its trial, and in what is known as the experimental stage. I wish to see our industries prosper, and I say we should hesitate to go any further in labour legislation. There is a feeling of unrest in the country. That feeling is justified. But I say that those who are engaged in this House 'in passing labour laws in the interest of those who are connected with our factories should cer- tainly not do anything that will bring about strained relations between capital and labour. We might employ double the number of hands that we are employing at the present time in working up our raw material, and I hope the day is not far distant when we shall have a foreign market for our natural materials worked up into manufactured articles, so as to place it in that form in the world's markets, and to compete with the older countries. That can only be done by modifying our tariff con- ditions. I am not going to delay the measure further, but I could not sit here and allow the remarks made by honourable members without https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 giving a note of warning, in a friendly manner, to those in whose interests this measure is about to be passed by the House. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Mr. 10.0. Speaker, I have not spoken at any previ- ous stage of this Bill. I have no express inclina- tion to speak to-night, but I think, as repre- senting a working-class constituency-a Liberal constituency-I may be expected to say a few words with regard to it before it finally passes through this House. It is a Bill of great im- portance as affecting the working-classes of the colony. It is a Bill also of great importance as affecting the manufacturing classes of the colony, employers and employed. It is a Bill, I take it, designed not to introduce any fresh innovations in labour legislation, but rather to perfect the legislation already placed on the statute-book ; and speaking from that point of view-and that point of view only-I think the Labour Bills Committee, to whom the Bill was referred, have rendered valuable service to the colony. Growing discontent was observ. able in many directions, and not in any one particular direction, in regard to the ulti- mate stage at which the " advanced " labour legislation of this Parliament was likely to land our industrial and productive pursuits. There was great apprehension on the part of the employers in regard to further oppressive legislation. There was corresponding appre- hension on the part of the working-classes that there would be a possible reversal of the labour legislation of the recent past, or a slack- ening of interest on their behalf by the Govern- ment. Certain members of Parliament were direction. I wish to remove an impression, which is attempted to be created in the minds of a portion of the working-classes of the colony, in regard to the action of those members of Parliament who have expressed the view that the aim of the Government should be to temper their future labour legislation with judgment, and with wisdom, and with care. One thing this Bill does : it gives effect to the long-delayed demand that there should be an eight-hours day statutory law in this colony, which many of us advocated long years ago, when many of its present advocates were running about in bibs and frocks. The Bill responds to that demand of the labouring classes, and this Go- vernment stands first in the legislative history of the world, I believe, in giving statutory effect to that great labour ideal. All connected with the introduction and the passing of the Bill-for we may take it as passed-are greatly to be complimented. In its present shape it embodies the wisdom of those who, while sup- porting the labour proposals of the Government, still urged that, whatever the proposals were, they should be moulded with every prudence and every care. I principally rose to take exception to the statements of persons who have publicly criticized and condemned those members of Parliament who so expressed themselves prior to the introduction of this Bill. On the 3rd October last a mass meeting of unionists, as it was called in the advertisement, was held in the Federal Theatre, Wellington, the objects being (1) to reply to the criticisms on labour legislation ; and (2) to defend the union offi- cials. At that meeting Mr. Naughton, Presi- dent of the Trades and Labour Council, who occupied the chair, made a most moderate speech. He said the meeting was called " for the purpose of refuting the criticisms of trade- unionism which had recently been made in the Press, at meetings of employers, and by mem- It had been said bers of Parliament. that it was time to call a halt in labour legis- . Why was there not a cry for a lation. . halt in other directions ? It was labour only that was called upon to halt." Mr. D. McLaren followed, also in a very moderate speech. He said, "It was not the unionists who were riding the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to death, and the Premier should have lectured the employers and not the workers." At the conclusion of his speech he proposed, and it was carried,- "That this meeting of trade-unionists of the City of Wellington enters an emphatic protest against the misrepresentations and misleading statements which had appeared in the Press and been given utterance to by certain employers and by members of Parliament respecting the labour laws passed by the Legislature." Mr. DEPUTY.SPEAKER .- I do not think it is in order for the honourable gentleman to read comments on members' speeches made in this House. Mr. FISHER .- I think you are in error, Sir, in saying that the statements were made in the House only. I think they were made in the 