vides that licenses may be issued by the Board " to cut and remove dead timber only." There can be no possible harm in that, but the danger that might arise would be from those who may go into the bush to cut and remove dead timber lighting fires. He had known fires lighted for the purpose of boiling a billy by persons who had gone to some of the slopes of the mountains in the South Island. During the months of January and February, when the grass and undergrowth are dry and almost like touch-paper, they take fire instantly, and the fire takes control of the bush on the whole side of the mountain. I have known thousands of acres of bush destroyed in that way ; and I believe it is within the experience of honourable members who know more about this subject than I do myself that more bush has been destroyed in this colony from fires- unintentional or accidental, or as the result of malicious intention-than has been cut down by the sawmills. It is a pity that legislation of this nature was not introduced years ago. However, it is not too late to make an effort to preserve our mountain scenery and natural features, containing bush and plant life, in the interests of the people of the colony. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - I will answer the honourable member for Ashley by drawing his attention to clause 2 of the Act of 1900. He asks the Right Hon. the Premier what is the constitution of the Egmont National Park Board. Clause 2 sets out that- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 " The lands described in the Schedule hereto are hereby constituted and set apart as a reserve, to be called the 'Egmont National Park,' and shall be managed and administered under this Act by a Board, to be called the 'Egmont National Park Board' (hereinafter referred to as ' the Board'), consisting of ten persons, of whom- " (1.) One shall be the person who for the time being holds the office of Com- missioner of Crown Lands for the Taranaki Land District, and he shall be the Chairman of the Board ; " (2.) Two shall be appointed by the Go- vernor ; and "(3.) One shall be appointed by each of the seven following local authorities, that is to say,- "The Hawera Borough Council ; "The New Plymouth Borough Council ; "The Taranaki County Council ; "The Hawera County Council ; "The Stratford County Council ; "The Stratford Borough Council ; and "The Opunake Town Board." That is the answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Ashley. Bill read a second time. # CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS RATING BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- This Bill, as mem- bers will see, gives to the local bodies discre- tionary power to remit rates upon homes which have been established for benevolent and hu- A deputation consisting of mane purposes. ladies controlling one of these homes waited upon me in Wellington, and they informed me that the local bodies would be only too glad to remit the rates on the home in their charge if they could properly do so. The law would not allow them to do so at the present time. I think, myself, where you have these homes established for purposes of orphanages, power should be given to the local bodies in this direction. As members will see the Bill is not mandatory ; it is optional for the local body to allow the remission, and I think it is a power in the right direction and one that is not likely to be abused, because there is a limitation under clause 2, which reads as follows :- "The power given by section fifty-nine of the 'Rating Act, 1894,' to local authorities to remit rates in certain cases may be exercised in the case of any charitable institution (not being an institution within the meaning of 'The Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act, 1885 ') founded for the free maintenance or re- lief of orphans, or of the aged, infirm, sick, or needy, and which is in receipt of assistance by way of subsidy from the public funds." The only remissions made now are if any person applies-that is, if an individual applies -for a remission of his rates on the score of poverty, then the local body, of course, can grant that remission ; but they cannot grant it to an institution that is carried on purely for humane and charitable purposes. I think, myself, when you give that power to be exercised towards an individual, you may give the same power to a local body, where it is a question of an aggrega- tion of the children of poor people in these homes. I informed the deputation that waited upon me that I would bring the matter before the House, and give Parliament an opportunity of dealing with it, and that I think is a proper thing to do. I move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Will this be mandatory ? Mr. SEDDON .- No; optional. Mr. WILFORD .- Does it not mean that it is mandatory here ? Mr. SEDDON .- No ; it is only an extension of section 59 of the Rating Act. Mr. WILFORD .- I quite agree with the provisions of this Bill, But I would like to suggest that, while the rates should be remitted altogether on property defined in the Bill, the local body should not be asked to lose the benefit of these particular rates, but they should be paid the amount levied by the Government. This payment should be made by the Govern- ment, as the local bodies cannot afford to lose these rates. Mr. SEDDON .- We cannot remit it. Mr. WILFORD .- You cannot at present ; but you could by passing a Bill. Then, there is a further remission which I think might be incorporated in this Bill-that is, a remission should be made of the rates which are paid by friendly societies upon their buildings. The 