treated properly. I have never been very sympa- thetic with money-lenders, but I think they ought to be treated and taxed exactly like other people-no more, no less. They are, I think, unfairly treated under the present system of taxation. Bill read the second and the third time. # INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 6 .- " Section fifty of the principal Act is hereby amended by striking out all the words after the word ' Conciliators,' in the fourth line, and substituting the words ' shall, on the appli- cation of either party to the dispute, and in the prescribed manner, be constituted from time to time to meet any case of industrial dispute." " The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the words "either party " be struck out, with the view of inserting " all parties." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words stand part of the clause." AYES, 24. Kelly, W. Barnicoat Reeves Bonar Scotland Kenny Feldwick Shrimski Louisson Gourley McLean Taiaroa Harris Ormond Tomoana Jennings Peacock Twomey Pinkerton Johnston Walker, L. Pitt Kelly, T. Williams. NOES, 8. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Arkwright Jones Swanson Walker, W. C. Bolt Rigg Jenkinson Smith, A. L. Majority for, 16. Words retained. The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause stand part of the Bill." AYES, 24. Kelly, W. Barnicoat Reeves Bonar Scotland Kenny Feldwick Louisson Shrimski McLean Gourley Smith, W. C. Harris Ormond Taiaroa Jennings Peacock Twomey Johnston Pinkerton Walker, L. Kelly, T. Pitt Williams. NOES, 8. Arkwright Jones Tomoana Bolt Rigg Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Swanson PAIR. For. Against. Bowen. Smith, A. L. Majority for, 16. Clause agreed to. Clause 13 .- " Section eighty-six of the prin- cipal Act is hereby amended by the insertion of the following additional paragraphs :- " (4.) The Court may, in any award made by it, limit the operation of such award to any city, town, or district being Hon. Mr. Twomey trict. " (5.) The Court shall in such case have power, on the application of any em- ployer, industrial union, or indus- trial association, in any industrial district within which the award shall have effect, to extend the provisions of such award (if such award shall have been limited in its operation as aforesaid) to any person, em- ployer, industrial union, or indus- trial association within such indus- trial district. " (6.) The Court may, if it thinks fit, limit the operation of any award hereto- fore made under the principal Act to any particular town, city, or locality in any industrial district in which such award now has effect. " (7.) The limitation or extension referred to in the preceding paragraphs five and six shall be made upon such notice to and application of such parties as the Court may in its discretion direct." The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved to strike out " person," in subsection (5). The Committee divided on the question, "That the word be retained." AYES, 23. Bonar Kelly, W. Reeves Feldwick Shrimski Kenny Gourley Louisson Swanson Harris McLean Taiaroa Jennings Ormond Twomey Johnston Peacock Walker, L. Jones Williams. Pinkerton Kelly, T. Pitt NOES, 7. Arkwright Jenkinson Tomoana Barnicoat Walker, W. C. Rigg Bolt PAIR. For. Against. Smith, A. L. Bowen. Majority for, 16. Amendment negatived. The Committee divided on the question, "That clause 13 be a clause of the Bill." AYES, 26. Barnicoat Shrimski Kelly, W. Bonar Kenny Swanson Feldwick Louisson Taiaroa Gourley Mc Lean Tomoana Harris Ormond Twomey Jenkinson Peacock Walker, L. Jennings Pinkerton Walker, W. C. Johnston Pitt Williams. Kelly, T. Reeves NOES, 4. Arkwright Jones Bolt Rigg. PAIR. For. Against. Bowen. Smith, A. L. Majority for, 22. 