he gave the people the impression that a Bill would be introduced as soon as possible after ' the Parliament met, with the view of bringing down the price of coal. On the 6th August he (Mr. Fisher) asked the Premier in the House if he intended to carry out that promise, and the Premier said he most certainly did ; and in answer to a further question said he was going i to do so this session. He had, however, looked through the estimates in vain for any provision for a State coal-mine. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Minister, when looking into the matter of a State coal-mine, not to overlook the North Island Trunk Railway. He understood there were some splendid seams of coal right on the line, and the centre of the Island near the rail- way would be a splendid place for a State coal mine. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) said the Union Com- pany and the Westport Coal Company landed coal at Wellington at a fair price. It was the middlemen in Wellington who made the money. The companies were not making large profits. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the Premier had told the House that the people in Wellington were paying from 7s. 6d. to 8s. a ton too much. The Premier was the originator of the agitation against the price of coal in Wel- lington. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said, If the Govern- ment wanted another State coal-mine offered to them there were a few down South ; in fact, he had a going concern himself which he would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 be very pleased to put under offer, especially as under the conditions which now existed it was almost impossible to work these mines satisfactorily. However, he would have some- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero thing to say on that point later on. The cost of coal, he ventured to say, would have been less in New Zealand to-day but for the agita- tion with respect to a State coal-mine. The Minister might perhaps state whether the gentlemen who were inspecting the coal areas on the West Coast had been appointed a Royal Commission, or what standing they had. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) thought it was too bad to refer to dear coal in Welling- ton as being a disability or reason why a Federal City should be established elsewhere ; but if the capital city of the colony were established on the block of seventy thousand acres of Crown land between Te Kuiti and Mokau, where it is stated that thousands of acres of coal country existed, that would do away with the difficulty of coal supply. Residents might even sinh shafts under their houses and lift up their supplies of coal into their dwellings as they would lift a bucket of water out of a well. He considered the vote of $5,000 on the estimates was quite insufficient for the mining industry of the colony. The Geological Department should be worked on different lines. The different districts should be taken seriatım, and if practical men worked them in conjunction with the Schools of Mines great good would undoubtedly result. He hoped that next year more energy would be put into the department. Vote, Meteorological and Museum Depart- ment, £761, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, £16,615. Mr J. ALLEN (Bruce) wished to know some- thing about the Coal-mines Commission. How was it appointed ; and why was it that when the report was laid on the table the usual practice was not followed of submitting the evidence with it ? Mr. McGOWAN said the appointment of the Commission arose in this way : Complaint was made with regard to the inspection of mines in a certain part of the colony. The complaint was sent on to the Goldfields and Mines Com- mittee of the House, who recommended that a Royal Commission should be set up. The Go- vernment thereupon appointed a Commission, and that Commission had duly reported ; and in laying the report on the table he had explained to the House that owing to delay in the Govern- ment Printing Office he could not at that time lay the evidence on the table. However, in the course of a few days the evidence would be ready, and would be laid on the table. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) would like some explanation with regard to extinguishing the fire at the Cardiff Coal-mine. A sum of $500 had been on the estimates last year for this purpose, and there was a similar sum on the present estimates. The expenditure had been #616. He would like to know if it was worth while to try to extinguish this fire. The matter had been before the Mines Committee last year, and evidence had been given that there was very little coal left in the mine. He would like to know why the evidence given before the Commission on Coal-mines had not been printed. There had also been a Royal Commission on Rivers, and he desired to know what effect, if any, had been given to the report of that Commission. Wr. McGO \\ AN said the amount set down in connection with the fire in the Cardiff Coal- mine was a liability. The fire, he believed, was burning vet ; but the evidence was that all that was possible had been done to prevent the spread of the fire towards the place where it was believed good coal existed. They had not only the report of the Inspector, but also the report of gentlemen in that district, who were ex- amining the country for the purpose of locating a favourable place for a State coal-mine. It was not worth while to continue the expense further, as the fire was confined to a part of the mine where there was only a small seam of coal. There was no danger now where the valuable coal was believed to exist. Regarding the Rivers Commission, this Commission had been in existence for some time. Its labours had been completed, and its recommendations, in a number of instances, had been acted upon. Some rivers had been already proclaimed and an amount of compensation paid. It was not decided yet whether the Government would proclaim certain others or not. Certain claims had come in to the Government, but whether the report upon them would be adopted in its entirety or not he was unable to say. So far 