whether the words taken down are not offensive. They certainly seem to me to be so. It does not help any argument or befit the position or the proceedings of this Council that honourable members should use such words, and therefore it is quite right that the honourable gentle- man should be called to order and be asked to withdraw them ; and I would now appeal to the honourable gentleman, and ask him what is more dignified, what is more fitting and right-minded, on the part of a member of this Council than that he should withdraw words which have been pointed out to him to be words which are not fitting to be used. We do not want to punish the honourable member, but I think the proper course is to ask the honour- able member to withdraw, and then to suspend him for the rest of the sitting. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- If the honour- able gentleman declines to withdraw the words I have no alternative but to follow the usual course, and that is to request him to withdraw from the Council while the Council considers the position. I therefore request the honour- able member to withdraw. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI then withdrew from the Chamber. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- No doubt every member of the Council feels oppressed at this very unnecessary position, as I regard it. I can only call it an exhibition of short temper, because the honourable gentleman was given an opportunity to withdraw the words which he used towards another honourable member, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and he refused to do so. Still, the order and proceedings of this Council must be maintained, and I think some notice must be taken of this contumacy. I beg to move, That, the Hon. Mr. Shrimski having refused to withdraw words used by him in debate when directed to do so by the Hon. the Speaker, the said member be cen- sured, and suspended for the remainder of the sitting. The Hon. Mr. JOHNSTON. - Would it not be more reasonable to give the honourable member an opportunity of submitting himself again to the Chair ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - The honourable gentleman will be called in to hear the decision of the Council, and then he will have an opportunity of withdrawing the words if he thinks fit to do so. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- What a farce it is to suspend the honourable gentleman for the rest of this day's sitting! He will come back to-morrow, and will gloat over the matter. The honourable member was sufficiently warned on four different occasions that he must withdraw the words, and the Speaker also gave him an opportunity to withdraw them, and he refused to do so, and he refused to do so in the most insulting manner. I say that there ought to be something more done than simply to sus- pend the honourable gentleman for the rest of this day's sitting. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- After all is said and done, I think the Council only wants to express its dissent from the conduct of the it will satisfy the Council and will satisfy the country. I would be satisfied with even less than what has been proposed by the Minister ; but, if necessary, I shall support the honourable gentleman. If the Hon. Mr. Shrimski when he comes back is informed of the decision of the Council, that the Council regards his words as unparliamentary, I do not think that it will be necessary to suspend him for the rest of the day's sitting ; but if the leader of the Council insists on it I shall vote for his motion. I think that all the Council wishes to do is to maintain its dignity, and to let the honourable member know that this sort of thing cannot be passed over. The Hon. Mr. BONAR .- Would it not be possible, Sir, to ask the honourable gentleman to return to the Chamber and apologize to the Chair ? Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- It is a pity that such things should take place here, and I am sure that every member of the Council must deplore them. I do not know what it is, but those two honourable members come from the same place, and they appear to be antagonistic in some respects. The Hon. Mr. Shrimski, no doubt, ought to have submitted to the ruling of the Chairman; but the Hon. Mr. Shrimski had very severe provocation in the words used by the Hon. Mr. Jones; and I think the punish- ment that is now proposed is more than is necessary, because when one honourable mem- ber gives provocation to another honourable member the Chairman as a rule stops him. If he does not do so, the words used arouse the ill temper of the other member, and I think it is wise that the use of such words should be checked. But I think that in meting out punish- ment it is necessary to consider the provocation given, and in my opinion the Hon. Mr. Jones should have been stopped at the time when he was referring to the Hon. Mr. Shrimski, and when he called him a " heartless man." The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I did not say any- thing of the sort- The Hon. the SPEAKER .- The honourable member must resume his seat, and if he wishes to explain, an opportunity will be given him of doing so, The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I was going to say- The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I rise to a point of order. I shall not allow these things to be said of me in this Council without protest. I said nothing of the sort. All I said was this: I recounted what the Hon. Mr. Shrimski had said in regard to the young men-the chemists' assistants. He said they did not care what took place-whether people were taken ill, or even if they died-so long as they got their holiday. I replied that that was a heartless thing to say of these young men-that these young men necessarily wanted their proper rest as well as other people in the community. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- Those are the words which the honourable gentleman used ; those were the words used also by the Hon. 