session of them; and I ask honourable mem- bers if it was desirable that valuable Govern- ment property-I leave out of the question the lives involved-should be within 20 ft. of such premises. When the tinsmith was there there was danger of fire. Some nights we were afraid to go to sleep. A portion of the work consisted in bathing boxes in a cauldron of wax, and it appeared so dangerous that I would not wish members of the House to undergo the anxiety of living next door to such a place. As to the value of the premises and ground, I say that the State has now a property that is worth three times what it cost in the first place. I tell the House, further, that I was accused of placing a certain clause in the Public Works Bill. Now, there is another piece of land on the other side of the section. It has been leased for many years, but if you take the 20 ft. that is leased on the south side of the residence, you come within 15 ft. of the residence and block the light. I say, then, it was necessary to have the power that was given. If the owner had refused to renew the lease, and had built on that section, the residence would have been deprived of its value. Well, I consider that members are in- clined to give to the Premier a house that is free from danger-danger to life and property- and it was only right to place the residence in that position. Now, that is the explanation. As regards the honourable member talking about extending the garden, the garden has not been extended. Mr. Bell wrote offering to lease or to sell that land at the rear of the residence. I say that, in my opinion, it would be a great improvement to the property if that was done ; but before I had time to deal with the matter I left for Australia. The letter reached me just as I was leaving, and when I returned Mr. Bell had sold a portion of the land. Since that both the parties were quite prepared either to sell or to lease to the Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- I did not say they were not. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member said that expense had been incurred with a view of compulsorily taking the gardens. I say that no expense was incurred except what was necessary to locate the land, and the result has been that Mr. Chapman, the owner, has sent a letter stating that he was quite prepared to dispose of a portion of the land. A great injustice has been done to me. I have never yet in the course of my life lived on anything but friendly terms with my neighbours. I had not the slightest idea of forcibly taking the land from the owners; but if they were prepared on reasonable terms to sell or lease to the State the land required, as it would be to the advan- tage of the colony, and add to the value of the property, I should have been prepared to deal with them, but not otherwise. An Hon. MEMBER .- Did you not send sur- veyors on the ground ? Mr. SEDDON. - They went to locate the land that had been bought, the land offered by Mr. Bell, and also a section behind the land bought on which the tinsmith's shop stood. We had to get our own land located. When located, and Mr. Bell offered the remainder to us on lease. We could not say where the land was until it was surveyed. The mistake arose because some one had said that we were going to take the land under the Public Works Act. Well, I am not going to be held responsible for what the surveyor or any one else said. I think it is probably as well that the member for Palmerston has brought the matter up, and I thank him for doing so, because it has given me the opportunity of clearing up what might have been considered unneighbourly on my part. I have always all my life lived on the best of terms with my neighbours, and I hope to go on that way to the end, for I do not think a man can be a good man who is a bad neighbour. As regards the matter of Private Secretaries, the honourable member might as well say that all the Secretaries in the departments controlled by me should be charged against the Premier's ex- Can it be said that there is any single penses, Secretary of mine who has not plenty to do, and who does not do work equal to that done by any Secretary in the service? If that could be said, then there might be some good ground for complaint ; but it is monstrous to say that the salaries of these Secretaries should be charged against the Premier's expenses. Then, the honourable member brought in another question, that of messengers; but I am at work, in session and out of session, almost day and night, and if there was but one man on duty all the time he would require to be on duty for eighteen hours a day; and I do not see that I could call upon any man to do duty for eighteen hours a day for £2 8s. a week. Mr. ARNOLD .- If you did you would hear of it. Mr. SEDDON .- If I did I should hear about it; but there is no one attached to me but well earns his money. The honourable mem- ber regretted, in connection with this matter, that it should have come up at this period of the session. Well, Sir, if it is not corrected during the session it will be said that I had the opportunity of correcting these statements when the House was in session and refrained from doing so. That is why I answer them, even though it is the end of the session. I desire to clear the matter up, and to give in detail every shilling of the amount drawn under the head of " Expenses." If the honourable member says there are other expenses that should be added he is casting a grave reflection upon the Controller and Auditor-General, be- cause this House ordered a return showing the expenses, allowances, and salaries of Ministers, and, the return being to the order of the House, if it is not correct the Auditor-General is responsible for it. The honourable member for Palmerston takes the Controller and Auditor- General as being a final authority, and thinks that it is impossible for him to make mistakes, so that I am sure he would not like to accuse him of having certified to the correctness of an incorrect return. Mr. PIRANI .- I would not mind accusing him if I thought he was wrong. 