the non-acceptance of the position by Mr. Crow, but that a temporary appointment should be made. Accordingly, one gentleman has been recommended by me, and, I believe, has been appointed by the Right Hon. the Premier tem- porarily, for the session only. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). - Have you made any recommendation about the Serjeant-at- Arms ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I have not made any recommendation vet. Several gentlemen have sent in applications for the position ; some have been addressed to Mr. Speaker, some to me, and some, I think, to the Premier, who has forwarded them on to me. All these have been recorded by the Clerk of the House. I am not quite sure whether it will be my duty to make the recommendation, or whether it would not be better to wait for a week or two to see whether Mr. Speaker resumes his place, in order that he can make the recommendation, in accordance with the resolution of the House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- I may state, in respect to this matter, that Mr. Speaker (Sir Maurice) has made a recommendation. As there are a number of applications coming in, and of which Sir Maurice could not be aware at the time he made the recommendation, I have asked the matter to stand over. In the meantime the applications are being filed, and, when they are completed, will be dealt with as provided by our regulations. ROYAL VISIT EXPENSES BILL. A message was received from His Excellency https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Governor forwarding copy of a Bill to pro- vide for the reimbursement of certain expenses incurred by the Governor in connection with the Royal visit, and recommending the House to make provision accordingly. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero On the question, That the message be referred to the Committee of the Whole, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, It is necessary, Sir, I think, that I should explain to the House why the Government advise the course which is proposed to be taken under the Bill before us. Exception has been taken, I believe, to the item appearing on the estimates, and I may say in reference to that that the course which we took was strictly in accordance with the law ; and I wish at once, if any impression has been formed on members' minds, to say that His Excellency the Governor is not an interested party at all. He was the host for the colony, and, in respect to the liabilities incurred, his name was only nominal. The liabilities are actual liabilities of the colony. It is simply to reimburse or refund to him moneys which he has expended on behalf of the colony, and to meet other accounts in his name; he pays the accounts and we pay him back, and I do not think that that has been well understood. To remove, again, any impression on that point I may say that, from a communication received, which was communicated to Minis- ters, the Imperial Government desired to know whether the Colony of New Zealand were going to defray all costs in connection with the Royal visit. The reply was that the Govern- VOL. CXIX .- 2. \- ment itself would entertain wholly the Royal visitors. His Excellency, in entertaining, was simply entertaining on behalf of the colony, and the cost of the same was to be borne by the colony. Most of the invitations were from : the Government of New Zealand. Mr. MASSEY .- Revised by the Premier. Mr. SEDDON. - No; I at once say, em- phatically, No. An Hon. MEMBER. - We will have something to say about it when the Bill comes on. i Mr. SEDDON. - Very well ; I say the honour- able member who makes that statement is doing me an injustice, and he is doing His Excellency an injustice. At all events, 1 take it that so far we have done well, and it is my desire-and I am sure it must be the desire of every member of the House -that, in respect to the King's representative, he should not be brought on the floor of the House, and should not be the subject of debate. So far, this country has been singularly free of that, and, I think, wisely so; and it is to prevent what might have been an acrimonious discussion on the estimates that I have decided upon the course now taken. Not only that, but the point would have been raised later on that His Excellency would have been approving of an Appropriation Act, and in the appropriations would be a sum voted which, although for reimbursement of moneys paid on our behalf, he himself would receive. Mr. ATKINSON .- He would have 3.0. had to reserve the Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- He would not have had to reserve the Bill at all. As I have said, I have made inquiries, and such inquiries as to make it very clear there would be no necessity what- ever for reservation, because the Royal Instruc- tions are themselves clear. The wording of subsection (2) of section 6, page 184, is as fol- lows : " Any Bill whereby any grant of land or money, or other donation or gratuity, may be made to himself." I say it is clear you must read "donation " or " grant " in connection with the context, "any grant of land," and it means that it is where it is for his personal benefit, and certainly he has no personal benefit in having expended sums of money and paid moneys away on behalf of the colony. Mr. PIRANI .- What right has he got to do that ? Mr. SEDDON .- Well, he had a perfect right to do it when the colony was committed to defray all costs of the Royal visit, and His Excellency was asked by Ministers to act for the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- He was not authorised. Mr. SEDDON. - Yes, he was authorised. This House authorised the Ministry, and the Ministry asked His Excellency to act. An Hon. MEMBER. - No. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, you took a vote last year ; and on the question of administration it is left to the Ministry to say how that money is to be expended, and by whom. And His Excellency the Governor, at the request of Ministers, took up the position of host on our behalf, because there was no one else who, 