Te Makarini scholarship 5 0 . 4 10 Allowance to teacher for board .. 1 14 0 Despatch-bag .. . . £57 13 7 Under the head "Industrial Schools," the amount expended was £110, made up as fol- lows :- £ 8. Travelling, staff and officers 99 1 Costs re lease of Christchurch Re- ceiving-Home 3 3 .. Publications, reports, &c. 8 4 .. Stationery (envelopes) 0 14 .. . . Typewriting, reports 1 1 .. . . Despatch-bag .. 1 10 .. . . £109 18 2 And under the head of "Technical Instruction," the amount expended was £189, made up as follows :- £ s. d. Examinations, Science and Art 78 12 Department Examinationss, City and Guilds of London Institute 23 13 Insurance on plasticene, &c. 0 6 Publications, reports, &c. 26 7 .. Freight, &c., on goods .. 13 2 .. Framing works of art 10 15 . . Expenses of Mr. McLeod re ap- pointment of technical instruc- 7 13 4 tors . . Advertising 25 15 11 Making boxes for students' works 0 16 1 10 Despatch-bag .. £188 12 0 Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) wished the Minister to give him some information with regard to two items. Under " Head Office" there was the item " Clerk, also Assistant Inspector of Industrial Schools, $260"; and then, under the head of " Industrial Schools," there was the item " Assistant Inspector, £250." Was that one and the same individual ? Mr. HALL-JONES said there were two In- spectors. One was an Inspector pure and simple, and the other was Clerk and Inspector. There were two Assistant Inspectors of Indus- trial Schools. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) wished to point out the large increase there was in the administration of the Education Department. Almost every item showed an increase. The vote was £662 over the vote of last year, and $900 over the sum expended last year. What reason was there for such an enormous increase ? He was aware that on account of technical education and other matters the work of the department had increased, but this wholesale and general increase of almost every officer in the Head Office struck him as being a very sur- prising thing. The number of officers had also increased from sixteen to twenty. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) referred to the con- tinual rises in salaries which the officers of this Mr. Hall-Jones regretting that, with the exception of this year, 000 the number of scholars attending the schools of the colony was gradually getting less. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said the number of children on whom capitation was paid in 1895 was 104,500, and this year it was 113,800, showing an increase of 9,300. In 1894-95 the number of officers was eight, and now it was twenty. The expenses of the Head Office in d. 1894-95 were £2,472, but for the current year 2 they were £4,980, or £2,500 in excess of the expenses of 1894-95. It was marvellous that, 0 while the attendance had increased by only 6 9,300, the expenses had increased by the large 6 sum of $2,500. There was something decidedly 0 wrong in connection with the administration 0 of the department-either the Inspector was wrong or the Minister was wrong ; and if such a state of things was to be allowed to go on the- expenditure would become abnormally swollen year by year. He considered that the present state of things called for the most careful at- tention on the part of honourable members. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said there was 2 a feeling inside and outside the House that the Minister in charge of the Education Depart- 1 ment should be a member of the Lower House. 3 All previous Ministers of Education had been 3 members of the House. It was not desirable, 7 in view of the very important departments 5 administered by the Minister, that he should be a member of another Chamber; and, in order to test the feeling of the House as to whether the position should be occupied by a member of the House or not, he would move a 0 reduction of the vote by £1. 0 Mr. TANNER (Avon) moved to reduce the item " Assistant Secretary, £425," by £25. It was time the House rose to a sense of its re- sponsibility in increasing salaries in all depart- ments ; but he thought, of all the departmental increases proposed or granted, this was the most striking case, not to say the most scandalous. The expenditure of the Education Department had practically doubled of late years, and the number of children in attendance at the schools of the colony was about the same. When salaries were piled up in this way one could readily understand why it was that reasonable and necessary appointments were resisted by the Head Office. The member for Selwyn, if he were in his place, could unfold a tale to the House in connection with an appointment to a certain institution that would cast discredit on the Education Department. If the honourable gentleman did not do so he (Mr. Tanner) would narrate the facts to the House himself. It was a question of an appointment at a salary of €100 or #150, but it was not to be made because the department pleaded that it could not afford it ; but it could afford to double its own depart- mental expenditure. Mr. HALL-JONES said the changes that had been made during the past few years had thrown an increased amount of work on the Head Office. For instance, with respect to manual and tech- nical instruction, changes in the administra- tion of industrial and reformatory schools, the 