answer. But I know what the difficulties are in distributing coal ; I know what the losses are in conveyance, transport, and shifting, from breakages and so on; I know what the loss is in delivery ; and I know in most instances that coal is now being given to the con- sumer at as cheap a rate as it is possible to be supplied at-that is, with an oppor- tunity of getting anything like a fair return for the capital invested. I do not know of any industry in New Zealand that presents such a spectacle as the coal-mining industry does. Honourable members cannot point to any big profits that have been made by any one mining concern. The largest concern is the Westport Company, and through the whole course of their existence I do not believe they have averaged 5 per cent. ; and is there anybody here prepared to say that in a risky industry like this, where the capital is disappearing every year, that 5 per cent. is anything like a fair return on the capital ? I do not know what the average dividend of the Kaitangata Coal Com- pany has been. It may have been larger than the Westport Coal Company, but the Kai- tangata dividends may need some explanation ; and certainly the Kaitangata Coal-mine now, owing to private money which has been launched into this industry some time ago, has to stand very severe competition, and I doubt very much whether the dividends of the company at present working the Kai- tangata Mine will in the future be anything like what they have been in the past. There- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 fore I feel certain that, owing to the fact that no large dividends are now being gained by any coal-mining company, and that a great many are earning no dividend at all, coal is http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero being produced as cheaply as it can be, and I am certain that this move has tended to stop the investment of private capital in these con- cerns. The ultimate result must be, if the State comes into competition, that, if the State can compete and sell coal at a cheaper rate than can be done by the private owners, the private owners will have to give in. That means, at any rate, with regard to the supply, that the State would have to undertake the supply of the whole of the coal of the colony, and, in a risky industry such as this is, I think it is an unwise thing for the State to enter into it. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - The speech which has just been delivered must be somewhat interpreted in the light of the state- ment made by the honourable gentleman that he himself is largely interested in an existing coal-mine. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that a crime ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It is not a crime, but that position naturally discounts the argu- ments of the honourable gentleman, because, while giving him credit for approaching the subject from a broad point of view, it is impos- sible that any person who is a mine-owner, in discussing a question of this kind, can com- pletely dissociate from himself the conscious- ness that he himself is interested in an under- taking which is more or less threatened by the Mr. J. Allen speeches of the kind we have just listened to which have been the cause of the great strength of the Liberal sentiment in this colony during the last eight or ten years. It is upon speeches of that class that the Liberal party has been built up. We live in an age when public sentiment has changed, and when the State is bound to steadily absorb to itself functions which some ten or fifteen years ago were regarded as the sole right and posses- sion of the private capitalist. In this country the increase of State functions has probably grown more than in any other country in the world ; and such a state of things is absolutely sure to arise out of the condition of things which obtains in New Zealand, where the rail- ways, the telegraphs, the telephones, and & number of other vast public services are owned by the State, as compared with other countries where the same services are in the hands of private capitalists. Sir, I intend to support this Bill, and I congratulato the Government upon having brought it in. I congratulate the Government all the more because this is a pro- posal which I myself have steadily advocated from, I was going to say, the first day I entered Parliament. I have before me Hausard of the 28th June, 1894, exactly one week after I took my seat in this House, and on that date this appears in Hansard : - # " STATE COAL-MINES. "Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked the Premier, Whether the Government will during the pre- sent session introduce legislation to enable one or more State coal-mines to be opened and worked. "Mr. CADMAN said that, seeing the large num- ber of Bills now on the Order Paper, with several more to follow, he could not hold out any hope of legislation in the direction the honourable gentleman asked for." So that this proposal is at least seven years old, and it has taken the Government seven years to rise to the idea of what was wanted in this direction. In the interview with the Premier reported in Saturday's New Zealand Times-a pen portrait by H. W. S. Myers-at the closing part of it these words occur as being placed in the mouth of the Right Hon. the Premier : " An opportunist I may be, but an opportunist in the more sane sense of the term." Now, that is one of the most important qualities the Premier possesses. He never takes up a ques- tion, such as the State Coal-mines, on his own initiative. He did not take up the old- age pensions. He waits till other men have educated the public mind - familiarised the public with the proposal-and then he, with a large opportunism, enters into their labours and takes possession of the idea, carries it into effect, and takes all the honour and credit. Mr. ATKINSON. - Did he not run the women's suffrage all by himself ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - No; Sir John Hall had something to say about that, before the Right Hon. the Premier touched the question. Now, this is another case. The 