and also a large residence for boarders and other buildings, all in good order, and he believed the residence was capable of accommodating seventy boarders. There was also a fine re- creation-ground. The land and buildings at present were practically going to waste. The land was used for sheep-grazing purposes, and the revenue, he understood, was between £250 and £300 a year. The school was no benefit to the large Native population on the coast. The school at present was, he was informed, attended by something less than a dozen children, none of whom were boarders. The desire of the Natives, and of the settlers also, was that a college should be established there for the purpose of teaching Native boys. Money could be raised, in addition to fees that probably some boys would pay, by selling a portion of the land if necessary, and probably something could be obtained from the educa- tional vote. It seemed to him that the time had now come for the Government to take the question of the administration of this and other similar reserves in hand, and do something in the direction he had indicated. In asking the question he need hardly say he was casting no reflection on the teacher of the Native school, who, he believed. was very capable, and if the school was placed on a better basis he hoped that teacher's services would be retained. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said that on this particular subject he was in entire agreement with the views expressed by the honourable gentleman. It was a very large question, and he had all along felt that some better form of administration should be ap- plied to all reserves which had been given by the Natives some years ago as endowments for http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero educational purposes. The best use had not been made of those endowments, and, so far as the results were concerned, the Natives for whom the benefits derivable therefrom were intended had been the greatest sufferers. He would certainly suggest to his colleagues to make it a Government matter, and have some inquiry made into the administration, not only of this particular reserve, but of every Native educational reserve, in order that some scheme might be devised which would place the whole control and administration of those reserves on a better and more satisfactory basis. DISTRICT COURT, DANNEVIRKE. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked the 4.30. Minister of Justice, Whether he will establish a District Court at Dannevirke ? The Hawke's Bay District extended from the East Cape to the Manawatu Gorge, a distance of about three hundred miles, and in the whole of . the district there was not one District Court. As a result, those persons in the out-of-the-way places had to ride very long distances if they wished to bring any matter before the Supreme Court. But much of the inconvenience would be removed if a Court were established at Danne- virke, as it would serve the requirements of a large population lying between the Ruahine Ranges and the East Coast. Mr. Field have much pleasure in causing inquiry to be made with regard to the establishment of a District Court at Dannevirke, but he felt bound to say to the honourable gentleman, and to all members of the House, that if Courts were established in all the places where it had been suggested to him they should be established, it would mean a considerable increase in expen- diture. If such Courts were established at Dannevirke, Pahiatua, Stratford, et cetera, then other comparatively small towns in the colony would make similar applications, and if the requests were complied with it meant an in- crease in the number of Magistrates, and a considerable increase in the cost of the adminis- tration of justice. The desire of the Govern- ment was to meet the public to the best of their ability by complying with reasonable demands, and when a good case was made out, and it was shown that the public required what was asked for, the request was at once granted. It would have to be shown, however, that the business would warrant such a course being taken. As far as the particular case of Danne- virke was concerned, he would have further inquiries made. RETURNS OF DRUNKENNESS. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Justice, If he will have shown in the returns of drunkenness the number of native-born charged with drunkenness ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the question involved more than appeared on the face of it. The information asked for was already given in the annual returns so far as it referred to those committed to prison for the offence, but it did not show the number who were punished by the infliction of a fine ; there- fore the figures would not represent the full number of cases, and would be misleading. As to giving the place of birth of offenders, he did not know if it would be advisable. There was a possibility of unnecessary annoyance being caused by requiring such information. Mr. ELL .- Why ? Mr. McGOWAN said, Because certain invi- dious distinctions would be made, and it would be said that Natives or others were addicted to the failing. As he had already stated, there was no record kept of the birthplaces of many of the offenders, and to give the information the honourable gentleman asked for would require a considerable alteration in the method of com- piling the criminal statistics. If the birth- places were given it would simply tend to an undue discrimination, which would not be wise. Mr. ELL said it was done with regard to other statistics. Mr. McGOWAN admitted that was so; but this was a more difficult question than the honourable gentleman seemed to think. For instance, some people regarded drunkenness as a crime; but, for himself, he did not so regard it, and therefore he did not want to make any invidious distinctions. He would make in- quiries, and if the return could be furnished without needless expense it would be supplied. 