educed during his term of office; and it seems to me equally essential that it should not be increased during his term of office; because the member for Mataura must see that, the moment the personal question arises, it is almost impossible to keep out the name of the individual when a rise in the salary is asked for in regard to the private individual. If the rise were being asked merely for the office, then it would not come into operation until the end of the current term, and the matter then could be discussed quite in the abstract and absolutely impersonally. Mr. McNAB .- If it is wrong, how do you explain the Royal Instructions ? Mr. ATKINSON .- I do not know if the honourable gentleman sees any logic in that, and if he thinks that is an answer to my argu- ment he must have misunderstood what I said. I say that, when he says His Excellency's name should not be brought up on the floor of this House, he is really hitting at those who bring in His Excellency's name by asking us to vote on questions of this sort. For instance, if His Excellency gets no personal benefit it can be discussed without regard to the person who may be the Governor for the time being. Mr. FISHER .- Will the procedure of this Parliament differ from the procedure of the House of Commons ? Mr. ATKINSON .- I see no reason why it should. Now, I have got the Colonial Office Rules and Regulations for 1900, and, with re- gard to these votes of which I am speaking, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 they are clearly at variance with the spirit of more than one of the rules and regulations of the Colonial Office. J refer to the regulations against any Governor receiving a present from & colony or its inhabitants during the term of the omce, or even at the expiry of his term. I refer to No. 39 of the rules :- " He is prohibited from receiving presents, pecuniary or valuable, from the inhabitants of the colony, or any class of them, during the continuance of his office, and from giving such presents ; and this rule is to be equally ob- served on leaving his office." Now, the spirit of that rule surely requires that, whether it be by Act or Bill, or resolu- tion, no additional personal benefit should accrue to the Governor during his term of office. The principle is laid down in a despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies in 1567, which is cited in Todd's " Parliamentary Government," page 143 :- "' The principle is that no Governor shall be allowed to expose himself to the temptation which may arise from expecting beneficial donations from the colonists, or any section of them, or to the suspicions which arise from his acceptance of such donations. Whether they are made directly to himself, or in trust for him, or to some member of his family, so that he may have the enjoyment of them, is obviously immaterial.' But (says Mr. Todd), while the reasons for this prohibition are self- evident, it has been officially explained 'that they rest on no considerations affecting the | fill situations of this high importance, but on the necessity of preserving them, in the eyes of the public, free from all suspicion. These reasons apply to the receipt of presents of the same description by a Governor on leaving his office with scarcely less force than during its continuance. And, although Her Majesty's Government cannot exercise any direct control over the actions of gentlemen on the point of leaving the public service, they feel it their duty to record this opinion, and to express their hope that it may be acted on as a general rule.' " I say that the increase of salary which was placed on the supplementary estimates last year, and again this amount we are asked to carry now, are in violation of the spirit of the regulations of the Colonial Office. They are no mere red-tape regulations, but they seem to me to be really inspired by sound policy. I know that some of them have been abrogated with regard to this colony within the last few months. There is the rule dealing wth pre- cedence, which runs as follows :- "155. The precedency of Colonial Officers is in some cases determined by Colonial enact- ments, by Royal Charters, by Instructions com- municated either under the Royal Signet and Sign Manual through the Secretary of State, or by authoritative usage. In the absence of any such special authority, Governors are to guide themselves by the subjoined table. " 156. Table of precedence of Colonial Offi- cers :- "The Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, or Officer administering the Government. "The Senior Officer in command of the Troops, if of the rank of a General, and the Officer in command of His Majesty's Naval Forces on the Station, if of the rank of an Admiral, their own relative rank being determined by the King's Regulations on that subject. "The Bishop. "The Chief Justice. "The Senior Officer in command of the Troops, if of the rank of the Colonel or Lieutenant-Colonel, and the Officer in command of His Majesty's Forces on the Station, if of equivalent rank, their own relative rank being determined by the King's Regulations on that subject. "The Members of the Executive Council," et cetera. I understand, however, that one member of our Executive Council is too large to walk in after the Chief Justice, and that the rule has therefore been abrogated temporarily for the purpose of this colony only. It was suspended in the colony during the Royal visit. However, the point I wish to make is that these personal questions, which it is obviously the object of the Colonial Office to avoid being raised in regard to the Governor and his emoluments, are inevitably raised by the way in which these votes and these Bills are being brought before us now. Now, the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) said that, as a 