to vote as they think proper. They are re- sponsible to their own constituents for what they do or do not do, and the honourable mem- ber has not seen any impropriety in himself doing his best to secure a majority in the direc- tion he wished in connection with these resolu- tions which have been carried against him to-night. I do not think he should attempt to make any invidious distinctions such as he has made in reference to the course the Natives thought proper to take, more especially as one of the Native members voted on the same side as himself. But I rose, really, to say that the whole of the debate upon these proposals has been of a particularly agreeable character, and I think members generally, whether they dis- sented from the resolutions or whether they supported them, have said nothing during the course of the debate that any of us have reason to regret. I was sorry the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) saw fit to make the short and curt satirical statement he did. Mr. FISHER .- What statement ? Sir J. G. WARD .- The statement regarding the assistance of Mr. Massey, which has been very cordially given. Now, I hold in my hand the division-list upon the same question in 1888, and I am very much concerned to find that the honourable gentleman, who then occu- pied a high and responsible position in the colony, when I wanted him to vote to abolish the fixed subsidies upon the San Francisco mail-service did not vote, and he did not pair. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Then, I moved, and carried by a majority of eighteen, resolutions to abolish the system of subsidy which had hitherto obtained, giving us connection with the San Francisco mail-ser- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero vice. Mr. FISHER .- If you will read your own speech you will see that you stated that I voted against your resolution to abolish the San Francisco service. Sir J. G. WARD .- No, I did not. Mr. FISHER .- Well, I happen to have your remarks in my own proof. Sir J. G. WARD .- I have made no such statement. I am speaking about what the honourable gentleman said to-night, and I would not intentionally do him any injustice. only say that he did not vote nor did he pair on that occasion to which I refer. The honour- able gentleman's activity now is in very marked contradistinction to his retirement from the House in 1888 when I was moving to do some- thing to reduce the very heavy subsidies which were then paid in connection with the San Francisco mail-service. "Inconsistency ! thy name is inconsistency." Mr. FISHER .- Your satire is done so plea- santly that I do not mind. Sir J. G. WARD .- Then, the honourable member for the Buller finds fault with the Government because some honourable member opposite supported the Government in connec- tion with these resolutions. Surely the honour- able member does not mean to say that upon this question there has been any attempt to And, again, referring to the 1888 debate, if the honourable member will look at the division- list he will find that myself and others on the same side of the House were voting with our strongest opponents, and some members on our side of the House joined with others opposite in return and voted against us. What the House has done now is what they believe to be in the best interests of the colony. We have been anxious to have a continuance of the present mail-service on fair and reasonable lines in the colony; and why there should have been, after an excellent debate con- ducted with singular good feeling, any feel- ing now introduced I do not know. I only assure honourable members that the Go- vernment have done what they believe to be in the best interests of the colony as a whole. We have brought down proposals we deemed best under the altered circumstances, and which we thought we could carry. The member for Ashley was quite mistaken when he assumes that we have not communicated with other companies. If he looks at the correspondence which has been laid on the table he will see that we communicated with the New Zealand Shipping Company; and I may say I had per- sonally more than one interview with the head people connected with the service with a view of seeing whether it was possible to bring any suitable proposal down, and I was assured that it was impossible to do so during the continu- ance of the service with the Queensland Go- vernment. There is no use saying we have not tried to bring about an independent service with this company. We have done our best. The position has been rendered a difficult one through circumstances connected with the United States navigation laws, over which we have no control, and it has, I consider, been approached very fairly. Honourable members have been canvassed very hard by those anxious to carry the proposals against us; and those who have supported them have exercised an independence and cast their votes in a way which I think, on the whole, has given the best solution of a very difficult question. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I deprecate the practice that has crept in of making per- sonal explanations on every possible occasion ; I but I think it necessary to say, in answer to the honourable gentleman, that it is his incon- sistency of which I complain. I did not vote either way on his motion to abolish the San Francisco service in 1888. That motion which he proposed in 1888 to abolish the Fr'isco ser- vice was carried ; and, in 1889, he complained grievously in the House that his resolution of 1888 had not been given effect to ; yet now he himself proposes, as Postmaster-General, that this needless and costly and, in one sense, humiliating contract should be fastened upon the colony for a further period of three years, although it is well known that the people of the colony as a whole are opposed to it. But it is the price the country has to pay to secure the Auckland vote in this House. Sir J. G. WARD .- I would just like to say, 