year to Mr. Spreckels or to anybody else. Mr. BOLLARD .-- It is proposed to give .920,000 for the Vancouver service. Sir J. G. WARD .- I will deal later on with what is proposed, and, I say, if the honourable gentleman and his friends were on these benches and had all the power and force of Auckland behind them, they could not carry $20,000 a year in the House, nor could you carry 10s. 5d. a pound. And when you cannot do that, and if you want to have the service continued, you must do the next best thing, and that is what we are now asking the House to do. Now, re- garding the present position : honourable mem- bers will recollect that last year the House authorised a renewal of the service for twelve months on a basis of 10s. 5d. per pound for letters, 1s. per pound for book-packets, et cetera, and 6d. per pound for newspapers, the time not to exceed sixteen days. Those conditions were forwarded to Messrs. Spreckels, who, while they accepted the rates, declined to be bound by any contract, because they had not had an opportunity of trying their steamers to see what they could do. In the interval they have been tried, and it is now conclusively shown by the running of the steamers that they cannot do a sixteen days' service satisfactorily. And in our desire to meet this, and to show that we are anxious to have the service continued, we have extended the time, and made the proposal for seventeen days' service. Messrs. Sprechels have not asked for that ; but we want a mail-service that will run regularly. I have here a return showing the running of the service right through. Time is a very important matter. and we are bound to have a regular service, and we think it is better to give an extra day for what is possible than to stand out for an impossible service of sixteen days. We, of course, prefer a sixteen days' service if it can be done. The return shows the time as running from the 20th October, 1900, to the 10th August, 1901, for the inward service, and from the 6th December, 1900, to the 17th August, 1901, for the outward service. Of fourteen trips inward out of seventeen the steamers were from one day up to four days late; and outward, out of seventeen trips, ten were late from two to five days ; and in one case by time-table twelve days late, but only three days by actual steaming time. The machinery of the steamers was found to be weak, and I find no fault with Mr. Spreckels on that score, as he could not prevent it. I say any new steamers running are liable to such mishaps till they have been properly tried, and though it is not satisfactory, no fault should be attempted to be made on that score. I feel quite satisfied that Messrs. Spreckels have done all in their power, and they will do better, as it is of even more importance to them to run to time than it is to us. But after twelve months' running it is only reasonable to assume the right of the colony to ask that whatever time- table is fixed should be strictly adhered to, barring accidents, of course; and in the in- terests of the colony we ask that that should be Sır J. G. Ward year the net cost was £10,803, and under the proposals now submitted even if the mini- mum weight is not exceeded-the net cost wi !! be £16,304, after giving the service credit for all postages received in cach instance. An Hon. MEMBER .- Does that include the interprovincial service ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes ; it includes the whole cost in connection with the service. An Hon. MEMBER .- How about the penny postage ? Sir J. G. WARD .- That has nothing to do with it at all. The honourable member will find the fullest particulars in a paper I laid on the table to-day. I point out this in order to show that we are not doing as has been sug- gested by some people : trying to destroy the service by reducing the amount, or, as was sug- gested in the New Zealand Herald of Monday last, trying to effect a saving in connection with the penny postage. We have not, nor are we doing anything of the kind. On the contrary, it is the enormous number of extra letters posted since the adoption of the penny postage that has raised the amount up to what I stated in the House was being paid this year-namely, £17,000. With this knowledge before honour. able members it will be seen at once that we are not proposing a skimpy payment for the service. On the contrary, I believe we are proposing a very fair one. Previously when Spreckels Brothers applied for £30,000 they in- cluded New Zealand and Australia. New South Wales had in the meantime decided not to give a fixed subsidy, but to pay 2s. a pound for letter-carriage and 4s. 6d. per hundredweight for other matter. Under our proposals the cost is $28,095, while New South Wales gets the benefit of the service for less than $2,000. For about this sum she gets the whole benefits of a service which is a useful and valuable line to that country in many respects. We do not want to be mean, and we propose what we believe to be fair; yet, when we come down and ask to be supported by the House in fixing a fair commercial agreement, we are charged by some suspicious and narrow-minded people with ulterior motives. This is annoying and disheartening to those who are doing the best they can, and what they believe is for the benefit of the colony. Now, just a word or two regarding the Vancouver mail-service proposals. Honourable members must realise this : that, even should the Spreckels Company decline to accept our proposals as embodied in the resolu- tion of 7s. 6d. per pound, it would take a consider- able time before we could hope to be successful in establishing a Vancouver service with New Zealand. The only existing line running that I have any knowledge of that there could be any prospects of negotiating with is under contract with Queensland for two or three years, and that renders it impossible for it to come to New Zealand without breaking the agreement with Queensland, so that whatever we may do about the Vancouver proposal would be to make it the subject of negotiation, and it would take, I should say, from two to three 