legendary lore, and the history of the Maori race. Mr. MONK asked what had become of the material collected by Mr. John White-a gentleman who had a large amount of material which, he understood, the Government pur- chased at his decease. Mr. White possessed more information on the matter than perhaps any other person. Mr. CARROLL said all the material that was gathered by Mr. White was now in the possession of the Government, and Mr. Percy Smith had been engaged to arrange and put into proper order all that had been collected. When Mr. Stowell applied for the position his application was referred to Mr. Percy Smith, who said that Mr. Stowell was a very estimable man, and a capable man for the work - one of the best, indeed, who could be selected. Arrangements had also been made with Mr. Smith to revise any of the work done by Mr. Stowell ; and others interested in the question would also be engaged to make it a complete work, and one that would be, as far as possible, a true aud reliable collection of the colony s Maori history. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) was pleased to hear that the Minister was taking steps to have compiled an accurate and reliable history of the colony. Some eleven years ago Mr. White wrote a history of the early times of the colony, and at the time of his death had brought out six or seven volumes. It was an admirable work, and one that showed the writer was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 capable in every way for the work he had in hand. Was the house to understand that the work Mr. Percy Smith was now engaged on was & continuation of Mr. White's history, and that it was to complete a full history of the Maori race ? Mr. CARROLL said, That was the position. Mr. MEREDITH said that some time ago Mr. Hone Heke, member for the Northern Maori District, was engaged in collecting ma- terial for the purpose of bringing out a history of the Native races of the colony. Had the Government entered into any agreement with Mr. Hone Heke in the matter ? Mr. CARROLL said there was no arrange- ment between the Government and Mr. Hone Heke in respect to any work by the honourable gentleman on the Native race. Probably, the honourable member for Ashley was confounding Mr. Hone Heke with Mr. Hongi Hika, who was now engaged with Mr. Stowell. Mr. MEREDITH asked if Mr. Stowell was a member of the Native race ? Mr. CARROLL replied he was. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) urged that Mr. Stowell should visit the old Maori chiefs at as early a date as possible, as they were fast pass. ing away. Only within the last few days a dis- tinguished old chief named Hohaia Patuone, a nephew of Tamati Waka Nene, had died at Hokianga. He (Mr. Napier) had known Hohaia, and he had a marvellous store of Maori traditions. There were other extremely oid men in the same district, some of them 5.0. valuable information was to be obtained from them ; and Mr. John Webster, of Hokia- nga, would be able to put any one in the way of going to the proper places to find them. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked if the proposed history would include a history of Maori art, without which no history would be complete. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) was glad to hear this point raised. Many members would be acquainted with a valuable work on Maori art edited by Mr. Hamilton, of Dunedin. It would be a suitable thing if he-a gentleman who had devoted at least twenty years of his life to the study of Maori art, and all branches of Maori ethics-were employed by the Govern- ment in doing this work ; nobody was more familiar with the scientific portions of Maori art ; and having succeeded in bring out a valu- able and beautiful work he should be en- couraged. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) asked whether, as Mr. White's book was out of print, all the volumes having been destroyed by fire, the Government had any intention of reprinting it. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) wished to indorse the remarks about Mr. Hamilton as a gentle- man who had devoted an enormous amount of pains in connection with the industries and arts of the Maoris. He had done a great amount of important work in this direction, and it should be recognised by the State. Mr. PIRANI asked for particulars as to the item, " Contingencies." Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) said, In respect to Mr. Stowell, no man could be more suitable for the work he was now engaged in. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked if the Minister would also include in the work all the names of the different streams, that they might be placed on record, with the different historical sites where Maori battles and other events had taken place ? Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) understood that, on account of the prudish objections of some people, the first volume of John White's work was withdrawn from circulation. Now, in the event of there being a reprint of Mr. White's work, the value of the work as a whole would be destroyed if any portion of it were suppressed. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said, In con- nection with the item "Expenses of Urewera Commission, $250," there was a statement in the Crown Lands Report to the effect that the settlement of the ownership had not been nearly accomplished yet ; the Urewera country was an important block, and suited for settle- ment, and it was important to get the titles settled. This referred to the Urewera country, but it appeared that very little had been done up to the present. He hoped the Minister would see that more progress was made in the future. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) thought the objec- tionable article in one of the volumes of White's . work could not properly be accepted as Maori lore, but was a modern coinage of some imagi- 