It seems to me that it is a very unwise policy to strip some land from the best crop it will ever grow - namely, the timber. In the neighbourhood of Kaitoke thousands of pounds have been spent in stripping the country of bush, and now what is the land worth ? It will not feed a goat. The very best crop that land will ever grow has been swept off it. Who is to blame for that ? I say the Government of the day are to blame for selling that land and inducing the people by the settlement regula- tions to strip the land of the bush. It seems to me that before the bush is cleared from the land careful scrutiny should be made with re- gard to the fitness or otherwise of the land for cultivation, or whether the bush should be re- moved from it. If on careful examination it is shown it will not grow grass successfully, it should be left with the bush growing on it. The bush may not be very valuable at present, but it will increase in value ; and, in addition to being serviceable for climatic purposes, it will enhance the beauty of the district in which it is situated. I hope the Government will be more careful in this respect in the future, and more cautious in throwing country open for settlement that is really unfit for settle- ment. As to the construction of our rolling- stock, I notice in the Railways Report the Minister draws attention to the fact, that not- withstanding all that has been done, there is still a demand for rolling-stock, and that to cope with it a great deal of money will have to be spent in order to enable the Government to manufacture it in the country. However, in looking through the estimates I do not see that any provision is made for the work-the extra buildings and so on that the Minister says are http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero absolutely required. Mr. HALL-JONES .- They have been en- larging at Addington for each of the last three years. Mr. ELL .- Well, complaints have been made for years that there is not sufficient rolling- stock in the country, and something certainly should be done to provide it. Even though we paid a little more for it, it would be cheaper to do so if the work was done here, for this reason : that a great deal of the money paid out in labour is recovered by the country in the way of taxation. There are very many articles that people desire to buy if they could, and, these articles being taxable, a considerable sum comes back to the colony through the Customs. I want to know now, when we are to have the inebriates' homes for the colony. It was said last year that they were very neces- sary, and the sum of $15,000 was set apart for them, and for a new orphanage. However, there is no sign of the inebriates' homes, al- though the Inebriates' Homes Act was passed in 1898. I would like to know from the Minister when these homes will be ready to receive inmates. Mr. HALL-JONES .- There is one ready now. Mr. ELL .- We were told some months ago that a master and matron were appointed, and | carried out as directed by the House. VOL. CXIX .- 54. required are not even ready yet. The people are petitioning and asking, and they are told, " Yes ; we will look into it ;" and so it goes on year after year, and the people are powerless to act. I do not wonder at the people asking for the referendum when they find that what they want is not done. In the Old Country they passed an Act in 1898 and put it into operation in 1899; and here we are in the year 1901 and the law is not in operation yet, and it is said now that we are waiting for regulations. In regard to the classification of asylums, the asylum authorities state that if they had ample provision for early treatment they would have a less number than there is in the asylums It is on account of the patients only now. coming to them six or twelve months after they are first attacked with mental disease that there is such a small percentage of re- coveries. If they came to them much earlier there would be a greater percentage of re- coveries ; and therefore the most experienced officers of this department ask that provision should be made whereby they might be able to treat cases earlier, and offer every inducement to the friends of the patients to bring the cases early. There is one more matter I wish to mention, and that is as to the inadvisability of making any further additions to the Wellington Asylum. The land there is worth £800 or $900 an acre, and it would be far better and cheaper if the asylums were taken right out into the country ; it would be better for the patients and far better for the town. In the country is a more fitting position for the Asylum, and the present land would bring the Government in a good rental. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I am not going to make a speech ; I simply intend to ask the Minister a question. As I shall have to vote on this Bill, which is a Loan Bill of $1,250,000, I want to draw attention to the amount voted last year for the Midland Railway-£100,000. When I look at this Statement I discover that, during the past year, of the £100,000 voted for the Midland Railway it is said £79,000 was ap- propriated and £45,268 18s. was spent on that railway. That leaves $21,000 to be accounted for, and I find $5,000 appropriated for the Paeroa-Waihi line, £6,000 to the Gisborne- Karaka line, and £10,000 to permanent-way and other materials ; and I just want to draw the attention of members to the fact that these sums were so appropriated under the power given by the Public Revenues Act by order of the Governor. The appropriation for the Midland Railway was £100,000. It was surely a highly improper thing that money appropriated to a particular purpose should be misappropriated under cover of a Public Revenues Act in the way this was done. I do not wish to enter on a dis- cussion as to the relative proportion of expendi- ture in the North and South Islands. But my vote on this Bill is contingent on my getting a satisfactory reply as to whether the sums appor- tioned to the various railways will be main- tained as apportioned, and the expenditure 