last session -- an old Maori custom known to Maori authorities as chunga. When an illus- trious Native died he was buried. or wrapped up and placed in the branches of trees or some other place, and after many years, when the flesh had all decayed, they took the body down and scraped the bones, and once more buried him. Now we have the old Act, dead many years ago, brought up now for the chunga cere- mony - for the bones to be scraped. I sin- cerely hope the House will do with this Bill as with those bones-inter it once more, and for ever. Leaving this, I cannot help referring to the remarks of the member for the Bay of Plenty in quoting from the Speech from the Throne. I do not know who is responsible for the statement with regard to the Native-land legislation of last session ; but I do say this, without qualification and without reservation : that it was wilful and deliberate misrepresenta- tion. And I, with the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, regret that I was not here, having been absent during a great part of the time when the debate was on, otherwise I must have drawn attention to it. "The outlook is promising ; the horizon is clear," we are told, and yet the House has been inundated with petitions, and before the House met the Natives began to assemble to protest against this legisla- tion. I do not know where it originated from, but we have a petition of thirteen hundred signatures from the Native Minister's own dis- trict against it. I have presented during the session one petition of 495 signatures, and in this building I have carpet-bags full of others, protesting against this legislation-which we are told has a "most promising outlook." We often hear, when fresh European legislation is proposed to be introduced, the question, " Who has asked for it ; has any class or section of the community asked for it ?" I request the Native Minister to say in his reply who has asked for this Bill? You will find who asked for it, I think, in a very interesting book called "Notes of Meetings between His Excellency the Governor (Lord Ranfurly), the Right Hon. R. J. Seddon, Hon. J. Carroll, and the Native Chiefs and People at each place as- sembled, in respect of the proposed Native Land Legislation during 1898 and 1899." I ask honourable gentlemen, if they have time, to glance through this book. They will see that it is not the Natives who have asked for it, but that it was forced down their throats by a member of the House, who knows as much about Native legislation-or less-as he does about the constellations, the Premier. He went. from kianga to kianga, and said, "This is the policy for you ; accept this; have your own Councils ; have everything entirely in your own hands." It will be, perhaps, just as well for me to quote. These are the Premier's own words :-- " But we do not intend to force these pro- posals upon you-they are purely voluntary ; if you appreciate the law we propose to pass, then you can do so; if twenty Natives raise objection to the law coming into force, then a poll is to shall decide whether the law shall apply to their district." This is only one of many instances. Follow- ing this promise I have proposed on a Supple- mentary Order Paper that it shall be left to a majority of the Natives in a district; but the Native Minister will not hear of it. The Premier continued to repeat in every place on this point, " It shall be left to you ; your's is the voice." He alluded to legislation that had been brought down years before by Mr. Bal. lance-the great true friend of the Natives -- in his Act of 1886, and "it was a bad day," Mr. Seddon said, "when that Act was repealed." He puts it this way : - "So far back as 1886 my late chief and friend, Mr. Ballance, placed upon the statute- book an Act of Parliament which, if carried out, and unrepealed, would, in my opinion, have saved the race and saved the land ; but the intention of the Legislature was frustrated by designing pakehas." It is very interesting to inquire who these pakehas were who killed the Bill. In 1887, the present Native Minister went practically through the North Island, and cursed, and finally damned the legislation, and when he was returned to Parliament, by determinedly attacking and consistent opposition to that Act it had to be eventually repealed. It was on similar lines to this. We are asked here to amend an Act that is in itself innately and inherently bad. You can never patch up legislation based on a wrong foundation ; if you pass all these amendments, no doubt there is remaining much that is bad ; but the under- lying principle of the legislation is that the Natives are to be treated once more as children, and are not to be allowed to deal with their lands in any way. As an illustration: take the honourable member for the Western Maori District (Mr. Kaihau) ; he and a few others own a block and wish to lease, or sell, or mort- gage it. Mr. Kaihau and his co-owners have no power whatever to deal with the land ; but he was the Government nominee at the last election, and comes to this House and votes on the most difficult and important questions affecting the whole prosperity of the colony ; yet forsooth, he cannot lease his land ; trustees must be appointed ; he is not, the legislation says, capable of doing it for himself. This is a plain statement of the effect of the Act of last year. The whole of these lands are placed in the hands of irresponsible persons. We are asked to try the experiment. During the last quarter of an hour I was speaking to a member of the House. He said, " Let this go on ; it is only an experiment ; if it does not come off, repeal it." I can scarcely conceive that any member of the House-I can scarcely conceive a man who has had anything at all to do with the Natives saying "This is only an experi- ment ; let us try it." It has been tried since 1858 : in 1862, in 1863, in 1868, in 1873 --- Mr. CARROLL .- No. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The Minister says "No." Well, I am not going to discuss the 