there, and I find it includes " any hospital in- stituted for the reception, relief, treatment, and cure of disease. and includes any public esta- blishment instituted for the reception or relief of orphans, aged, infirm, incurable, or destitute persons, or established for any one or more of such objects, or the administration by any body or association of persons of charitable aid." Well, I do not understand why this definition was not put in this Bill exactly ; but perhaps the Minister will be able to explain that when he replies. Does it mean that these are already exempt from rates, and therefore it is necessary to put them in the exemption here ? Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Sir, I 7.30. think that, after the expression of opinion by members on this Bill, it should be made mandatory on the local bodies to remit all rates proposed to be remitted in this Bill, at the will of the local bodies on the institutions mentioned, and all local bodies affected should be subsidised by the Government for any loss sustained. I think that would be a better method than what is proposed in the Bill, and save the local bodies concerned from loss of subsidy through remission of rates. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- In answer to some suggestion that has been made, I wish to say I do not think the measure should be applied to the institutions founded on the one hundred acres of land that can be taken under the Land for Settlements Act, nor to cases in which there may be large areas of land which are used, and which lands maybe producing and profitable. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 I consider the Act should be confined solely to the kind of home I mentioned when introduc- ing the Bill. If we say that the measure shall apply to homes of not more than an acre in extent, I think that is all that is wanted. Of course, it is purely a matter for the local bodies. If it is made to apply in a certain way it may affect the finances of local bodies ; but that is another matter, and I will look into the Bill with the view of endeavouring to meet the objections that have been raised. Bill read a second time. REVENUE OF THE COLONY. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I have an in- teresting return to lay on the table of the House. It is a return of the revenue of the colony for the six months ended the 30th Sep- tember, 1901, together with a comparison of the figures for the corresponding six months of last year. I am pleased to say that, from the returns now to hand, it gives us about £111,000 more than we received in the corresponding period of last year, and I reckon that before long it will be up to about £160,000. I have now no doubt that my estimates this year will be more than realised. I move, That the return be laid on the table, and be printed. Motion agreed to. COOK AND OTHER ISLANDS GOVERN- MENT BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, in rising to move the second reading of this Bill I am is of an important character, and that in the Bill before us I am asking the House to a great extent to pass a law making operative laws with which many members are not conversant. Of course, it will rest upon me to convince members that there is a necessity for the pass- ing of the measure, and that, at all events, the laws now existing and having operation over the Islands are in the best interests of the people at present inhabiting the Islands. It would not be out of place for me to ask mem- bers to go back for a few years. I think it was in 1888 that the Islands were placed under British protection. I find on the 4th April, 1891, Lord Onslow being then the Queen's representative in this colony, the following Proclamation :- "To the Arikis, Chiefs, and People of [The name of the island was here inserted]. "HER MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA, Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, and Empress of India, having directed Captain Bourke, of H.M.S. 'Hyacinth,' on the 27th of October, 1888, to hoist the British flag on the Cook Islands, and to declare to the inhabitants of those islands that Her Majesty had been pleased to grant to them the protection of the British flag : "Now, in respect to the Island of [Name here inserted], one of the said Cook Islands, I, William Hillier, Earl of Onslow, Governor of New Zealand, do declare to the Arikis and people of [Name here inserted] that I have re- ceived Her Majesty's commands to inform them that the aforesaid Proclamation of Captain Bourke does not render necessary the incor- poration of the Island of [Name here inserted] into Her Majesty's dominions, or the transfer of the jurisdiction over the inhabitants gene- rally from their native rulers to the British Crown. For the present, at least, British authority in [Name here inserted] will retain the form of a protectorate. " Her Majesty has therefore duly authorised the appointment of Frederick Joseph Moss to be British Resident within the group. "The British Resident has received from me full and definite instructions as to the action which he will take. Her Majesty's Government will not recognise any new laws unless counter- signed by the British Resident, who is instructed at all times to give his assistance and advice to the Arikis and people. " Signed at Government House, at Auckland, New Zealand, this 4th day of April, 1891. "ONSLOW." I find, further, that the British Resident, Mr. F. J. Moss, arrived in Rarotonga on the 20th April, 1891, and on the 22nd he for- mally read and published the above Procla- mation. From 1891, therefore, until 1901, on the 11th day of June, these Islands were simply under British protection : but we had by arrangement a British Resident in the Islands. He was paid by the Colony of New Zealand, but appointed by the Imperial authori- ties, and generally, I may say, the government 