of the Arbitration Court was. Mr. MILLAR .- Exactly ; and the Arbitration Court in Auckland settled the case on infinitely worse terms than had been given in Dunedin and Wellington. No less than 12s. less was given ; and it was admitted that a mistake had been made, because, from the evidence as to the wages made in Australia and as to the wages made even in London by the linotype workers, it was shown they were somewhere about 30s. in advance of what the Arbitration Court gave. The honourable member for Palmerston knows very well that is so. He knows what wages are given to the compositors in London. I went through the case myself, and it was an eye-opener to me. Since then the employers have voluntarily given the men a rise of 6s. per week over the award of the Arbitration Court. Mr. PIRANI .- That shows their fairness. Mr. MILLAR .- Well, I am not making any attack on the employers. I simply wish to say it is a strange thing that up to the time of the award the newspapers had little to say. During the last three months there have been two or three awards which have gone more in favour of the employers than formerly, and sometimes I begin to think that is the reason why this par- ticular regard for the Arbitration Court is in existence at the present time. I have no doubt, if the pendulum swings back and the Arbitra- tion Court happens to give four or five awards that do not please the employers, the Concilia- tion Board will be thought more of. How- ever, I trust that when the Bill comes be- fore us next year we will reinstate the power of conciliation. If it is thought a Stipendiary Magistrate should be Chairman of the Board of Conciliation, let it be put in the Act. That is easily done. I certainly believe that concilia- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero tion at first is the principal thing in disputes if you wish to promote that good feeling we all pro- fess so much, and forward the desire to get em- ployer and employed to work in unity. I say that the majority of the employers will not go to the Board. In the next eight or nine months we will see what course will be taken. There will be plenty of awards in that time, and when we meet next year I believe I will be told that what I am saying on the floor of the House now is correct-that the majority, and the large majority, of the employers will go direct to the Arbitration Court. If such should be the result, it ultimately means, of course, the wiping-out of the Conciliation Boards, and, in- stead of being conciliation and arbitration, it will be compulsory arbitration. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir, when the Hon. Mr. Reeves was introducing this Bill in 1894 he used these words :- " I do not think the Arbitration Court will be very often called into requisition ; on the contrary, I think that in ninety cases out of a hundred in which labour disputes arise they will be settled by the Conciliation Boards." How far the honourable gentleman's prognos- tications have been borne out by experience honourable members can judge. In the amend- cally accepted by the Legislative Council, I submit that for the first time since the origin of the Act in the colony we have now got means provided for conciliation. Never before was the machinery provided for conciliation. It is true we had an institution called the Con- ciliation Board, but it must not be forgotten that in nearly every case one party to every case came unwillingly. He came under com- pulsion. How, then, could there be the elements for conciliation? The honourable member for Dunedin City says we must deal with human nature as we find it, and I ask him to apply that aphorism to his own case, and say how conciliatory he would feel if he were compelled to do something he did not want to do, and which was distasteful to him. It is not in human nature. But this amending Bill, which I hope will become law, provides three tribunals for the settlement of industrial disputes. The old Boards as already consti- tuted are still open for the use of those parties who, by mutual consent, desire to use them. Then we have the Board of experts, available to either party to invoke, but only to be used pro- vided that one party secures the mutual consent of the other party to the dispute. Next we have the real machinery of the Act, that all experience has shown us has power and is com- petent to deal with the settlement of disputes- namely, the Arbitration Court. Now, to both employers and employés time is money, and vexatious, wearisome delays in attending the Conciliation Board, only to be told an adjourn- ment is to be made, the waste of time, and the irritation and annoyance ensuing from that waste of time, are surely not calculated to Now, bring about a spirit of conciliation. although the Premier and other members of the Ministry have spoken in most conflicting terms during the last month or two, I say, if left to their own resources, the Government would not have introduced the two elements contained in clauses 6 and 21 unless a ma- jority of the House had taken the matter into their own hands. The real fact of the matter is that for the last five or six years we have had no Minister of Labour. We have had the Right Hon. the Premier running the Department of Labour as a kind of side-show. discharging the duties in a most perfunctory manner, and being guided at times by the advice of his officers, at times by deputations from the Employers' Association, and at times by deputations of workers. He has been the victim of conflicting advice and influence during the whole time he has been in office. That the right honourable gentleman has only done his work perfunctorily was demonstrated to the House a few nights ago when another Labour Bill was before us. The honourable gentleman admitted he had not even seen it in print. It was an egregious blunder to make, and a back-set to the cause of labour. Now, regarding the im- portant changes proposed in clauses 6 and 21. no honourable member can say we are not now acting on the advice of the permanent head of the Labour Department. Let us take the 