1,100 Under "Colonial Secretary, Miscel- laneous " 582 Photographs, in " Contingencies" 161 Under " Printing," the Premier's book 200 £2,043 He did say this thing was being carried to an undue extent. He did not think, if the ques- tion was submitted to the electors as to whether £2,043, which had been spent on that trip to the South Sea Islands for the amusement of the Premier and a number of his friends, that they would say it was proper expenditure. He thought it ought clearly to be understood as to the extent to which we were going in these little fancy excursions. There was another item, "Grant to the Greytown Fire-brigade, $25." Now, when the other brigades saved Government buildings and asked for a donation they could not get a cent out of the Govern- ment. Mr. SEDDON .- They deserved it. Mr. PIRANI said, "They deserved it," and deserved ten times more ; but he did object to making fish of one brigade and flesh of the other. He said it was an unfair thing to give one Gre-brigade £25 and make that the excep- tion in the whole colony. He had told the Government they ought to provide a certain subsidy for every fire-brigade in the colony, because they did work, not only in saving property and Government buildings, but in saving life, which no fire insurance covered. Now, as to the item, " Payment to Reuter's https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Telegram Company for special telegrams, [557." Two years ago he asked the Minister whether he would lay before the House copies of the telegrams paid for by the colony, and http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the Minister had assured him he would. He thought it would be interesting to see how the Ministry ran the cablegrams in the daily papers in the Old Country, and he did not see why there should be any objection to laying copies before the House. After a considerable amount of search he had managed to scrape up cablegrams in three of the London daily papers for the last twelve months which he thought would cost $200, and it struck him that the balance of $87 was expended on cablegrams which the papers in the Old Country put into the waste- paper basket because they were such rubbish. In connection with the item, "Telegrams be- yond the colony," for which £2,500 was voted, a sum of £9,750 was spent. Mr. SEDDON said the greater part of it was for cabling to South Africa in connection with the contingents. Mr. PIRANI said that was what he wanted to get out. Several times he applied to the Defence Department to get information about troopers in South Africa, who were ill, or wounded, and he never even got a reply. Mr. SEDDON assured the honourable mem- ber that he had never refused an application sent to him. Mr. PIRANI regretted that his personal ex- far as the Premier was concerned, he must say he had always received prompt and courteous replies from him ; but he had thought that by addressing his communications to the depart- ment he would have saved the Premier some bother. It was time the Defence Department wakened up a little. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) moved to report progress. He wished to place on record the names of those members who desired to go on with the business between the hours of one and two o'clock in the morning, when many mem- bers were absent and others exhausted. The Committee divided. AYES, 20. Atkinson Smith, G. J. Lang Collins Lethbridge Tanner Ell Wilford Massey Meredith Fraser, W. Willis. Hardy Monk Tellers. Haselden Pirani Graham Rhodes Herries Hutcheson. NOES, 29. Allen, E. G. Heke O'Meara Hogg Palmer Arnold Barclay Hornsby Parata Kaihau Carncross Seddon Carroll Lawry Stevens Colvin McGowan Symes Fisher McKenzie, R. Ward. McNab Fowlds Tellers. Hall Millar Field Hall-Jones Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Majority against, 9. Motion negatived. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Islands) moved to re- duce the item, " Payment to Reuter's Tele- gram Company for special telegrams, £300," by £1. He thought information should be given to the House about this matter. They should know what money was spent on the cablegrams. He had lately seen cables in the London Times which, he presumed, were sent by the Government, as they were sent by Reu- ter's Agency, and they were all messages of a partisan nature. They had a party colour. He hoped the honourable gentleman would tell the House how much of this money was spent in sending telegrams to London papers. Sir J. G. WARD said it was a mistake to suppose that the whole of the money was for cables sent to newspapers. The sum also included the cost of telegrams beyond the colony sent through Reuter's as well. Reuter's Company was sometimes used for sending Government messages. Honourable members would understand there were occasions when it was desirable to send cables Home in the interests of the colony. Whatever Administra- tion was in power would find it necessary to send cables on important matters of general interest. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) objected altogether to the attempt of the Government to constitute itself a sort of Press Agency. He considered many of the telegrams to be not of the slightest value. He could produce a 