Well, certainly, the honourable mem- 1.30. ber for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) may have done that to be sent here; he may have begged and prayed for a billet ; he may have gone on his knees to all and sundry in his anxiety and eagerness; he may have adopted every kind of extraordinary device to secure the seat he now occupies in this Chamber. I did nothing of the kind. I was asked to stand for election to this House and to come here. I begged from no one and I prayed to no one to send me here. The first request, or hint, or word, as far as I know, that ever passed on the subject of my standing for election to this House was a request to me from a deputation of certain persons to become a candidate for the city I have the honour to represent. I did nothing myself in the way of begging or asking any one to vote for me. They did it for me without asking, and were glad to do it. I think I have said sufficient now to explain my atti- tude in regard to this Bill. I can only say, so far as the honour of this House is concerned, or my own, I am as jealous and as careful of it as the honourable member for Wellington City, inside or outside the House or in the Court, and I can only say I have no hesitation in voting for and supporting the Bill now before the House. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- I would just like to say a word or two in connection with this Bill before it goes to a vote. I may say, so far as the Bill is concerned, I fully support its principle. I believe that members of the House are not paid sufficiently, and I have publicly stated that on several occasions. But the trouble with me at the present time, and what https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 prevents me from supporting the Bill, is that I fully and honestly believe that the financial position of the colony is not strong enough to stand the increased cost. I know that feeling is not shared by a majority of my fellow-mem- bers, and they may be right and I may be wrong; but I cannot see my way to support the Bill, although on the platform I approved of it, and although last year in Dunedin I announced I intended to support it as I sup- ported the £40 bonus last year. I answered to my constituents for that, as I would be pre- pared to answer to my constituents if I voted for this Bill. If I were convinced that the financial position of the colony was sound enough to stand it I would support the Bill, but I cannot see my way to do so. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- I have very few words to say, and possibly would not have spoken at all had it not been for the re- marks of the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar). When speaking on the Financial State- ment he endeavoured to discredit the financial position of this colony, yet for years he has been demonstrating to his constituents and the colony that our finances were unquestion- ably sound. It was only at the last moment that it dawned upon him-no doubt after a heavy supper and nightmare-that the colony is now a financial wreck. I listened to the honourable gentleman when speaking on the Mr. Barclay for him ; but I heard also the subsequent speeches, and finally the speech of the Right Hon. the Premier, and, weighing them and realising the inconsistency of some of the speakers, I came to the conclusion that the member for Dunedin City had not analysed our finances as an expert. Again, he tells us to- night that the only reason he is going to vote against the increase of members' salaries is that our finances are not in a condition that would justify him making a draw upon them. I say, reviewing our finances, so far as I am able to with my limited mental calibre, and taking the evidence of those who speak with autho- rity, I have come to the conclusion that our finances are capable of such a demand; still I am not going to vote for the second reading of the Bill, not, however, for the reason that he has given. I recognise that our finances are in & sound position, and I have not acquired this view only from members of Parliament, but from gentlemen in the mercantile world of the colony and writers of experience in Australia and in England. As an illustration, let me mention the president of the Canterbury Cham- ber of Commerce. Within the last two months, when addressing that body at their annual meet- ing, during a very comprehensive dissertation upon the condition of the colony, he said, "The colony is prosperous, and very prosperous." My reason for voting against this Bill is that I look at it from a common-sense, every-day, busi- ness point of view. I speak as a New-Zealander, and realise that we have been, during the last year, under an exceptional, extraordinary, and abnormal expense, unprecedented, not expected, and, I hope, not recurrent. Now, speaking for the colony, and simply as a business-man, Is this the hour to increase your servant's salary ? I say it is not. It is not that we are financially weak, but we have had an unexpected "facer." if I can use the word, and are threatened with a substantial call for the debenture-holders of the Midland Railway - something that was unex- pected in the way of expenditure-and it is not the time to increase the salaries of our servants. and we are the servants of the colony. For this reason I shall oppose the second reading of the Bill, though there is no member who is a stronger believer in a sufficient recompense being paid for the services of the servants of the colony and members of Parliament. Members of the House should not be paid at all or they should be paid sufficient remuneration for their services. There is a danger if we do not pay them at all, because we shall only have two classes in the House-the wealthy man, per- fectly honest and straightforward, but in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred he looks through only one pair of glasses-namely, the interest of his own particular class; on the other hand, you would have the impecunious, distrustful professional politician who would come to the House with the sole object of making what he could. In both cases the result would be injurious to the colony. Leaving this for a moment, I regret the grounds of objection which have been raised 