of the members present and voting, and that member shall be declared by the Speaker to be elected. (f.) Where a question arises, owing to equality of voting, as to which member shall be omitted from any subsequent ballot, such question shall be determined by an independent ballot. (g.) Where the number of members balloted for does not exceed two, or is reduced as herein provided to two, and there is an equality of votes the votes shall be taken again; and if there is again an equality of votes, the Clerk shall de- termine by lot which of the members shall be elected, as if he had obtained a majority of the votes of the members present and voting. (h.) On the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Chairman of Committees, such vacancy sha l be filled up as speedily as possible, and in the manner hereinbefore provided, the date of the election being fixed by the Speaker. (i.) This Standing Order is in substitution for Standing Order No. 253, which is hereby rescinded. He thought it would be convenient to honour- able members to take them seriatim, and that the resolution abolishing the Standing Order until the Council had settled the new Standing Order, should be postponed. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY wished to move, as an amendment, That the report be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee, with the following instructions, namely : - "That the Standing Orders Committee modify the proposed Standing Order for the election of Chairman of Committees of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 whole Council as follows : (1.) That candidates for the office be proposed and seconded before ballot. (2.) That the candidate who received a majority of votes of members present and voting at the first ballot shall be declared to be duly elected. (3.) In the event of a tie, the question shall be decided by a second ballot between those candidates who received an equal number of votes." He thought if that was done it would simplify the proceedings. Members of the Council would like to know who were the candidates. As it was at present in the election of Speaker, and as was proposed in this resolution, nobody knew who the candidates were ; and he thought that, before the election, candidates should be proposed and seconded, and that only the names of those members nominated for the position should go to the ballot. Then, when the ballot was taken, he would say that the candidate who received the largest number of votes should be declared elected at once. In the event of a tio there should be a second ballot, and the candidate who then received the largest number of votes would be duly elected. But it was impossible to go into the details in Committee of the whole Council, and he thought it would be far better to refer it back to the Committee, and let the Committee itself deal with it. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON might say that the whole question as put forward by the Hon. Mr. Kelly and other honourable members was Hon. Captain Baillie not think that sending the matter back to the Committee would have any effect in altering their decision. Certainly there was one part of the Hon. Mr. Kelly's amendment which he would object to, and that was that, in the event of a tie, if the two highest numbers were put to the vote again it might result in the striking- out of the third man, who might be the best of the three. As the Committee had come to a conclusion, which had been printed, he might say it was with this object : that whoever became Chairman of Committees by vote of the Council should receive a majority of the votes of those present. That was the whole principle embodied in this resolution. Whether there might be a shorter way to arrive at that prin- ciple ho did not know, but the feature of the Hon. Mr. Kelly's amendment to which he objected he did not think fair, because A and B might tie with so-many votes, and C might receive a certain number of other votes nearly up to them ; but because he was not equal to them C would be cut out, and C might be the candidate of whom the Council as a whole approved. However, if the Council sent the report back to the Committee he should have no objection ; but he might say that almost everything that had been stated by the Hon. Mr. Kelly had been fully considered by the Committee. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI agreed with the amendment proposed by the Hon. Mr. Kelly. He thought it would be far more consistent to name the candidates before putting them to the ballot than to vote in the dark, not know- ing whether the person who might be elected was willing to act or not. By openly nominat- ing a member he had an opportunity to raise an objection, and decline to be a candidate. Then, with regard to the member receiving the highest number of votes being elected, he also agreed that there was no necessity to go three or four times over the same ground. He thought the person who polled the highest number of votes should be declared elected. Members did all their voting openly at present ; there was no going into the lobbies, or any- thing of that kind ; and he did not see why, in the circumstances of the election of a Chair- man, members should not exercise the same right as they did on other occasions. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he must agree with the Hon. Mr. Kelly in regard to open nomination. He believed that was the best line for the Council to adopt. It would reduce the matter to business as soon as possible, and he did not think there was any reason to fear that any member of the Council would be afraid to say who he was prepared to nominate or second. He thought that the most satis- With factory way of dealing with the ballot. regard to the other proposals the Hon. Mr. Kelly had on the Order Paper, so far as he could gather, both questions had already been con- sidered, and were dealt with in the proposed Standing Order (d), which said, " If any mem- ber receives a majority of the votes of those present and voting he shall be declared by the 