dents to his workmen; and why are we going to give double security, making the farmers as well as the owners of the machinery respon. sible ? An Hon. MEMBER .- There is double security given in town. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, I told the House what it was I intended doing. I am met with many queries, and one query with which I shall deal now was made by the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), who wants to know whether it is intended to remove the present security for the worker and give the preference to the mortga- gee. The honourable gentleman asked me that question. Well, Sir, under the existing law subsection (3) of section 18 is as follows : - " Subject to the provisions of the last pre- ceding subsection every such charge shall have priority over all existing or subsequent charges or encumbrances, howsoever created, other than charges or encumbrances lawfully existing at the time of the commencement of this Act." I do not ask the House to repeal that. I said I would not do it. I say if the mortgagee has a security before the passing of this Act, he should not be interfered with. After the passing of this Act, then the worker bas the first charge, and no alteration of the law as to that was intended, and I cannot understand how it is that various bodies, as, for instance, the Trades and Labour Council here in Wel- lington, have got a contrary impression. At any rate, a paragraph appeared in one of the local papers stating that the Premier https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was bringing down a Bill to remove the present security, and then another paragraph appeared saving a resolution had been passed by that body, and that they used very strong language. However, I had an interview the other day with the members of this Trades and Labour Council, who said that no such resolution was brought down. And yet the paragraphs had currency for the time being ; some mischief was created, and these rumours got afloat, and there are those who are assiduously endeavouring to create misunderstanding and cause friction between those in the town and those in the country. If they think that that is conducive to the good of the country I consider they are making a mistake, and that common-sense will reign supreme. The interests of town and country are bound together, and whoever tries to cause mischief and trouble, and play the one off against the other, is not a true New-Zea- lander, and is no friend to our colony and no friend to either the worker or the employer. He is no friend of those in the country or of those in the towns. This state of ferment wants to be set at rest. It wants to be removed at once, because there has been a misapprehen- sion. What is the effect ? I know that men are insuring who should not insure at all. I know that both parties are insuring at the present time-the farmer who brings the thresh- ing-machine on his farm, and the man who is the owner and works the machinery. Both parties insure the men employed, and the only ones who are reaping a very rich harvest are these accident Mr. Seddon suring the same people, and spreading about all sorts of fictitious stories, keeping up the ferment, and in the meantime making large sums of money for themselves. It is my place, and it is the duty of members of Parliament, when you find people trading on the ignorance of the law of any section of the people, to stop the thing, and put the law in such a way that people will know what they are doing. That is what I am doing. Then, I come to the ques- tion of the agricultural labourer, and I cannot understand the statements that some honour- able members have made on this matter. No- thing can be clearer than the course I have taken, and, whether I am right or wrong, I have been consistent. Now, the Bill I brought down in 1899 had in its first section this :- "' Worker ' means any person of any age or either sex who, under contract with an em- ployer, whether made before or after the com- ing into operation of this Act, and whether oral or in writing, expressed or implied, is engaged to do any work or manual labour of any kind, whether technical, skilled, or unskilled, and whether on land, or on any ship or other vessel (of whatsoever kind and howsoever propelled) in any navigable or other waters within New Zea- land or the jurisdiction thereof; but does not include- " (1.) Persons employed in or about agricul- tural or pastoral pursuits." Now, what is the use of beating about the bush, and saying I intended one thing or an- other. There is the Bill as I introduced it in 1899, and I have not been in this respect playing fast and loose. It is there. Now, what was effected in 1899? The effect was that that clause was struck out. I said, "the result will be that if it goes to another place you will lose the Bill." Well, we lost the Bill. I ask, Who lost the Bill ? I say the whole question was raised ; it was useless, so far as I saw, to pro- ceed, and the Bill was lost because of the action of those who at that time were the professed friends of the workers in the towns. "Workers " included in its definition the workers in dan- gerous and hazardous trades ; and the great point they wanted was to include the agricul- tural labourers. My own opinion is, and I have never varied from it, that it was done simply to kill the Bill, and not with a view of giving a boon to those engaged in dangerous trades and industries in the colony. Now, I want to prove that. We come, then, down to 1900, and the member for Riccarton very astutely made certain quotations from Hansard of that year ; but there are certain quotations which he did not make. If he will take his book he will find this :- Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What page ? Mr. SEDDON .- Page 78 :- " When the Bill was in another place, this same question was raised as to whether it should be made to apply to agricultural la- bourers, with the result that there was a considerable majority against it in the Legis- lative Council. It makes one doubt the sin- cerity of members, when they know that to be 