Mr. SEDDON said that no appointment had yet been made. Mr. J. ALLEN asked who was the Assistant Staff Officer ? Mr. SEDDON said there was no appointment at present. Originally they had Major Robin, who used to draw £100 a year for doing that work. Of the Assistant Adjutant-Generals the appointment " A " had not been made ; there was nothing done definitely as regards either the "A " or " B." Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said that New Zealand could not for years to come be more than a defensive community, and he hoped that New Zealand's motto would always be " Defence, not defiance." He was sorry they were getting a new Commandant here, for he thought they might have provided a colonial officer quite competent to do all that was required for our colonial Volunteers. By all means let us pro- vide Imperial drill - instructors ; but, if the strength of our Volunteer corps was to be main- tained at present numbers, there must be very little of the red tape methods common to Im- perial army discipline. There was 6.0. already evidence of friction between the Defence Department and the Volunteer corps. He suggested that it might be well to centralise the work somewhat in Wellington, doing away with the chief district officer and leaving it in the hands of the District Adjutant, . and pay capitation direct to the officers in com- mand of Volunteer corps. The present system of referring everything, of even trifling import- ance, through the District Department, then to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the Commandant, and afterwards to the Minis- ter of Defence, caused unnecessary delay and a feeling that the Volunteer interests were being trifled with. Mr. SEDDON said the work connected with the contingents had put a tremendous amount of additional labour upon the department. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked what position Major Owen occupied ? Was he Commandant of the School of Instruction ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. G. J. SMITH .- And Major Smith ? Mr. SEDDON replied that he was at present Assistant Staff Officer, at a salary of $250. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said they now had a staff of clerks with the Under- Secretary, and another secretarial department under the Commandant. By their votes they were fastening an enormous military establish- ment upon the people; but it was not the slightest use to fight these estimates. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) felt there was no use in fighting the estimates; but he must assert that the excessive expenditure in this department was wrong and very reckless. The Premier, in his opinion, was most imprudent, and the day of reckoning would come. Mr. SEDDON said he had worked this de- partment for six years with the Under-Secre- tary. But the Commandant said if he had to be responsible for the distribution of the stores and the equipment he wanted the full control. Both Colonel Fox and Colonel Penton had told him the same thing. They wanted a staff of their own, and wanted control of the am- munition, the munitions, and the orders, and direct control over the Volunteer staffs outside them. The matter went to the House, and they decided that the two things should be separated. He believed the right thing to do was to give the control to the Commandant ; but the difficulty was to know where to draw the line. In his opinion four clerks would be enough when they got to normal conditions. He hoped there would be a change when they got a new Commandant. In the meantime these eight clerks were kept fully employed, and the Commandant had asked for more \---- clerks, which he (Mr. Seddon) declined. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked why the honourable gentleman did not give more power to the officers commanding districts. In his İ district there was so little power given that a 1 voucher for a threepenny fare had actually to be sent to Wellington before it could be paid. Mr. SEDDON said that was a farce, of course. But the reason was that the permits formerly given for Commanding Officers to 1 grant free passes had been so much abused that the privilege had to be withdrawn. It was now under consideration to allow them to issue permits up to a certain amount. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked, If the Com- mandant was to be in charge, why not put him in charge, instead of having the present dual control ? It was the same in other depart- ments. We did not want a new Commandant at all, but a good transport and intelligence officer. The new Commandant was a cavalry officer, which was about the most unfit class of officer to take charge of colonials. Mr. SEDDON said the department had been \-- to a certain extent disorganized through the visit of the Imperial troops and the Royal visit, et cetera. The Committee divided on the question, " That the item, '8 clerks, £1,311,' be struck out." AYES, 13. Willis. Barclay Hornsby Collins Laurenson Tellers. Ell Monk 1 Pirani Meredith Hall Thomson, J. W. Russell, G. W. Hogg NOES, 33. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. McLachlan Gilfedder Allen, J. McNab Mills Arnold Hall-Jones Palmer Hanan Bennet Bollard Heke Rhodes Buddo Kaihau Seddon Lang Carncross Thompson, R. Carroll Lawry Ward. Colvin Massey Tellers. McGowan Napier Duncan Smith, G. J. Mckenzie, R. Field Flatman Majority against, 20. Item retained. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch 7.0. City) understood the intention was to centralise the School of Instruction, and to 