in Dunedin." The Premier also telegraphed to Colonel Penton on the 11th July :- " See doctor with contingents. Any mem- bers of contingents likely to be detrimentally affected by cold, or who are not sufficiently strong to go to Bluff, may be allowed to land in Dunedin." Mr. McNAB (Mataura) said he wished to give an emphatic denial to the statement of the honourable member for Bruce that the visit to the Bluff was responsible for the troopers' deaths. From a return laid on the table of the House, it appeared that from the 17th January down to the time the contingent sailed from South Africa-five months-thirteen men died from enteric, dysentery, and pneumonia. During the four months succeeding the date they left South Africa there were ten deaths. From that it could be seen that the rate of mortality was as high before leaving South Africa as afterwards. The following was the list of deaths from disease after leaving South Africa : - No. Name. Date. Place. Cause. S.s. " Ta- June 26 Ky ... .. 1 gus " Fr. . July 4 Meningitis 2 \| Albany S.s. "Ta- July 10 Embolism Ke ... 3 .. gus " S.s. " Ta- July 12 Pneumonia Fo. .. 4 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 gus ' Inflammation Geraldine July 20 McKa. 5 Dunedin July 23 Enteric McKe. 6 Hospital July 28 M. .. Invercar- Pneumonia .. 7 gill Dunedin Abscess of liver Aug. 8 H. 8 .. Hospital W. Cerebral menin- Auckland Sept. 15 9 gitis Acute meningitis! Dunedin \| Oct. N. 10 .. Hospital\| Only four of the men on that list were ever at the Bluff. One of the men returned to his own home, and was then in perfect health. He was referring to Trooper M. His parents ridiculed the idea that his death was caused by his going to the Bluff. As to the second case, that trooper had suffered from pleurisy, malaria, and fever in South Africa, and he returned to the colony broken down in health. In spite of that he went from Port Chalmers to the Bluff, and lived there nearly two months and a half. His death was caused by acute meningitis, due to privations in South Africa. In regard to the Auckland case, that trooper met with an acci- dent in South Africa, and when he returned to Auckland he was not suffering from the effects of the trip from Port Chalmers to the Bluff. He did not know anything about the fourth case- that of the trooper who died at Geraldine. He (Mr. McNab) visited the "Tagus " at the Bluff, and was informed by the officers that there had Mr. Mills Bluff death nor the Invercargill death nor the Auckland death could have been averted if the vessel had been sent to Auckland. The men would, immediately they landed, have been sent to their own homes, and the circumstances which produced the unfortunate fatalities would have been there to operate all the same. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said that, when previously interrupted by the time- bell, he was about to say that the Chief Health Officer informed him a few days ago that a number of troopers in the North were suffering from enteric-about twenty, he thought. No honourable member would say that that had any bearing on the "Tagus." It was a fact that showed that the germs of the disease were in the men befere they returned to the colony, and that in some cases they reappeared and carried off the sufferers. Cables from South Africa re- vealed the fact that disease was very rampant there, and it was the natural inference that many of the men who had returned to New Zealand, as was the case with many of the men who had returned to Australia, were sub- sequently attacked with the illness. How could it possibly be held that the sending of the steamer to one of the southern ports had caused the illness among the men ? When the bulk of the people viewed the matter impartially they would not for a moment, upon the evidence be- fore the House, level the charge against the Premier that was made against him in the first instance by the member for Bruce. He believed that the colony as a whole would ac- quit the Premier of any such charge. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) wished to refer to one point mentioned by the member for Bruce. From information he had in his possession he found that there were from 90 to 110 men who were left on the "Tagus" at Port Chalmers, on account of having been left on the steamer in the hospital, and for other purposes not con- nected with either illness or being unfit to go to the Bluff. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Trade and 1 Customs) produced the certificate of death of Trooper George Wilkins in the Auckland Hospital. The cause of death was stated as spinal meningitis; and that was two months after the man had returned to the colony. He considered that the member for Bruce should withdraw the charge he had made against the Premier, there being not the slightest founda- tion for it. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said the impression which had been conveyed to his mind was that there was no reason why the "Tagus " should have been sent to either Invercargill or Port Chalmers, unless to make a political demonstration. He ventured to assert that if there had not been powerful members repre- senting that part of New Zealand the troops would never have been sent to the most southern portion of the colony. He thought there had been gross and culpable negligence, although he admitted the right honourable gentleman, nor any man, had recognised how serious the effects of sending these troops to 