" The Hon. the Speaker of the House of Representatives. "The Controller and Auditor-General has the honour respectfully to submit to the House of Representatives, in accordance with the pro- visions of section 58 of " The Public Revenues Act, 1891,' a copy of the correspondence in a case under that section, in which, the Audit Office having declined to sign debentures for £10,000 under ' The Land for Settlements Con- solidation Act, 1900,' on the ground that the in- terest payable in the first coupon is 4 per cent. per annum, computed from the 14th day of April, 1901, whereas the full purchase-money was not paid until after that date, and consequently the price paid-£100 per cent. of the amount of the debenture-would result in yielding to the purchaser a higher yearly rate of interest on the purchase-money than the maximum rate- 4 per cent .- authorised by section 10 of the Act, the Governor has by Order in Council de- termined that the interest payable on the first coupon will not result in yielding to the pur- chaser of the said debenturee a higher rate of interest on his purchase-money than the maxi- mum rate authorised by section 10 of 'The Land for Settlements Consolidation Act, 1900,' and that consequently the debentures may be lawfully issued with the first coupon represent- ing interest at 4 per cent. per annum from the 14th day of April, 1901, notwithstanding that the full purchase-money was not actually paid until after that date. # "J. K. WARBURTON, Controller and Auditor-General." On the question, That the letter be laid on the table and printed, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said, I think the House should have some explanation as to what has caused this document. It is a most extraordinary thing that the Solicitor.General should argue that, because people were getting more than 4 per cent. therefore they are not get- ting more than 4 per cent. He admits they are getting more because they are getting interest on money they have not paid ; yet he goes on to argue that they are only getting 4 per cent., and are therefore within the law. What seems to me the danger is that we have just autho- rised a loan of a million and a quarter, and this loan is limited to 4 per cent. ; but, if the Solicitor-General's contention is correct, the Colonial Treasurer can raise a loan at 4} or 44 per cent. If the Solicitor-General's decision is right, it seems to me it is no use putting any limits in the Act at all. The objection of the Controller and Auditor-General to signing the debentures is,- " On the ground that the interest payable in the first coupon is 4 per cent. per annum, com- puted from the 14th day of April, 1901, whereas the full purchase-money was not paid until after that date, and consequently the price paid -£100 per cent. of the amount of the debenture -would result in yielding to the purchaser a higher yearly rate of interest on the purchase- money than the maximum rate of 4 per cent." That does not seem to be denied by the Mr. Deputy-Speaker say,- "The Governor has by Order in Council de- termined that the interest payable on the first coupon will not result in yielding to the pur- chaser of the said debenture a higher rate of interest on his purchase-money than the maxi- mum rate of interest authorised by section 10 of ' The Land for Settlements Consolidation Act, 1900,' and that consequently the debentures may be lawfully issued with the first coupon representing interest at 4 per cent. per annum from the 14th day of April, 1901, notwithstand- ing that the full purchase-money was not actually paid until after that date." The Governor, therefore, seems to interpret the law, that if you get 4} per cent. you are only getting 4 per cent. I think that is a very peculiar position to put His Excellency in, and I consider that some explanation should be given of this extraordinary contention. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I submit, Sir, this paper should be sent to the Public Accounts Committee. Mr. SEDDON .- All right. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier knows that this Committee has not reported on this ques- tion. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I ask leave to add that to my motion, That the paper be referred to the Public Accounts Committee. I thought, as there was so much before the Committee, I would try to save them. However, if the honourable gentleman wishes it should be re- ferred I do not mind. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not want to add to the work of the Committee ; but, as I have pointed out, the Committee have not reported on this question, and, therefore, it ought to go to them. I see from these papers the Solicitor- General says,- "The question in this case is the same as the one determined by His Excellency by war- rant of 14th August. The difference pointed out by the Audit Office is one of detail and not of principle. The Acts do not in any way fetter the Treasurer's discretion as to the mode of selling the debentures; and it is manifest that concessions which would be legal if granted by public tender do not become illegal merely because they are granted by private contract. The Audit Office appears to recog- nise this, for, whilst mentioning the difference, it does not treat it as affecting the question in issue." In addition to that he says :- " In this case, as in the previous one, I am of opinion that, on the true construction of the section limiting the yearly rate of interest which his purchase-money is to yield to the purchaser, the limit is not exceeded, and con- sequently the Audit objection is not sound, and the debentures are legal." Then he goes on to give the reasons which we already have, and which are set out in his minutes of 12th August and 17th September ; and later on he says,- "This minute of the Controller's is somewhat belated, coming, as it does, after the objection 