Mr. PIRANI said he was sorry the Govern- , not allow to go unchallenged the statement of ment Whip was so inaccurate in his statements. ! In the first place, he (Mr. Pirani) said that the land was on the boundary of his electorate. Mr. STEVENS said he did not hear the honourable gentleman say it was on the boun- dary. He said it was in his district. Mr. PIRANI said he did not say that the member for Manawatu did hear him ; and he regretted that the honourable member's hearing was defective. He said that Mr. Morrison's property was on the boundary of his electorate, and he did not refer to the geographical position of the Greenaway Estate at all. With regard to the floods, he said that the land was liable to flooding, and the honourable gentleman had corroborated that. As to taking up the land illegally, he said that one of the selectors could not comply with the conditions because he had more land than was allowed by the Act, and yet, when it was found that no one would take up the land, to enable it to be taken up he allowed this selector to take it. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) said he was sorry to hear from the honourable member for Ric- carton that land which had lately been acquired for workmen's homes near Christchurch was a failure, and his argument showed that land of that description required very careful con- sideration before being bought by the Govern- ment. If the sections were not taken up when first offered, the expenses accumulated and the estate became a worse failure the longer it was unoccupied. When the Land for Settlements Act was first passed it was intended thereby to settle farmers on the land, but afterwards the town members thought no doubt that they had not got their just dues, and they agitated that land for workmen's homes should be purchased near the towns, and they found now, according to the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton, who ought to know something about these matters, that they were failures. sounded as a note of warning to the Govern- ment not to purchase this class of land, but to follow more on the lines of the original Land for Settlements Act, and procure land for farm settlements only. As to the estate mentioned by the honourable member for Manawatu, he understood that the price to be paid was some- where near £20 an acre, and that that land would require to be drained afterwards. If the Go- vernment pay $20 an acre for land, and after- wards spend money in draining it, the outcome would be that settlers could not afford to pay a rent that would cover interest on the outlay. He thought honourable members should not bring pressure to bear to get land bought for settlement simply because it was in their elec- torate. Since he had been a member of the House he had taken up this attitude-that if land could not be bought at a price that would enable a person to live on it comfortably, then buy none in his district. He did not believe in money being wasted, and the longer land was unoccupied after being acquired the more likely it was that discredit would be brought on our land for settlements scheme. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said he could the honourable member for Geraldine that the settlements near the town were a failure. Mr. FLATMAN .- The member for Riccarton said so. Mr. ELL said the honourable member for Riccarton had called attention to failure on the part of the Land Purchase Board. There was one of these settlements at the foot of the Port Hills, near the mouth of the Tunnel, where there were a number of comfortable homesteads, and the settlers were doing well; and there were two others in his district, which were making splendid progress. In regard to the two mentioned by the member for Riccarton, he had mentioned them as cases where more judg- ment should have been exercised. Such blun- ders did harm to the policy, and the policy of purchasing land should not be condemned on one or two failures. He commended the policy of the Government in regard to the country, and buying blocks near the centres, as being an undoubted success. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) wished to explain, in reference to what had been said by the member for Geraldine, that he was not condemning all the workmen's homes and vil- lage settlements in his electorate ; because there were three there that were extremely successful, especially Wharenui and Braco. Mr. PIRANI said the colony was spending enormous sums of money in lands for settle- ment, and caution ought to be exercised so that the very best bargain should be made in the interest of the State. Before they spent money in acquiring agricultural land at from £15 to $24 an acre, it ought to be remembered that there were many blocks of land belonging to the State which ought to be roaded. The honour- able member for Manawatu would agree with him that the Greenaway Estate could not be improved to a much greater extent than it was at the present time. It contained some of the It richest land in the colony and was in a good state of cultivation. He did not think that it could be much improved except in the way of fencing and putting up buildings. He had never con- demned the estate; but he thought that suit- able land could be obtained at a much lower price, but not in that immediate vicinity. He had always held that the Government should be very circumspect in purchasing lands for settlement. They had had the spec- 8.30. tacle in the Assessment Court the other day of the Chairman of the Land Pur- chase Board characterizing a statement of the Premier in the House of as " political license." He understood what poetical license meant- a vivid stretch of the imagination-so that, if political license was to be taken in the same sense, they had the Chairman of that Board, \- -- in regard to a transaction that the Premier thought he was giving the House reliable par- ticulars of, characterizing the Premier's state- ment as giving rein to his imagination. He would not like to apply such a term as " poli- tical license " to the statement made by the Premier regarding the Forest Gate Estate, although the Premier had undoubtedly given 