this : that, in reference to the resolution which this Parliament passed in connection with Fiji, it was spreading disaffection in those islands .against the constituted authority. Mr. SEDDON .- That is not what the honour- able member said. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Then, what is sedi- tion, if that is not ? Mr. SEDDON .- You used the words "the Government " just now. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Well, I will say " Parliament " if it will please you. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is not in order to reflect on the resolution of this House by making use of words which are offensive to any honourable member. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Then, if the term is offensive to the honourable gentleman I will say this : that in both Houses of the Legislature resolutions were passed affecting the Govern- ment of Fiji, a Crown colony under Sir George .O'Brien, and that at a time when the Govern- ment of this colony had sanctioned Colonel Gudgeon passing and enforcing laws of the same nature as existed in Fiji. The Fijian law was :- " Any person who shall cause or attempt to cause any Fijian to be disaffected towards the Government, or who shall induce or attempt to induce any Fijian to take any action having for its object the subversion or alteration of the present form of government, shall be guilty of an offence under this Ordinance, and shall be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 with or without hard labour for any term not exceeding six months." I say that was not becoming to the Parlia- ment of this country, nor to the Government of this country, considering what they them- selves had sanctioned in connection with the Cook Group. We are also told that there is great wealth likely to be derived from Pen- rhyn Island. That may be so. I know this: It is of great importance to countries to secure the trade of lands located in the tropics. I am conscious of that. But we may pay too much for that for our business, and, as far as Penrhyn is concerned, I do not think there is that potentiality of wealth in it that the honourable gentleman seems to indicate. Altogether, I think what we are doing now is that we are un- necessarily mixing up ourselves in a number of islands located at a very great distance from us, and that may bring us serious complications in the future. Complications may arise as against the Australian Federation. Of course, it is right we should as far as possible get markets, because we will be practically barred from trade with Australia. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The honourable gentleman may say "No," but we know that the tariff wired to us will put on 22 per cent., on the average, on the produce that goes from this colony to Australia, produce hitherto admitted free into New South Wales. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is not passed yet. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Well, we know that, We know the influences at work, and it is not likely that free-trade New South Wales will be able to combat the desires of the other States ; so that if we lose, as we are almost certain to lose, the enormous proportion of our trade, it is right that we should look round for other openings. Last year we sent to Australia goods to the value of £1,670,000, and they sent a considerable quantity to us. An Hon. MEMBER .- How much of it was New Zealand produce ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The bulk of that £1,670,000-almost the whole-was composed of our products ; but the bulk of the material we got from Australia consisted of tran- shipments. We received from Australia goods worth about £1,300,000; but about half of the goods were transhipments from the Old Country or from other countries. Personally, I hope these islands may be a source of wealth to us, but I rather fear that our responsibilities in that connection will be greater than our reward. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, I was one of those-a very small number indeed -who last year spoke and voted against the annexation of these islands. On that occasion I ventured to use these words :- "I venture to say, if legislation for these islands is to come upon the floor of this House session after session, the people of this colony will curse the day when this annexation was determined upon and the opportunity provided for the Polynesian question to lie athwart the path of legislation in this colony, as has been the case with the Irish question in the House of Commons." Those words were almost prophetic, for now, when we are nearing the end of the session, and when important measures are on the Order Paper dealing with the social and political interests of the people of this colony, the time of Parliament is taken up for the whole of this evening probably-and there will probably be other discussions-over a matter which will absorb the time that ought to be devoted to the interests of the people of this colony. We are already realising, in fact, the disadvantages of embarking, as we did last year, on a spirited foreign policy. I rather gather, from what the Premier said this evening, that we may anticipate an annual serving - up before Parliament of the Polynesian question. No doubt many of the proposals of the Bill now before the House are seeds which will develop in future years into other legislation; and, having taken over the Islands, it will be abso- lutely necessary, as years go on and fresh necessities arise, that legislation should take place in this Parliament dealing with the altered conditions as they arise. This is the position in which the colony and the Parliament of New Zealand now finds itself. I think it is a matter for regret. It would have been wiser for the colony to abstain from investing in these islands, which are about seventeen hundred miles away, and which can under no circumstances be a source of wealth or of prosperity to the people 