ranges to connect the west and east coasts of | land that they had recently taken up. If this the North Island, and thus enable settlers to communicate with each other. Mr. DUNCAN ( Minister of Lands) admitted that the road was a very important one, and it was very necessary that a reasonably short road should be made between the East and West Coasts. It was known from experience that at some times there were droughts on the East Coast-perhaps when the stock was too plenti- ful for the feed-while at the same time there was abundance on the West Coast. It would therefore be a great advantage to settlers to have a short road to connect the east with the west, so that in seasons of drought the stock could be taken from one part of the Island to the other. With a view to finding out whether such a road could be made, he promised last session that a fiying survey would be made, and the report of the Survey Department on the question was as follows :.- "It is estimated that the total length to connect the two road systems on both sides of the range is fourteen miles and a half, of which twelve miles have still to be graded and surveved. A rough estimate of the cost of constructing a dray-road is $7,250, and that of a 6 ft. horse-track 12,900; but this does not include the bridges which may or may not be required, according to the kind of road that may be constructed, the creeks having frequently good hard beds for crossings. survey is merely a reconnaissance, and before any actual works could be undertaken, even after an appropriation has been obtained for the purpose, an engineering survey would have to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 be made of the route. The gradients of from 1 in 12 to 1 in 25 can be obtained. country is all covered with forest, and of little value for settlement." It would be necessary in the first instance to make a driving-track, so that when necess- ary stock could be driven from one side of the Island to the other, and a better survey could be made later on so that the track could be improved. TONGAHOE ROAD. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether, when framing this year's estimates for roads and bridges in order to give access to the back-block settlers, he will make substantial financial provision for one of the main arterial roads to the interior-namely, the To- ngahoe Road ? It was necessary that settlers in these outlying parts should have roads and bridges to permit of them bringing their pro- duce to market, also to allow their children to attend school ; and, as roads and bridges were necessary to allow of the back blocks to be opened up and developed, he trusted the Minis- ter would place a substantial sum on the esti- mates this year for this important work. The Minister had had the opportunity in the re- cess of being in the locality, and, from his practical knowledge of farming and of the wants and requirements of settlers in the back blocks, he would no doubt, do all in his power to help the struggling settlers to profitably occupy the main arterial road was made it would be a boon to the settlers interested, and would be in the true interests of the colony. He trusted the Minister would do all he could to give them communication with the railway, from which at present they were almost entirely cut off. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state, in reply to the honourable gentleman, that the Road Surveyor at New Plymouth bad made provision on his estimates for the sum of $1,250, which included liabilities, up to the 31st March last, of #162, so that it would depend entirely upon whether the amount placed at his (Mr. Duncan's) disposal was sufficient to enable him to provide for this work. At any rate, he recognised, along with the Surveyor-General, that this was a proper road to spend money on, and they intended to do so; but, of course, that depended on the amount that might be available for roads generally. DANGEROUS ROADS. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked Ministers, If they will obtain a report from their Inspectors on all formed roads within their distnets, specifying whether portions of the roads are necessarily or unnecessarily dangerous to wheel traffic; why they are dangerous; whether they are metalled ; if they are The aware of accidents having occurred of late years at these places, and, if so, stating their nature ; what precautionary measures are de- sirable, and the approximate cost of their adop- tion ; and in whom the roads in question are vested ? Every year the Government had a The wreck - chart prepared which indicated the locality where wrecks occurred on our coast- line. He would like to obtain, through the medium of the Lands and Survey De- partment, and especially the road branch of that department, a chart of a similar nature indicating where accidents occurred on dangerous roads. New Zealand, it would hardly be denied, was notorious for the frequency of its accidents of this character. They had in every newspaper almost in the country a column headed " Accidents and Fatalities," and the great majority of these mishaps occurred through preventible causes Many of them were owing to the circum-tane that roads were left year after year in a danger- ous condition. Loss of life and property was occasioned where in many instances the expen- diture of a few pounds on a simple bit of fencing would have prevented these calamities. He could speak feelingly, because in his own dis- triet there were families, widows and children. bereft of their breadwinner through the negle: of the local bodies to see that dangerous place on the roads were protected by fences or by other precautions being taken. He wanted to obtain a report from the Government Inspec- tors with regard to these places, in order to bring not the Government so much as the local bodies face to face with their duties and responsibilities. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might 