were passed, and which aided and assisted in | indulgence. I rise for the purpose of saying bringing Oamaru down to where it is at the present time. Sir, I remember the time when Oamaru was the fifth or sixth town in the colony. But what is Oamaru to-day ? I suppose she is only about the thirteenth or fourteenth, and it is all through the influence of this great advocate here to-day, and his wonderful news- paper. I happened to be in Oamaru at the time when His Royal Highness passed along. I take a little interest still in Oamaru, and I can only say this-my honourable friend was not on the spot ; but I was there : that, humble though the reception was, it was one of the best sights outside the large cities that I witnessed. It is true the people, in consequence of the position they occupy, are a little low-spirited, and that the cheering was not so bright and lively as I should have liked to see it. But still the sight was there-hundreds of children were there, and they sung the Royal Anthem, and everything passed off very nicely. Sir, I say it is owing to my honourable friend and his associates that we see Oamaru in the unfor- tunate position in which she is at the present time. But, Sir, the Government know they can depend on Mr. Jones, and they know they can depend on the Minister of Lands, and they know they need never do anything for the people in the district, because they are bound to the Government hand and foot. and they must vote as the Government tell them. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Why did you leave us ? The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI. - Because I wished to cut the like of you. I could not stand it any longer. It was first supposed that their Royal Highnesses were to lunch at Oamaru, but, I suppose, on account of the Minister for Public Works being a resident of Timaru, the scene was changed, and Timaru was made the place instead of Oamaru ; poor Oamaru has no advocate since I left it, and the result is that all these little things happen. Now my honourable friend Mr. Jones feels aggrieved ; but he should not do so, as he is responsible. He is too selfish for his own purposes against the interests of the people. I am proud to say that if I had been there we should have had the Duke there. But my honourable friend is bound hand and foot, and has to do as he is told, and cannot speak his mind freely and in- dependently as he should do to advocate the Hence he gets his interests of his people. reward. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I wish to know, Sir, whether, having asked the Minister a ques- tion previously, I have forfeited my right to speak. The Hon. the SPEAKER .-- The honourable gentleman may speak, with the consent of the Council. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I do not want to interfere with the honourable gentle- man, but I do not think any member should be allowed to speak twice. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I do not wish to force myself on the attention of the Council, but I should like to say a word or two with their that, instead of this being a Bill to indemnify the municipal bodies for their expenditure on the late auspicious occasion, I could wish it had been a Bill to fine them for their outrageous violation of the laws of good taste. I speak more especially with regard to Auckland, because I did not witness the recep- tion in any other town in New Zealand. Indeed, I did not witness it. in Auckland itself ; I merely had a view of the decorations after the ceremony was all over, and I must say my feelings of taste-and I hope it is good taste -were horribly outraged by what I saw in the streets of Auckland. How the citizens of Auck- land could have imagined that these horrible monstrosities of arches and other so-called decorations were going to make an impression upon the Prince and Princess, accustomed as they are to the good taste and magnificence of Europe, I cannot imagine. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was a contrast. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- Well, perhaps that may have afforded them some amusement. I should very much like to have heard the remarks of their Royal Highnesses to each other after the ceremony was over. Not only were they bailed up and bored by the citizens of Auckland with addresses at almost every street corner, but they had to pass under arches which were in direct violation of good taste. The show at Rotorua was certainly something new and original, and I have it on good authority that their Royal Highnesses were more pleased with that exhibition than with anything they saw in Auckland. But democracies are notorious for violating goed taste in most things; they go to excess in everything almost. I am reminded of a pas- sage in one of the comedies of Aristophanes. He said, speaking of the Demos of Athens. " Demos is a very good fellow in his own house. but when he goes to a public meeting he is apt to run wild," although the Athenians, being an æsthetical people, would never have been such offenders against the canons of good taste as we Britishers generally are. That is the case with the citizens of this colony. They go to a meeting to get up a demonstration of some kind. A proposes one thing ; B wants to go one better-to use a sporting phrase-and so they go on. each proposing something more ridicu- lous than the last speaker, until the whole thing becomes a perfect farce. Surely a simple and respectful address on the part of the Muni- cipality ought to have been sufficient ; why compel their Royal Highnesses to listen to all this fulsome twaddle, the production of a lot of Auckland shopkeepers? It is quite ridiculous. I venture to say that not half a dozen men of education had the slightest voice in the manage- ment of matters in Auckland on the occasion, and I believe it was so in all the other towns. The whole thing was bungled and vulgarised. and I hope should any Royal Highnesses visit the colony again such absurdities will not be repeated. That is not the rational way of showing one's loyalty - bawling " God save the King," and " Rule Britannia," very much 