any of the other colonies they visited during their tour ; and, as an Aucklander, I feel very proud of the success that attended the func- tions in the northern city. I believe, Sir, by universal consent, the palm has been given to Auckland, both for the beauty of its decorations and the enthusiasm of its people. The citizens of Auckland were quite capable of performing the duties of hospitality on the occasion. We did our duty, I think, in all re- spects. There was a gentleman sent to Auck- land, however, by the central authority, I suppose, to teach us what was befitting the occasion. When he first came to see us after his arrival in Auckland everything was going on nicely, and I wondered why he was inter- vening, and why the central authority should interpose in a free and self-governing city. And when I saw him I said, " You had better lie low, because if you do not strife may result, and the success of the reception be jeopardized." Well, Sir, I think the gentleman was discreet after that, and he did not obtrude himself so much ; notwithstanding which, I saw to my surprise in some illustrated papers which have been published during and since the reception a photograph of Mr. John Holmes, and in the letterpress the statement that the success of the function was primarily due to his efforts. I do not desire to in any way disparage Mr. Holmes, but it is simple truth to say that he had nothing whatever to do with the success of the Auckland reception. The decorations at Auckland were considered by the Press not only of Australasia, but of England, to be unique, and prettier than those https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 in any other part of Australasia. Now, Sir, adverting to another subject : In regard to the settlement of the land, to which reference has been made, I should like to notice an observa- tion made by the honourable member for Riccarton. He asked why did the Government not open up more land in the vicinity of Can- terbury for settlement by purchasing estates under the Land for Settlements Act. I submit that it would be folly for the Government to purchase land at £90 an acre while there are hundreds of thousands of acres of fertile land in the Auckland District, and in portions of the Taranaki Provincial District, unsettled, the greater portion of which is in the hands of the Government, and a large portion of which can be acquired without any diffi- culty from the Natives under the Maori Lands Administration Act of last session. I suggested last session that the proper way of peopling this Native land was for the Govern- ment to take it over, after making ample pro- vision for papakainga reserves, and credit the Natives with the capital value in the books of the Public Trustee, and let the interest on that sum, at the usual rate of 4 per cent., be paid to the owners of the land and their descendants. Then, the Government should settle the land at once under the lease-in-perpetuity system. There are hundreds of young men-the bone and sinew of the country-in the Auckland District waiting to go upon this land. I urged the Government most strongly last session to lose no time in opening up for settlement the land in the Ohura Valley, to which there is an excellent road ; and I trust greater expedition will be shown in this matter during the present year. Just one word regarding the purchase of rolling-stock. It has lately been mentioned to me that, notwithstanding that we are urgently requiring more carriages and more wagons, a number of men have been retrenched, joiners from the Government workshops. An. Hon. MEMBER. - Where? Mr. NAPIER .- At Newmarket. But I hope, if this is so, the men will be reinstated, and that other men will also be taken on if there is sufficient plant to employ them, so that the requirements of the settlers and the travelling public in the matter of rolling-stock may be adequately met. The new American carriages, so far as they apply to Auckland, do not suit the climate until alterations are made ; they are not so suitable as the birdcage-carriage for our semi-tropical climate ; they are too close, the windows being hermetically sealed. If they were altered and made more after the pattern of the birdcage-carriage, our people in Auckland would very much prefer it. The honourable member for Riccarton indulged in somewhat of a sneer at the American people, which I regret. He referred to them as foreigners. I say, Sir, they are our own kith and kin, and they ought not to be referred to as foreigners. Mr. WILFORD. - They treat us as foreigners. Mr. NAPIER. - I shall deal with the criti- cisms of the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs later on. The Americans are not foreigners ; and I say the time is not far distant - I hope it is imminent-when a union, not only of a commercial but also of a political nature, will come about between the United States and the British Empire. In regard to the ques- tion of defence, in which I take & special interest, the Government is to be congratulated upon having taken some steps to carry out the Defence Committee's report of last ses- sion; but I regret that Ministers have not done as much as they might have done. I am not disposed to captiously criticize them, owing to the fact that there have been extra- ordinary events happening which have, no doubt, engaged their attention ; but I regret that the Volunteers of the colony have not re- ceived that amount of consideration which this Parliament ordered that they should receive. Now, it is a law of this country, because the Defence Committee's report has been adopted by both Houses of Parliament ; therefore, that report is as much a law as if it were a statute of Parliament. I maintain that a resolution of Parliament is a law. This resolution is an order to the Executive Government to do cer- tain things. The report of the Defence Com- mittee, which is published in the Appendix to the Journals of the House, H .- 1, shows that a number of things were ordered to be done for the perfection of our defences which have not been done. For instance, the capitation of £3 10s. per annum which should have been paid to the Submarine Miners and Garrison Artillery Volunteers has not been paid ; and 