oileloths and linoleums, which are used in the poor man's cottage. The rich man has carpets, which are a luxury, and he can well afford to pay the tax. The tax on oilcloth and linoleum is 20 per cent. a i valo em, equal to about 22} per cent., and I do not think it is in the interest of the community that this necessary article of furnishing should be taxed. Then, as to lamps, we cannot manufacture lamps in this country, and yet there is a 20-per-cent. dutv on lamps. The Premier said, at Amberley, I think, about eighteen months ago, that they had taken off the duty on cotton goods, and thus benefited the working-classes of the country. They have not done so ; they have taken more taxation out of the community since the alteration of the tariff in 1895 on cotton piece-goods than they did before. If the duty had been then taken off there would be a considerable increase in the value of cotton goods imported free of duty, but that is not the case. In 1896 two hundred and ten thousand pounds' worth of cotton piece-goods, free of duty, were im- ported into this country, and five years after- wards there was only two hundred and ten thousand pounds' worth ; but, on the other hand, in the value of cotton piece - goods charged with from 10 to 20 per cent. duty there is an increase-£194,564 imported in 1896 and £249,149 in 1900-showing clearly that, instead of taking less out of the people, the Government are taking a good deal more. This is another direction in which I venture to think it is the undoubted duty of the Executive to move; and, if they did so, I be- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 lieve they would be giving effect to the wishes of the House if they struck the duty absolutely off cotton piece-goods. There is plenty of money according to the Colonial Treasurer, and he still has a very considerable surplus. I do not think any Colonial Treasurer is justified in collecting more from the people than is absolutely neces- sary to keep the finances of the country in a healthy state. I am very glad that the right honourable gentleman has at last come to see that it is not a sound economic policy to extract from the pockets of the people by Customs duties large sums of money and use it in the construction of public works. I think we should charge the land with the benefit of the expenditure made to improve it. The land in this country is lightly taxed, and the land-owners have nothing to growl about. With regard to the Fire-brigade Bill, I am glad that the Government have at last proposed to do something in this direction. It is all very well to ask the general tax-paver to provide an improved means of extinguishing fires, and to prevent the spread of fires. That is all very well ; but we have to consider this fact: that we are protecting the property of the fire insurance companies. We should have a system of State fire insurance. Will the Minister suggest for a moment that the country farmer and the elec- tors of the colony are not ripe for State fire insurance ? The people are ripe for such a system. I think the Government should alter their Referendum Bill by placing the power of Mr. Ell for that subject being submitted to the people. Without the initiative in the hands of the people the Referendum Bill is not worth the paper it is printed on. Under the initiative let the question of State fire insurance be voted on by the people, and I venture to think there would be an overwhelming majority in favour of it. And here, again, we are told it is not the right time to move, because public opinion is not ripe. Sir, it is not ripe to move because it is not a ripe opportunity for the Ministry. It may be before some election ; and a very good election cry it will be. That is the usual course adopted by every Ministry. I am not saving it is the fault of this Ministry only. It is inherent in our system of party government. The Ministry in power only want to preserve their positions, and therefore questions are kept back until some opportunity occurs when it is to the interests of their party and in the interests of those on the Treasury benches to bring it forward. That is the policy that is pursued, and the policy that always will be pursued while you have your pre- sent system of party government by Cabinet. Sir, with regard to State fire insurance, we know that a good many of the companies are paying very good dividends indeed. Now, Sir, as to Switzerland, I remember that Sir Joseph Ward, when speaking in Southland, deprecated taking any of our examples from Switzerland. Well, we have a good deal to learn from Switzerland, and we have learnt a good deal from Switzerland. I do not disregard this fact : that the Swiss people were the very earliest people to establish a system of national educa- tion ; that they were one of the first people to establish humane factory-laws. Why, we are taking this very proposition-the referendum- the proposition which the Ministry are now bringing before this Chamber-from Switzer- The same thing applies with regard land. to the initiative. We get that idea also from Switzerland. There is a great deal to be learned from Switzerland. It is of no use anybody suggesting for a moment that there is not something to be learnt from every country ; but Switzerland is a country that has had more attention devoted to it by the greatest scholars and the greatest writers of constitutional his- torv than any other country in the world. Its development has been a most interesting study. In the Zurich Canton, under State insurance, the rate of insurance for a silk-mill is 1s. 10}d. to 2s. 93d. per $100. In Bradford, in the Old Country, on worsted-mills, they charge 8s. per $100. Sir, I venture to think the rates would be considerably reduced if we had State fire in- surance in this country. A certain amount of money from the premiums could be retained and spent by the local authorities in maintain- ing an efficient fire-brigade service and in pay- ing the fire-brigade men, whose services are at present poorly rewarded-more poorly rewarded than any other public service in this country. They are not paid for the risk they run or for the immense public service they render to the coun- try. Sir, it is a dangerous occupation, and many accidents have happened as the result of the 