Hatuma. Now, Hatuma has been hanging fire for the last three or four years, and 4.0. the Government have no right to take credit for the purchase of Hatuma for land for settlement during the year that has just expired. But they happen to have paid for Hatuma, and, having paid ₺141,618 for Hatuma during the year, they are able to show a total amount of land purchased under the Land for Settlements Act of #186.621. But, in connection with these purchases, during the year there was paid a sum of $5,245 in connection with the Ohakaea Estate, which had been purchased in the pre- vious year. The result, therefore, is this : that the total purchases of the Government for land for settlement during the last year, leaving out Hatuma and Ohakaca, represent $39,758. That, Sir, is the result of the Government policy, and that is how the Act is being administered by the Premier. The Premier is Minister of Lands, or, I should say. one part of the Minister of Lands. The Hon. the Minister of Lands is a hybrid-one part of the Minister of Lands is the Premier, and the other part is the Hon. Mr. Duncan. The Premier purchases the land and Mr. Duncan is only able to divide and settle the estates after the Premier purchases them, and I therefore say that, under the Premier's management, during the last year the total amount of land purchased for land settlement in New Zealand, excluding the Hatuma Estate and Ohakaea, amounted to only $33,758. Mr. SEDDON .- Only $39,758 ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - I am dealing now with the financial year. Your total return, as shown on page 1113 of the New Zealand Gaze te, is $186.621 for the year. I deduct https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 from that the Hatuma Estate, which was not a last year's purchase, although paid for this year, and that brings me down to $45,003. I deduct $5,245, being the balance of the pur- chase-money of the Ohakaca Estate, and that leaves me with a total for the purchases in New Zealand for the year of $30,758. So far as the expenses were concerned, the costs of the department were $0,682; of that sum only $4008 was for expenses incidental to Hatuma. Now, Sir, the Government, in the course of the speech delivered by His Excellency, say : "The earth-hunger still continues." Is it to be won- dored at that the earth-hunger still continues when for such an estate as Waikakahi there were an enormous number-not of dummy applications-but absolutely bond tide appli- cations from young men asking for land for settlement, and wishing to make homos ? What were the purchases of the Government in Canterbury during last year ? Let me give the Premier a list of the estates purchased and paid for last year. He purchased Lyndon, which cost $15,750 ; and the small farawahi hamlet near Christchurch -those were the sole pur- ch ises in the great Province of Canterbury for lands for settlement during the financial year just closed. The right hon urable gentleman laughs; he knows when I am getting home on him. Mr. SEDDON .- You are getting home on yourself. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - That is all right. I am relying on Government Giaze tes and figures for these returns, and I ask the honourable gentleman to stick to the Gazettes when replying. I say, Earnscleugh, which cost $3,100; Lyndon, which cost $15,750; Maungaraki Estate, which cost $2,797; North Bank, $6,750; Tarawahi- that is Freeman's Estate -$2,957: and Waipapa (J. Bell's) £8,250, are the total purchases in New Zealand for the year for which the Government paid outside of Hatuma during last financial year. There is the Gazette, and I am quoting now from a statement of the receipts and ex- penditure of the Land Settlement Account for the year ending 31st March, 1901, compared with the financial year ending 31st March. 1900. If the actual position is different to what I have stated, then I shall be very pleased for the honourable gentleman to show me where I am wrong. What I wish to say is this : that adding the three quarters together-that is, the June quarter, in which the Government paid $5,245: the September quarter, in which they never paid sixpence for land for settlements ; and the December quarter, in which they paid $5,897-to the $331,108 that they paid for the last quarter of the previous year, I get exactly the same figures as are in the return placed on the table of the House by the department a few days ago. Now, Sir, I think I have said quite enough to justify the position that I am taking up- namely, that so far as lands for settlement are concerned, the Government are departing from what was the intention of this Parliament when the Land for Settlements Act was brought in. Why, Sir, the Premier knows better than I do that, under the provisions of the Land for Settlements Act- Mr. MCLACHLAN .- You should not admit that. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The Premier knows better than I do, notwithstanding the remark made by my friend the member for Ashburton. that under the Land for Settlements Act he is entitled to spend half a million a year in par- chasing lands for settlement. He knows that i in one year he spends less than that half-million he is entitled in the following year to add the deficit on to the total amount of the next, and he can spend up to $759,000 in one year if be has only spent $250,000 in the year before. Mr. PIRANI. - Where is he to raise the money ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - The Right Hon. the Premier is not only Premier and, as I have said. half Minister of Lands, but he is also Colonial Treasurer, and therefore, holding the two pw- tions of partly Minister of Lands and Colomai Treasurer, he is in a position to arrange ias hnances so as to purchase the estates that are wanted. But what I do urge upon the Govern- ment, Sir. is that if they will put an e-tate as large as Waikakahi on the market every wors in the Province of Canterbury it will be simply "wolfed " up by the young men of Canterbury who want to make homes for themselves. I tell the Government that there is the vers greatest dissatisfaction throughout the whole 