developed into something different altogether. This question of sending the electoral right through the Post Office has now become the question of voting by electoral rights, and that involves something very much larger indeed. My idea was that the Post Office should be used wholly and solely for it, and that the Post- masters should be the Registrars for the time being, and that a person should be able to go to the post-office and obtain his voting-paper, instead of having the expensive machinery of the Act set up for that purpose. Now, if you take the post-offices as a whole, they are conveniently situated for the people throughout the length and breadth of the colony. My honourable friend the member for Napier said he believed in a modified form of the electoral right, and he quoted the case of the seamen and commercial travellers But what was the reason for which these classes of men were given the electoral right ? It was because, through the exigences of their calling, they were unable to make certain of being present on the day of election in the district for which they were enrolled. And I would have no objection to extend that privi- lege to any other person in a similar position. But to issue electoral rights to every one would destroy the secrecy of the ballot. In country houses the master has pretty well as much in- fluence over the servants as in the towns. Were electoral rights held there, and power given that at any time they might exercise these electoral rights, we know how the votes would go. There would be a personal influence brought into the matter which does not exist at the present time. And did we not in the last session of Parliament pass an Act endeavouring to knock out this very personal element by prohibiting canvassing ? Now we are going to re-enact, by virtue of this proposal of the honourable gentleman's, what last session we said should be put a stop to. An Hon. MEMBER .- Mr. Edwards is canvass- ing. Mr. MILLAR .- I do not know anything about that, and I am not going to argue in con- nection with Mr. Edwards. Then, in connec- tion with another portion of this Bill, although I am going to support the third reading, I can- not say that I like it as it stands. There are a great many things in it which could have been made simpler. and if a simpler form of voting had been provided it would have been quite as effective, and more effective, than the one we have at present before us. I certainly believe this-and perhaps I am speaking against my- self in giving expression to what I think-but I believe this is going to throw greater power in the hands of the centres of population than exists at the present time, because there is no doubt that in connection with great questions such as these we can get the people in the towns to vote by their being so close together ; but I question very much whether the same thing can be done in the country districts. The honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) quoted the number of persons who voted in a certain State of America | of control will go to their masters or mistresses on some occasion ; but the honourable gentle- | and say, " How are we to fill in this form ?" man could not say to what extent that State was intersected by railways. There is no doubt there are means of locomotion which would enable people to get to the polls there that do not exist in this colony. Why, in this colony you will find, in connection with the general election, if you take the whole of the numbers right through, 20 per cent. of the total number on the roll do not exercise their votes. That is about the average throughout the colony. Therefore if that is the case on the one day in the year when you can get people out to record their votes, what probability is there of their rolling up to record their votes upon a question that some of them know abso- lutely nothing about, except by, perhaps, read- ing an article in the newspaper. It seems to me that the opinion in the country is going to be governed by the newspapers, because news- paper articles would largely influence people who have to record their votes, and, to my mind, that is not a proper thing at all. So far as the centres of population are con- cerned, we can take a platform ; we can get through every part of our district and create a healthy public opinion from our own point of view as against the newspapers. But from what I have learnt of the size of the districts of country members it will be absolutely impos- sible to do the same thing. I have been told by one member that it takes a couple of months to ride over his electorate, so that when I come to look at the Bill as a whole I have grave doubts as to whether it is going to be of great advan- tage. And, furthermore, I am also of opinion -and I am not afraid of expressing it-that this Bill will prove one of the biggest checks to progressive legislation we have had in this House. I feel confident that if this principle had been in operation it would have taken us years to pass some of the legislation we have been able to place on our statute-book in one session of Parliament. Taken as a whole there is no doubt that the principle of referendum is a right one, and one is placed in a somewhat invidious position in going against it. But taken as it stands at the present time I do not think it will carry out what so many of those who believe in the referendum expect from it. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri). - Sir, this ques- tion of electoral rights has been before the Assembly on a good many different occasions, and hitherto whenever it has been introduced we have found the Liberal party voting in a solid phalanx against it, and I hope they will continue to vote in that direction at the present time. It is, Sir, one of the most dangerous and specious proposals that has ever been brought before us, and it will tend more than anything else to split up the ranks of the Liberal party. Under the present system of ballot if a person chooses he may be as silent as he likes regard- ing his vote, as, of course, none can know who he votes for ; but if you are going to have a system of voting under electoral rights these voting-papers will be sent into the houses, and the people who are subject to a certain amount 