materially help the revenue of the railway, and it would do a great deal of good both to the people of the towns interested and to the colony as a whole. Regarding the larger question of providing some of these improve- ments, especially of reducing steep grades and miking deviations where necessary on the line b. tween Palmerston and Hawera, when he told the honourable member that it was estimated that irom $1,500,000 to $2,000,000 would be re- quired to reduce the steep grades and improve the numerous sharp curves between the places mentioned the honourable member would see at once the almost impossibility of such a large scheme being carried out, particularly as there Were many places in the colony which had no railways at all: and they required, in dealing with the existing lines of railway, perhaps to put up with the inconvenience caused by some engineers' mistakes in laying off the lines, in order that railway communications might be pushed on as speedily as possible. He might state that the improving of the steepest grades was going on as fast as the department could carry them out, and that portion of the colony represented by the honourable member was not being overlooked in this respect. However, he would not like to hold out any hope to the honourable member of providing between $1.500,000 and $2,000,000 to carry out such a work as he had suggested. HOKITIKA HARBOUR BOARD LOAN. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Post- master-General. If he intends to take any steps to recover nearly five years' interest on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 loan of $10,000 due to Post-Office Savings- Bank by the Hokitika Harbour Board ? Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said, at present it was not proposed to recover the outstanding interest. The Post Office would not . be likely to benefit by such a course; whereas if the Board was given further time there was reasonable ground for believing that the overdue amount would eventually be met. The Board within the past twelve months had paid over $587 10s., and the interest now owing was $1,900. as compared with $2,118 9s. 10d. on the 31st December last. If the honourable member wished to have the details he should be very glad to give them, but, as a matter of fact. they had been laid on the table of the House already. He would point out in connec- tion with the matter that the Government did not intend to release the Board from its obliga- tions to the colony. What they wanted to do was, recognising that the Board was doing its best under adverse circumstances, to help them in a quiet way, so that they might eventu- ally get the full amount due without exercising any extraordinary pressure ; in other words, the Government had to deal with this Board as they had with another one-give them a reason- able time to pay their indebtedness to the colony, a policy which he thought was right. SLAUGHTERING INSPECTORS. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Public Health, Whether he is aware that Inspectors appointed under the Slaughter- ing and Inspection Act of last session are in some cases accepting other remunerative ap- pointments, and does he consider it advisable that such Inspectors should be permitted to hold a combination of positions under distinctly different control ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) said he was not aware of the circumstances re- ferred to in the question, that Inspectors under the Act were in some cases accepting other remunerative appointments. In reply to the honourable member as to whether he considered it advisable that Inspectors should be permitted to hold a combination of positions under dis- tinetly different control, he did not think it was. He did not know the special circum- stances, but he was inclined to think that if the duties devolving under the Act on Inspectors were sufficient they should be called upon to give their whole time to that work, unless there were special reasons and circumstances why they should not. PAYMENT OF RAILWAY BALLAST- GANGS. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, Whether he considers the method in which members of ballast - gangs emploved on the Government railways are paid is fair - namely, 103d. per hour for casual work, with no allowance for the time taken in travelling from one place to another, even when a whole day is so occupied ? The men who worked on these gangs had the hardest work in the Railway service. They were paid at the rate of 10jd. an hour, and there was no such thing as payment by the day, for if they had half an hour or an hour and a half off work that time was deducted from the Besides this, the amount they were allowed. majority of the time they had to live away from home, and incurred extra expense. He had ascertained that the average amount that a man was able to give his wife and family for their maintenance out of his earnings was from €1 4s. to €1 8s. a week. It was a hardship that even when the train in which these men were travelling was com- pelled to wait at a station on the way to the work, even for two hours, that time was de- ducted from their pay. According to a recent award in connection with the painters' dispute, it had been decided that employers must pay the men from the time they left the railway- station in town to go to work in the country. It, therefore, seemed to him that if the Go- vernment were brought under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and this matter investi- gated, a similar award would have to be made in order to be consistent. The men ought to be paid at least 1s. an hour, and he trusted the Minister, if he would give this matter proper attention, would also come to that conclusion - that for work of this kind 1s. an hour was little enough, considering the cost of living, and that it was impossible to expect men to maintain their families decently on the amount they were paid at present. 