this pernicious character passed into law. I do hope after what I have said that honour- able members will look at the matter fairly and squarely, because if they do so they will see at once tha this Bill ought never to be passed. If they only grasp its purport I feel sure that they will never agree to pass it. I trust that this debate will to-morrow open the eyes of the people to the character of some of the legislation which is being brought forward- An Hon. MEMBER. - Nothing you say will open them. Mr. HOGG .- I am satisfied that there is hardly a man in New Zealand who calls himself a true Liberal, and who carefully examines this Bill, who would for a moment support it. It is a Bill that does not deserve the support of any democratic community. Something was said by the honourable member for Riccarton about it being paraded at the last election. I never heard such a measure whispered about in my own constituency, nor do I think it received attention in any part of the North Island-at least, not in this part of it. I am satisfied that if the people are only consulted, and if the honourable member for Waitaki will only go back and consult his constituents, he will find the majority opposed to it. That is my im- pression. The elective Executive may be a very good thing to bring forward before debating societies and Trades and Labour Councils, be- cause it affords them intellectual recreation. But I was very sorry to hear one honourable member refer to a political association in Wel- lington in the terms in which he did. Sir, I think political associations have no right to be https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 grossly insulted, and members of these associa- tions have no right to be referred to as hangers- on of the Ministry. I do not believe they are. They are possibly quite as independent as the honourable member who used those terms. The name is a very fascinating one - Elective Execu- tive - it sounds very well, but it is totally mis- leading. While this proposed alteration of the Constitution may be a very good subject of debate for some of our debating societies, I consider it one of those measures that will not bear investigation, and to introduce it in a free country like this, where we have well-advanced representative institutions-institutions that can hardly be improved on-session after session as the honourable member is doing, seeing that its pernicious character should be perfectly apparent to every one who will only properly examine it, is, to say the least, conduct to be condemned. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- I do not propose to go deeply into ancient history on this measure. For instance, I do not intend to vote for it, nor yet to give the House quotations from Gibbon's " History of the Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire," "The Life of Cæsar," nor am I going to quote Edmund Burke or Herbert Spencer. However, like the honourable mem- ber for Palmerston, it will be necessary for me to quote some of our own leading authorities. I may mention, before starting, that since I have been in this House every speech that I have heard in connection with the Bill, from the Mr. Hogg honourable member who introduced it onwards, has been pretty well composed of quotations from very ancient history-indeed, this mea- sure has been invariably murdered with liberal quotations from ancient history. Now, Sir, we had a very good Liberal in this House at one time-I believe that honourable members on both sides of the House will agree that the authority I am now going to quote is worth listening to-and this is what he says on this question : - " You are all aware that we have what is termed representative government. We have a Parliament that is called upon to administer our affairs, and wherever there is a Parliament elected for such a purpose party government is essential. If you do not have party govern- ment you descend into mere cliquism, and nothing but log-rolling and jobs. But if you have strict party lines, if you have one party with some defined principle, and another party with some defined principle, then you can hope to have really good government, each fighting for what they believe to be best. No one can say, for example, that the one party is all right and the other party all wrong. You must give credit to the people in different parties for having good intentions, and for doing what they believe. to be best for the colony. But, though we give them credit for that, we have a right to examine their creed to find out what their principles are, and to vote according as we find them. And I say that if a man go into any House of Parliament to vote alone and stand alone, and to be drifted about on every motion, first on this side and then on that side, he can do no credit to himself and no credit to any constituency that elects him." I hope, Sir, the honourable member for Palmerston and the honourable member for Riccarton will let those words ring in their ears. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is the authority ? Mr R. MCKENZIE .- He is a very important and substantial authority-the present Chief Justice of the colony. But, Sir, on this very question I will quote the honourable member for Riccarton, no later than August, 1899, and every one in the House will admit that he is a great authority on this question. He com- menced his speech this evening with this sentence : "The most striking feature of the speeches of the Premier and Minister for Rail- ways was their utter inconsistency." Well. now, Sir, we always recognise that the honour- able member for Riccarton is the very essence No later than August, 1899. of consistency. when addressing the electors of Riccarton -- Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I was in the House last August. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I should have said before the last general election ; and in this connection I would point out that the honour- able member is something like the proverbial Irishman, for in this House he is always against the Government ; but as soon as he is out of the House and is going to contest an election be is always a staunch Liberal, and a consistent supporter of the Liberal party. He generally 