provided themselves with valuable horses-ani- mals which were almost as dear to a Volunteer in some cases as a human comrade-well, it was felt that there should be more consideration for such men, and they should not be subjected to such language being used to them as was reported. The feeling was that a Commission should be set up or a parliamentary Committee appointed to report on the matter, and that steps should be taken which would prevent the recurrence of such a thing. That would be for the welfare of the Volunteer Force of New Zea- land. It was thought that if such language as had been reported had been used in England there would have been either an ample apology rendered to a prompt demand on the parade- ground or it would have been followed by a court-martia Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this matter was not so simple as it appeared, and mem- bers would probably appreciate the difficulties of the situation when he put the matter fairly before them. In the first place, there was an alleged deficiency on the part of the contrac- tor who was to supply the troops with food. That was a matter-as to whether there had been a breach of contract or not-which should be tried by a Magistrate. Certainly he would not pay for food or for service which had not been carried out in accordance with the specifi- cations. That was one phase of the question. He thought the proper way would be to force the situation by letting the aggrieved party take his remedy, or otherwise appoint a Magis- trate to deal with the question of supplies in ac- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 cordance with the contract. Then, there was a second phase of the question, and that was as to some Volunteers having so conducted them- selves as to warrant an inquiry under the De- fence Act. If there was a grievance such as had been alleged, then the remedy ought to be for the men aggrieved to appeal to their superior officer, and that officer should appeal to his superior officer, and redress should thus be sought. Mr. MONK .- They claim that they did so. Mr. SEDDON could only say this: that it never came before him ; and, as far as knew, it never came before the Commandant. If, there- fore, it was true, as alleged, that the offending soldiers-who certainly were inconsiderate, con- sidering the occasion - invaded the precincts of Government House, under those conditions there had been a military offence, and it ought to be dealt with under the Defence Act and the regulations which made provision for it. It was his intention to appoint under the Act and the regulations military officers to make an inquiry and deal with it. He intended to ask Colonel Pitt to act as one officer, and he would be pre- pared to ask officers from the districts from which the offending men came to act on the inquiry, so that the military inquiry should be strictly impartial, and that the constitution of the Board should be such as would give confidence in their report. He could not go outside the Defence Act. It was a military offence, and the regulations provided how it should be dealt with, and he intended to deal Mr. Monk very day that this arose- and it was right the public should know it- when his Royal High- ness had finished presenting the medals at the steps of Parliament Buildings, Colonel Sommer- ville came to the Commandant and reported that the camp at Newtown Park was under water, and that the horses and men were in such a condition that the camp ought to be struck and other arrangements made. He (Mr. Seddon) heard the Commandant give Colonel Sommerville instructions to have that done; he heard him say, " Go at once and get it done." At three o'clock in the afternoon Major Duncan rang him up on the telephone and said, "What are we to do? The men are here, and the camp is in a deplorable condition, and something ought to be done." He immediately said, "I over- heard instructions given to Colonel Sommerville to strike camp and make the best arrangements possible for men and horses. Something has happened and I cannot understand it, but you have my authority and instructions at once to strike camp, and do the best you can for the men and horses under the unfortunate cir- cumstances." He understood that instruc- tions were sent by Colonel Sommerville to the camp to the officer in charge to carry out the Commandant's orders. There had been a failure there. Whether it was on the part of the orderly in charge or the officer he could not say at the moment, but an elaborate report had been furnished by Colonel Sommerville, and that matter, with the other, would be inquired into. Then, the third phase of the question arose - namely, that the Commandant had used language which should not have been so used, and which, if used, would be regrettable in the extreme. Now, who was to try the Commandant ? It was certainly a military offence. The Governor was, of course, the Commander-in-Chief. The Government, through the Defence Minister, might ask the Commandant for an explanation. That was the position. He supposed that if there were military officers of superior standing to the Commandant they might hold an in- quiry. At present the situation was surrounded with difficulties. At all events, as Defence Minister, he considered he had a duty to per- form to the country and to the Volunteer ser- vice, and he intended to perform it ; but he did not think a parliamentary Committee was the proper tribunal to deal with the case. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked, Why not have a proper inquiry, open to the Press of the colony, so that the whole thing might be venti- lated ? Mr. SEDDON replied that there were regula- tions under the Defence Act, and the laws of the land must be observed. That was the proper course to adopt. HOTCHKISS GUNS. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister of Defence, If he can inform the House when the four Hotchkiss guns promised by Sir William Armstrong's firm to New Zealand will arrive in this colony ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said 