cordingly. Before sitting down I would say this: that the valuers themselves should take more responsibility than they do. I 'say em- phatically that a man who is suitable and com- petent to be a valuer should have the courage of his opinions when he goes to make a valua- tion. At any rate, let me say, he should never say anything to mislead the applicant, but he should let them clearly understand what his views are with regard to the holding that he is valuing. If this were done in all cases there would be much less unpleasant- ness. The statement of the honourable mem- ber for Wairarapa that they are sent out and instructed to make a low valuation for certain purposes is most unwarrantable, and I desire now to assure the honourable gentleman most emphatically that his statement is not correct. So far as I know, nothing of the kind is done : and I assure the House that the gentleman who is the head of the department has but one desire, and that is to do the best he can for the applicants for loans, whilst at the same time carefully and jealously guarding the interests of his department. I have only to say, in con- clusion, that the office I refer to had up to the 31st March last advanced nearly $3,000,000. The honourable member will, therefore, readily understand that it is quite likely that amongst the great number of those who apply for a loan unsuccessfully there may be misunderstand- ings ; but I know that the wish of the Valuer- General and of the Government is that we should get as near as we can to bed-rock valua- tion, so that all loans applied for may be made upon the valuation upon which the applicant https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 has probably been paying taxes for two or three years. That would only be right and fair ; but if there are alterations in buildings and other improvements the property has to be revalued before any moneys can be advanced. In con- clusion, let me say, when statements against the department are at times being circulated broadcast, I would ask honourable members to remember that "One story is good until an- other is told." Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .-- This Bill, Sir, when it was introduced, appeared to me to be a somewhat harmless Bill. It was intended, I believe, to cure a few omissions and defects in the consolidation measure that was passed last The very protracted debate, however, session. that we had in Committee last evening proves that it has served an exceedingly useful purpose. It has enabled members of the House to give their views generally on the land question and to deal with matters of great importance and magnitude to the people. When I say the people, I mean not only country residents but the people of our towns. It has led members to give free expression to their convictions. is a very wholesome thing that such a discussion should take place, because it enables con- stituents to ascertain how far the opinions of their representatives are consistent with the opinions they hold themselves. Now, there is one thing I give members on both sides of the House great credit for, and that is the fact that Mr. Mills always prepared to state unreservedly what their views are on this matter. That is. I think, of infinite importance, because I believe there is no question of greater concern to the people of a colony like this than the land question. It is of importance in every part of the world, in the older as well as the younger countries. But it is of special consequence to a community of producers, such as we have in New Zealand, where there is so much fertile land in occupation, and so much Crown land yet to be disposed of. I say no question can occupy the attention of Parlia- ment of greater importance than the question presented by this Bill. I do not wish to say a solitary word that will be harsh or insulting to members who hold different convictions to my- self. They have a perfect right to enjoy their opinions with reference to the manner in which the lands of the colony should be administered. Nor do I wish to say one word that can be con- sidered or construed as unbecoming or harsh in the slightest degree regarding those who have acquired large possessions in the colony. Some of them are personal friends of my own : some of them I know are pioneers who came here in the early days, and had to go through huge vicissi- tudes, and, having done so, I do not for a me- ment blame them for obtaining the lands they hold. Neither do I blame those who have secured the freehold in preference to the leasehold. They have a perfect right to take advantage of the laws of the country ; but, on the other hard. the question arises, What is to be said of those who make laws that are not based on justice ? I heard the term used last evening by the honourable member for Napier. He began talking about justice. I can assure the honour- able gentleman that some very extraordinary things have been done in the name of justice not only in connection with land, but in con- nection with other matters. It has been said. "Justice, what crimes have been committed in thy name!" There are varying degrees of justice. The dividing-line between justice and injustice is a very fine one, and difficult to detect at times. Now, Sir, we have had what 1 call a very mild criticism of this Act at the hands of the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, and I consider he has not by aus means shown that this Act is unnecessary. H. has brought forward arguments that I think can very easily be met, and perhaps the House will pardon me if I refer to a few of them The first argument that he brought forward was this: that every one should be intith d to the freehold, because the freehold was the best tenure. But when he tells us that the freehold leaves the land perfectly free he fails at once into a mistake of a most obvious cha- racter. How can the freehold be absolutel It free to the possessor? Is it not a notorious fact that thereare plenty of people paying a great deal more to the local bodies in rates on their freehold lands than the occupiers of adjacent land holding their leases in perpetuity from the Crown are paying in rent ? In my own district there are a considerable number of 