will bear me out in what I say. Mr. SEDDON .- Was he in the Whip's room, and did he tell you ? Mr. PIRANI .- No, that is not the fact at all. The information came from one of the Premier's own party. Unfortunately, members of the honourable gentleman's party are not so dis- creet as perhaps they should be. However, I say it is improper to ask the House to criticize the intentions of the Bank of New Zealand merely on hearsay evidence. I do not think for a moment the men whom the Government have nominated for the management of the bank would dream of paying a dividend under the present circumstances without statutory au- thority, more especially when they will probably have to come to this House within another two years for a renewal of the large guarantee. We know, of course, it will be impossible under the present circumstances for that large sum to be paid off out of the bank's earnings. It seems to me this is an attempt on the part of the Premier to prejudice the House against the bank. If anything of that sort came from this side of the House the Premier would have been the first to denounce our action. Why, over and over again, I remember the Premier telling the House that if the bank was only left alone, and if members would not criticize it and bring its affairs up in the House and discuss them, it would successfully work out its own destiny. Yet here is an example of the Premier doing what no one has condemned more strongly than he has himself. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .-- Sir, I think the Premier's statement is damaging to the bank. The colony has provided by legislation what the bank has to do, and I understand from what the Premier has said to the House that he proposes to come down with an alteration of the Bank of New Zealand and Banking Act of 1895. Mr. SEDDON .- 1 neither hinted nor said I was going to do anything of the kind. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Then, his statement is per- feetly useless, and has absolutely no meaning. The Legislature has provided exactly what the bank shall do with its profits. In the first place, it is to pay $50,000 a year to the Assets Board ; and in the next place, as specified in the Act. it is to pay 5 per cent. to the shareholders. Mr. SEDDON .- Read the Act. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, I will read it :- " In the first place, in payment of a fixed cumulative sum of fifty thousand pounds per annum, which shall be transferred and paid to the Assets Board. In the next place, in pay- mont to the proprietors of the ordinary shares, who shall have paid all instalments then due of the call directed to be made by section nine hereof, of a dividend not exceeding five pounds per centum per annum on the amounts for the time being paid up by them in respect of such call. And the residue, if any, of such balance shall be paid to the Assets Board." Further on in the Act the Legislature has made similar provision with reference to the guarantee of the deficiency :- Mr. Pirani of the bank left after providing for the said cumulative sum of fifty thousand pounds per annum and for the said dividend not exceeding five pounds per centum per annum to the pro- prietors of the ordinary shares, as mentioned in section 11 hereof." In the first place, then, $50,000 is to be paid to the Assets Board, then 5 per cent. of a divi- dend is to be paid, and the residue is to be paid to the Assets Board. Mr. SEDDON .- No. it is not mandatory. and what are profits must first be decided. Mr. J. ALLEN .- There is absolutely no question about it. Whether the bank has in- timated to the Premier that they are going to pay a dividend or not I do not know, nor do I know whether he is merely making his state- ment on newspaper evidence. He may have accepted the newspaper evidence; and, if so, it is wrong of him to threaten the bank-for it is a threat-that he will prevent the shareholders from receiving any dividend. It is a step that will do a great deal to destroy the good work now being done by those who are building up the bank on a solid basis-a step that will dis- hearten the shareholders, and those who are administering the affairs of the bank. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, one would think the Premier had done something very damaging to the country, because he desired to call attention to that which is simply honest commercial business. If members will read the Act they will see there is nothing to compel the directors to pay a dividend of 5 per cent. Did the honourable gentleman read that in the Act ? The directors may out of the profits do it, if they think fit. I say it will be better not to pay dividends until fall provision is made to meet every contingency. If it was a commercial concern or a company. and it was to be done under the existing law- bearing on companies, the directors woukd be liable. There is no getting behind that fact. Sir, I am not going on newspaper report. The Chairman of the bank, at the last moet. ing but one, made a statement which he afterwards withdrew. and he expressed his regret that, owing to what he had said, a false impression had been created. Now, Sir, w) that that impression might be effaced. I de. liberately made the statement which I did to- day, and there is no threat whatever behind it. There is no intention of bringing in legislation to repeal the Act. as to payment of dividends on the new capital, or to amend it. In respect to what is in the Act, I say the di -- cretionary power is with the directors. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Mr. SEDDON. - I say it is. If mandatory. why has the dividend not been paid the last : wo years, seeing there have been profits ? In reply to what was said by the member for Palmerston. I do not think it is necessary for me to go into personal matters If something of the kind did take place in the Whip's room, which is the drawing-room or the private parlour of members on each side of the House, I say that, no matter 