excursion fares. He was not in favour of in- creasing the single fares, and did not propose to reduce the return fares. The former would cause general dissatisfaction to the travel- ling public, and the latter would result in very considerable loss of revenue. He would further like to add, that, under the existing system, there was a uniformity of railway-fares in this country which was not excelled in any other country in the world, and he thought that to adopt anything in the shape suggested, even if there was a gain, would be very largely discounted by the disadvantages of doing away with the present uniform single-fare system. He might state that he had under considera- tion a proposal to allow single tickets to remain available for the same time as return tickets were formerly available, so that the holders of single tickets could break their journeys until they exhausted the ticket. MOUNT EGMONT RAILWAY. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Minister for Railways, What steps have been and are being taken by the department to extend the railway to Mount Egmont, for the purpose of procuring stone or road-metal to be supplied to local bodies requiring the same ? This ques- tion was a very important one, not only in his district, but, he might say; to the country from Taranaki to Wanganui. It was a well-known fact that at Mount Egmont they had an in- exhaustible supply of metal. He trusted the Minister would assure him that the railway would be made, so that a supply of metal could be supplied to the local bodies at a moderate cost. Sir J. G. WARD) (Minister for Railways) said, At the present time the department had men engaged putting a drive into the rock-face to ascertain the quality of the material available. Until this had been done it would be inadvisable to take any steps to build the line. The matter has not been lost sight of, as the department was quite as anxious to obtain good ballast as the Road Boards can be to obtain road-metal. HARBOUR BOARD CHARGES. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Government, Whether they will, with a view of removing one of the barriers to cheap freights on produce exported, amend the Harbours Act in the direction of making it illegal for a Har- bour Board to levy on shipping a greater aggre- gate charge than would produce to any Harbour Board revenue exceeding 5 per cent. in excess of the cost of administering its Harbourmaster's department ? His reason for asking the question was to endeavour to lighten the burdens on the producers in some parts of the colony. At Port Chalmers the charges on the shipping were an injustice to the producers and also to the working-men of the port. There was an undue proportion of the harbour expenditure paid by the producers, and vessels were limited in their visits to Port Chalmers on account of the heavy charges. The National Dairy Association, in its last annual report, contemplated sending its butter and cheese-the produce of Southland and Otago-to Lyttelton to be shipped there, on account of the irregular visits of the Home steamers consequent upon the heavy charges imposed on shipping at Port Chalmers and Dunedin. In 1900 the revenue collected by the Otago Harbour Board in pilotage, port charges, and towage amounted to £14,302, while the total expenditure of the Harbourmaster's department was £5,202, leaving a balance of $9,100, which was an undue amount for the shippers to pay. To show how ex- ceptionally heavy the charges on shipping were, he would like to mention what the shipping charges on such a vessel as the s.s. " Fifeshire," 3,628 tons, would be at the four principal ports of the colony : At Auckland, 198; Wellington, €64; Lyttelton, €109 ; and Port Chalmers, #238. This showed the great injustice that was done to exporters from Port Chalmers by the heavy port charges there. It not only affected shipping interests, but also the local industries and wharf-labourers. As he had said, the National Dairy Association contem- plated sending their produce to Lyttelton to be shipped. At the same time the report referred to stated : - "That it is a pity to have even to suggest going past our own port, for, as a matter of fact, the way our butter is handled, cared for. and shipped by the Port Chalmers Dock Trust is most praiseworthy in every respect. It is one of the most up-to-date freezing and grading works in the colony." Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) was afraid if he acceded to the honourable gentle- man's request that it would mean bringing in legislation that would place Harbour Boards in an awkward position. His experience was that, speaking generally, Harbour Boards were only too willing, where it could safely be done, to reduce their charges, in order to bring trade to their port. He was pleased to learn that the revenue of the Board referred to was so much It seemed to him in excess of its expenditure. that the point raised was a case for a local Bill, instead of a Bill general in its operations. There were some Boards which had heavy obligations, and they had to be met by charges additional to the ordinary charges If the Government did what the honourable member suggested, it would interfere seriously with the finances of the various Harbour Boards. As he had said, the point raised was one more for a local Bill than for a Bill of a general nature. NORTH ISLAND MAIN TRUNK RAIL- WAY VIADUCTS. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Public Works, When he proposes to call for tenders for the construction of the viaducts beyond Makohino, on the North Island Main Trunk Railway? It was very necessary that this work should be vigorously proceeded with, and there was not a single dissentient in the House as to the importance of the line being completed with the greatest possible speed. In order that that might be done, he thought that the Minister should agree that tenders should be called for the construction of 