member of the Opposition opposes the Govern- ment measures whether they believe in them or not, that very same reason causes the members who are supporters of the Government to sup- port the proposals of the Government whether they believe in them or not ; and the result is that the measures, as they are brought down to the House, are put through the House in the form in which they have been introduced. But when you have got an Opposition which is numeric illy weak you have no longer a struggle in the House for the existence of the Govern- ment. When you have an Opposition that is not organized you have no longer an organized force in this House opposed to the members of the Government, and those who are opposed to a measure honestly oppose it in their speeches, and those who are honestly in favour of a mea- sure honestly support it in their speeches ; while members on the Government side do exactly the same thing. Those who are opposed to a measure can freely criticize it, and the result is that the weaker and weaker the Op- position is numerically the more criticism you get of the Government measures, and the more these measures are allowed to be altered when they are in Committee. There- fore, instead of an Opposition that is not organized this year leading to an absence of criticism of the Government measures, and causing those measures not to be altered in Committee, I venture to say that this year there will be more criticism of the Government measures than has taken place at times when those honourable gentlemen were organized ; and you will find that the measures them- selves, when in Committee, will undergo a greater amount of change than they would have undergone had these honourable gentle- men been organized and double the strength they are at the present time. In regard to the local - government measure which has been brought down this year, apparently, from the proposals which have been submitted to us, the original scheme of recasting the local autho- rities of the colonies has been largely departed from, and we are going to have a consolidating measure, practically dealing with the County Councils, and perhaps extending their juris- diction, and doing away with a lot of smaller bodies. I think, on the whole, that this is an improvement on the original proposals. In the South we have found the county system work very well ; and in the North there is a tendency to go in more for Road Boards than County Councils, and to cut up the very large areas which are now under their control. I am not, myself, certain what the reason is which causes Road Boards to be so popular in the North and the County Councils in the South. Our Road Boards in Southland and in the southern districts are gradually being reduced in num- ber, and their places are being taken by the County Councils. But even in connection with the existence of the counties them- selves a great number of improvements could be made. Where you have a large county which covers an immense area of coun- try you have ridings which in many cases are very much larger than some of our northern counties, and I think it would be a very wise thing if, in connection with these very large ridings, we had more than one representative. It is too much to ask a man to look after a riding - especially where there are no Road Boards-that may be forty or fifty miles long by ten or fifteen miles wide, or perhaps eight or nine miles wide. That is far too great an area of country to be covered ; and it would be a great improvement, I think, with regard to our County Council system, if, in connection with the large counties, at any rate, the number of representatives of the ridings was very mate- rially increased. Then, there is the question to consider as to whether the County Councils are taking upon themselves increased functions or the reverse. From our experience in the past we know that our local bodies failed in a great number of different directions. The Legislature of the country has had to take from them slaughtering and inspection, owing to the de- plorable condition in which the slaughter- houses all over the colony had fallen when inspected by the local authorities. Then, there is the important question of the public health. I venture to say that the administration of the public health throughout the colony with regard to the local authorities has mainly caused the alteration in our policy in that direction last year, and the centralising of it at the Empire City. There is no doubt that that applies to the boroughs and to the local bodies generally ; and I think, when we find that these abuses have cropped up in the administration of the local authorities, this House might well inquire whether there may not be some cause underlying all this. Is it because that under the present system of election of representatives to these local bodies the greatest qualification of a candidate for elec- tion is that he will pledge himself to keep down the rates? That is what I believe, myself. is largely the cause of this weakness on the part of the local bodies. You will see, when the local bodies in my district send up their objec- tions to the Counties Bill, that they desire that the local bodies should be shorn of every function which they have at the present time, except the solitary duty of making roads and bridges. And even in regard to the making of roads and bridges they will be very pleased indeed if the Government collected all the money necessary for the construction, and handed it over to the local bodies to expend. Well, it is very important for the House to con- sider whether this difficulty might not be met by altering the franchise in connection with these local bodies, by doing away with the plural voting and by extending the electors within their boundaries. There is no reason, for instance, why local bodies which have had to do with the question of public health should depend for their election upon one-fifth or one. tenth of the people in the district. Every person is interested in the question of public health, and there are many duties which local bodies still carry out that you may say affect the interests of every person inside their districts. 