the B list. And this brings to my mind the nature of the present Companies Act, and I will just say a few words upon this. I have looked through that Act and the amend- ing Act. and have been unable to discover any process by which any one can get any informa- tion or can bring about a closing-up of the winding-up. There is no process by which it can be done, either under a winding-up under the supervision of the Court or a winding-up by Therefore we have got into the Court itself. the position now that the liquidators, unless the Judge himself impresses on them that they must at once close or give satisfactory reasons why they do not, can go on for years until the thing gets out of memory, the shareholders die, and all public interest is lost ; but for all that such an unsatisfactory condition of matters can always be raked up. to the detriment of the credit of the commercial community. I think I have almost said all I have to say ; but I should like to impress on honourable members that many a poor private trader has got into difficulties to the extent of $200 or $300, and has been worried and forced through the Insolvency Court, and his affairs discussed and exposed ; and therefore we should not lightly leave a . great institution like this in the hands of gentlemen who are supposed to have had good commercial experience, who have long · been known -and favourably known -. without any kind of investigation whatever, when we see how unsatisfactory the whole position is. I say the circumstances of the case demand that the Government should, in the interests of the people of this colony, in the interests of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the shareholders of the bank, in the interests of the State itself, and in the interests of the liquidators, demand that those who have now had the whole dealings of the bank in their hands for five years should be compelled to show that they have, in an expert manner and with commercial ability, gone into the affairs of the bank with zeal for the interests of shareholders by using all proper despatch in winding up the bank's assets ; or, on the other hand, suffer the consequences of lack of proper interest and proper supervision over the great charge they have had in their hands. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- Sir, in second- ing the motion I beg to convey my thanks to the honourable gentleman for the noble manner in which he has stood up in the Council to advo- cate the claims of the unfortunate shareholders of this bank. Of course. I am perfectly aware i tonished that the Supreme Court in Dunedin that legally the Minister of Education is per- ! should allow such delays as we have been fectly justified in declining to give any other : informed about this afternoon to exist and answer to the honourable gentleman than the : accentuate. The Supreme Court in Punede one he did give. But, at the same time, con- sidering how intimately the Government is connected with the Bank of New Zealand, what , Court of conscience and equity in matters of authority it has over that bank, and the inti- mate business transactions and relations there were between the Bank of New Zealand and the Colonial Bank arising from the sale of the latter to the former. I do think the Government might strain a point and do something to assist the un- fortunate shareholders of the Colonial Bank, of whom I am one. I think, on the ground of public to say something on this matter. The arralat interest and public morality, the Goverment should do something in this matter. It would be useless for me, even were I able to do so. to go into figures in connection with this liquidation. Mr. Lee Smith seems to be completely ccr- versant with them ; he has the whole thing at his fingers' ends, and I am only afraid ail Le told us on the subject is true, and. possi.h. there may be even something worse in the background. I am in the same unfortunate position as many- indeed. most - - of the share. holders-that is, in absolute ignorance of what is going on. We are absolutely without the means of knowing what is going on. Mr. Ice Smith is a man of business, which I. unfortu- nately. am not. He has the advantage of livas in the South Island I believe, in Dunedin - which I have not. Living in this Island, and not mixing with men of business, I am quite in the dark as to what is going on in reference to this liquidation. The other day, just before I came to Wellington. I saw in y me new-pour that there would be a final dividend, as the result of the liquidation, of about 1s. per share. Even this I know nothing about. I do not know on whose authority it appeared in the paper ; it might have come from the liquidators or from the man in the street : but that is what I saw in the paper. There the matter stands so far as I am concerned : I am in perfect ignorance of how the liquidator, are going on. It has been said that the Supreme Court might be moved in the matter. but that would be a most serious and difficult affair. Unless we can prove the liquidators are not doing their duty, unless we can prove malvena- tion on their part, what is the use of taking the matter into the Supreme Court ? Then, there Is the expense. and I suspect the lawyers have got enough of the shareholders' money ont of this liquidation already. I could not do it single- handed. however much I might be inclined to join others in moving in the matter; but it would require a great deal of evidence in sup- port of such a charge against the liquidators. So the matter stands. I think every member of the Council, whether he is a shareholder or not, ought to thank the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith for what he has told us to-day. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I am sorry to say I cannot say more than I did last year. It is a very difficult matter for the Government to pretend to take up a private question of this kind. At the same time I must say I am as- has assumed a very high standard of com- mercial morality, and claims to be a special bankruptcy proceedings; and that it -hall allow these transactions to be protracted ist matter of astonishment to me. But I am -orry to say the Goverment is quite unable to take action in the matter. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .-- Sir. if the Conned will bear with me a few moments I shand like 