throughout the school districts -- that is to say, that in the larger centres provision is made for imparting physical and military drill, but in the outlying districts no such provision is made. I am also aware of the fact that it has been urged as a reason why this has not been done, that funds are not avail- able. I take it that if this measure is passed it will be a direction from this House to the Government to provide the necessary funds for this purpose to the different Education Boards. It will require a very small sum to make provision to meet this want. It is not necessary for me to take up the time of the House any further in adducing argu- ments or giving reasons why it is necessary that children attending State schools should be taught drill, both military and physical. I think every one will admit that it is a very good thing for the children to be taught discipline. and that they should learn to obey orders ; also, that they should be trained and brought up so that afterwards, when they leave school. they may become the nucleus from which our cadet and Volunteer corps can be formed. The Bill provides that instruction shall be given to all children over the age of eight years. It also provides that the Boards of Education shall make regulations, subject to the approval of the Governor in Council, for the purpose of impart- ing this instruction to the boys and girls ; also as to the time and places where that instruc- tion shall be imparted. Provision is also made that out of the vote for Native schools the Minister of Education shall provide for giving a similar training to the children at tending the Native schools. There is also a clause to meet what I may term the conscien- tious objections of some persons to having their children taught military drill. Those people, I am happy to say, are very few in the colony ; but I can see no objection to making provision in the Bill that, on the certificate of a parent or guardian, their children shall be entitled to ex- emption from the provisions of this Act. This Bill was read a second time last session and taken through Committee ; but, unfortunately, it was not called upon in sufficient time before twelve o'clock in the evening to be read a third time. I hope I shall have the support of the Minister in charge of the Education Depart- ment, as he must know there is a strong feel- ing throughout the colony that there should be a uniform system of teaching both military and physical drill to all the scholars attending the public schools. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I think the Bill is a very valuable one, and I may say I myself moved in a similar direction on a pre- vious occasion. But. Sir, I consider the weak- ness of the Bill is contained in clause 6. because you might find, perhaps, the parents in the colony would prefer to see their children grow up stunted, or, at any rate, exempted from physical drill. I consider, if you are going to establish a system of drill, it ought to be com- pulsorv throughont. I think it essential that all children should be drilled. It gives them a Mr. Guinness is healthy in its influences. It will also farm the nucleus of an army in the country, which, should occasion unfortunately arise for our people defending themselves, would be of inti- nite value. An Hon. MEMBER .- Some of the children may be physically incarable. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - That is quite a different matter. You can casily adjust that, and exempt such frem service : but if a person has conscientious scruples against his child- ren -being properly trained, I think honourable members will hardly agree to exempt them. Mr. FOWLDS ( Auckland City ). - - I quite agree with the proposition that the children attend- ing our schools should be drilled physically and in military movements, but I dissent entirely from what has fallen from the last speaker, the honouralle member for Waihemo, that the weak- ness of this Bill is contained in clause 6. Wedo not want in this colony that tyrannical sprt which will refuse to recognise the conscientious scruples of any members of the community. There are people in this country who believe that anything that tends to promote a mihtary spirit is wrong in principle. It is a religious conviction with those people. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh ! Mr. FOWLDS .- I say it would be just as wrong for this House to insist that the children of such people should be compelled to underco military drill as it would be to insist on any particular form of religion being taught to the children in our schools. I do not believe ier one moment that half the children in the colony would have exemption claimed for them : but, if such were the case. it would mean that the majority of the people were not in favour of this Bill, which would only be an additional reason why they should be exempted. Sir. I deplore the growing spirit of tyranny that would trample on the conscientious scruples of people who hold opinions differing from our own. The convictions of every man against anything which he thinks tends to promote a military spirit have a right to be respected. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- Sir, with regard to the remarks of the last speaker, I would remind him that the de :!! referred to in the Bill is both physical and military drill, and I am sure he will recognise that physical drill is an advantage to both girls and boys. At the present time in most of cur schools the boys and girls are taught physical exercises, and it must be manifest to every che that it develops their physical qualities, and that that must be an advantage to the gerera- tions to come. But, when referring to military drill, I must confess that, like the last speaker. I would respect the scruples of those who wor'd not wish to have their children forced to mii :- tarv education. But, Sir, the intreducer of t !. 5 Bill is to be commended, because he is actuated by the same spirit we have all felt in recent times ; and we all recognise that it would be an advantage to this colony that our boys shon'd receive some military training. What they | acquire in their earlier years will never be fer- 