ling in the district, and this clause 5 will have { in the North Island, of making their vehicles the effect of putting a stop to it. Then, under clause 6, it will be necessary for any person before obtaining a license to prove that he is of good character. He will have to satisfy the local authorities to that effect by obtaining a certificate of character signed by I think it will be admitted by four ratepayers. honourable members that this is a very wise provision indeed. Then, in clauses 7, 8, and so on, we have different forms of licenses and fees. and it states also how those fees are to be paid, and what fines and penalties are to be imposed. All these fees, fines, and penalties become part of the revenue of the local bodies. Clause 14, I think, will be admitted to be a very important clause also. It prevents pedlars and hawkers from hawking spirituous liquors about. Now, it is a well-known fact that in some of the back districts on the back roads, if you meet one of these men and make yourself known to him there is no difficulty in getting a glass of grog from him on the payment of a certain sum of money. This is most injurious, and a curse to the district, and I have included in that clause a heavy penalty to prevent a repetition of such a state of things as that. The clause says :- " If fermented or spirituous liquor is at any time being hawked or carried about by any one holding a license under this Act, such person shall, on conviction, be liable to a penalty not exceeding twenty pounds, or three months' im- prisonment with or without hard labour, and his license shall be declared null and void." He will not be able to obtain a license again for any purpose in the country. Clause 15 also sets out clearly the duties of the commercial https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 traveller. The definition is here given as be- tween a commercial traveller and a pedlar and hawker. It is well known that some of the commercial houses make their travellers no better than a pedlar and hawker, and they go round with goods and are prepared to sell small samples of goods to any one willing to buy them. I think that is wrong, and if a com- mercial traveller is found doing this without a license he is made liable to a penalty. Clause 16 defines who shall issue these licenses :- "The license issued by each local authority shall only extend to the district issuing the license, and not to any other district." Each district shall have the revenue deriv- able from the issue of the licenses, and it shall apply to that district alone. A person travel- ling from one county to another must get a license from each county. The schedule clearly points out the form of application and the form of license to be issued by the local autho- rity, and also the fees to be paid. I do not · think it is necessary for me to detain the House longer. Honourable members will see that the Bill is very plain and simple and easily under- stood, and I therefore move the second reading. Mr. TANNER (Avon). - The honourable gentleman will not, I am sure, object to a few words of criticism with regard to the Bill. I admit he has made out a fairly good case with regard to a certain class of peripatetic hawkers, some of whom are alleged to be in the habit, travelling unlicensed publichouses. That is an evil which requires checking, and if the Bil does any good in that direction it is perhate desirable that some of its provisions should be passed. I have also every sympathy with the honourable member in trying to place under some regulation the multitude of Assyrians who are continually travelling about the colors. But I have several objections to the Bill in its present form. I think it is somewhat idl-cca- sidered, and it comes at once into conflict with what the House did last year on this subject in the Municipal Corporations Bill. Last year we arrived at a decision to the effect that in a borough a certain license-fee, not exceeding el annually, could be charged by the Borough Com- cil, but that certain forms of goods-articles of food, et cetera-could be hawked free. This Bill, if made applicable to both boroughs and counties, overrides what we did last year, did it will commence again the confusion which prevailed before the municipal law was codina .. We have all thought that the municidl law would be found gathered together within the four corners of last year's Act, but, if this course which the honourable member has initiated is followed, we shall soon again have five-and-twenty Acts containing municipal law. For my own part, I do not wish to give any opposition to the Bill if the honourable gentle- man will indicate his willingness to make it applicable to counties only, and leave top boroughs under the Act of last year. I wish also to call attention to the scale of fees in the schedule, and to point out how unfair it is and how oppressive it may be made. The Bill pro vides that a pedlar and hawker shall pay a license-fee up to #4 per annum, whereas a com. mercial traveller gets off with 10s. The two statements only need putting side by side to set how unfair they are. We talk of giving en- couragement to our New Zealand producers -- those who are anchored to the soil-and vet if this Bill is passed in its present form it will play into the hands of those who at the present time are engaged in teaching the producers that this Government is distinctly inimical to ther interests-at any rate, if the Government is c: inimical to their interests, these people nay conclude that the House is. If a man i s small market-gardener in a county or borough. and loads up his cart with two hundred cas- bages and attempts to vend and sell them. ba has to pay $4 under this Bill for the privile of doing so. Now turn to the commercel traveller. He moves about the country on the payment of a los. license per annum, and hei engaged in the selling of silks, broadcloth, and all manner of general merchandise, and it amount of his orders in the course of a w. would represent more than the profit- of a farmer's farm for a whole season. Yet he ? be let off with 10s. a vear. Surely the Hon. the Minister for Railways will remember that. when by Act of Parliament we imposed a license-tre on commercial travellers who were non-New Zealanders, protests were lodged by the agent of Peak. Freen, and Co., the biscuit-makers in - 