locomotive engines, and other things, was very much cheaper than the cost in the colony ; and I beg to assure my honourable friend that very strong opinions were expressed by honourable members against ordering anything from the people of the colony when it was going to cost more, on account of the protection required to be imposed to enable it to be made in the colony as cheap as it could be imported for ; that was the argument they used against the bolstering- up of our colonial industry. Why, it is a fact that they declaimed against the protection ; that, they said, should not be needed. I hold strongly that we should make all our own rolling-stock -engines included - within the colony. Of course, honourable members have been rather fastidious about this matter of ordering railway-cars from outside the colony, because naturally their constituents are anxious to see such work done in the colony ; but on account of the rapid growth of traffic on our railways, if we had not given the order ahead for a certain number of locomotives, we could not have been able at this time to inform the House definitely that, with a vote to extend the shops and provide machinery, all the work would in future be done in the colony, including locomotive engines. We require to make proper and thorough provision in the colony for making all our locomotive engines, and for rebuilding existing locomotives. We must make provision for building ten new loco- motives every year, and this quite apart from any repairs, or rebuilding existing engines. We intend to do so. That is the principle upon which we are going; but unless. we had had sufficient supplies to enable us to commence, we could not have made, for the first time in our colony's history, a complete stoppage of all orders from beyond our colony for the future. We could not up to now run the risk of allow- ing the railways to be short of locomotive- power, carriages, or wagons, keenly and naturally as we desired to have the work done in the colony itself. Honourable members have seen what has been going on over our railways in the colony during the Royal visit. There was not a single locomotive engine-although we had the increased engine-power-available and fit for work in the colony that was not at work within the three- or four-week period to which I have referred. Upon the Auckland Section of railways there was engine after engine drawing trains over their ordinary capacity, and if we had not made provision with extra engines and cars we could not have successfully coped with the business on the Auckland Section itself. Not only did we have the sixty-three new cars to help to carry the people on the New Zealand railways during the time to which I have referred, not only did we have to use high-sided and low-sided trucks, but for the first time in the history of the colony-and, I think, for the first time in the history of the world-we used frozen-meat trucks for the purpose of carrying We took off the freezing-doors human beings. and put on half-doors, and the people travelled in these cars. It was not the warmest weather either ; but fortunately, the Government cannot Sir :formula: :formula: Ward be accused of using the freezing rolling-stock for the freezing of their own people. I tell honourable members that that was done, and the people who travelled in them were exceed- ingly comfortable. It gives some idea of the demand for rolling-stock, and will, I feel sure, convince even the most critical that in dealing with a great concern like our railways you require to view the whole surroundings, and not take a narrow view, in order to judge fairly and impartially of the position. The officers of the Railway Department-the General Man- ager, the Chief Engineer, the Locomotive Superintendent, the Traffic Managers, the District Engineers, the Stationmasters, the drivers, and the rank and file of the rail- way-men-are deserving of the very highest credit for the manner in which they have managed the railway-work of the last three months. And I say that not as my own opinion alone, but as the expressed opinion of men who have had experience of the carriage of large numbers of people in other parts of the world. Nothing more creditable has been done than was done upon our New Zealand railways during the time to which I refer. Now, Sir, one word about the cost of locomotives. Those that we have got built in the colony run into about $4,100 each. The cost of those imported from Great Britain was #3,300 each, and those from America £2,400 each. My own belief-and I think I am perhaps not far out in saying it- is that if we get proper appliances, have the proper machinery, and devote ourselves to making the whole of the engines we require in New Zealand, we should be able to reduce the cost by possibly $500; and it is worth the cost that would be incurred in procuring the neces- sary machinery and appliances in the keeping in the country of the money that would otherwise go outside the country if we procured foreign- made locomotives and cars. Now, for the in- formation of honourable members-I do not wish to keep anything from the House-I may say that the number of engines that we have on the water, and to arrive within the next eighteen months or two years from the outside, amounts to thirty-five. I tell honourable members that if the House this session gives us the necessary authority we will not require to order any more locomotives, carriages, or rolling-stock from out- side. We will do it all ourselves. By inereas- ing the workshops in the different parts of the colony, and by putting on additional men. we shall be able to keep the whole of this work within the colony. But I do take a most de- cided objection to an assumption on the part of any individual member of this House, or any people outside this House, that they and they alone want to keep the work in the country. The Government has been just as anxious to keep this work in the country as any honourable member ; but my predecessor would not have been justified in asking the House to provide for fifteen hundred or so of rolling-stock, and twenty-five, or thirty, or forty locomotives. unless he had reasonable grounds for be- lieving that the extraordinary growth of traffic that was then evident, and which he had 