thanks for the congratulations which have been tendered to me personally. I have all along felt that whatever honour came to me it came to me simply because I was in the position of being able to do a certain duty to the public. Ever since I came to the colony I felt that I should be doing only what I was called upon to do in accepting any honour which came to me in the discharge of public business. I have been exceedingly fortunate all through my public life in meeting with gentlemen who always have been more generous than I can describe ; and if the last few years of my life have been cast in the Legislative Council, I can only say that they have been exceedingly plea- sant ones, and that I have met with more generous treatment here than I know I have deserved ; and I have felt that whatever I have been able to do has been as the result of that kindness which generous men always extend to those connected with the transaction of public business. I can assure you that I feel very proud indeed on having been the recipient of this honour, and still more proud that it has given so much pleasure to my friends in all parts of the colony. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I would like to make a personal explanation. When I spoke on the Hon. Mr. Feldwick's motion I was misled by some newspaper, and made a mis- take. I was under the impression that you, Sir, had been created a Knight of St. Michael and St. George, but I now find that the honour of Knight Bachelor has been conferred upon you. I beg now to congratulate you upon it, and I also congratulate the Order on whose roll your name is so honourably inscribed. # DEFENCE DEPARTMENT. The Hon. Colonel PITT, in moving, That there be laid on the table of the Council a re- turn showing the rank and names of the several officers upon the staff of the Commandant of the Forces of this colony, and likewise upon the staffs of the respective officers commanding dis tricts ; such return to show the date of appoint. ment of each such staff officer, the amount of his salary, and what his duties are. said,-I desire to say that I think the information asked for in that return, if it is granted, will be of very great service to Parliament in dealing with the ques- tion of defence when it comes before either House during the present session. Honourable gentlemen will recollect that last session a Joint Committee on defence was set up, and certain recommendations were made involving our recommending the expenditure of large sums of money which the colony and the Parlia- ment cheerfully appropriated for that purpose. One of the principal matters recommended by that Committee was that the staff in the differ- ent districts in the colony should be properly organized. It was felt at that time that there was practically no organization of the district staffs, and, indeed, that the headquarters staff, too, required reorganization to a very great extent. Very large sums of money were voted for these purposes, and also for equipping and putting the Volunteer Forces of the colony upon a sounder basis. Now, Sir, I think I am safe in saying that defence, if it is taken in hand seriously, is an expensive department for the colony, but per- haps not more expensive than such a depart- ment deserves to be ; but it is no use taking the subject of defence in hand spasmodically : it requires to be taken in hand seriously and systematically, and if the defence of the colony is to be properly administered, one thing more than another necessary is to have an efficient and properly organized staff. Now, I think I am right in saying that little or nothing almost has been done since last session in the way of organizing the staff of the different dis tricts under commanding officers throughout the colony. The various salaries were voted for officers who are proper for these staffs, but. as far as I can hear, nothing has been done in respect to the appointment of the necessary staff officers. It is quite true. I believe, that numerous appointments have been made to the staff of the Commandant of the Forces here at headquarters in Wellington, and I for one am anxious to know what these appointments have been, and what the duties are of the staff officers who have been so appointed. I think there must be something wrong in the constitution of that staff when it is possible, as is actually the fact, that some dis- tricts in this colony have not been inspected at all for at least two years. Now, that is a state of things which should not be allowed, and there must be something wrong in the organi- zation of the Defence staff for such a state of things to be. One matter which was strongly insisted upon by the Defence Committee last year was . the establishment of schools of instruction in the four centres at least of this colony for the instruction of the officers of the different Volunteer corps. That recommenda- tion was accepted by Parliament, and money was cheerfully voted by both Houses for the establishment of such schools of instruction. Almost immediately after Parliament was pro- rogued last session, a commandant of the school of instruction was appointed, at the salary of $400 a vear; but nothing else whatever seem- to have been done since. That officer, as far as I know, still performs the duties of stad officer to the Officer Commanding the Forces. He was not appointed for that purpose, how- ever. The officer was originally brought from England as one of the adjutants which the officers commanding the districts at the four centres were intended to have; but I believe his work to-day is that of a staff officer to the Officer Commanding the Forces. The theory of the scheme of the staff was, as far as districts were concerned. that each officer com- manding a district should have an adjutant, to be brought from England : but, whether he was to be brought from England or appointed from among the colonial officers, no such appoint. ments have been made, excepting. I think. it one instance. At all events, the return which I have asked for will give information which will be extremely valuable to Parliament. 1 hope there will be no objection to the return being made, and if we get it within a reasonable 