Mr. SEDDON .- No, no. Mr. GRAHAM .- I mean the Minister of Lands. I do not mean any Minister. If the Minister of Lands so directs it must be done, and I suppose that really means the Premier. I think that clause is wrong. There are many young men in the colony who are judicious and careful enough to desire to prepare a home be- fore marrying or incurring the responsibility of a family. Why should such young men be pre- vented from having at least an equal chance with those who are married ; and I think if it had to be that married men should get the pre- ference, I think it ought to be required that they should have resided in the colony for some time. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will you not go further and say that a man with five children shall have preference over one with none ? Mr. GRAHAM .- According to the Bill the Minister would have power to direct that a man with not one child, or even a wife, may-but only in his discretion-have priority over those with five or even fifteen children. Mr. . EDDON. That is a matter of regula- tions. Mr. GRAHAM. - I do hope the Premier will realise that clause 8 is so objectionable that he himself will move to amend it very. consider- sand or five thousand acres. I know of several ably in Committee or strike it out of the Bill altogether. If he does not, I hope the mem- bers of the House will themselves, in the inter- ests of the settlement of the country and of the people, take steps to prevent such objectionable clauses as clauses 6 and 8 passing into law without very material amendment. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I agree with the speaker who has just sat down, and also with the member for Kaiapoi, in their condem- nation of clause 8, where it is laid down that married men are to have preference in taking up land in this colony. Sir, in my district-and I am now, I confess, speaking for my own part of the colony-I may say this : The great desire of the people is that the young men should settle upon the land and make homes for them- selves, and afterwards gather a family around them when they have made provision for that family by going on the land. And I entirely agree with the words that have fallen from the honourable member for Nelson City, when he condemns utterly this idea of giving power to the Minister to say who shall or who shall not be accepted as coming under the working of this clause. It is perfectly plain it is so in- tended, as has been already emphasized by the honourable member for Nelson City ; and let me emphasize it once again by quoting the clause in question : " In disposing of land by way of lease the Board shall, unless directed to the contrary by the Minister, give preference to mar- ried men with families." Clearly that leaves it in the hands of the Minister to say whether or hot a preference shall be given to the married man. I say distinctly that no preference what- soever of that kind should be given. We want to see the young men of the country settled on the land of the country. We want to see them making homes for themselves and remaining in sentee estates. this country. We do not want them, as they too often have to do at the present time, put- ting "bluey " on their backs and travelling out of their own districts and ultimately out of the colony altogether. Many of the young men who have come back from South Africa tell me that, although they do not care about going back to have another "cut in "-as they term it-they are prepared to go back to settle in South Africa, " because," they say, " there is a better oppor- tunity for us there." If that is so, I say it is a reflection, a very grave reflection indeed, upon this country and the Government of this coun- try. If after having made use of these young men we refuse to them the opportunity of settling on the land, and in that way keep here the bone and muscle and very heart. blood, as it were, of this colony. we shall be doing a gross act of injustice. Now, Sir, some reference has been made, also by the honourable member for Nelson City, to the question of the cutting- up of lands -- that is to say, the natural division of property amongst the members of a family -- and I must say that I sympathize very much indeed with the remarks that have fallen from that honourable member, and for this reason : In various parts of the country there are men with families who own, say, four thou- families in that position. Well, since the land referred to was subdivided, after the father's death, the members of the family who are there at the present time have from three thousand five hundred to five thou- sand acres apiece. Now, they themselves have got families growing up, and in course of time they will naturally subdivide their pre- sent holdings, and the sons of these families will, in their turn, become the owners of not more than, at the very outside, a thousand acres of land apiece. Now, I say this mode of subdividing property is perfectly in keeping with the desire of any honest man to see the land in New Zealand thoroughly well settled. It is the proper way of subdividing property. So long as the aggregation of large estates does not continue, I say it is a good thing that the sons of these settlers should ultimately become the possessors of small es- tates, where many years ago comparatively large estates were held by one individual. I say, therefore, before we touch the men who have got four thousand and five thousand acres let us deal with the men who have thirty thousand acres, and-as we unfortunately have in this country-men with even one hundred thousand acres. These are the men who ought to be first molested in their occupa- tion of the soil, before we ever think of deal- ing with those men who have only got four thousand or five thousand acres, and have sons and daughters growing up who will only in part become the possessors of those estates. An Hon. MEMBER .- Especially companies. Mr. HORNSBY. - Yes, " especially com- panies " ; and more especially those people who live out of the country. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The owners of ab- 