cil. Sir, I have time after time protested against the Government allowing matters to drift in this manner, but all protests seem ineffective, and probably the best course to adopt is simply to drop the question of local government altogether, and allow things to go. No line of policy has been laid down. I consider the Government alone responsible for that, for with the exception of printing a cumbrous Bill year after year, and laying it before the House, not the slightest effort has been made to pass it into law. I do not profess to be acquainted with the particular circum- stances dealt with in this Bill. I have no opposition to offer to it in fact, I am inclined the other way -- but I do wish to impress on the Government the necessity of either doing some- thing in regard to local governing matters, or assuring the House that they intend to drop the question indefinitely. Sir J. G. WARD) (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, no doubt the subject of local government is one in which members from all parts of the colony take a deep interest, but I think I may say without giving offence that city members, who have every convenience in the way of local administration in their towns, Municipalities, Drainage Boards, and other local bodies, might allow a country member who introduces a Bill, and who is familiar with the effect the proposed legislation will have on his district, to, at any rate, take the sense of the House on the measure he introduces. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Neither of us is a city member. Sir J. G. WARD .- I think the honourable member lives in the City of Christchurch, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 his 'constituency is next door to it, and I am sure he would not deny to the people of the country equal rights in the matter of self- government with the cities. He cannot blame them for coming to the House and asking such a request as is contained in this measure. Mr. TANNER .- My district is more rural than urban. Sir J. G. WARD,-Well, that may be so; but, at any rate, it is an advanced district in regard to every-day conveniences. It seems to me that the question raised by the member for Riccarton, as to whether or not the introduction of this Bill will affect the larger proposals of the Counties Bill, is a matter that is quite beside the question. If the Counties Bill, which is now before the Conference for con- sideration and deliberation, is carried into operation, there is no reason why such a pro- posal as is contained in the honourable mem- ber for Pahiatua's Bill should not be made to reduce the area of the existing county in that part of the colony. The provisions of the main Act could still be applied to the new-created county, as it would be to any of the older counties. I may say that Road Boards which cover smaller areas than County Councils have in many places done as good work as many of the County Councils, and when a progres- sive district, such as that represented by the honourable member for Pahiatua, proposes to have a reduction of a large county, with a view to having smaller districts to control its roads and bridges and other matters. I consider that those who make such a proposal. possessing as they do local knowledge of the district concerned, should at least be credited with desiring to work in the best interests of their district, and it seems to me that to grant such a request as is contained in the measure now before us would not be against the pro- visions of the larger Bill. Unless the necessity existed the representative of the district would not ask for the Bill. and, as far as the Govern- ment is concerned, we shall give him every assistance, as we would give any other member of the House who asked for legislation that ix regarded to be for the benefit of people in any particular part of the colony. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .-- Sir, I should like to make a few remarks in reply to the honour- able member for Avon and the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton. It is remarkable what an interest these two gentlemen take in measures that are introduced by a country representative affecting the interest of country districts. As a matter of fact, I have already told the honour. able gentlemen that there is in this proposed new county an area of 110,000 acres. I should like to see either of those two honourable mem- bers travel over that area in the winter-time. If they did so, I feel sure that when they came back to the House they would say there was a necessity for the local body proposed in the The necessities of the district de- district. mand it. The people have unanimously asked that it should be provided. Mr. TANNER .-- We have not opposed it. Mr. O'MEARA .- No ; but you are trying to kill it with kindness, like a mother bear that hugs her offspring to suffocation. As far as ibe district is concerned, there are at present four Road Boards in it. These Boards would be completely wiped out, and the object of wiping them out is simply to save the money of the taxpayers in this part of the colony-the money they now pay to keep those institutions going. I have no more to say, except that I hope the House will see its way to pass the Bill unami- mously. Bill read a second time. INVERCARGILL RESERVES LEASING BILL. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) .- Sir. in moving the second reading of this Bill, I may say it i very simple in its nature. The object of the measure is to confer power on the Invercarga! Borough Council to lease the land referred to and described in the schedule. In 18-3 this property was vested by Order in Council in the Invercargill Borough Council in trust for a ste for a pound. The land has not been used for a pound, and is now not required for that pur- pose, but being vested in the Council for à specific purpose-that is to say, for a pound -- it cannot be used for any other purpose. The Council consequently now ask for power & lease the land and to collect the rents and pre- fits arising from such lease, which revenue stai form part of the district funds of the borough. 