sons recorded as having been fined, and if the | was a but thinly veiled fault-finding with the words "for conscientiously refusing" were struck out the return would be of no service at all. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said it would be a very difficult thing for a Magistrate to decide whether any man " conscientiously refused " or did not " conscientiously " refuse to have his child vaccinated. According to the letter which had been read to the Council, the Magistrate appeared to have decided that the man's objec- tion was not conscientious, and therefore to have fined him. It seemed to him to be an extraordinary, and, in fact, a preposterous, state of things. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN did not think they need have much sympathy with these people. They had power under the Act now under cer- tain circumstances to get freed from the neces- sity for vaccination. He had seen it reported that after an epidemic in a place all these conscientious gentlemen left their conscientious objections in the background and got their children and themselves vaccinated very soon ; and glad they were to get it done too. Their conscience then went by the board. He was quite sure vaccination was a necessity when an epidemic arose, and no one would see that neces- sity quicker than the honourable gentleman himself and those who objected to vaccination. And why should there be any complaint from these people, when, as he said, they had under the Act at present a certain process provided by means of which they could obtain relief? He thought that was sufficient. He considered this objection to vaccination was an objection that would not hold good for one moment. Were we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to have an epidemic of smallpox in New Zea land-and we had seen that it was not very far from us lately-these conscientious objectors would be ready enough to take the alarm. At any rate, that disease was in the other colonies, and, as people were coming here regu- larly from "the other side," he thought it was a very necessary precaution that people should be vaccinated. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said that he did not object to the motion, but he must protest against the idea of allowing people to be care- less of the duty of having their children vac- cinated, and the community being liable to suffer in consequence. The child was not only the child of its parents, but the child of the State as well. The child had to be protected, and he thought they had gone quite far enough in affording means of relief to so called consci- entious objectors. It appeared to him that the man referred to by the Hon. Mr. Jennings had neglected to have his child vaccinated, and had therefore broken the law, and on this text they had had a dissertation to the Council that he should not obey the law. He had no sympathy with that sort of thing. As the Public Health Act of last year had made ample provision for conscientious parents to obtain exemption cer- tificates, neglect to do so, of course, involved the usual penalty under the Act. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND said he believed that in the Hon. Mr. Jennings's motion there Act of 1876. While entertaining a limited be- lief in the necessity for such an Act, he thought it was true that under certain circumstances vaccination might become a very dangerous operation. Still, for all that, he would not vote for the repeal of that Act were such a proposal before the Council. He could not close his eyes to the fact that cases of smallpox in the Old Country had diminished wonderfully in the last few years. He could remember, when he was a schoolboy, at the school he attended there were 270 boys, and it struck him even then, at that early age, how many boys there were in that school pitted with smallpox. Not only that, but in walking about the streets of London he used to notice also the number of faces, many of them undoubtedly at one time beautiful faces, of people marred by this terrible disease. Now, however, it was very rarely indeed that one met with a case of the kind ; but he believed that the diminution of cases of smallpox in England was mainly owing to the great improvement in sanitary arrangements. The streets of London were much cleaner now, and he believed, as a rule, the houses were cleaner than they were in those days. Personal cleanliness also was attended to more than it used to be. If, therefore, it were proposed to repeal the Act of 1876 he would not be found supporting such repeal. While opposed to com- pulsory vaccination, he thought it was wise to keep the Act on the statute-book, so that it might be held not exactly in terrorem, but in readiness to meet any occasion of an outbreak of smallpox at any time, which God forbid we should ever see in this colony. The Act would be ready to put in force, and to prevent the spread of this terrible scourge to the human race. The Hon. Mr. BOLT could not see the object of having a return of this sort. Last year he thought, when the Public Health Bill was before the Council, this question was discussed in a very exhaustive way, and provision was made for people who had conscientious objections to exempt their children from vaccination. Surely in the face of that there was no occasion to have a return such as this. So far as the ques- tion itself was concerned, he believed vaccina- tion was a necessary thing. There was no doubt that owing to the sanitary reforms which had taken place-more especially in the Old Country -people had come to the conclusion that there was no virtue in vaccination. He thought that was a conclusion that was not warranted by fact. He believed there was great virtue in vaccination, and he also believed that if we had now in this colony, or in this city, an epidemic of smallpox a motion for this return would be rejected at once. As the question had already been fully considered and full provision made by Act of Parliament, he did not see there was any necessity for the return at all. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said, No doubt the honourable gentleman who had moved this motion was seeking out of kindness of heart to benefit the people by enabling them to exempt themselves from vaccination. But where he was 