facts in connection with the estates held in the Auckland Province by the Assets Board, and no doubt a similar story could be told of other parts of the colony. If the facts are as stated, then a decided attempt ought to be made to obtain the whole of those estates as quickly as possible and have them settled. There is a certain agitation going on in connection with land settlement, having for its object this : that the Government shall not buy any more private estates until the whole of the Crown lands are taken up. Now, Sir, I say this: If the Govern- ment is true to its principles, and if this House is true to its principles, of conserving what is one of the greatest assets of the colony -- much of which we have already destroyed -- then we ought to object to another acre of forest lands being touched. Mr. SYMES .- Rubbish. Mr. HORNSBY .- No doubt the utterance fits the utterer. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh, oh ! Mr. HORNSBY. - Everybody who has watched settlement in the bush districts knows full well that we have wantonly de- stroved millions of pounds' worth of property which we shall never be able to replace. An Hon. MEMBER .- Hear, hear. Mr. HORNSBY .- It was all very well for the member for Egmont just now to say " Rubbish." I say we ought to conserve every forest we have in the colony. If we do this, and we find afterwards that there is a certain portion of the forest land which is admirably adapted for the purpose of land-settlement, the Government ought to deal with the valuable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 timber and have it carefully cut out. The land can after that be partially cleared and roaded, and then offered for settlement. We should, under those circumstances, not have families shut up in the back blocks for two or three months every winter as they are at present, struggling up to their middles in muck to get out to civilisation. I say, Sir, that this sort of thing has gone on for many years. Those of us who belong to the back blocks-and the member for Eg- mont knows perfectly well that he has any number of people in his constituency who are struggling in mud year after year-I say, Sir, that honourable members from such districts have vainly endeavoured to get roads to enable these unfortunate people to get out. That ought to be a warning to us to do something in the way of roading before placing settlers in such country. And now as to the forests : I say that it is worse than a crime, it is a blunder, to destroy them. A great blunder has been made, and we ought to try to prevent that sort of thing occurring again in this colony. Now, Sir, with rovard to freehold, there has been a good deal said during the course of this debate on that very debatable subject. It may, per- haps. be startling to some of the members of this House when I say that I believe that if the freehold could be surrounded with safe- guards so as to prevent the creation of large estates it would be the best way of disposing of the platform again and again that, after all said and done, if you could give the freehold with safeguards it would be better to do so. But now the question comes, Is it possible? I have been assured by men who have made this question almost a life-study that it is pos- sible to so surround the freehold that voa can prevent -absolutely prevent - the aggre- gation of large holdings. Well, then, if that is so, I have no hesitation in saving this : that I would very much rather see the system grow up in this colony of small freeholds, where every man would have his own property, than I would see continued what is going on in many parts of this country to a large extent, and that is the harrying and worrying of settlers, who are, God knows, harried and worried enough to make a bare living out of their properties. Mr. MASSEY --- You are coming round. Mr. HORNSBY .- Sir, I have held thes opinions for many years, and it is not a matter of coming round at all. The only thing that I object to in the freehold is this: I objet to anything that makes for the aggregation of large holdings. It has not been only the pos. session of the freehold in the older countries of the world which has been such an evil. It was not the freehold in Prussia and other countries. where the land was cut up and peasants put on the soil, but it was the aggregation of lane estates that proved such a terrible curse, and. rather than see that curse obtain in this country, I would prevent the possibility of any man having a freehold ; and, were it possit to begin all over again. I would be in favour of nationalising the land of the colony, nor wood I then be a party to selling one foot of it. But, seeing we are as we are, I am willing. if we can so safeguard the freehold as to prevent any man holding a large estate, to allow the settlers on the land to acquire the freeheid of their property. I am opposed entirely :a the periodical revaluation of leases. It would be nothing less than a crime to periodically revalue the holdings of the settlers who own these small leases in perpetuity. They wonk give up their holdings to-morrow if they were certain that every now and again th: department would come along and reva ie their property. I tell you what the revaluat sa would amount to. It would amount to the same thing as the valuation under the advances to settlers law of this country. The way. . .. in which that department of the Crown i worked is a perfect scandal. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why ? Mr. HORNSBY. " Why?" Sir. it is it !! one of two things : it is either that the derati- ment itself is not properly otheered. or it is :he in that department there are men who bet re they go out to value the land are told they are not to put on a certain value for improve mer so that the applicants will not get the anci .:: of money they are asking for. I say that :d. visedly. I know in my own district, and 1 know in the districts of other members of ti: - House, there are men who have asked for lo .: - -men with any amount of grit ; men h. 