we have done, and we ought to bar that which is occurring. There is no use mincing the fact : as Minister of Labour I say, with a due sense of responsibility, there has been an attempt made to infringe upon the settled hours of labour. An Hon. MEMPER .- Where ? Mr. SEDDON .- I say it has been done. If you leave it to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. under that Act the employers will, in placing their case before the Board or Court, try to infringe upon it ; and you cannot gain- say the fact that we ourselves, unthinkingly and not knowing the effect, certainly did, so far as women and children are concerned, in- crease the hours of labour by the Factories Act. Under the circumstances, notwithstanding the rather pessimistic view that has been taken by the president of the Employers' Association, I say that our industries to-day are in a good position. I say that there has never been a better feeling between employer and employed than at the present moment. I say it ad- visedly, if we are to believe what we hear from the leading employers and those intrusted with the control of the labour affairs in the colony. I should know, as Minister of Labour, through my department and my officers, if there was any antagonistic feeling between the two. There may be when some of these questions are before the Board. But you must not be guided by what occurs at that stage ; each party tries to make the best they can of their respective cases, and, if you judge by that, it might appear for the moment that the relationship was strained. But when the Board or Court has come to a conclusion it has been well received, and that has been the case right through. I do hope each and every industry that has been founded in our colony may increase and prosper, and I trust the workers themselves will see that with the competition there is it will be as well for them to bear that in mind. Taken on the whole, I say there is no reason to complain of what has been done by the Legislature. A great deal lies between employer and employed. But on this question as between town and country, as I have said before, let us go slowly. We have made advances during the last few years for the good of employer and employed. I say now that I counsel modera- tion. We cannot stand still ; we must pro- . gress : and there can be no real sound objection taken to this measure we have before us. Like every other measure, members may vote for it on the second reading, reserving to themselves the right to amend the same when they get into Committee. That is the course I advise in respect to this Bill. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .-- I shall support the principle contained in this Bill, but I want the member for Riccarton, who has introduced it, and also the Government, to support'an amend- ment in the direction of altering the law with regard to coal miners and gold-miners as it at present exists. The law with regard to coal- mining is that eight hours' work at the face shall be considered a day's work. Now, honour- able members who have a knowledge of coal- mining and gold-mining must know, where the miners have to go down into the bowels of the earth, so to speak, that they are a consider- able time going from the bank, as it is called, to the face where the workings are carried on, and also a considerable time in coming back. Now, this time is not taken into account by the law at the present time, and I wish an amend- ment made in the law that any miner commenc- ing work should be held to commence his work the moment he leaves the bank to go to the face, and that he should be considered as working in the mine until he arrives at the surface again. The miners who are con- cerned have asked that this amendment should be put in an Eight Hours Bill. They are strong on the question, and when the Bill goes into Committee I shall take steps to see that an amendment is made in that direction, so that eight hours shall be considered from bank to bank, and not eight hours' continuous work at the face, as is the present law. I hope honour- able gentlemen will accept the amendment, and I trust that the Premier and the Minister of Mines, who are well acquainted with this question, will take it into their favourable con- sideration and support it. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I have every desire to give the honourable member who introduced this Bill every credit for good intentions in regard to the matter, and I think also that the Bill will be beneficial to the workers in the cities. And I also approve of the remarks of the Right Hon. the Premier on the subject ; but at the same time I do not think that every member of this House tho- roughly understands the position of those labourers who are Crown tenants, and those labourers who are earning their living on the soil, and who do not get a daily wage. We have heard a great deal about improving the position of those worthy settlers in the country districts of the colony, and especially in the North Island ; and those men are not able to make ordinary wages such as a working-man re- ceives. And yet the working-man is to be pro- tected- his work is to be confined to eight hours a day ; but the men who are settled upon the soil, who are the backbone of the country, and who work sixteen hours a day in the majority of cases, cannot earn the wage that the man in the city makes. In regard to fruit-growing in the North Island at the present time, wages-men have been employed and paid their eight hours a day growing strawberries, fruit, and other commodities for the market, and yet we find our settlers, with their families working from daylight in the morning until perhaps midnight - sixteen hours a day. The struggling settler has to pay wages and employ the ordinary working-man, who is confined to eight hours a day for his work. He is unequally competing with people who are, with their wives and their children, working sometimes sixteen hours a day, and there is no equivalent aid, or protection for the price of their produce. And then also, in regard to the markets, there has been nothing done in many of the districts in the North of Auckland to 