I myself would prefer to agree to that if that course were equally effective ; but prompt- ness is the essence of the business, and when a Magistrate is sitting in some up-country district witnesses would very probably have to be brought from all parts of the dis- trict to swear that there were no rabbits, and some two or three weeks might elapse before any action could be taken. But, on the other hand, directly the Inspector goes into Court there is no longer delay. There is no bringing evidence one way or the other. He goes and swears positively, "I saw the rabbits there." Now, if you read clauses 9 and 10 you will see that this Bill proposes to remove from the Inspector the power of saying whether it is essential that there should be prompt steps taken to subdue the rabbits, and to leave it to a man who is not an expert, though he may be a very good lawyer or a sound Magistrate. This man possibly knows nothing of the subject of how best to cope with a sudden spread of rabbits, but his mind may be swayed by innu- merable witnesses who will be brought to prove that they did not see any rabbits, whereas there can be very probably only one Inspector or Agent who has visited the place, and who can swear that he did sce rabbits. It is the easiest thing in the world to bring many wit- nesses who did not chance to see any rabbits, and everybody who has been in a Magis- trate's Court will know that the weight of evidence means to a great extent the number of witnessses. If so, what will be the use of the Inspector and Sub- Inspector swearing that they saw rabbits, if the defendant brings six or eight honourable men to swear that they did not see any ? I am bound to say the finding would have to be in favour of those who did not see the rabbits. To my mind the question is of such importance that we ought not to pass this Bill unless it is shown that grave hardships have occurred under the Rabbit Act of 1882. Well, we have heard of no hardship, or but of just one. Even the honourable member who intro- duced the Bill was obliged to say that in recent times there had been no prosecution whatsoever. Then, if there have been no prosecutions, where is the reason for repealing the Act? It has been proved that under the Act rabbits have not in- creased, but that they have so far diminished in number that it has been unnecessary to prosecute : in fact, that the Act of 1882 has done what it was intended to do-checked the rabbit pest. Is it reasonable to suppose that Inspectors will deliberately set to work to annoy people ? I do not believe it for an instant. That they are liable to errors of judgment-undoubtedly. That cases of hardship occur now and again- ves. Even feelings of dislike to certain persons are, at any rate, possible. But that there is a wilful, deliberate desire on the part of any Rabbit Inspector to do other than his duty, and to quarrel with a whole country-side, I do not believe. My argument has, then, led to this conclusion : that the existing law has proved to be salutary ; it has been proved that nobody . can say that injustice has been perpetrated Captain Russell prosecutions have ceased-a convincing proof of its efficiency. That being so, I con- fess I cannot see why this Bill is wanted. There is just another point I would like to illustrate : Unless we have a drastic law-a law that is absolutely so strong that people will not be able to struggle against it- there will be danger of supineness, and in all probability the rabbit pest will again increase. I will give a reason for that opinion. In former days scab was prevalent all over New Zealand. and for years and years there was local ad- ministration which utterly failed to exterminate the pest. Then by degrees more vigorous action was taken, and the scab was cleaned in almost every part of the country, but remained ap- parently ineradicable in the Provincial District of Marlborough, where the local authority held it to be absolutely impossible to eradicate the disease. The evidence received by the Stock Committee showed the most culpable negli- 1 gence and the most extraordinary misbehaviour 1 on the part of some flockowners. Their con- İ duct with regard to the scab was such that. unless I had heard it myself, I could scarcely have conceived it possible. One man whose run was divided into two parts -- one of which was cured of scab-simply because rain came on during shearing, turned his scabby sheep among his clean ones rather than re-muster. That w.IS one instance. I believe, Sir, that the same sort of thing will go on with respect to rabbits unless care is taken to prevent it. It was said to be impossible to eradicate seab; but when a stringent Act was passed dealing with scab, and the power was taken from the local Boards and arbitrary power vested in Govern- ment officials, the country was cleared of scab in less than two years. Heaven knows I am not an advocate for allowing a central Govem- ment to control anything if it can be avoided: but, under the stringent administration of the Government, the scab disease, which had defied local management for a decade, in two years was eradicated. Then, I think, we have an instance of this in connection with the rabbit -. For years they remained as they were, or in- creased, but since a stringent Act was passed. under which no injustice has been done- or, at least, under which none has been proved to have been done -- the rabbit nui- has been pretty well cleared off. sance Why on earth should we repeal an Act 8.30. which has done that which it was intended to do? Sir, I am sorry that the Minister has agreed to any other course than to do his very best to uphold his department. Whether the Stock Committee will agree to this Act, repealing an efficient one, as it appears to me, without rhyme or reason, I cannot say : but I am a firm believer in the incontrovertite logic of facts, and the facts are that the Act of 1882 has proved a success. Little hardship ard no injustice has been shown to give reason why it should be repealed ; so I shall vote again -! the Bill. Mr. J. ALLEN . Bruce) .- It is hardly possible for a member from the South-coming as he 