year after. I cannot see any objection to the | the duties of members of the Council, and it proposal of the Hon. Mr. Jones. It removes any personal feeling in respect to differences of opinion that may arise as to qualification for the office of the several candidates. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- As a young member of this Council I have some diffidence in making any observations on this subject, but it does appear to me that the manner in which the honourable gentleman opposite has spoken with regard to this motion creating a precedent is an improper view to take of the question, be- cause it is tantamount to saying that any one the Government thinks fit to propose as Chair- man of Committees is to be accepted by this Council without any division whatever, whether by ballot or otherwise. I cannot see why, in the interests of the Council, such a thing should be the case. I will vote for the amend- ment, for the reason that I do not see why it should be put before the Council as being ob- jectionable to take a ballot. The Council divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be struck out stand part of the question." AYES, 14. Ormond Tomoana Arkwright Harris Shrimski Walker, L. Jennings Smith, W. C. Walker, W. C. Johnston Swanson Williams. Kelly, W. Taiaroa NOES, 16. Baillie Jenkinson Reeves Jones Barnicoat Rigg https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Scotland Kelly, T. Bolt Smith, A. L. Bowen Kerr Pinkerton Feldwick Twomey. Gourley PAIR. For. Against. Pitt. Fraser. Majority against. 2. Motion negatived, and words struck out. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I move, as a further amendment, That Standing Order No. 252 be complied with, and that a call of the Council be made for Tuesday, the 16th July. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I think it would be very hard upon some members to have a call of the Council made now. They would be under a heavy penalty for non-attendance. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .-- The motion of the Hon. Mr. Jennings for a call of the Council should have been moved as an independent motion, and he should have given notice of it. I think there is no precedent for a call of the Council being moved for without notice being given. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- There is nothing in the Standing Orders which prevents a mem- ber moving that a call of the Council be made at any time. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI. - With regard to the statement that it would be very hard upon members to be called together now, and that they would be under a penalty of $50, that is neither here nor there. They have undertaken is their duty to be present. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- There is a fairly full Council, and I do not think there is any need to make a call. I quite agree with the statement of my honourable friend on my left that the motion for a call of the Council cannot be moved without notice. The question being put, That the words " but without a call of the Council" be struck out. it was negatived. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I move. That all the words after " 1897" be struck out, for the purpose of inserting " that a call of the Council be made on Tuesday, the 16th July." The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I am afraid I \--- cannot accept the honourable member's amend- ment : the Council has already affirmed that the ballot shall be without a call of the Council. The Council divided on the question. " That the following words be inserted : 'That the Chairman of Committees be elected by ballot. and that such ballot be taken in the manner prescribed by the rules for the election of Speaker in October, 1897, but without a call of the Council."" AYES, 20. Baillie Kelly, T. Smith, A. L. Kelly, W. Bolt Smith, W. C. Feldwick Kerr Swanson Gourley Pinkerton Taiaroa Reeves Harris Twomey Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Rigg Jones Shrimski NOES, 10. Arkwright Johnston Tomoana Barnicoat Ormond Walker, L. Bowen Scotland Williams. Jennings Majority for, 10. Words inserted, and motion as amended agreed to. A ballot was then taken, with the following result : Hon. Captain Baillie, 17: Hon. Mr. Rigg, 13; Hon. Mr. W. C. Smith, 13. The CLERK said that a second ballot would now be taken, and each member would vote for two members out of the above three. On a second ballot being taken, the voting was : Hon. Captain Baillie, 25; Hon. Mr. Rigg, 17. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I may be out of order, but I would ask the indulgence of the Council to say a word or two. I would ask those honourable gentlemen, who up to the present time have supported me. to cast their votes, as I intend to do, for Captain Baillie. I am very sorry to think that any attempt should have been made to disturb him in the position which he has held with so much honour and for so long a time. That is the request I have to make. The third ballot was then taken, and the Hon. Captain Baillie was declared elected Chairman of Committees. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE. - Sir, and honourable gentlemen, This takes me by sur- 