the Governor on the floor of the House on the decision of members of the House, it is no use my attempting to convince him. Then, there is another question : At any time during the session twenty-five members of the House may move either for the removal of one Minister or the whole of the Ministry. Very well, I re- member a time when we had in this House twenty - seven members who were combined upon one given question, and that was the question of Prohibition. I say that, under a Bill like this, these twenty-seven members would bring the Ministry under a ballot of the whole House. For what purpose ? Was that purpose the general good of the country, or to carry out their convictions upon one given question, irrespective of all others affecting the colony ? And I say you may have that done if this Bill became law. Now, with eighty mem- bers, which number we shall have at the next general election, you may have twenty-five members to cast a slur on one Minister, and put him off these benches. But if one Minister was impeached, and a majority was against him, I say that that would mean that Ministers would as a body leave the Treasury benches. Sir, that must be the case, because, being elected together and working together, when one was singled out the result would be an entire change of Administration ; and each session 1 say the country would be liable to this. But, Sir, 1 will show the honourable gentleman the other side of that question. I can point out to him that a supporter of the Ministry could select the most popular member of the Ministry, and with https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 a challenge from twenty-five, a vote would be taken, and after that, under this Bill, no matter what the Ministry brought in during that session, no matter how it was proved a chance was necessary, according to this Bill you could have no change. It is clearly set out in the clauses of the Bill following clause 4. And I say they may do anything against the best interests of the people of this colony, and by the Bill we are asked to pass at this moment there could not be a change of Ministry. If that is not taking away the power from the people, by taking it away from this House, I do not know what is. I say it is taking away power from the people, because the Ministry now are, from day to day and from week to week, liable during the session to have the whole of their administration and their proposals attacked in the House. But by this measure the course would be taken in the first week of the session that I have now mentioned, and for that session, no matter what was done, you could not further impeach a Minister or the Ministry. How will the honourable member get over that? Can he deny it is in the Bill? And when we are asked to vote for the second reading of a Bill containing proposals such as these, it is my duty, as leader of the House, to show members the dangers in which they are going to land themselves-that, instead of the power con- tinuing in their hands as at the present, they are going to divest themselves of the power Mr. Seddon power, and they have no right to divest them- selves of that privilege and responsibility. Then, Sir. would not this lead to log rolling ? Who will undertake to attack that Minister who makes himself popular ? And to prevent this at- tack which might be made you would find a very lavish, shall I say, public works policy ? Shall I sav, also, that you would find your estimates largely swelled ? Now, at the present time the Government are responsible to forty-one mem- bers. It means, Sir, that there must be a majority of the representatives of the people before there can be any change. Now, does this mean that? Does it mean in the election of Ministers there is to be an absolute majority ? Sir, nothing of the kind. If members will turn to the clauses of the Bill dealing with the first nominations they will find that ten members are to nominate the Minis- ter; but are they, the same ten, to nominate each of the eight Ministers, or are you to have some nominating and some being candidates ? There is nothing in this Bill that says that one who nominates another shall not be a candi- date. Then, each member has ten. Eight tens are eighty. There are eighty members of the House, so that you can go round the House, and then you come to the voting. And what is the position of the voting? Every member's name, and how he votes, is to be recorded on the Journals of the House: "The names of members voting and of the candidate for whom they vote shall be recorded on the Journals, and shall be laid by the Speaker on the table of the House." Mr. PIRANI. - Does that apply to both Houses ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. that applies to both Houses. Very well, I will leave it at that : but you will see there that each Minister knows who votes for him. Is that destroying party ? Will not the Ministers look upon those who voted! for them being in the Ministry just as we look here to-day upon those who come to Parliament to support us? Where is the doing away with party ? I say you make a party the moment each man's name is revealed to the Minister h. votes for. Under the honourable gentleman's proposals you have the party system in a wor -. form than that in which it exists at the present time. All they have to do is to look to those who supported them and who voted for them. and they are perfectly safe on the Treasury benches, provided they give to those members what the members think they ought to have given. I hold that if you are to have good government you must have men on the Trea- sury benches amongst whom there is cohesion. You must have men whose views are to a large extent in common -whose aspirations and ideals are the same. Unless its members are banded together, and have confidence in each other, what is your Cabinet life going to be like ? And how could men depend upon each other, when the fact may be that you will have put into the Cabinet men who are entirely opposed to their colleagues ? But there they 