In undertaking the heavy load which now devolves upon me, I am fully determined to be a Constitutional sovereign in the strictest sense of the word, and, as long as there is breath in my body, to work for the good and amelioration of my people." These words struck home; they struck a sympathetic chord in many hearts throughout the Empire, and there was only one voice, only one response : "Amen ; do your duty, and you will have the support of your people ; your burdens will be lightened so far as it is in their power possibly to lighten them." And then we have a proof of the sincerity and the desire to carry out to its fullest extent the pledge given by His Gracious Majesty. Our late good and gracious Queen had given her consent to the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York visiting the colonies. She, no doubt remembering what had been done and the sacri- fices made, in her own good way thought she would do something to show that the services rendered were greatly appreciated ; and, at a time when he needed the support of his loved ones, when filled with anguish, our King said, "The wishes of my mother, the good and gracious Queen Victoria, shall be given effect to. I must sacrifice myself and my feelings : go my only son, go my only daughter, and visit those of our good subjects far away." Sir, the visit has been paid, and the addresses that have been given have come spontaneously from all ; they have breathed loyalty and affection to the Royal person and Throne. They are, Sir, the addresses that convey the feelings of the people of this colony. We, as' the representatives of the colony, heartily condole with His Majesty, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 and at the same time beg to assure him of our loyal and heartfelt and universal support. Let him never forget that, whether ill or prosperity obtains, it will be our duty as it will be our http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero pleasure to assist him in promoting the well- being and the strengthening of the great Empire to which we are all so proud to belong. Sir, so long as life lasts we will, with him, endeavour to ameliorate the condition of the people and pro- mote their happiness, and so create a higher and brighter civilisation. Sir, I move the re- solution, and I feel assured it will receive the unanimous support of the House. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - Mr. Speaker, historians have commemorated and poets sung of the virtues of Victoria. It would be futile indeed, then, that I should endeavour, by any poor words of mine, to add a tribute to her memory, or try to gild such refined gold. In all the phases of her life the veneration of the civilised world was given to her. As a beneficent sovereign, none, perhaps, in the his- tory of the world has left fame so imperishable as hers. I will quote but two lines of poetry to try and express the feelings of her peo; le :- Ne'er to those Chambers, where the mighty rest Si ice their foundation. came a nobler guest. But the good Queen Victoria did has not died with her. The example, by a person in so exalted a position, of pure life and devotion to duty never is lost to a country, and encourages and stimulates their successors to deserve the brightest glory they can win-the love of those they govern. It has been said, "Never was there great man who had not a great mother." His Majesty King Edward the Seventh's acces- sion is for his people most auspicious. He has succeeded to a glorious heritage ; he had before him a grand example, and, above all these, the inestimable advantage of a great and noble mother. I feel sure that the whole energies of his life will be devoted to following the paths of one who was so lofty and so pure as was Her late Majesty Queen Victoria. Motion agreed to. On the motion of Mr. SEDDON, it was re- solved, That Mr. Speaker present the address just now passed to His Excellency the Go- vernor, respectfully requesting him to forward it to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, for submission to His Majesty. The House adjourned at half-past three o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 2nd July, 1901. Governor's Speech - New Members - Resignation of the Hon. Mr. Oliver - Imprest Supply Bill (No. 1). The Council met at half-past two o'clock. Shortly afterwards His Excellency the Gover- nor entered the Chamber and took the chair. A message was forwarded to the House of Representatives desiring the attendance of mem- bers in the Council Chamber. The members of the House of Representa- tives, with their SPEAKER, accordingly attended. GOVERNOR'S SPEECH. His Excellency was pleased to deliver the following Speech :- HONOURABLE GENTLEMEN OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,- It is to me a great pleasure to meet you again in Parliament assembled. Since the last session of Parliament an event of a strikingly sad character has overtaken the nation in the death of Her late Gracious 'Majesty Queen Victoria, who passed away on the 22nd day of January last. On her demise becoming known, one great throb of grief went forth throughout the civi- lised world. It was our late sovereign's con- stant desire to promote the best interests of her people, and to maintain their liberties and improve their conditions. Her greatness and good works will live for ever, and her reign has added imperishable glories to our Empire. In the death of our late good Queen Victoria the world has suffered an irreparable loss. She was 