of the ballot. It has nothing whatever to do with the secrecy of the ballot, and if the honour- able gentleman had given that consideration to the subject which it deserves I am sure he would not have spoken as he has done; and even if it might, in his opinion, interfere with the secrecy of the ballot, it shows a want of originality on his part in meeting an emer- gency. This question merely wants aproach- ing in an intelligent and careful manner and you will find that difficulties will be over- come. Why, it is one of the most antiquated arrangements possible that people should be dragged out of their homes in all sorts of weather and have to travel long distances in order to record a vote, and I venture to think that, without interfering with the secrecy of the ballot, we will find that the electoral right will be established before long. Then, regarding the alleged interference with the purity of elections. I will say this: When you have hired men like Edwards travelling round the country and in- terfering with the electors, promising them votes and promising them conveniences, that should be stopped, although I think that Edwards's presence at an election usually se- cures the election of an Opposition candidate. I would ask for no better assistance in my district than a hired agitator who has no in- terest in the district impertinently interfering I venture to say if with electors' privileges. the present Government candidate is defeated at the Patea election it will be owing to the fact of this man being sent there to interfere with the electors. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who has gone up there ? https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Mr. Edwards, and he has been prowling round the district during the whole of the election. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Pre- mier ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - I can understand the Premier-he has a right to go to any part of the colony and address the electors; but it is a very different thing to having a man paid to go and interfere with the people in a district. Why. this man went to the Waihemo district and told Sir John Mckenzie that he could assist him to secure his seat, and Sir John Mckenzie told him that if he did not make himself scarce from the Waihemo election he would use some Highland methods to assist him. I venture to think that I got many votes as a result of this agent's presence in that district. These men have the power to spend money. These people treat the electors to grog. Hon. MEMBERS. - Oh, oh ! Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I will give you an in- stance of it. When I was in Wedderburn my friend who was driving me said, "Now, there is a man connected with the unemployed who says he knew you at Clutha, and hopes you have not departed from your former temperance ideas. If you give him a bottle of whisky he says he could secure you the votes of a good many of these men." I told my friend Bob, who was with me, that I thought I was going to win the election, and I certainly was not going to run any risks by supplying grog, apart alto- gether from my objection to it on principle, and that I doubted such a means would secure votes worth having. A few days afterwards a man called MeLaughlan, another man employed to canvass-and, I believe, a temporary clerk in the service of the Government-and one of the agents of Edwards, went to Wedderburn and gave drinks wholesale. And, Sir, the law can- not reach him ; he could do it as much as he liked, because he is neither a committee-man nor vet a candidate; but it is well enough known the influence he exercises. Members will see that the candidate is handicapped,,and the committee is handicapped ; and yet this man can come in and spend money and treat people, and thereby think he is se- curing a certain number of their votes. But I say this practice should be stopped, and if the Bill which the Government passed last session to stop canvassing has any effect at all, then these agents should be kept out of a dis- trict also. Now, what the Premier said regard- ing women is generally true-that if they have made up their mind to vote for a man they will go through very great difficultics to do so ; but I think they ought to have some means of recording their votes without being compelled to put up with all these inconveniences. And there are many reasons why it is frequently impes- sible for them to be present to vote personally. I have all along supported the system of elec- toral rights, and I intend to support it still. I regret even to think that the honourable mem- ber for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell should have agreed with the Premier in the remarks that the Premier made when he said that the temperance party have no object in view other than promoting temperance legislation. 1 think that the temperance people have other objects as well in securing the election of cer- tain candidates at the poll. At least that is my experience ; and I must say I was a little disappointed when the honourable member, who is an ardent temperance supporter, agreed with the Premier in these remarks. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- It is my intention to vote for the amendment, because I believe it will be a step in the direction of obtaining electoral rights. I have no objection to the ballot, pro- viding that men of integrity were appointed as Registrars and as Returning Officers to carry it out. I will give the House some experiences in my own district. The Premier was good enough to refer to me the other day as only representing three people I presume he re- ferred to the fact that my majority was four. But, Sir, there was a straight-out fight in my district between two candidates, and I claim to represent, at all events, a majority of the people in that district. There was no triangular fight ; it was a straight-out fight between two candi- dates. Therefore I think it was unfair of the Premier to refer to me as only representing three people. Now, in addition to that I have the honour to represent four members of this House: I think I am unique in that respect. But, Sir, the last census shows that I represent more people in my district than any other 