" Any Bill or other legislative proposal which deals with the construction or maintenance of public works of a purely local character, or with parliamentary procedure, or which the House of Representatives, by resolution, declares to be a matter of urgency; nor to " Any local or private Bill." I trust, Sir, this Council will give the Bill calm and careful consideration, and will decide that it is a measure which it is right and proper should be passed into law. I know, myself, it would allay the feeling of unrest on many sub- jects on which it is claimed by the promoters of certain views that the mind of the colony is not properly represented in Parliament. I need only mention one question, which we have had brought before us every session for many years past-the question of Bible-reading in schools. I believe if that question were submitted to a referendum of the people it would be the means of once and for all settling that question; I believe it would prove that the people, by a very large majority, are fully persuaded that the one essential quality of our national system of educa- tion is that it shall not be denominational in any sense or shape. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- What about the question of vaccination ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Possibly that might be submitted too, but I do not think that would be likely to result in non- vaccination. But when there is sufficient interest taken in a question, and when there is a sufficient disturbance of the public mind, it is very much better that such measures should be settled in a definite and constitu- tional way than that they should be brought up https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 as side-issues to disturb the broader grounds that should be taken at a general election. beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Sir, it appears to me from the speech we have just listened to, and from the speeches that have been made in another place, that the representatives of the people are not yet educated up to the accept- ance of this Bill. We are told very little here about the effect of it, and from the speeches of two or three members who spoke on the mea- sure in another place it is evident that the country is not prepared for a Bill like this. This referendum question has never been a burning question at any of the elections, and I think before we follow in the footsteps of a small 'country like Switzerland we should go into the matter much more fully than we have As to those done up to the present time. large questions, such as Bible-reading in schools, which are now and again agitating the public mind, why could they not be submitted to the electors at a general election, just as the question of the liquor traffic is sub- mitted from time to time now. There is nothing whatever to prevent that ? I feel sure the House would be guided in respect of any such question by the preponderating vote of the electors. What does a Bill like this . mean to the country? I do not say this Bill, because it certainly is not a Referendum Bill in the true sense of the word. But if we consider the expense of a Bill like this, where the whole of the machinery of a general election is put into force, I would like to ask how many of these questions would the country stand being sent to the referendum with all the expense of a general election in each case. Then. again, the Bill says that in the event of a Bill being thrown out twice by this Council it shall be referred to the referendum. Sir, the Bill is decidedly faulty. What would be the use of sending a Bill to the referendum which had been passed at about four o'clock in the morn- ing in another place, and a few days after- wards rejected by this House? Is there any reason why a Bill that has been rejected by this House should be sent to the country? I am quite sure, Sir, that when at a general election the people of this country expressed their approval of any particular measure this Council has never been backward in accepting the position and passing the Bill. Nor has this Council ever thrown out any measure withou: being fully prepared to uphold their action in the country, and the country in many cases have upheld this Council. But, Sir, whenever the country has not upheld our contentions this Council has accepted the position and passed the Bill. No doubt, there is a sugges- tion of the abolition of the Council, and that is evidently the main object of this Bill : but I say that, if questions were to be submitted to the people before they were properly educated up to them, the result would be that only those who were favourable to carrying the measure submitted to them would vote -le- body else would take the trouble to vote at all - and we should never get at the real opinion of the public on the matter. Some people have complained that the Council I stood in the way of the women's franchis ?. Well, Sir, the Council stood in the way of women's franchise until the Bill was passed again in another place, after a second Parita- ment had been elected. And, Sir, I am not sure that these great upholders of the female franchise are now so very much in love with it, and with its result. I think there are a good many who have changed their opinion upon that question since the Act came into force. It was, at all events, thought that the Prohibitionists were going to be very lary, ly helped by it; and, though I have no sympathy with prohibition, I have always helped that party, in order to get the liquor traffic brought under proper control. But, Sir, what has the female franchise done on that question ? Has it not put us under the government of the liquor traffic entirely ? This country is governo now by the liquor traffic. That is the result of the female franchise. And if you come across sensible women you hear them declare ther would be better without it. However, I de not wish to go further into that question. And with regard to the prohibition questa! itself, I do not know that if you were to submit that question to a plebiscite now you would settle it. Indeed, it would not be settled. for I am perfectly certain that no one would ad a large majority-a majority such as would le 