I say, in respect to the position in which we stand to-day, that what has been done has been for the good of the colony, and also, I believe, has been of benefit to the Britith Empire. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) ...- Sir, if there was no one else in the House prepared to support the honourable member for the Grey, I should cer- tainly do so in a matter like this. His Bill, so far as the principle is concerned, has my full ap- proval : I may differ greatly from the honourable gentleman in regard to the details of his measure. My honourable friend has entirely forgotten, perhaps, that the Boards of Education in more favoured districts than the West Coast have carried on this system of military and physical drill in the schools under their control for many years past, and it cannot be said of the Canter- bury, nor of the Otago schools, I believe, that they were not prepared with cadets when re- quired for military purposes for South Africa. The Education Boards of the colony have in many cases had to meet circumstances which the original Act did not provide for. The origi- nal Act states that in public schools there shall be instruction in military drill for all boys. Well, Sir. I take it that the intention of that Act was that boys attending country schools should receive the same benefits from military and physical training as those in the town schools ; but, unfortunately, I do not think that one-third of the public - school boys in our colony have received any training whatsoever in military and physical drill. The Bill before us practically takes up the position of making drill compulsory for all, and perhaps my honourable friend differs from me in the means to attain this end. Military drill and physical drill are to some extent similar in their objects, but in some cases it is not necessary to have physical drill at all : that is to say, in the cases of infant schools, where the kinder- garten system is most suitable. But country schools have as much right to receive the bene- fits of military and physical drill as those in the cities. Perhaps in many cases country lads and girls suffer to some extent from the fact of the hard work they have to perform at an early age. The work in our cities is usually lighter, and the boys there receive all the benefits of military and physical training in town schools. I want to say just a word or two with regard to the cadet corps in our public schools. Many of the schools have applied for rifles, but, unfor- tunately. they have not been supplied with them, owing to the conditions attached to the supply of the rifles, the headmasters being held responsible for the rifles -- that they should be kept clean, and that any damage should be made good. That provisions has militated against the adoption of the system in our public schools. As to the cost of imparting military and physical drill. I think that will be very trifling. In Christchurch every Saturday the teachers within a radius of perhaps fifty miles gather together. and they are instructed by a drill- instructor from the Defence Department. This instruction has been carried on now for several terms, and the result is that a number of the i not be so ; but we must recognise that without teachers-if not a large proportion of them-can ' the moral and without the physical it is not now teach military in addition to physical drill : and, if that system is carried out in all the education districts, in a very few years there will be no necessity for the State spending a single penny extra on the teaching of physical and military drill in our public schools. There is one thing I would like to say-I admit that it is slightly foreign to the Bill. but the question has been raised by several speakers-as to the necessity of military training for our young people under any circumstances. I, for one, say that we in this colony cannot forget our isolation in these southern seas, and, notwithstanding that Britain is believed to rule the seas, there is the fact that we may be attacked by some Power that may elude the fleet of Great Britain, who may not have a large enough fleet to prevent an attack by the sea ; and, if so, what will be our defence ? Why the Volunteer Forces of the colony, trained in discipline and drill in our public schools. Let me ask these honourable members who are opposed to this measure to consider this : this Empire practi- cally owes its present position to military effort and to war. We have only to go back to the time of Elizabeth, and the great defence of England : to the time of Cromwell, who made the British flag respected abroad; and to the long Napoleonic wars, useless as they were, and ask ourselves, what was it that made the British Empire what it is? Canada and India are the result of conquest. The South Island is retained to the Crown by the planting of the British flag at Akaroa by the " Britomart." I admire what our New Zealand troops have done for the flag in South Africa, and feel that this colony has paid a debt to the Empire for tie protection the British fleet has given this colony during the past fifty years ; and I take it that no one in this House, or out of it. will be doing their duty if they ignore the fact that the Empire has been built up by the force of arms as well as be the arts of peace. Industry and toil in this colony has its triumph ; but, " lest we forget." keep defence ever before us, and try to make our boys amenable to discipline by teaching them military drill in our schools and physical drill to develop their energies. I consider the mea- sure necessary, and I shall support its second reading. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) .-. It is sur- prising how every debate this session seems to come round to the question of the visit of Rovalty to this colony, or else to the war in South Africa. I trust this will not continu during the whole session, for a number of us. at any rate, have had quite sufficient of it during the last year or two, and we desire now to transact the business of the country. The Bill before us is one that touches the educational question, and from that point of view we must consider it. and from none other. Our educa- tional system now deals with three different : questions : it takes up the intellectual teaching of our children, also their moral and physical teaching. Intellectual teaching, perhaps. alwa's predominates, and I do not see why it should 