acceptable for the determination of that ques- tion in this country. I am sure it would be impossible to get a vote for prohibition, but we might get a vote to control the liquor traffic better than it is now controlled. I am quite sure you could get that, and it is a pity that Prohibitionists do not ask for reformation in- stead of prohibition. That would be better for the country, and we would all go to their aid, for I am sure every one would be glad to help them. Sir, the questions which would be put to the country by a plebiscite, at the same expense as a general election, would not be advanced much. Then, Sir, it has been hinted that the disabilities on women cannot be removed, in consequence of the opposition of this Chamber. Sir, when the Women's Property Bill came up what was the position taken up by this Council ? The Council helped it in every way, and passed it. Then, what about the disabilities of women? How many members of the other House will vote for women sitting in the Assembly ? Not many, I trow. Then, the reference to the Land for Settlements Bill was most unfortunate. What was the obstruction here ? How much of the Act that is now on the statute-book was in the Bill as originally brought forward by the Govern- ment? Did not this Council. from the chaos of that Bill, bring out a workable measure-a Bill which the Minister of Lands accepted without any question whatever, which he swallowed readily ? He was much obliged to the Council for the position in which they had put it, for the Council had given him a workable measure that has done good work for the country in the place of a Bill that would not have worked at all. I say the Government were very unfortunate in suggesting that question as one of those that should be dealt with under the Bill now http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero before us. The Hon. the Minister said that this country was very familiar with the pro- spect of referendum. Well, Sir, I generally read about most of what goes on in the country at election times, but, with the exception of a few faddists, I do not know that this proposal has ever been seriously entertained by any one. I am quite satisfied that if the other House seri- ously considered this matter the members would have endeavoured to educate the public by making appropriate speeches upon it, instead of passing the Bill, as they did, virtually in silence, without seeking to educate the people regarding it at all. The honourable gentleman said that Australia had adopted it. Well, I do not know where they have accepted it. An Hon. MEMBER. - In South Australia. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- What question has ever been put to the country by referendum ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The women's franchise. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Well, I have not heard of it. But I, for one, would not stand in the way of the Referendum Bill for a moment if it were properly put before the country, and the country had properly pronounced upon it, even if it was the death-knell of the Council. I would be satisfied if the subject were pro- perly threshed out in the country, for the people are the judges of what legislation there ought to be, and I, for one, am always ready to accept their decision ; but until the matter has been much more deliberately considered by the country than is the case now I shall certainly vote against the Bill, and I hope to see it rejected. Debate adjourned. POLICE OFFENCES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - With regard to this Bill, I may say it proposes to alter a cer- tain part of the Police Offences Act. It has been found by experience that some alteration of that law should take place. If honourable gentlemen will turn up the Act of 1884, sec- tion 3, subsection (29), they will find that it reads as follows : One of the offences liable to a penalty not exceeding £5 is, --- " Uses any threatening, abusive, or insulting words or behaviour in any public place within the hearing or in the view of passers by, with intent to provoke a breach of the peace, or whereby a breach of the peace may be oc- casioned." Clause 2 of the Bill proposes to put in the word " or" between the words " public place" and "within," in the second line of subsec- tion (29) of section 3 of the principal Act, and it will then read- " Uses any threatening, abusive, or insulting words or behaviour in any public place or with- in the hearing or in the view of passers by." And this proviso has been added also :- " Provided that the term 'public place ' in this subsection shall have the meaning given in section eighteen of the principal Act." "Public place " includes " any public place within the meaning of the same words in section two of this Act." Then, subsection (2) of section 24 of the principal Act is hereby amended by striking out the words "or uses any profane, indecent, or obscene language." It would then read,- "Sings any obscene song or ballad, or writes or draws any indecent or obscene word, figure, or representation, in any public place or within the view or hearing of any person passing therein, or residing in such public place." And the next subsection takes the place of what is struck out :- " Any person who uses any profane, indecent, or obscene language in any public place as de- fined in section eighteen of the principal Act, or within the view or hearing of any person pass- ing therein or residing in such public place, shall be liable to imprisonment with hard labour for any term not exceeding one year, or to a penalty not exceeding twenty pounds." I propose in Committee to alter that by striking out the words "view or," so that bad language being used in the hearing of any person shall be an offence ; and, lastly, clause 4 provides that section 26 of the principal Act shall be amended by the addition of the follow- ing subsection : "Who habitually consorts with reputed thieves or prostitutes, or persons who have no visible means of support." That is adding to the description of persons who would be deemed to be idle and disorderly. I 