Seeley as a certain person is said to quote the Scriptures-he gave quite a different mean- ing to what the writer's words intended to convey. He and no one else will claim that industrial activity, resource, and wealth are caused by war or brought about by war; but the territorial expansion of Great Britain has come about and been confirmed by the inci- dents of war and martial prowess. What, Sir, has made New Zealand, with its developments of the past fifty years, reaching last year the annual export of £13,000,000 ? Not militarism ! But what makes New Zealand an observed power to-day is the military spirit which prompted her to hasten to give assistance to the parent State and defend her prestige from It was the militarism which in encroachment. the times of attack by the aboriginals of this country, which I am very sorry ever took place, showed them that we were prepared to fight for our homes. It was militarism which won the battle of Trafalgar, and the battle of Waterloo. and enabled us to hold our place in the world and shield those other prominent qualities of our race-the mercantile and industrial spirit. Has the military spirit had nothing to do with our expansion ? Why, Sir, the history of our race would not have been anything but for the military spirit that actuated our oldest ancestors, following right down the line from Cromwell, and the heroes who fought at Blenheim and Waterloo, and the hundred daring fights that have taken place on the ocean. Where should we have been but for the capacity to perform such illustrions deeds as has been done by our ancestors ? Nor do I think we should without https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 some reservation find fault with the Jingoistic spirit, which language has been applied to our emotions and feelings during the last two years. It has been a fortunate thing, Sir, that we have the qualities which caused such a spirit to arise. I dare not trust myself to dilate upon the be- haviour of the young New-Zealanders upon the battlefields of South Africa. Not, Sir, for fear I should speak too flatteringly of their achieve- ments, but rather from the dread -- and I say it honestly- - that the poverty of my language might but detract from the meritorious blazon of their illustrious deeds. We have added to the history of this country, and to our record, deeds that will be enshrined in the hearts and dwell on the lips of our posterity, and which shall leaven with emulative valour the souls of the future generations of New Zealand. And is that not some good ? I say, Sir, that unless that spirit is continually in our race we shall, as has been said by some honourable members, " We shall go down." Then, again, do not be afraid of a military spirit in our women. Is it unwomanly for women to have a love of coun- try and to be patriotic ? I tell you, Sir, that patriotism and the love of country will have but a feeble and rickety growth in the spirits of the men if it has not a vigorous vitality in the hearts of their women. A touch of martial emotion will make them none the less loving and womanly. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .--- Sir, I simply rise to Mr. Monk express my concurrence with the measure before the House, and I shall support this Bill in the second reading. Before proceeding further I would like to congratulate the honour- able member who has just sat down upon the very eloquent words he has uttered. This colony is the most isolated and distant part in the British Empire. It is practically now decided that we shall not become a portion of the Australian Commonwealth-that we shall have to stand alone, and, if war breaks out, that practically we shall have to fight our own battles. That being so, surely it is necessary we should encourage in every possible way & military spirit among the youth of our colony. I agree with the honourable member for Frank- lin-I think it was-who said that the age mentioned in clause 5-eight years-was some- what too young. I think if the age at which the boys began drill was ten years instead of eight it would meet the purpose. I also agree with those honourable members who are against compulsory drill for girls. I think that military drill in the case of young girls is absolutely un- necessary. It would be quite sufficient if the girls were taught, to some extent at any rate, physical drill. Physical drill in the case of girls is almost more necessary than in the case of boys. One of the great wants in the case of the female population is to learn deportment and carriage, which is necessary to make per- fect women. As to making drill compulsory amongst boys, it seems to me it would le unfair to leave things as they are. and as they would to a large extent be left if the honourable member for Napier had his way. If we are to have military drill in schools at all, we must have military drill in all the schools. and I believe that in every school in the colony there is a very general wish, not only amongst the children themselves-be- cause it does exist amongst the children -- but . amongst the parents and teachers, that there should be military drill. In my own di- trict there is a small school at Johnsen- ville, close to the City of Wellington, the master of which is largely imbued with the military spirit. He has there a cadrt corps of boys dressed in Highland uniform. whose drill would be a credit to any Volunteer adult corps. Similarly, in numerous other schools in my district I know there is a desire to teach the children of the school their drill. There is an objection which has been raised by the honourable member for Franklin-namely. that. if this Bill passes, we shall have to appoint a number of drill instructors throughout the colony. No doubt. Sir. there is some little truth in that. It seems to me that it may take some time before we can teach every teacher in the colony the rudiments of drill. But, Sir, the time will come, and it is not a very distant time either. It is not difficult for either a female of a male teacher to learn the elements of driil. which is really all that is necessary in the case of young scholars, and in a very short period of time I believe, if once the Bill becomes law, we shall very soon find the teachers throughout the colony studying their drill and making them. 