the capital value of the land were put down at $500, he had to spend the whole amount of the capital value in six years, and unless a man had considerable means it was impossible for him to live and make improvements at the same time. He considered that, in order to give the poor man a chance of obtaining a holding sufficient to enable himself and his family to live, the improvements ought to extend over the whole ten years, and at the end of ten years he should have the right to purchase for $500; while no rent or interest should be charged for the first two years, because during the first two years a man could not possibly make anything off the land. This was a matter which affected largely the settlement of the unimproved lands, and he thought the regula- tions should be altered in order to give a poor man a chance of taking up such land. He hoped the Minister would take the matter into favourable consideration. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he agreed to a large extent with the honourable gentleman that more time should be allowed, especially in the case of bush land, before rent and interest was chargeable, and he intended to bring in a Bill before the session was very much further advanced to deal with this matter. He also intended to have the regulations under the Land Act improved in the direction of ex- tending the time within which improvements had to be made. But, generally speaking, the people who talked so much about this matter were those who did not take off their coats and go to work -- they talked only-and he had scarcely had a letter from a settler complaining of hardship with regard to the enforcing of these settlement conditions. The trouble was with those who would not work, not with those who took their coats off and went to work. The Land Boards generally. when representations were made to them that the time should be extended. had liberally interpreted the provisions of the Land Act, so as to give settlers ample time to arrange for making the improvements. Sec- tion 8 of "The Land Act Amendment Act, 1895," gave the Land Board and the Minister power to reduce the amount of the improve- ments which "The Land Act. 1892," required to be made if the land was not susceptible of the improvements specified in that Act : but no reasons had been given why improvements of some kind should not be made within the time specified in the Act of 1892 -namely, within one year from the date of his lease, improve- ments equal in value to 10 per cent. of the price of his land : within two years, another 10 per cent. ; within six years, a third 10 per cent .; and, in addition, within six years, on first-class land, improvements to the value of $1 an acre, and on second-class land to the price of every acre of such land. That was giving them six years at the present time. There were not many complaints, but still he held, and he had always held for many years past, that it was criminal to expect people to go on land and expect them to pay rent when the land was yielding nothing with which to pay the rent. There should be time given to them to bring the land into a state when there was some income coming from it before they charged the tenants for either rent or taxes. NOXIOUS WEEDS ACT. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Minister of Lands, When he intends to enforce the pro- visions of the Noxious Weeds Act of last session ? Several local bodies had asked bim to bring this matter before the Minister. At the present time the Act might be said to be hung up. The local bodies could not administer the law, and the Government, so far as he knew, had not done anything in the way of appointing Inspre- tors. Several local bodies were anxious that the Government should either enforce the law or give them power to enforce it. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the Act came into force very late in the spring last year, and it was not thought advisable to com- mence too harshly to run people to death with fright for the first year. He could tell the honourable member that provision had been made for inspection by the time that summer arrived again. The department would then have Inspectors at work, whose duty it would be to inspect where necessary, and they would bring the Act into force where they found that the people had been too dilatory or would not take steps to comply with the law. These people would find some trouble ahead if they did not comply with the Act, because Inspec- tors would be placed in the district with full power to deal under the Act. The Government did not intend the Act to be a dead-letter at all. but they wanted to give the people a little breathing-time to enable them to get ready. It would be just as well for them to take a hint now and show that they were in earnest aud intended to comply with this Act. HOROWHENUA VILLAGE SETTLEMENT. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether they are aware that for a long time past promises, both written and verbal, have been made by the Lands and Survey Depart- ment to the Horowhenua village settlers that the Horowhenua No. 6 Block would be eut up for settlement, and that many of the village settlers have retained their holdings, though too small for them, in anticipation of the fulhiment of such promises; and whether. in spite of these promises, it is the intention of the Ga vernment to devote the said Horowhenua Blek No. 6 to the purposes of an industrial s head and lunatic asylum ; and. if such is their inton- tion, whether they will substantially fulal the promises above mentioned by acquiring and one- ting up for settlement other land in the imme- diate vicinity ? The land which this question referred to was part of Horowhenua No. 6 Block, situated on the eastern side of the Mana- watu Railway, on the main West Coast Road The better portion of this block contained 1,400 acres. On the other side of the road - i. e. western side - was situated the Levin Village Settlement, composed of sections varying from five to twenty-five acres. The settlers on these village-settlement sections had found for years 