but I do think that anything more in the nature of a burlesque than the fact of the Premier of this colony conferring the honour of J.P .- ship in the halls of the Legislature of Victoria upon the Speaker of that body has never been wit- nessed. Nothing more ridiculous has ever been heard of. I believe that was not the only case. I saw by the papers a few weeks ago that some one in Adelaide had had a similar honour conferred upon him, only, unfortunately, this gentleman will miss the advantage of a personal presentation of the honour. There is one more matter to which I wish to refer, and I am sure the Premier will not think I am saying this in any unkind spirit; but I wish to show one further departure on the part of the Premier from what I may call the principles of simple democracy. Last year honourable members will remember that some reference was made to the crest which the honourable gentleman had begun to use on the note-paper on which he sent out his social invitations. A printed copy of that crest was shown to some honour- able members of this House. I saw it, and it was no secret. It represented, in the first place, a pair of lion's gambs holding something-ex- actly what I cannot say, but it might have been a very large oyster, or it might have been a loaf of bread, but most probably it was a nugget of West Coast gold. Underneath were the quarter- ings in ancient form according to the office of the Registrar of Heralds, and there was a Latin motto, which, so far as I remember, read some- thing like this-" Non bono Se idono." I am perfectly sure that if that was not the correct https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 motto it is something like it. Now I come to my point. This crest appeared in the City of Christchurch on a carriage in which the Right Hon. the Premier rode at the func- tions connected with the Royal visit. That http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero crest was the only one on any of the carriages accommodating the Royal party, with the ex- ception of the Royal Arms on the Duke's carriage; and, Sir, both the crest and the Latin motto had been altered. The lion's gambs no longer hold the oyster. Instead of that there rises a beautiful flower from the lion's gambs, which, I believe, represents the blossom of the kumara. I have looked up Featon's work on New Zealand flora, and that is the flower. The Latin motto was no longer " Non bono Seddono," but " Vulneratus sed non rictus." That, Sir, is the Latin motto, which has been obtained, I presume, from the heraldry of England within the last three months. But now comes the question, Who paid for the painting of the crest on the carriage ? Mr. SPEAKER. - I must say that the honour- able gentleman's speech is tending to degenerate and lower the tone of parliamentary discussion and the dignity of the House. The remarks are unconnected with anything in the Gover- nor's Speech or the Address in Reply, and it appears to me that he is now wearying the House by his lengthy remarks about crests and mottoes. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - I do not wish to weary the House, neither do I think I am departing from the fair criticism which mem- bers of this House are entitled to express in connection with the administration of the colony. The information I have is that the person who owned the carriage in which the Premier rode also drove, or arranged for the driving, of one of the Royal suite, the Duke of Teck. I am informed on what I believe to be good authority that the Government paid the persons who prepared these carriages for the Premier and the Duke of Teck $50 for up- holstering and painting them-including the crest to which I have referred. The informa. tion I have is that the contractors did not accept their order for painting and up holstering those vehicles from the person who owned them, but from the Government. And I say, therefore, putting aside all question of humour and any question of ridicule, that if that is the manner in which some of the expenditure has been made in con- nection with the visit of the Duke of York, it shows that the Premier has been utilising the position he holds as head of the Government and in charge of the finances of the colony for the purpose of ministering to his own vanity, by painting crests and by riding in carriages with those crests on ; which I say, whatever may be the opinion of any man in this House, is unworthy of a man who has attained the position he holds in this House and in this colony by the presumption and belief that he is a demo. crat-a man who has risen from the humble ranks of the workers, and who by his own ability and hard work has won the confidence of the people of the colony, but who now, when he has risen to the place he holds, utilises that for the purpose of making displays that are only ridicu- lous when they are apings of Royal honours, and of the honours that are attached to His Excellency the Governor as the representative of Royalty in this colony. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- The in- cident we have seen to-night of the abdication by a great constitutional party of its proper functions in the Legislature is one of the most regrettable in the political annals of the colony : for a properly organized Opposition has its legitimate place in our Constitution. It has an important duty to perform in the criticism of the policy measures and the administration of the party in power, and when we see such an abdication, such an abandonment of duty, as that we have witnessed to night, such a con- fession of failure on the part of the distinguished gentleman who has hitherto held the position of leader of the Opposition, we must necessarily deplore it, and especially so for this further reason : that it necessarily imposes on the followers of the party in power the duty to perform the functions of an Opposition, and to endeavour to criticize the mistakes of the Government they support, for mistakes, of course, must necessarily be made by any party. "To err is human," and there is no- thing I could wish for more, if I were not a supporter of the Liberal party, than to occupy the position of an Opposition member, and to have the opportunity of criticizing, and thus perfecting, the measures and the administration 