ADDRESS TO THE KING. The Hon. the SPEAKER announced that he bad presented to His Excellency the Governor the address passed by the Council, and His Excellency had been pleased to say that he would forward it. ## SESSIONAL COMMITTEES. REPORTING DEBATES AND PRINTING. - The Hon. the Speaker, the Hon. Captain Baillie, the Hon. Mr. Feldwick, the Hon. Mr. Jennings, the Hon. Mr. Jones, the Hon. Mr. W. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. Kerr, the Hon. Mr. Rigg, the Hon. Mr. W. C. Smith, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. STANDING ORDERS .- The Hon. the Speaker, the Hon. Captain Baillie, the Hon. Major Harris, the Hon. Mr. Jones, the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, the Hon. Mr. A. L. Smith, the Hon. Mr. Twomey, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. AGRICULTURAL AND PASTORAL INDUSTRIES AND STOCK .- The Hon. Mr. Bowen, the Hon. Major Harris, the Hon. Mr. Johnston, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. W. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. McLean, the Hon. Mr. Ormond, the Hon. Mr. A. L. Smith, the Hon. Mr. L. Walker, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. WASTE LANDS .- The Hon. Mr. Gourley, the Hon. Major Harris, the Hon. Mr. Jones, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. McLean, the Hon. Colonel Pitt, the Hon. Mr. Reeves, the Hon. Mr. Shrimski, the Hon. Mr. Stevens, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. STATUTES REVISION .- The Hon. Mr. Bowen, the Hon. Mr. Feldwick, the Hon. Mr. John- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ston, the Hon. Mr. Jones, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. Ormond, the Hon. Colonel Pitt, the Hon. Mr. A. L. Smith, the Hon. Mr. Stevens, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. LABOUR BILLS .- The Hon. Mr. Bonar, the Hon. Mr. Bolt, the Hon. Mr. Bowen, the Hon. Mr. Fraser, the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, the Hon. Mr. Jennings, the Hon. Mr. McLean, the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, the Hon. Mr. Rigg, the Hon. Mr. Stevens, the Hon. Mr. Swanson, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. SELECTION .- The Hon. the Speaker, the Hon. Captain Baillie, the Hon. Mr. Feldwick, the Hon. Mr. Jennings, the Hon. Mr. Jones, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. Kerr, the Hon. Mr. Rigg, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. LIBRARY .- The Hon. the Speaker, the Hon. Mr. Arkwright, the Hon. Mr. Bowen, the Hon. Mr. Fraser, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. Kerr, the Hon. Mr. Montgomery, the Hon. Mr. Ormond, the Hon. Mr. Rigg, the Hon. Mr. Scotland, the Hon. Mr. Stevens, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. HOUSE .- The Hon. the Speaker, the Hon. Captain Baillie, the Hon. Mr. Bowen, the Hon. Mr. W. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. Kerr, the Hon. Mr. Reeves, the Hon. Mr. Rigg, the Hon. Mr. Shrimski, the Hon. Mr. Stevens, the Hon. Mr. L. Walker, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. LOCAL BILLS .- The Hon. Mr. Barnicoat, the Hon. Mr. Bolt, the Hon. Mr. Feldwick, the Hon. Mr. Fraser, the Hon. Mr. Gourley, the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, the Hon. Mr. Jennings, the Hon. Mr. Johnston, the Hon. Mr. W. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. Kerr, the Hon. Mr. McLean, the Hon. Captain Morris, the Hon. Mr. Ormond, the Hon. Mr. Peacock, the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, the Hon. Mr. Scotland, the Hon. Mr. Shrimski, the Hon. Mr. A. L. Smith, the Hon. Mr. Swan- son, the Hon. Mr. Twomey, and the Hon. Mr. L. Walker. PUBLIC PETITIONS .- The Hon. Mr. Barnicoat, the Hon. Mr. Bolt, the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, the Hon. Mr. Shrimski, the Hon. Mr. W. C. Smith, the Hon. Mr. Swan- son, the Hon. Mr. Twomey, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker. ## ADDRESS IN REPLY. The Hon. Mr. KERR .- Mr. Speaker, I move, That the following respectful Address in reply to His Excellency's most gracious Speech at the opening of Parliament be agreed to, and pre- sented to His Excellency the Governor :- " MAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY,- "We, His Majesty's dutiful and loyal sub- jects, the Legislative Council of New Zealand, respectfully thank your Excellency for the Speech you have been pleased to deliver to both Houses of Parliament. "We deeply deplore the death of Her late Majesty Queen Victoria, and revere her memory as a great and good sovereign. " We desire to present our congratulations to His Majesty King Edward the Seventh, and respectfully wish him many years of life and happiness, and the assurance of his people's love and loyalty. " We, with your Excellency, are pleased to think that the recent visit of their Royal High- nesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York has been an event worthily carried out so far as the colony is concerned, and we are glad to learn from His Royal Highness's letter to you that he has been pleased with his reception in New Zealand. "We trust our relations with the Australian Commonwealth will always be friendly and kindly ; but we regret that any colony, a con- tracting party to the Pacific-cable scheme, should have done anything deemed to be inimical to the joint and several interests of the contracting colonies. "We also hope that the Commonwealth of Australia and the other colonies will meet New Zealand in a fair way as regards the penny- postage scheme. "We are glad to hear from your Excellency that the census shows a marked increase in the number of the Maori race, and we trust that advancing knowledge will still further assist the Maoris towards the higher conditions of life which they are naturally suited to fill. " We shall be prepared to attentively con- sider the several subjects and various Bills mentioned in your Excellency's Speech, as well as any others that may be submitted during the session. " And we join with your Excellency in trust- ing that our labours may, with God's blessing, tend to promote the welfare and prosperity of 