think there are about 300,000 acres, so far as I can remember, in my electorate, and 1 am perfectly satisfied that, so far as the Waikato properties are concerned. they could sell 150,000 acres at the present moment, so long as dairy- ing goes on. If the Premier would give me the chance, and if I could go to the bank and borrow a little money, I would not mind specu- lating in one of the estates myself. I am quite satisfied that if I cut it up I could make a nice protit out of it. Now, all these estates, which are blocking the progress of the country, only carry a few sheep and shepherds, and they are chiefly worked by Maori labour-not that I object to Maori labour; but the Premier is always talking about giving the white man a chance, and vet he will find that on his own estates the work is almost entirely done by Maori labour. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why ? Mr. HERRIES .- Because I believe it is cheap. Then, the Premier will find, notwith- standing the boasted reductions he has made on railway freights, especially for sheep, that every sheep on those estates goes down by water, and is not carried by rail at all, except the short distance to get to the river, and then they go down by special boat. Then, so far as the boasted reduction on wool-freights by rail- way is concerned, he will find that not a bale of wool from those estates goes down by railway. They can get it carried cheaper the other way ; but, when the Premier boasts about the reduc- tions he has made, he should look at his own estates, and he will see that they are not using the railway at all. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. SEDDON .- Perhaps the railways do not like our price. Mr. HERRIES .- There should be no dif- ference of price. The price should be the same for the small settler as it should be for the big Assets Board-the big Assets Board should have no right to a reduction that the smaller settlers of the country could not get. I say that so long as the Assets Board conduct their sales in that way they will never get rid of the estates, and the conviction begins to grow that they do not want to sell. Now, I should like to have thought that in this Bill there would be a remedy for this, and I am not sure that when in Committee it will not be pos- sible to produce a clause to compel the Assets Board to sell at a certain price, in the same way as private individuals are compelled to. Then, coming to the question of Native lands, all round the north these Native lands are held, and. as every one knows, we passed an Act last session to enable these Native lands to be sold. But has a single acre ever been sold yet under this new Act ? No ; because the new Act has not yet come into operation. For some rea- son, of which I know nothing, this Act which was going to benefit the Maoris, and which was going to enable the settlers to take up land, has not yet come into operation. The consequence is that every aere of Native land and every transaction in Native land are hung up until this Act comes into operation. Why it Mr. Herries ment, no doubt, will explain ; but in the mean- time the settlement of Native lands is retarded. and settlers who are wanting land cannot get it. But all the while the Government says, adopting the Maori policy, " Taihoa, wait a bit. and then you will see what you will see." The consequence of this is that a lot of the land is going back in briar and gorse, and settlers do not get any benefit from the Native lands. Then, take the Crown lands -- take the district I represent, the Bay of Plenty : there is any amount of good Crown lands there. but it has never been cut up, and there has never been an opportunity given to settlers to go on it. Mr. SYMES .- The Land Board will not part with it. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, I do not know about that : but at the same time I think the Land Board wants stirring up as much as the A -sets Board. I believe they have got large tracts of land if they would only induce settlers to go on them, and these inducements should be the same as those given in the land-for-settlements policy. I should like to say a few words about the alleged success of the whole policy. The alleged success is partly due to puting in the newspapers. Every one knows that when an estate is cut up it is stated in the papers that the policy is such a success because there have been a hundred or so applications for each see- tion. But every one knows that these applica- tions are like going into "Tattersall's " sweep : the people do not want the land ; all they want is to get a section and then transfer it and make a few pounds out of it. That is all this earth- hunger and rush for land amounts to-it is ad speculation. There are, of course, some settlers who want land : but what chance have they amongst all the speculators? I know people who have tried ten or a dozen times to get land -genuine settlers- - and who have been unable to get a chance at the ballot owing to the specu- lators who come from the towns, and who would be only too sorry if they were obliged to go on the soil. They do not want the land ; they merely want to transfer it. And this sort of thing is going on day after day in connection with every block of land that has been thrown open. Mr. SEDDON .- Wait till the Bill comes out of Committee. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, if the Premier will agree to the insertion of certain clauses he will have the support of every one who is desirous of settling the land. Mr. SEDDON. I only hope I shall have the assistance of every honourable member in en- deavouring to stop dummyism. Mr. HERRIES .- I can assure the Premier that every country member will support him in any arrangement of that kind, because we see how detrimental it is to the settlement of the land. It will only make our party the stronger, -the country party in the House ; the more the land is settled the stronger we shall be. and the Farmers' Union will be a power in the land. And I am very sorry to see there is no provision in the Bill for some means of enabling settlers 