HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 17th July, 1901. First Readings - Book-keeping of Local Bodies- Training of Volunteers-Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act-Returned Troopers' Cer- tificates of Discharge-Rev. Joseph Berry-Ac- quisition of Estates in Hawke's Bay-Stock- loading Yards at Otamita-Otautau Telephonic Communication with Unkes - Hundred Line Siding-Fairfax Stationmaster-Railway Work- shops at Invercargill-Kurow Public Buildings- Willowbridge and Uxbridge Railway-stations- Wellington-New Plymouth Railway-Hokitika Harbour Board Loan-Slaughtering Inspectors- Payment of Railway Ballast-gangs - Public Health Regulations-Railway Freight on Fire- wood - Thomas Looney - Invercargill Police- station-Police Regulations-Police Protection at St. Andrew's-Waimate Courthouse -- Boatman's Coal-mine Fire-Reorganization of Geological Department-Main East Road -- Taranaki Dairy- school-Drummond's Ferry, Papatotara Road- Waiau Ferry-service - Glenham Estate-Sur- veyors' Chainmen-Kelly Suicide-Inspection of Pigs - Eketahuna-Shannon Road - Tongahoe Road-Dangerous Roads-Apiti and Norsewood Road - Noxious Weeds Bill-Improvements on Unimproved Lands-Noxious Weeds Act-Horo- whenun Village Settlement-Workmen's Homes -Stoats, Weasels, and Ferrets-Native Bush Re- serves-Adjournment-Elective Executive Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Wellington City Recreation-ground Bill, Weslevan Church Reserves Vesting Bill. BOOK-KEEPING OF LOCAL BODIES. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Pre- mier, What steps have been taken to have a Board of experts appointed to draw up a uni- form sytem of book-keeping for the benefit of local bodies, in accordance with the promise given by him in the House last session ? He did not think he need make many remarks in asking this question. He put the same question to the Premier last year, and he promised that something would be done in the direction indi- cated. He pointed out to the right honourable gentleman then, and he pointed out now, that this question was one of great importance to local bodies. For some time past they had had embezzlement going on by many officers of local bodies, and the offence was still going on, and it was very difficult of detection. In Victoria they appointed experts, who drew up a uniform system of book-keeping, and he had every reason to believe it was work- ing satisfactorily. He understood that steps had been taken during the recess by the Premier to appoint experts, and what he wanted to know was whether they had reason to expect that a uniform and comprehensive system would be drawn up that would be of assistance to local bodies. He thought that municipal bodies would welcome such a system being introduced, as it would have the effect of simplifying matters and doing away with the rough, irregular, imperfect, and haphazard sys- tems of book-keeping now obtaining in connec- tion with many of the local bodies of the colony. Each Town Clerk and County Clerk had a sys- tem of his own, which was drawn up according to his own ideas. Some of these officials, he believed, would be glad to have provided for them an advanced, simple, and comprehensive system of keeping their accounts. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that he had admitted last session, in respect to the subject- matter of the question, that it was desirable, if possible, to have something like uniformity and a proper keeping of the books of local bodies; but, on the other hand, under the existing law local bodies would simply set the Government and every one else at defiance. They could not be made to keep books in a particular way, and if an attempt was made by the Government to force them to do it, they would reply that if the Public Accounts were kept as simply as the books of the local bodies' accounts it would be a great improvement on existing conditions, and it was hard to teach those who wanted to teach you. That was the position. However, the matter had not been lost sight of, and when they were dealing with the Local Government Bill this session it was probably a matter that might be brought up for consideration, and a clause introduced pro- viding that a proper and uniform system of keeping the books of counties should be observed. TRAINING OF VOLUNTEERS. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister of Defence, What steps are being taken to secure the services of commissioned and non-commis- sioned officers who have served in the South African War for training our Volunteer forces and as District Commanding Officers? During last session he asked a question relative to re- taining the services of officers and non-commis- sioned officers as well as others of our men who had served in South Africa. At that time the Minister of Defence stated that he would as far as possible employ officers and non-commis- sioned officers who had been to South Africa in the training of our Volunteer officers. He now wished to point out that, owing to the alteration in the recognised methods of warfare between previous wars and the war in South Africa. it was necessary to alter the method of training our Volunteers. There was a great deal of dif- ference between the management of colonial Volunteer forces and the management of Imre- rial troops ; and the fact of the matter was that. while not for one moment feeling that Imperial officers were unsuitable for the training of our Volunteer forces, it might be said that they were to some extent out of sympathy with car- nial troops, and to that extent it was necessary that we should as far as possible retain the ser- vices of our own men, especially those who have had experience in actual warfare. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said that two officers had been taken as assistant staff officers to the Commandant of the Forces. and four sergeant-majors had been taken as Instructors ; other applications from otheers and non-commissioned officers were under con- 