Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- I think it would do no harm to inform the House that the condition of affairs with re- gard to mining is very much altered now from what it was some years ago. The provisions of the Mining Act have been so modified during a number of years that it has really become an infliction for miners to pay for miners' rights, because the right is not now an element of title. In the early days the miner's right was an element of title wherever he went, but that has been eliminated from the Act ; and under the conditions that exist now with regard to taking up ground under lease, seeing that the right does not involve a matter of title, it is really time that the fee should be reduced. The difficulty the honourable gentleman re- ferred to with regard to the North still exists, and how it is to be ultimately got over is not clear ; but the clause in the Bill is an attempt in that direction, and the Government would perhaps be able to deal with it by purchasing all Native right to mining lands. And this would be an instance in which there would be no great injustice done to the Natives so far as the miner's right is concerned, because, as a rule, where the greater portion of the land is auriferous it is not fit for cultivation of any kind, and the Natives derive no benefit from it excepting through the mining. If, therefore, the Government were in a position to have the right of purchase over such land, it would be an advantage to the whole community. But, even if it cannot be done in the North, there is no reason why justice should be denied the miners in the South, and I think the time has now https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 come when the House should wipe out any fee that is not required, or is a tax on the labour of the miner, and I have great pleasure in sup- porting the Bill. Bill read a second time. SHOPS AND SHOP-ASSISTANTS BILL. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- Sir, it will not, I think, be necessary to keep the House very long in respect to the measure which I have to submit to-night. The Bill is entitled "The Shops and Shop-assistants Act Amend- ment Act, 1901." but it is better known by the name of " The Domestic Servants' Half- holiday Bill." Honourable members will recog- nise it as one of the "slaughtered innocents" of last year. It was before the House last ses- sion ; it went to the Labour Bills Committee ; it passed through the Labour Bills Committee, and was reported to the House. I do not know that it is necessary for me to say very much in favour of the Bill. I take it almost for granted that this House will pass the second reading almost unanimously. It is a measure which has been submitted to the House before- not in this Parliament, but the last Parliamont. It passed its second reading in last Parliament, and I feel sure that this House is not less liberal or less disposed to legislate in the in- terests of those who work longer and harder than they ought to without relief. The Bill also contains provision for restoring the weekly half- holiday which was taken away from the chemists. The provision is inserted in accordance with the almost unanimous wish of the chemists through- out New Zealand. A half-holiday is observed. I believe, by chemists in Wellington, Invercargill, Napier, and other places. It is the almost unanimous wish of the chemists in Otago that the half-holiday should be restored. When the Shops and Offices Bill passed through another place evidence was taken in respect to a similar clause ; and it was agreed that it was a proper clause and should be put in, and accordingly it was inserted in the Shops and Offices Bill. The clauses in my Bill simply give expression to the wish of the chemists. Then, I need not enlarge to honourable members on the posi- tion of domestic servants. I think that class of workers is almost the only class now that has no regulated hours. Nearly every class of labour commences at a particular hour and ends at a particular hour. In the case of domestic servants - a term, by-the-by, that I strongly object to, preferring the title " house- assistants," though I use the word " servants," because it is at present more customary -- of course, that is not so. The regulation thing, so far as I understand it, is that a domestic ser- vant gets one evening off in a week, and per- haps she gets every alternate Sunday a half- holiday. My Bill proposes that on one day in the week-which day it shall be is left to be arranged between the mistress and servant- the girl should get a half-holiday. I am glad to say this is done in a great many houses. A large number of mistresses find that it is convenient to allow their servants a half-holiday during the week, and they accordingly do so. And I say, that if it can be done by a large number of ladies there is no reason why it should not be done by all. If a half-holiday can be given on. say, Sunday afternoons, there is no reason why the girl should not have at least one half- holiday in the week. As I have said before, 1 am glad to think that my task is easy to-night. Honourable members know as much about this matter as I do, and I am assured I shall have their sympathy and support in respect to this Bill. When the Bill came before the House last year it created some interest and remark throughout the colony, and from Auckland to the Bluff there was a great deal of correspon- dence in the newspapers ; there were literally scores of letters in the Auckland and Dunedin papers, and, almost unanimously, they went in the direction that a half-holiday was a de- sirable thing, was a practical thing, and a thing which ought to be given to a hard- worked and underpaid class of the comme- nity, and that Parliament ought to grant it. I admit that of late years the condition of the domestic servants has been to some extent improved. It has been improved in this way : that there are so many girls who will not, if they can possibly avoid it, go into that state of bondage that the supply of girls has lessened. The supply having been lessened, the rates of pay have to some extent been raised, and ad- ditional privileges have in many cases been secured by the girls. But the reason is that the conditions of the work have in the past 