for settlement, we can only cut it upon our own land, and there is no power, as there would be between adjoining landowners, for the Minister to arrange with the adjoining landowner to jointly construct the drain for their mutual advantage. Neither is there power to join with local authorities, or to give them assistance, if they want to erect a bridge, or to make a road to join with a road which the department thinks of advantage to the land purchased. Therefore I think there would be no objection whatever to that proposal. It must be borne in mind that the cost is charged upon the land, and it is de- fraved by the persons who become the tenants of the Crown. Power is also given here to join in protecting lands as against river encroach- ments. I think it will be admitted on all sides that. if land has been bought which is liable to be injured by floods, the local bodies, or the ad- jacent landowners, ought to be able to com- bine for the mutual protection of the property. Mr. PIRANI .- Does that deal with the Ao- rangi Estate ? Mr. SEDDON .- I do not know whether you could do it with land already purchased. At all events I am advised that it is a necessary power, and should be given by the Legislature, as it does not obtain at the present time. I therefore come to the conclusion that in re- spect to clause 3 members will agree that that should be part of the Bill. Then, clause 4 is to make a charge against the lands of the expenses incident to the administration of the principal Act, including expenses incurred by the Minister of Lands in advertising them for disposal. I may say there are at the present time large expenses incurred which by statute are not chargeable to the land, but which are paid out of consolidated revenue. These large expenses are solely in connection with the advertising and disposal of the lands purchased. I think we ought to have strict accounts kept, and that all actual expenses incurred in respect of land should be charged against it ; otherwise the time will come when the returns sent in will not fairly give the amount of actual expense in- curred in respect to the purchase of the land and its disposal. Then, as to clause 5, it will be within the recollection of members that sometimes owners are absent from the colony. There was a case in respect of the owners of the Hatuma Estate, and considerable time had to In elapse before we could take any action. fact, it had to go Home, and then there was great difficulty. Points were raised as to whether the notice was legal or otherwise. And, of course, anything that can be raised of actual offor in cash. We meet that by saying that kind naturally causes loss of time and un- that an offer made in writing by the Minister is necessary expense. The provision made here is, an offer in writing of the amount stated. I think, what is required. Then, as regards the notice of claim, the time is limited to twenty- " offer in writing " for " money " ? one days. Subsection (2) says,- " Within twenty-one days after receiving the Of course, it must be in writing to be an offer. It could not be in any other way. The original notice of the appointment of the claimant's Assessor the Minister shall also file in the office Act reads as follows : - of the said Court a notice stating the name and Judge of the Supreme Court, accompanied by address of the person he appoints to act as his Assessor, and shall serve a copy of such notice an offer of the amount of compensation in the on the claimant." matter, and upon such proof as shall be satis- And subsection (3) is as follows : -- " If the claimant makes default in making or serving his claim, or if the claimant or the Minister makes default in appointing an Assessor, or in doing any other act, matter, or thing by the principal Act or by this Act re- quired or directed to be done, then, on summary application in that behalf by the party not in default, the Chief Justice may, on such terms as to costs and otherwise as he thinks fit, ap- point an Assessor, or give such directions and make such orders as in his opinion are necessary or expedient to enable the claim to be heard and determined by the Compensation Court, and, if the default consists of not making or serving the claim, to enable the order referred to in subsection one of section twenty-two of the principal Act to be made and acted upon in the absence of the claim as fully and effectually as if the claim were properly before the Court." We have been threatened that the other side will not appoint an Assessor, and that an Assessor not having been appointed we could not proceed-that the award must be made by two Assessors and a Judge, and that, therefore, if they fail to appoint an Assessor the case could not proceed. That has been contended. Well, we have no right to be placed in that position. I think there should be a fixed time, and I think twenty-one days is not too little, and if within that time either the Minister or the other side does not nominate an Assessor, then it is right to give the power to a Judge of the Supreme Court to appoint one for either of the parties making default in the nomination of an As- sessor. An Hon. MEMBER. - Twenty-one days is too short. Mr. SEDDON .- It may be contended that twenty-one days is too short a period, but when we get into Committee it will be found that I do not want to do anything that is arbi- trary or unreasonable. Then. as to subsec- tion (4), it has been contended that when compensation is offered by the Minister he must make the offer in actual sovereigns. Well, I think that is splitting hairs. This sub- section is :- " In applying the provisions of section forty of 'The Public Works Act, 1894,' it shall not be necessary for the Minister to offer the amount of compensation in the matter." The clause provides that it will be sufficient that a letter should be sent intimating that the Government would pay so much compensation. It has been contended that we must make the Mr. ATKINSON .- Where do you substitute Mr. SEDDON .- Well, in the original Act. "Upon the application of the Minister to the 