FIRST READINGS. Rhodes Trust Bill, Companies Bill, Property Law Bill, Mortgages of Land Bill. SESSIONAL COMMITTEES. SELECTION .- The Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, the Hon. Mr. Johnston, the Hon. Mr. Rigg, the Hon. Mr. Shrimski, and the Hon. Captain Baillie. JOINT ON BILLS .- The Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, the Hon. Colonel Pitt, the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker, C.M.G., the Hon. Mr. Williams, and the Hon. Captain Baillie. JOINT STANDING ORDERS. -- The Hon. Mr. Feldwick, the Hon. Colonel Pitt, and the Hon. Captain Baillie. APPOINTMENT OF THE NEW COM- MANDANT. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER laid on the table papers in reference to the appointment of the new Commandant. He desired, in doing so, to say a few words, and to state that the ap- pointment had been made on the recommen- dation of Field-Marshal Lord Roberts. They had been very much indebted to 'that dis- tinguished officer for friendly advice and other considerations, and on this occasion the Go- vernment thought the best thing to do in re- gard to the new appointment would be to ask the Field-Marshal if he would make a recom- mendation as to what he thought our service required, and he had recommended that Colonel St. George Henry should be ap- pointed Commandant for the next term of five years. The paper he was laying on the table showed the following record of service :- " Brevet-Colonel Henry has twenty-two years' full-pay service. He is the third on the list of majors of the 5th Regiment (Northumberland Fusiliers), being senior major of the 3rd Batta- lion. He was made brevet-lieutenant-colonel on the 6th July, 1899, and brevet-colonel on the 14th March, 1900, and is shown as having com- manded the 4th Corps of Mounted Infantry in South Africa since the 4th April, 1900. He served in the Dongola Expeditionary Force under Sir Herbert Kitchener in 1896. with the Camel Corps, including engagement at Firket and operations at Hafir, for which he was mentioned in despatches, and obtained a British medal and the Khedive's medal with two clasps ; in the operations in 1897 (clasp to Khedive's medal) ; in 1898 with the 1st Battalion of the Northumberland Fusiliers (5th Regiment) ; was present at the battle of Khartoum (mentioned in despatches), at the operations at Gedaref (mentioned in despatches), and in the operations in 1899, resulting in the final defeat of the Khalifa, in command of the Camel Corps Flying Column, and including the engagements at Abu Aadel and Om Dubreikat. He was appointed C.B. in 1901. The London Gazette of 16th April, 1901, states : Colonel St. G. Henry has repeatedly shown to advantage as a leader of men, and as commanding officer of the 4th Corps of Mounted Infantry he has done excellent service." So the Government had very little doubt as to the recommendation being a good one, and they had an officer to command our forces who had not only distinguished himself personally, but also had the most intimate acquaintance with modern systems. He had been working under the most successful organizer, from a military point of view-Lord Kitchener-and had also been in command of mounted infan- try in South Africa for a lengthened period. He trusted, therefore, the appointment would meet with the approval of the Council. The Hon. Mr. L. WALKER was understood to ask whether it was not advisable that the Commandant should be an artillery officer. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER was not pre- pared to question the proposition laid down by the honourable gentleman, but the first thing they required was a man to command our men. The Hon. Mr. L. WALKER .- And guns. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, Guns also, no doubt ; but, still, the more technical knowledge of guns was a matter of # s. d. They could get a man to help them in that. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND asked what was the age of the new Commandant. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he did not suppose he was more than forty. The Hon. Colonel PITT asked whether it was a fact that an artillery officer was on his way to the colony. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he was not aware of it. They would, no doubt. require an artillery officer, but not as Commandant. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said he did not know whether the papers laid on the table would give any information as to the condi- tions on which the new appointment was to be made. He would point out that, in a recent discussion about allegations of certain things that were said to have taken place in Welling- ton, the Premier was reported to have said that there was nobody in the colony who could de- mand an explanation from the head of the forces. If this condition of things were so. Parliament ought to be assured when the now appointment was made that no new Com- mandant, whoever he might be, should not be amenable to some authority in the colony - that was, the authority of those who represent Parliament, the Ministry of the day. This was a very important point indeed, and one which he meant to have raised if he had known more about the subject than he did ; but he know enough to know that it was altogether con- trary to the principles of representative govern- ment that any officer in the colony should not be amenable at all times to give an explanation to the Government of the day. He should be glad if the Minister would make some inquiry as to whether that had been provided for in the appointment that had been made. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said there was a certain amount of misconception about the matter, as was shown by the honouralle gentleman's questions. There was no doubt that anybody who was appointed to any po-i- tion in the colonial forces, or in the colonial service, was amenable to his Minister. He had got to account for himself in every shape and 