given to understand that the valuers are in- structed that, in the case of land which was originally bush, they are to consider as ex- hausted improvements the original clearing, the felling of bush, the draining of the land, and so forth, all of which are necessary to bring the land under cultivation; that is to say, they consider those works exhausted improvements if the work has been done so thoroughly, or so long ago, that no traces of the original growth remain. If, however, it has been done in a slovenly manner, or done so recently that some of the stumps remain, then it is considered an unexhausted improvement, and exemption will be allowed. The same thing applies to swamps. 11.0. Many of them have been drained at a cost of several pounds per acre, and if the work has been done so well that the land is thoroughly dry, and perhaps been ploughed and sown in English grasses, then no exemption is allowed for the original draining. Well, if there is one improvement that never becomes exhausted, and which always remains, it is the improvement that brings the land into a state of Houses, and outbuildings, and cultivation. fences may decay, but the first improvements on the land itself never decay. We have also heard of land being valued at what is called its " pro- spective " or "sentimental" value. That means this : There are thousands of settlers who per- haps many years ago went on to unimproved land. They have made farms of it. Their fami- lies have been born on it. They have become attached to it. The valuer comes along, and, seeing a well-kept and well-cultivated farm, he puts a high value on it. The owner, of course, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 objects, and the valuer says, " Well, will you sell it for that?" But rather than have any trouble or run any risk the owner simply puts up with the injustice. Land, according to my way of thinking, should only be valued accord- ing to what it will produce, according to its value for farming purposes-its using value- and full exemption for improvements should be allowed. Any other method of arriving at the value is unjust to the settler, and cannot be satisfactory. We are informed in the Governor's Speech that it is intended to go on with the Local Government Bill this session. On this occasion it is called the " Counties Bill." Well, I have not seen the Bill this session, but I read the measure that was circulated at the end of last session, and, although I do not want to discuss it now, I wish to say that I do not think, if we can possibly avoid it, there should be two sets of local bodies in any one district - that is to say, where the Counties Act is in operation we should be able to do without Road Boards, but where the work is done by Road Boards we should not have a County Council. I think, too, the ratepayers should be given an opportunity of deciding, by a poll to be taken for the purpose, which form of local government they wish to have. So far as my own district is concerned. the County Councils Act has been suspended for many years, and the work has been done by Road Boards. I have been a member of one of the local bodies myself, and I may safely say the work has been well done, and satisfactorily and economi- cally done. What, in my opinion, is wanted is a system of extended road districts, the Government to take over the main roads-not only the roads provided in the Bill which was circulated last session-that is, the roads over which His Majesty's mails are carried by coach-but such roads as the Main South Road in the Auckland Province-the arterial road of the Island. Such a scheme, I think, would be satisfactory to many districts, and I do not think would cost any more than at present, because less would be required in the way of parliamentary grants. I approve of the suggestion that has been made, that the Bill should be referred to a conference of delegates from the different local bodies. Those men are experts in connection with local government, and their advice and assistance will be very valuable to the members of this House. I also approve of the Bill being sent to a Committee of the House; but, if any important alterations are to be made, I think the Bill ought to be taken to the second reading, or perhaps even to the Committee stage, and then dropped for the session, so that the local bodies of the country might have the opportunity of studying it for themselves, and expressing an opinion on it. There is another paragraph in the Governor's Speech, Sir, in which many members of this House seem to be particularly interested - a very vague paragraph referring to the mail-service. I do not know exactly what it means, but I have read it, and it seems to be intended to draw discussion and criticism in connection with the mail-services. It certainly has had that effect so far as the Fr'isco mail-service is concerned. I may say that I do not like the American shipping-laws any more than any other mem- ber who has spoken, but at the same time the Fr'isco mail-service is the best possible service. and the fastest service, between this colony and Europe. The particular objection is in connec- tion with the American navigation-laws, which provide that no foreign ships can trade between American ports, and consequently our colonial steamers are considerably handicapped by being shut out of the trade between Honolulu and Fr'isco. And now things are worse than they used to be, because the American Government has subsidised the Oceanic Company, a strictly American line, one of the conditions being that the ships must be purely American ships and the seamen American seamen. However, a similar condition existed with the Canadian Government some years ago. I accidentally came across the speech of an Australian poli- tician referring to this particular point, and I want to quote it for the benefit of the House. He says, .- " Of course, our coastal navigation is abso- lutely free, and it may be the best policy for Australasia to keep it so ; still, as we are taking upon ourselves national powers, this question being a national one should receive our con- sideration. A great difficulty occurred on this very question between the United States and Canada when Lord Elgin was Governor-General. He saw that the American ships were in the 