defendant to commit an offence. He con- sidered they were particeps criminis, and liable for aiding and inciting to commit an offence (see section 49 of the Justices of the Peace Act, and similar sections of the Criminal Code Act). There were two classes of police-those for the prevention and those for the detection of crime. It was quite fair to take all reasonable steps for the purpose of 'detecting' crime already com- mitted, but it was not British nor fair to induce any one to commit an offence so that a charge might be brought against him. Mr. Kettle added that he was quite aware that Magis- trates differed on the question, and that some held that these methods of detection were perfectly legitimate, but that was not his opinion." Now, Sir, what experience has Mr. Tunbridge in the organizing of a Police Force? None, abso- lutely none. Mr. Tunbridge is not a policeman. He is a London detective, gravitating from Scotland Yard - that hot-bed of rottenness and corruption, from the time of Meiklejohn down- wards. Mr. Tunbridge has no experience in organizing a Force. He is not an organizer. In obsolete criminal theories Mr. Tunbridge may be an authority of some kind, but his ante- cedents, and being an essentially city man of a bygone period, stamp him as being utterly unequal to the intelligence of up-to-date crimi- nal experts, or to the varying conditions of a colonial community. He is, doubtless, good enough to shadow hotelkeepers, and harass them to the limit of exasperation, but that is about all that can be said of him. Sir, it was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 an evil day when Mr. Tunbridge was imported to this country as Commissioner of Police, and I hope, at all events,- Mr. SPEAKER. - Time is up. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- Sir, con- sidering the violent attack that has been made by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) upon Mr. Tunbridge, I should ex- pect to see the head of the Police Department in this House make an explanation. In fact, Sir, I have nothing at all to say about or against Mr. Inspector Pender, and I recognise that he has rendered very able and valuable services to this colony. At the same time, I recognise that the Minister of Justice, as a duty to the tax- payers of the colony, should have retired In- spector Pender some years ago. No fault at all can be found with Inspector Pender, only that he is too old for the position at the present time. As for the charges made by the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) against the Police Force of this colony, I am sure that none of them ever came under my notice, and that our Police Force is now better organized and administered than previously. Ever since Mr. Tunbridge has been in the colony I think there has been an improvement in the Police Force ; and I think it is a most serious matter for the head of the department to sit in the House and let any honourable member make such charges against the police without giving an explanation and coming to their assistance and defence where they cannot defend them- selves. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- Tb honourable gentleman who has moved the amendment is to me an enigma, and the posi- tion he has taken up to-day is to a certain extent a surprise. My reason for not getting up at once and replying to the honourable member before the honourable member for Motueka seconded the amendment was because I was under the impression that the House thought the honourable member for Welling- ton City was only recounting his own grievances, and that he was not speaking altogether for the benefit of the colony. I believe the amendment would not have been seconded if the honour- able member for Motueka had not done so for the reasons he has stated. Without getting at all into a heated frame of mind, it is just as well, perhaps, when an attack is made on a public officer who has no opportunity of de- fending himself, that the statement made should be calmly looked at. Though this matter has come upon me somewhat as a surprise, still I am in a position to be able to meet several of the charges made by the honourable member. With regard to the first matter mentioned-namely, the removal of Ser- geant Griffiths from Wellington-let me tell the honourable member that that officer was re- moved at his own request. Sergeant Grithths had been a very short time here when one of his sons died, and that was, of course, a great how to him : and in addition to this his wife's health was not good, and he desired to be removed to Dunedin, and he was so removed. honourable member has a very effective style. and has asserted that Mr. Commissioner 11- bridge has acted as if he were Governor of the colony. I admit that I have not had as bad an acquaintance with the Police Force as t' honourable member, but I can say this with respect to Commissioner Tunbridge: that I have always found that officer anxious to die charge his duty to the colony in the it manner possible, and I have always fomed ham prepared to deal fairly with all cases that cane before him, and to deal justly with the officers under him. If it were otherwise I would have no hesitation in saying so. because I am no more a friend of Commissioner Tunbridge tan I am of the officer whom the honortaire 1 member has been cracking up so highiv. do not know why, a case of this kind should be taken in order to condemn one man Th. re by setting another on a pinnacle. is no necessity for doing so. The Wow lington people and the members of tims House know that disputes have existed mu Wellington for some considerable time between the two branches of the police service in ties city. This was well known during last session of Parliament. Complaints have also ! ! !! made that crime has not been detected. Tis is simply owing to these disputes, and ace mi-e the Minister and the Commissioner of L'oise have endeavoured to settle these disputes - disputes which have been growing more pro- nounced, until the two sections of the l'okce Force, instead of working together, have reaih 