cases that might occur, but I never suggested during the whole of my speech on the Bill any wrong-doing of any particular constable what- ever. In fact, I went out of my way to say that, so far as the police officers of this colony were concerned, I was of opinion that they were good men, and that in the last two or three years they had considerably improved, and were governed by a man in Wellington-Inspector Pender-who had the admiration and esteem practically of the whole colony. The honour- able gentleman has gone off at a tangent in a way quite unexpected of him, and I feel sure that when he hears my remarks he will at once admit he was absolutely wrong in what he said. The House divided. AYES, 36. Allen, E. G. Hall Palmer Arnold Hall-Jones Parata Russell, G. W. Hardy Bennet Russell, W. R. Bollard Hornsby Lethbridge Seddon Buddo Carncross Massey Stevens Jarroll McGowan Symes Tanner Colvin McGuire Mackenzie, T. Willis. Duncan Field Tellers. Millar Monk Collins Flatman O'Meara Fowlds Laurenson. Fraser, A. L. D. NOES, 5. Tellers. Guinness Lang Herries Wilford. Napier. Majority for, 31. Bill read a second time. The House adjourned at twenty minutes past twelve o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 11th July, 1901. First Readings --- New Member -- Labour Bills Com- mitter -- Election of Chairman of Committees -- Hospital Nurses Registration Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Local Authorities Indemnity Bill. Police Offences Bill, Young Persons Protection Bill, Chinese Immigrants Bill. # NEW MEMBER. The Hon. Mr. Charles Louisson was intro- duced by the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker, C.M.G., and the Hon. Mr. Feldwick, and took the oath and his seat. # LABOUR BILLS COMMITTEE. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. in moving, That the name of the Hon. Mr. Fraser be dis- the name of the Hon. Colonel Pitt be added to the Committee in lien thereof, said that he very much regretted that the Hon. Mr. Fraser did not feel equal to taking part during this session in the onerous duties of member of the Labour Bills Committee, and had asked, therefore, that he should be relieved from that duty. Motion agreed to. # ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES. The Hon. Mr. REEVES moved, That it is desirable that the Standing Order of the Council be amended so that an annual ballot be taken for the election of Chairman of Committees of the Council, and that this be an instruction to the Standing Orders Committee to prepare the necessary new Order. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I had ex- pected, Sir, that the honourable gentleman who has tabled this motion would have said a little more upon the subject. I do not think it is a matter that should go without argument, as to whether we are to abandon the traditions of the past and make a change as regards the future. What happened yesterday was, of course. ap- proved by the Council and carried into effect, but I took it to be pro hac rice. I do not know, from what occurred yesterday, that it should always be taken for granted that the same procedure should be followed. At all events, if this motion is carried I trust that the Standing Orders Committee will look very care- fully into the regulations which were adopted yesterday as regards the use or abuse of the ballot. I think that, as the regulations now stand, they are not calculated always to bring out the best intentions of the Council. If this motion is carried it is, of course, not final, be- cause it requires the adoption of the amend- ment by the Standing Orders Committee and by this Council : but I hope this Committee, when they take the matter into consideration, will take into consideration every point of view, so that if the ballot is to be adopted it will only be adopted for one purpose-that is. to enalie the members of the Council to east their votes without in any shape or form disclosing their own personal feelings, which disclosure micht possibly make relations at some future time un- comfortable. Otherwise I see no reason for the ballot at all; and certainly I see no reason for the ballot if it can be so manipulated as to bring about a result immediately opposite to that which is desired by a majority of : he Council. I am sorry this motion has been brought up so shortly, and with so little pre- liminary explanation from the honourable meta- ber who moved it; and I trust that, if it is er- ried. the Standing Orders Committee will loh carefully into the whole of the surroundings, a d see that the new departure will be so protect of by proper regulations that the exercise of the ballot can only bring about one result, and that in accordance with the wish of the majority of the Council. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I cannot say I am very much in love with vote by ballot - I 