Empire." In doing so I wish to make a few remarks in reference to the Governor's Speech. I shall not deal with the whole Speech, but I intend to make a few remarks on certain matters men- tioned in it. The first paragraph refers to the .death of our gracious Queen Victoria. Our most gracious and virtuous Queen died in the first month of this century, and when the news was known a wave of sympathy and sorrow spread throughout the Empire; and not only through the Empire, but through the whole civilised world. No one who ever lived and acted as king, queen, emperor, or president has been so endeared to the people as was our late gracious Queen. During her lifetime she did her utmost to guard the liberties of the people and raise those institutions which are an honour to the Empire, and to befriend and con- dole with the poor on every occasion. She had the love of all her people, and it is well said in His Excellency's Speech that her grave was watered by the tears of the nation. Sir, it is . sad even to think of it. The whole world has, I think, regretted and been sad at the lamentable event. But our grief is somewhat lightened when we know that the worthy son of a worthy mother has been proclaimed King Edward VII. From the example set by his worthy and noble mother we have much to hope-that he will follow in her footsteps and dispense such righteous judgment towards his people as his great mother did. Long live the King ! But kings are mortal, and in the course of time he will be gathered to his fathers ; and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 when that time comes may he have, through his rule and work, brought his people round him in love and devotion, and may the tears of the nation water his grave also. Sir, with the King of England we are in perfect sympathy. He will do nothing to lower the dignity and prestige of our great Empire. I trust after this war is over he will have a long reign of peace, and that he will have opportunities to advance and encourage the people of the great Empire over which he rules. Then, again, we have had our sadness further lightened and our gloom dispelled by the arrival on our shores of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. It was, I think, a great condescension on their part to leave England at the present time and visit these colonies. Their reception has been grand and magnificent : they have seen the loyalty of the people in these colonies ; they are much pleased, and they have enjoyed their short sojourn amongst us. It would appear from the letter from His Royal Highness the Duke to His Excellency the Governor that he has been much pleased with the people, and the country, and its environments. I trust, if circumstances permit, he will become still further acquainted with the intelligent and dutiful subjects in this colony over whom he may in future reign. Our loyalty has been shown not only during the last few weeks, but since the commencement of the present South African war. Our colonists have gone forth to battle to uphold the dignity of the Empire-to obtain justice and uphold Hon. Mr. Kerr fully to this subject, but I think it is only fair and right to leave that to my gallant and generous friend who is to second the motion. I trust the war in South Africa will soon be over, and that we then shall have a long con- tinuance of peace and prosperity. One grievous matter that threatened this colony not long ago was the bubonic plague. I am glad to think that the wise legislation of last session has warded it off our shores, and I trust the Health Act will be so strictly enforced that we shall not suffer such a pestilence by the care- lessness and neglect of any person or persons. I regard the Health Act as one of the best Acts the Government has passed for the pre- servation of the people of this colony. I shall now refer to the coal mines. A Royal Commis- sion was appointed to inquire into and report upon the working of our coal-measures. I trust they will in their report suggest some scheme that will assist the development of our coal- measures, not only on the West Coast but in other parts of New Zealand. There have been many complaints of the scarcity of coal, not only in Wellington but throughout New Zea- land ; and I think if Parliament established a State coal-mine it would do some good, not for the purpose of competition only, but to secure for themselves a supply for our railways, our shipping, and other purposes. I have no doubt that there would have been sufficient coal, and we could have very well done without a State coal-mine, if the development of coal on the West Coast had been insisted upon some years ago; but there is now one mine that stands out in prominence, and should be an example to all others-namely, the Westport coal-mine. The management has thoroughly and con- scientiously carried on the work for the benefit of the colony ever since the mine was opened. The Westport Coal Company now exports-I think I am near the mark when I say- half a million tons of coal every twelve months, while other mines in the more southern part of Westland do not export one-half that quan- tity. Now, if the coal-mines in the southern part of Westland were forced to carry out the regulations we would not have the dearth of coal we have now. Coal-measures are lying idle, no work is being done; and what can you expect under the circumstances but a scarcity and a dearth of coal? It occurs to me, and has occurred to me often, to ask, Why has the price of coal increased to the extent it has ? From all I can gather and learn, the coal companies have received almost nothing for the investment of their money. I think 5 per cent. is about the maximum that they have received, and for many years they received nothing. The same applies to the mines in the southern part of Westland. They are working there almost with- out profit. What, then, causes the increase in the price of coal? It is surely not the wages paid to the men who how the coal, for they receive little more than labourers' wages, and we know the precarious and dangerous nature of their calling. I would agree to pay those men more liberally, even if it meant that the mine-owners never 