examination. In this case he did go before one of the doctors specified by the company, and the result was that he considers he suffered loss through the examination made by this doctor, who, he avers, was an incompetent man. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- This is only the costs of a special application. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- No ; I think it is the costs of the examination. Now, in respect to a poor man. that is apt to frighten him out of taking any action altogether. He may think the costs are going to mount up, and that if he loses the case he will be entirely ruined. I think we ought to be careful how we give in- fluential associations and rich persons or the Government a chance of heaping up these costs on whoever may be hurt. That is the only objection I have to the Bill, but I shall call further attention to it in Committee. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Sir, I simply desire to say that I do not think this is an unreasonable Bill. It certainly should not have the effect that is apparently feared by the last speaker, of increasing the expenses of any man who has got a good case. It is only for the protection of the Court that the addi- tional medical evidence is required. If it is a good case, then no doubt the Court will award damages, and the costs will follow the verdict. But there are cases, as everybody knows, which are not good cases, and which are bolstered up by exceedingly improper expert evidence, and it is to protect not only the Crown-and, ofcourse, the public expenditure - but also to protect other employers if they are unfortunately sued for accidents to men in their employment. The Bill really does not interfere at all with the Workers' Compensation Act of last year. That stands by itself, and it will be remembered that in that Act it was specially provided that the Workers' Compensation Act shall not deprive any one of his common-law right of proceeding against employers if he chose, and it is under these conditions that other actions may be taken which this Bill attempts to deal with. I think, Sir, the Bill is a fair Bill, and, at all events, I shall be very pleased to give every information I can in Committee. I beg to move the second reading. Bill read the second time. CEMETERY TRUSTEES VALIDATION BILL .. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Sir, I beg to move the second reading of this Bill, which has been introduced for two purposes. I think everybody will admit that the multiplication of local bodies is very much to be deprecated, and wherever it can be managed it is very much better that, in the matter of cemeteries at all events, the local bodies should be made cemetery trustees. Well, that has been done pretty generally during the last few years. and present legislation allows County Councils to be made cemetery trustees : but Road Boards, as a Corporation, are not legally qualified to be cemetery trustees. Therefore this Bill is a ment of any Road Board as trustees of any cemetery made under section 45 of the Ceme- teries Act is hereby validated. In the second place, the appointment of the Rotorua Town Council as trustees of the Rotorua Cemetery is also hereby validated : "and such validation shall in all cases be deemed to extend to the date when the appointment was made, and to all acts and proceedings (if otherwise lawful) done under such appointment." Clause 5 pro- vides that- " Where any cemetery trustees have been ap- pointed under the said section by the name of the Corporation, or of the Mayor, Councillors, and Burgesses of a borough. or of any similar name, such appointment shall be deemed to mean the Council of the borough, and shall not be invalid by reason of such misnomer." It is a validating Act to cover mistakes that have taken place by reason of omissions as to exact position. But the intention, I think, is one that all will be glad to recognise as a good one --- namely, that our local bodies should be as much as possible validated. and, at any rate, the Road Boards and Borough Councils are pro- bably the most fitting persons to take charge of the cemeteries. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .-- I am glad to see that the Minister of Education has given notice of a new clause by which Road Boards may be appointed cemetery trustees. There is no reason why they should not be, and every reason why they should be. They are a Cor- poration, they have a seal, and go on from time to time : whereas private persons who are appointed trustees may die or leave the colony. I believe half of the cemetery trustees in the colony at present are dead or not available, and there is always trouble in the matter. Another thing is, it gets over the difficulty of expense. Many cemetery trustees have only a few pounds and have to pay a clerk, and they have to call a meeting over the smallest amount of business, and all this would be avoided by appointing local bodies as trustees. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. - Sir, while be- lieving in fuller powers being given to local bodies in many matters besides what is dealt with by this Bill. I do not think the Government ought to surrender all rights to publie bodies, especially where the rights of the public may be injured by exclusive regulations and impositions. I know a case in connection with cemeteries where, unless a person agrees to erect certain fences and monumental stones, he is not allowed to bury relatives in the cemetery. Power should not be allowed trustees to make such exclusive regulations. "God's acre" should be free to the poorest in the land. Such does exist, how- ever, in the Auckland Province, and, unless a guarantee is given, it is in the power of the trustees to refuse the right of burial in the cemetery. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY. I see the Bill only deals with cemeteries gazetted under the Act of 1882. I would ask the Hon. the Minis- ter what becomes of those appointed under provincial Ordinance. In my district there are 