allowing part of the capital that it had to be taken from it by the Government - is re- ceiving a benefit or not is a matter of opinion, and one that can be gone into on a future occasion. I thought it right to make this explanation. because I feel very strongly on the matter, and I did not want it thought that I had cast any reflection on the integrity of the gentlemen who have been the liquidators of the bank. I dare say that they have done their best ; but, in my opinion, their want of experience in connection with banking affairs has meant a heavy loss to the shareholders of the Colonial Bank. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I was very sorry to hear the Minister declare that the Govern- ment could only remain helpless spectators of what the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith declared to be " almost a scandal." There is no doubt that he made out a very strong case, and it is very much to be regretted that the Government seems so indisposed to make such a searching investigation as the case demands. There was a time when I followed this matter very closely ; but it is ancient history now, and I have had no information about the matter for a long time. But I do know that these liquidators, and the Supreme Court also, allowed polities to interfere in the liquidation of this bank. That is a very serious charge to make against the Supreme Court, but it is a charge i am ready to make, and to accept the responsibility of making. We place great powers in the hands of the Supreme Court, and we ought to get justice in return for it ; and, according to what I have heard this afternoon. I am not alone in my https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 surmise that the Supreme Court was not just on that occasion. Of course, Sir, I do not wish to say any more, but that I shall vote for the motion, let the consequence be what it will. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Sir, I would like to say a few words on this motion. There is no doubt that every one in the colony thinks that the long delay in the liquidation and wind- ing-up of the affairs of the Colonial Bank is simply a scandal. Now, Sir, I think in a case of this sort, where large interests are involved, it is the duty of the Government, who are here to serve the public interest, to bring in a short Bill that would compel an investigation into the manner in which this thing is going on. I think the Government would be perfectly justified-1 am perfectly certain it would meet with the approval of the whole of the people of the colony-if they could see their way to take steps in that direction. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .-- Sir, I have only a few words to say in reply, and the first shall be that I am very sorry to find that the Minister does not see his way to take any steps in this matter. Of course, he said, it was no part of the duty of the Government to interfere in a matter of this kind ; but I think when the Government is requested by the whole Council -which I trust it will -- then, I think, it becomes its duty to carry out the wishes of the Council. There was just one matter I forgot to allude to, which was slightly touched on by the Hon. Mr. Hon. Mr. McLean and the opinion of others. that the liquidation has not been carried out in respect to the B accounte as it might have been. We know that since 1895 there has been a gradual recovery in the value of all property, mere especially in the value of such assets as were possessed in the Colonial Bank. In justification of that and in support of that we will take the 1 account. Mr. McLean has alluded to the D account. which was supposed to be so absolutel bad that the Bank of New Zealand would not even entertain the idea of taking it over. The result has been, from what I have heard. independently of what the Hon. Mr. McLean has told us, that there has been a very good dividend recovered on it. Now, if it is a fact that there has arisen a dividend of 14s. of 15s. in the pound upon a list which was as des- pised as the D account was by the Bank of News Zealand, what ought to be the effect of the result from the B list, which, however varied in its values it may have been, at any rate would be supposed to realise very much more than the D) list ? It goes to support the general opinion throughout the country, and the opinion of any business-man who gives the matter considera- tion, that the liquidation has not been carried out in the manner in which it ought to have been, and therefore there is emphasized the absolute necessity of the Government rede- nising its duty and inquiring into the whole circumstances of the case during the long period of five years and a half that the liquidators have had these assets in hand. Motion agreed to. LAW AMENDMENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- Sir. this Bill, unfortu- nately, has just been distributed to honourabie members, and I regret exceedingly that honour- able members were not in possession of the Bill before. However, that was unavoidable. and I think it would be unfair to ask the Council to discuss a Bill which they have only had in their possession for a few minutes. I shall therefore ask for a pro forma second read- ing of the measure, in order to allow it to go to the Statutes Revision Committee, and when it has returned from that Committee, then the Council may take a discussion on the BIL. 1 move the second reading pro fo. m. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .-- Sir, I shall support that course. I may say the same pro- cedure was adopted last year, and the Bill came back, and I believe it was passed. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .-- I have not had time to go into the details of this Bill, but I see it deals with some very important questions. What I object to is that a Bill of this nature should be brought in by a private memier. 1 should feel much better satisfied if it came to c. with the authority of the Law Officers of Crown. Of course, there is no harm in reading it pro forma, so long as it is referred to the Statutes Revision Committee-at any rate. It s some safeguard that a Bill of this nature w .. not be allowed to slip through the Coun .. without the very narrowest scrutiny. 