department with reference to the carriage of bicycles by rail had resulted, or were likely to result, in the adoption of any improvements with regard to such conveyance ? This question followed on one that he asked last year. The Minister on that occasion said that he would have inquiry made as to the methods adopted for the carriage of bicycles in other parts of the world. and when he obtained information as to the best methods in vogue he would embody such methods in our system here. Sir J. G. WARD) (Minister for Railways) said inquiries had been made throughout the world, and the various methods adopted by the differ- ent railroads for the carriage of bicycles by rail had been carefully considered, and the decision arrived at was that the canvas bag adopted on the New Zealand railways was the best arrange- ment yet discovered for bicycle traffic. DUNEDIN POST-OFFICE. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Postmaster-General, If he will, at an early date, make provision for the enlargement of the Dunedin Post-office, so as to provide much- needed accommodation for the public and staff ? The accommodation for the post-office and the savings-bank in Dunedin was totally inadequate for the large number of people who had to transact business there. Within six months from now the Supreme Court offices would be removed to the new buildings which had been erected for the Court, and that would leave room for the necessary alterations to be made. He would like to know if the Minister would, on this year's estimates, make provision for the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 cost, so that the work could be done as soon as the Court offices were vacant. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) might say that when it was decided to ereet a new Supreme Court at Dunedin the intention was, as soon as the Court had removed, to alter the inner portions of the present Supreme Court building and throw the whole into the post- office for accommodation for the use of the public. The Supreme Court was about finished, and as soon as the transfer from the present Supreme Court had taken place the necessary financial requirements would be made on the public works estimates to have the Post Office at Dunedin altered and improved in every way that the accommodation would allow. RAILWAY FROM PATTERSON'S CREEK TO SPRINGFIELD. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will give instrue- tions, notwithstanding any railway regulations, that settlers living near Patterson's Creek, Can- terbury, may get the advantage of railway com- munication between that place and Springfield ? His question spoke for itself, and he wanted a favourable reply. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said material trains only were run between Spring- field and Patterson's Creek. There was no ac- commodation on such trains suitable for the con- veyance of passengers. He therefore regretted that he could not give the favourable reply that the honourable member deserved, if only on ac- count of his brevity. PLUMPING AT ELECTIONS. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Colo- nial Secretary, If he will this session introduce legislation dealing with the practice of what is known as "plumping " at the election of mem- bers of the House of Representatives for the electorates of Christchurch, Wellington, Auck- land, and Dunedin ? He would point out that as many as fifteen thousand votes were withheld by those who went to the poll, which was unfair to those who used the whole of their vous. The effect was to bring about the defeat of the candidates whom they wished to see returned. He thought some means or other should be de- vised whereby we might get an honest poll taken in the four large centres. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) thought every one who had had experience of elections must recognise the evils that resulted from plumping-in the larger cities particularly. It was a question upon which a good deal of care required to be exercised, as to how a chance was to be brought about. For instance, if the larger cities were converted into single electo- rates it would to some extent facilitate the over- coming of the difficulty. He thought some effort should be made to insure that the wishes of the majority of the people of the colony should be fully provided for in the ballot system of New Zealand. He thought the question of electoral reform required to be carefully con- sidered, and the difficulties of plumping ought, among other reforms, to be met by legislation. and they ought to have a system by which minority representation in the House should not be possible. He knew that his friend the honourable member for Mataura thought thit his Bill would meet the want. There was a difference of opinion between them in that case. He favoured a second ballot in preference to the absolute majority system. He would take the whole matter into careful consideration. RAILWAY-FARES. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, If he will alter the scale of fares in force on the New Zealand railways ov reducing the return fares and increasing the single fares, so that settlers who are passenears may have some advantage in the concessions recently made to tourists and visitors to the colonies ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) } the present scale of fares was arranged on an equitable basis, and was much appreciated by the travelling public, as evidenced by the in- crease in number of passengers travelling. HA was not favourable to reverting to the system previously in force, under which return fars were charged one-third more than the sindie rate. When the new scale came into operation the single and return fares were materially re- duced. and passengers were now receiving con- siderable benefit from the reduction, and the advantages so derived were proportionate to the concessions made in respect to the tour'st 