having their position improved. If you will | members opposite should make such misstate- take the original industrial unions as they were registered under the Act, you will find there are no disputes with which they have anything to do at all, but that the matters are largely the outcome of the enlarged scope of the Act. The applicants are simply seeking for an adjustment of their position, and, therefore, to say that because that is going on there is bitterness existing at the present time is a statement that is not borne out by facts, and is not warranted. Then, it has been Mid that when men are working in a mine that is giving dividends they will receive a fair wage, and that those who are working in mines that are not working at a profit will have to put up with lower wages. Sir, that is a fallacy I cannot understand. Of course, there is a time in all mines when they are in course of develop- ment : and is it to be said that because of that fact the men engaged in them are to receive low wages ? I would like to put this position to members opposite : When that same mine is : ielding thousands of pounds-say, half a mil- lion sterling to its shareholders, as the Waihi Mine has done -- are the wages of the men who at one time worked for low wages to be largely increased, or are they to work for an ordinary wage while the shareholders are making their fortunes? No, the wages would not be in- creased. Sir. the work of a miner should not be considered on that basis at all. Investors and others who put their money into a mine have a right to pay the men who work for them a living-wage. The man who is working to develop the mine is not an interested party. He is in the position of the person who supplies the machinery, and it might as well be said that the machinery should be reduced in price as that the men should work for low wages. If we lay down that dictum we shall be alto- gether at sea. The member for Waitemata also said, " Unionism and the unions can compel the employers to produce their books." Sir, the Courts have held differently. An Hon. MEMBER. - Judge Cooper held dif- ferently. Mr. SEDDON .- No. All that has been held is this: they cannot compel an employer to bring his books before the Conciliation Board ; but the Court has held that, as a Court, it can compel the books to be brought before it. Well. you can do the same in any transaction before the Supreme Court in any case where there is a dispute. If that is the position in respect to ordinary transactions of the Court, where is the harm in adjusting the matter in the same way in the Arbitra- tion Courts? Then, we had a question as to the boys engaged in factories. Well, I wish the honourable member to answer me this : Can he deny that during the time of this legislation-during the past eight years- the number of employés in the factories of the colony has doubled? That is my answer to the ery of the destruction of the industries on account of the legislation of the country. Sir, the honourable member will not read up the position. It is truly astonishing that honouable A gentleman who aspires to be the ments. leader of the Opposition should not be 3.30. making statements across the floor of the House when, if he looks to the records. he would find that he is entirely wrong. I say, as Minister of Labour, with a due sense of responsibility, that during the last eight years the number of persons employed in the factories has doubled. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I say you are wrong. Mr. SEDDON .- Under these circumstances I can only say to the honourable gentleman that he is labouring under a mistake. Then, Sir, I am asked to agree to this dictum : that the settlers of the country were plundered by the unions of the cities. Now, Sir, if you double your factory-hands you double your consumption in the towns, and the best mar- ket for the farmer is to have a market at home. There is then no cost to him of shipping his produce in order that it may be put before the markets of the world. If you ask, What has helped to make the value of suburban lands-if you ask what has given to farmers the means wherewith they were able to supply their necessities and acquire an in- dependency during the last ten years-I say it has been the policy of the Government ; it has been the improvement in the condition of the workers of the cities. What was the con- dition of the settlers a few miles from Wel- lington ? What was the position of the settlers a few miles from Auckland? What was the position of those in Christchurch ? Look at the rise in your land-values, look at the in- crease in your urban and suburban population. look at the increased value of properties, look at the amount of consumption at home now as compared with the consumption before this legislation was passed, and there is a complete answer. I say the best friends of the farmers are those who consume their produce in the cities, and if you want to keep both prosperous look first to your producers-in-chief, who are the farmers, and then see that the workers are working on proper lines ; and it is this that has helped to make our country what it is, and that will continue to keep it in its present prosperous condition. I say that as wages improve in the towns so wages have im- proved in the country. You go to any coun- try where there is a low rate of wages in the towns, and you will find that the workers in that country are little better than serfs. We can take our own Mother-land as an object- lesson in that respect. I say that as you im- prove the conditions of the workers in the towns, so that improvement spreads to the country, and the country worker benefits as well as his fellow in the town. I would say to the towns : It is wise for us to go on on the lines we are going-not too fast, however, so that there should not be any mistake in what we are doing ; but, if we continue on the lines laid down on which we have been going for the last few years, I say our prosperity will continue. I say the good-will and confidence it has esta- blished between town and country will also con- 