conferred on you by the Crown, also Sir John been sold in my district for 2s., or 2s. 2d., and Mckenzie, who is now one of our colleagues, and also the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker and the Hon. Mr. Cadman. I did hope that this matter would have been dealt with by a special resolu- tion ; perhaps it may be yet. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Sir, there are one or two paragraphs in the Speech to which I should like to refer, and this is my excuse for speaking. But before I do so I wish to con- gratulate the honourable gentlemen who moved and seconded the motion. To say any more of the honourable gentlemen would be out of place ; we all know them, and it is not neces- sary to welcome them to this Chamber. I hope, also, that if I dispense with any allusions to the patriotic part of the Speech it will not be put down to disloyalty ; I do so merely to avoid tediousness, and I trust honourable gentlemen will not attribute it to anything else. I wish, Sir, to join the mover and seconder of the motion in congratulating you and the other recipients of the Royal favours. There is abroad a senseless prejudice against the accept- ance of the honour of knighthood, and I think it is time some effort was made to put that prejudice down. It arose and was first created by a gentleman who accepted a title himself It on the very first opportunity that offered. is supposed that the granting of titles tends to the creation of an aristocracy. Well, I do not know that it would be a very great evil if it were so ; but it is not so, it is merely a distinc- tion conferred upon honourable gentlemen for services rendered to the State. Although much higher, titles of this nature stand on the same lines as the presentation of medals and other decorations to soldiers who fight the battles of the country. That is the way I look on titles, and I think it is unreason- able and unreasoning for people to raise a sense- lesscry against honourable gentlemen, who for services obtained these distinctions. I think it is time a protest was entered against this, for the reason that it sometimes injures the re- cipients of these favours. There are in the Speech a couple of paragraphs dealing with commerce and cognate things to which I should like to refer. First, there is the expressed in- tention on the part of the Government to do something to assist the transmission of our products to other markets. I think this ought to be done; and I think that more than this ought to be done to assist the farmers, for the reason that every other occupation is directly assisted except that of the farmer, and I think he ought to be put on an equal footing with the others. We have protection for our industries to the extent, I believe, of 25 per cent. Our workers have only to appeal to the Arbitration Court and they get a minimum wage fixed. But the farmer has no minimum wage, and I think any man who understands anything about the country will admit that the farmer will not have a living-wage if he has to sell his wheat at 2s. and his oats at 1s. and 1s. 2d. :The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Give him 3s. instead of 2s. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Well, wheat has if we only look back we are able to recall with I do not think it is much more now. I say that is not a living-wage to the landowners, and if anything can be done to assist them in placing their products on the markets of the world it ought to be done. There is in the Speech a paragraph which is as follows :- " Recent developments in other countries and in our own colony, in the formation of trusts or combinations with a view of fixing abnormal rates for the purchase and sale of products within the colony, are worthy of attention, and my Advisers are of opinion that the Legisla- ture should, if the evil continues and grows, pass, as a precautionary measure, a law making it illegal for persons, corporations, or companies to enter into contracts or agreements fixing an abnormal price at which foodstuffs or coal within the colony should be sold." Now, I hope that proposal will not be carried beyond what it says as to abnormal prices. Ruskin, in his political letters, lays it down as a fundamental principle that it is necessary for those engaged in industries to combine to- gether so as to prevent cut-throat competition, and I trust that nothing will be done to pre- vent such combination, for the reason that if this cut-throat competition is allowed to go on it is at the very bottom of all distress, and all the low wages; and consequently it is unde- sirable, I think, that anything should be done in the direction of preventing these industries combining together for their own protection in the way that other people combine. Sir, I also think it would be very wise if the police super- annuation scheme were extended to all the Civil Service, and I hope it will be done. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I beg to thank the mover and the seconder of the Address for the kind way in which they have expressed themselves as regards myself ; but I can assure those honourable gentlemen that I look upon the honour conferred upon myself more as an honour conferred on the Council, for it has been my good fortune to lead the Council for some years now, and therefore I feel that any honour I have received is due to the Council, and due to the kind way and man- ner in which it has always received me. I feel sure, Sir, that every member of the Council feels deeply proud at the distinction you have re- ceived at the hands of the sovereign, and, with me, wishes that you may live long to enjoy that honour. As regards the remarks made by the Hon. Mr. Feldwick in connection with the Defence Forces, I indorse pretty well all he said as regards the marvellous development which has taken place within the last few years in connection with our citizen forces. We may well be proud at having such an army of Volunteers as we now have in New Zealand, the efficiency of which has been tested by the outbreak of the South African war, and the calling into active service of our sons and brothers demonstrated what valuable material we have. Not so many years ago it was the fashion to decry the Volunteer Forces in New Zealand. I do not know why, because 