made one great step in the direction of the union of the English-speaking people, and I am very glad, therefore, that reference was made to the "Brooklyn," so that I might add my tri- bute of respect to one of the finest bodies of men I have had the honour of being introduced to. In conclusion, let me say that I am glad that the Opposition has not been left for very many hours without a leader. I was rather surprised that this result should have come so quickly as it did, but we had the resignation, as it were, the throwing-down of the robes of office, figuratively speaking, by Captain Russell, the member for Hawke's Bay, 8.30. and we had them picked up and placed on the broad shoulders of the member for Riccarton, Mr. G. W. Russell. So that the leader of the Opposition is still a Russell, though a different kind of Russell. Sir, I may say I think the honourable gentleman acquitted himself very well. He raged, and stormed, and chaffed in turn. He was "every- thing by turns and nothing long." He has always been so. I hope, Sir, he will be able to gather together a very nice little army of soldiers that he may lead them in this House. We have heard a good deal lately about new parties. We have heard a good deal about new Ministries, and possibly here we have the germ of the new Ministry. I would like to see it when it comes into its full force and flower. No doubt, those gentlemen who are to-night sitting on the recognised Opposition side of the House will be only too glad, when this new company of soldiers comes to take their place, to clear off those benches and shelter themselves on this side behind men for whom https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 they have, no doubt, all along had sympathy as well as respect. We have now common ground on which to mect. We know a new party has sprung into existence, and that the leader is determined to smite hip and thigh the right honourable gentleman who occupies the position of Premier of this colony. He tried to smite him hip and thigh last night. I do not know that he succeeded very well. I do know this, however: that the speech at one time was good-natured and good-humoured, but at the end it degenerated into a personal-a very personal-attack on the Premier-an attack that neither did credit to the gentleman who made it nor to the House in which it was made. If we cannot agree with each other, then let us agree to differ from each other, and, for the honour of the House, pay a certain amount of respect to each other. I do not want that to be taken as a lecture from me, a new member ; but I feel it, and that is why I say it. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are not a new member. Mr. HORNSBY .- Yes, I am a new member, and I hope to be an old member; but I say this : that, young or old in the House, I will always give every other man, I do not care how bitterly he may be opposed to me, credit for his opinions, and I will respect him for his opinions, and I will expect him to do the same towards me. If we meet each other in that spirit always we shall get rid of a great deal of the acrimony and bad blood that is engendered in the House from time to time. It is well we should remember we are here not as the sport and plaything of this or that party, but that we are here as the representatives of the people, and that we represent both sides of politics in this House. Do I represent only the Liberals in my district ? No. Every man, woman, and child in my district is represented by me in this House, and that, I take it, should be the standard of conduct of every other member. When per- sonalities are dragged on to the floor of the House it is discreditable to the members of the House and to the man who is guilty of introducing them. I trust, Sir, that what I have said will be taken in the spirit in which it is intended it should be taken. I thank honourable members for listending to me so patiently. I hope other honourable members will take up the story and debate those questions we all know they are willing and anxious to debate. Let us have from them a reason for the faith that is in them, and let us have a critical examination of the Government policy from the Government side of the House. It cannot be said that we are "dumb dogs," for we have taken the responsi- bility upon ourselves which the Opposition have refused. Of course, we are told there is no Op- position now, only a segregation of atoms, a thing of shreds and patches. It is an Opposi- tion no longer. We have taken up their duties, and, as candid friends of the Government, we do not hesitate to give them our opinions about their policy. As far as I am concerned I intend to always tell them my opinion of what they do, and I hope I shall always be found properly and candidly criticizing every act of the Govern ment, and giving good reasons for the way in which I differ from or agree with them on any and all of the policy measures they may bring before this House. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- Sir, it was not my intention to speak on the Address in Reply this session, for reasons which I think I have stated before in this House. I, like some other members, feel it is now somewhat out of date to discuss grievances before Supply is granted, and it is a waste of valuable time at this particular time of the session, when private members' Bills and other work should be the first business before Parliament. I have just heard my honourable friend the member for Wairarapa speak of the treatment of the cadets when they were in Christchurch at the review in connection with the Royal visit, and, having myself some connection with the Normal School, in which they were accommodated, it occurred to me it would not be wise to allow the remarks of my honourable friend to pass unchallenged, for I feel sure when I have explained the cir- cumstances he will consider he has been mis- informed.' However, before I speak on this particular subject I wish to compliment my honourable friends the mover and seconder o the Address in Reply, and I may also com- pliment the other members of the House who have spoken, for the manner in which they have criticized the Address. I consider if criticism is neglected in this House the busi- 