power to suspend the Standing Orders, then he | Parliament is called together in this colony. It must realise that the quotation from May has no point, as the matter stands. I feel sure that honourable members will agree that nothing unusual or improper in any way, under the circumstances, is being proposed, and, indeed, that it is not possible to carry on the proper func- tions of government unless we adopt the course now proposed. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- It is not my intention to dwell upon the legality or otherwise of the suspension of the Standing Orders. I think that has been pretty well laid before the House by the honourable member for Riccarton. And in that connection I must say that the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay), who is an authority on con- stitutional history, and also the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), who is the great authority on parliamentary pro- cedure, have a distinct grievance upon this occasion. They have no right whatever to be robbed of their recognised position in this House as law authorities, with respect to parlia- mentary practice being laid down, by the honourable member for Riccarton. I rather rose for the purpose of congratulating the Pre- mier on having indicated to the House a course which, I venture to think, will meet with its full approval. He has told us that he is ready now with twenty of the most import- ant measures that he intends to lay before Parliament, and that these measures are ready to be proceeded with. That has not been the history of previous Parliaments with which he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 has been connected. We have usually received measures of indifferent importance for the first month or six weeks. Then, when 5.0. members were pretty nearly driven http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero into an asylum, as the member for Christ- church City (Mr. Lewis) and other members were last session, we have the important par- liamentary work of the session brought down, when we were mentally and physically unfit to consider it. Sir, we therefore congratulate the Premier on his intention to bring the important legislation before the House at an early stage. On the question of musty precedents and Stand- ing Orders, we all know we have seen these Orders frequently violated by the Premier. The honourable gentleman, in effect, says, "Con- found your precedents, frustrate your musty tricks, and give me power." The honour- able gentleman now wants the Standing Orders to be shifted about just as he wishes ; but, for my own part, I consider we should adhere to precedents. They have been the protection of the minority in this House and the protection of the people of the country in the past. I do not think, however, much harm can be done in granting what the Premier now asks. We know the circumstances of the case, and, for myself, I consider it would have been highly improper to have had two sessions this year. It would have put the country to great expense, and on that and on other grounds I think the Premier was wise in not having two sessions. I am, however, dis- tinctly opposed to the late period at which Sir J. G. Ward should be called together earlier in the year, so that those honourable members who are con- nected with the agricultural pursuits might get back to their work before it is too late in the season. However that may be, Sir, I merely wish to repeat that my main object in rising was to congratulate the Premier on his inten- tion to bring down the important measures early in the session, and to keep other measures of lesser importance until the closing hours. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Sir, I wish to protest against one or two principles laid down by the Right Hon. the Premier. He commenced his remarks by saying it would have been impossible, without disturbing the country members, to call the House together at an earlier period of the year than the present. I understood him to say that he had by circular learned that by- Mr. SEDDON .- No. Captain RUSSELL. - I understood the honourable gentleman to say he had consulted members as to the period of the year that would suit them to meet in Wellington. I was, unfor- tunately, away in Australia, and was not con- sulted. Mr. SEDDON .- I ascertained as well as I could without actually consulting them. Captain RUSSELL .- Yes, that is the custom the Premier always adopts. He knows what he wants himself, and thinks everybody else must want the same. However, I do not agree with the assumption that honourable members would have objected to come to a short session. It need not have been a question of two sessions in the year. It might have been only a matter of adjourning for a month, when members would have been called together again. The other principle I object to was also laid down by the Premier-namely, that because some of his colleagues wanted to go for a pleasant holi- day and disport themselves on the Common- wealth the whole of the business of the colony should stand still, and that precedents-how- ever musty, but which, I think, are of extreme value -- should be set aside. We have been told a great deal about Standing Orders yet, unfor- tunately, it is the practice in this House to practically annihilate the Standing Orders when- ever the Right Hon. the Premier wishes to assert his will. No person, however, can read this 437th Standing Order without it being per- fectly palpable to him that, although we are not going to violate the letter of the Standing Order, the whole principle and spirit of the Standing Order is going to be violated. That is perfectly plain. It says, -- " Any Standing Order or Orders of the House may be suspended on motion made with or without notice." And it is on that portion of the Standing Order only on which the Right Hon. the Pre- mier relies at the present moment-" with or without notice." But it goes on to say,- "Provided that notice extending over two clear days, and specifying the hour at which such motion will be made, shall always be given when practicable ; and that a notice to suspend 