referred to by the honourable member. The honourable gentleman stated that the im- ported American carriages cost £1,700, and that the carriages could be built in the colony itself for $1,400. Sir, the honourable gentleman is wrong in both instances. The cost of the American imported carriages is £1,619 : that is rather more than the actual cost. There have never been built in the colony cars similar in size to the American cars, or with similar lavatory accommodation for both ladies and gentlemen, and there has never been an estimate furnished by the department until those cars arrived as to what it would cost to build a carriage of similar size and capacity in our own workshops ; and I may say that the estimate of the department is that we could build these carriages in the colony itself with our own material, and importing the wheels and axles as usual, and putting on the Westing- house brakes, for £1,500. It is a difference the honourable gentleman will see, in favour of our own carriages, and that has always been the case so far as building our own carriages are concerned. I was anxious from the very start to do the whole of the work in the colony if we could have done it. There has been a question submitted by some honourable members as to the value of the work done in the colony by comparison with that made in outside places. Sir, I have no hesitation in saying that the work done in the colony itself is equal, if not superior, to that which we have imported, or can import, from anywhere else. There is no doubt about it. In the case of locomotive engines, wagons, cars, and everything else turned out by the rail- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 way workshops in the colony, there is no doubt whatever that our work is equal, if not better, than any of the work imported. I make that statement upon information furnished since I have been Minister for Railways by men who have come to this colony engineers and prac- tical men connected with railways of the other parts of the world -and who have gone through the various workshops in the colony, and also of our own experienced men, who have visited other parts of the world and seen the work turned out elsewhere. It is not a statement made on my own knowledge at all, but on infor- mation furnished by men of great experience, who have gone over the workshops in New Zea- land. Why should it not be so? We get the very best material that can be obtained, and our engineers, mechanics, and workmen are as in- telligent and as honest as can, I venture to affirm, be found anywhere. Now, Sir, regard- ing the cost of the wagons. The honourable member for Riccarton, when he got that infor- mation from the "man in the street," did not know that the whole of the 1,000 wagons im- ported are of exactly double tonnage to any of the wagons made in the colony itself. I venture to say that the honourable gentleman did not know that, and yet he made that comparison of prices. He said also that wagons could be made in this colony from £120 to $130 - I think that is the statement the honourable mem- ber made - whereas, he said, these imported Sir J. G. Ward $150 delivered in the colony ; but they are 12-ton wagons, every one of them, and just double the size of any four-wheeled wagons made in the colony. And they have been made double the size purposely, in order to get double the accommodation, with a view to assist in getting over the congested traffic that from time to time arises in different portions of the colony. The honourable member in respect to these wagons was entirely wrong, because four- wheeled wagons, as I say, have for the first time been made double the ordinary size. There have never been turned out of the New Zealand workshops in any portion of the colony 12-ton four-wheeled wagons since the colony has been a colony. The change has been made now, and I hope, so far as New Zealand is concerned, that we shall adopt the 12-ton wagons in our New Zealand workshops, because honourable mem- bers will see that very heavy traffic must go on increasing here in the shape of produce, et cetera, and we ought to have wagons carrying a greater tonnage without increasing their length, so that we may be able to use them on the existing turntables in the different portions of the colony. It means heavier wheels and axles, but the change to 12-ton wagons is a wise one. Well, on a minor point in connection with this matter I would like to clear up a statement made by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), and which was confirmed, I believe, or met with the approval of the honour- able member for Avon. The statement was that, if this work required to be sent out of the colony, how is it that retrenchment is taking place in the Newmarket and Addington Work- shops. Now, Sir, that is a very fair question to put, and I think it only right it should be answered. Now, from the 29th April, 1899, up to the 22nd June of this year in the Newmarket Workshops the increase in the number of men has been from 148 steadily up to 168; in addi- tion to which there have been day-to-day casuals latterly put on in Auckland to the num- ber of sixteen. Now, in the Addington Work- shops, during the same period, the number of men has increased from 413 to 491, and there have been put on during the last five or six months sixty-six day-to-day casuals. Those are the actual records from the two workshops that have been mentioned by both honourable members. Mr. TANNER .- But how many have re- ceived notice of suspension at Addington since that date ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I am going to tell the honourable gentleman about that. That is exactly what I want to explain to him, and every other honourable gentleman who has a right to know all about it. Why were these sixteen men put on at Newmarket and sixty- six at Addington during that period ? Princi- pally to fit up the new American cars, loco- motives, and work necessary to provide for the greatly increased traffic which was the natural corollary of the visit of the Royal party to New Zealand. The work was only temporary, and as soon as they got over their temporary work 