noma " being one day late, or two days late, or four days late on recent trips, I ask honourable members if, notwithstanding these delays, there is any other route by which we can get our letters from England more quickly than by the San Francisco route. I say there is not. If you take the speeches of Mr. John Duthie, who is one of the strongest antagonists of the San Fran- cisco service, it will be seen that he admitted the San Francisco route was the quickest-an opinion with which the opponents of the system cannot but agree. They say, " We admit it is the fastest ; but since the establishment of the cable, and since so much business is done by cable, a fast mail-service is not so necessary as it formerly was." I say it is as important as ever it was. Considering the expense of cabling, it is impossible to do any great volume of busi- ness by cable, and any business-man will bear me out when I say that nine-tenths of the busi- ness of the colony is done by correspondence, and not by cable. The delays referred to are not of any significance at all. The steamers were new. They were built in great haste, at a time when there were industrial troubles in the United States. They were built at express speed, so to speak, and consequently defects occurred in their construction which were not observed in the process of building ; but after those defects are remedied I believe you will find the boats will perform the service with unerring regu- larity. At present they arrive so well up to time that we look for their signal on Mount Victoria, in Auckland, as we look for the arrival of a train. We look for them with https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 as great confidence as we look for the ar- rival of any boat that comes into the har- bour from any of the ports along the coast. For twenty - odd years the "Alameda" and " Mariposa " have performed the service with unfailing regularity, and there is no reason to suppose that the faster boats, when they have settled down properly to their work, and slight defects have been remedied, as they are now being remedied in San Francisco-there is no reason to suppose that these new boats will not be as notable as their predecessors were for punc- tuality, and their speed will, of course, be much greater. Now, Sir, there is just one other matter to which I will refer, which, though I mention it last, is by no means least. I allude to the adjustment of the finances of the North and South Islands. I trust, when the estimates come down we shall see that an effort is made to allot to the North Island a small portion of the debt which is due to it by the South Island. There is a debt of three millions and a half that we are entitled to be paid in any equitable adjustment, in addition to the ordi- nary appropriations, and I hope that some portion of that money may be allotted to us in order to make an approach towards financial equality between the two Islands. We are not asking for the whole of that old debt to be paid at once, but it is only just that some small instalment of it should be paid. We have had it on the authority of the Premier that the assets originally appropriated for the construc- Mr. Napier gone into the Colonial Exchequer. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, no. Mr. NAPIER .- They have practically gone. The fiat has gone forth, and that is the situa- tion. It cannot be done, of course, legally, as the interest, by law, has to be applied to the construction of the railway ; but when the con- struction is finished the interest will naturally lapse into the Consolidated Fund. I do hope that, considering the large amount of land which has yet to be roaded in the North Island, and the exceedingly profitable business to the coun- try the opening-up of that land is, the Govern- ment will make an effort to devote a larger pro- portion of the expenditure on roads to the North Island than has been the case in past years. I am aware that last year was an exceptional year for us, and I have no reason to complain of the appropriations then made : they were as much as we could expect from the Government. I hope the same policy will be steadily pursued, consider- ing the large amount of leeway we in the North have to make up. Sir, I have now concluded the criticism which I intended to make in the dual capacity of a Government supporter and an Opposition member, which we are all con- strained on this side of the House to take up to-night, seeing that the regularly constituted Opposition is extinct. I trust the Government will continue its work, which has now been carried on for a period of ten years, in the interests of the people of this colony. I concur with some of the remarks-though I do not \--- -- approve of the asperity with which they were uttered-of the honourable member for Riccar- ton, that we ought to adhere to simple forms of life in this colony. We do not want in this colony to introduce the feudal system of Great Britain, or any of its concomitants, and I hope we shall follow the advice of the late Sir George Grey, that we should be content with humble homes and moderate wealth. If we go on in that way, I believe the colony has no reason to \- look with any misgiving to the future. I believe we shall pursue our course of progress and prosperity uninterruptedly probably for many generations yet to come. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at ten minutes to twelve o'clock p.m. ## LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 4th July, 1901. Address in Reply. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. ADDRESS IN REPLY. The Hon. the SPEAKER announced that, accompanied by the mover and seconder of the Address and several other members of the Council, he had waited on His Excellency 