naki North, £1,156 0s. 9d. ; Taranaki South, 9474 11s. 3d. : Clifton, $408 15s. 3d. ; and New Plymouth only $573 158 8d. Nothwithstand- ing that New Plymouth pays only $573 an- nually, and the other country districts larger sums, all the nominees - with the exception of Mr. Sarten, who resides in the Clifton Riding, but who, it is said, persistently votes with New Plymouth-reside in the Borough of New Ply- mouth. The Government, as I have said, have three nominees, and it is only right they should have them, considering the interests they have at stake in the district ; but it is feared the Board may determine, at no dis- tant date, to go in for a conversion and seize the sinking fund, as was done on a previous occasion, and the liability of this unjust im- position would become perpetual, and the Government is assisting them by appointing all the nominees at one end of the harbour rating district. We have had a promise from the Government in the past to alter the exist- ing state of affairs, which is most unsatisfac- tory, but so far nothing has been done. I have & resolution that was carried at a meeting of the New Plymouth Harbour Board, which I will read to the House. It is as follows :- "That immediate representation be made, through Messrs. Symes and McGuire, members for the district, to the Government of the un- fairness attaching to the present appointment of the Government nominees to the New Ply- mouth Harbour Board, and that it be pointed out that the county provides three-sixths of the revenue, and is entitled at least to two nomi- nees as a proportionate representation ; and. further, that the members of the House of Representatives referred to above be requested to strongly urge that the matter should be dealt with before the date of next re-appointment." On receipt of this resolution I wrote to the Hon. Mr. Hall-Jones, Minister of Marine, to the following effect :- "DEAR SIR, -I have the honour to enclose herewith a resolution passed by the New Ply- mouth Harbour Board. It is not necessary for me to inform you that I am in sympathetic ac- cord with the resolution. The subject-matter of the resolution I brought before the Govern- ment on more than one occasion. I also brought the matter before yourself by question in the House. The request is reasonable and just : it was brought under your notice by deputations at Opunake and Manaia on your last visit to the district. I have therefore much pleasure in submitting the matter for your favourable consideration. Awaiting your early and favour- able reply." I have received the following reply :- " Marine Department, Wellington, 27th May, 1901. " SIR, -I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 20th instant, for- warding a communication from the New Ply- mouth Harbour Board, in which it is urged that at least two of the nominated members of the Board should be selected from country districts, and, in reply, to state the matter will receive consideration when the members are next appointed .- Yours, &c., "WM. HALL-JONES." I believe the time has almost arrived when the appointments should be made, and I trust the Government will appoint men from the Counties of Hawera and Stratford. I do not care what the "colour " of the parties be as long as they are country settlers and rate- payers ; but we have a right to expect that the Government should do this, as it is only just and right that such appointments should be made. I have also noted that Sir Joseph Ward has taken a great interest in trying to find markets. That is one of the principal things we have to consider in this colony, he- cause New Zealand is a great agricultural country, and therefore any one who can find profitable markets for our produce is a public benefactor. The honourable gentleman is cer- tainly an able man, with commercial know- ledge of a high order, and his speech to-night in reference to the management of the rail- ways must have satisfied the House that he is the right man in the right place. I am pleased to know that he has appointed a commercial agent to report on the question of this colony obtaining further markets for its produce, and also a tourist agent to assist in the development of that traffic. I feel sure that the tourist traffic will be a great thing to this country in the near future, and when we consider that our summer is contemporaneous with the European winter this country should be capable of attracting a good many tourists. We have a variety of scenery, which surpasses that of Switzerland and Italy combined. We also know that tourists leave a large amount of capital in the country they visit. For instance, it is calculated that the tourist trade is worth five millions to Switzerland alone, and we might, therefore, naturally expect to get a million or a million and a half here. To com- mence with, it is our bounden duty to let the good points of our country be known with respect to the fertility of our soil, the mild- ness of our climate, and its scenery. I am glad to see that the Government are interesting themselves in opening up markets in South Africa, where I consider there is a good market for our produce. In this connection I am going to read an extract from a paper read by Profes-or Wallis, of the Agricultural Association of South Africa. This gentleman is a very capable man. and he is thoroughly conversant with the ques- tion he writes about. He read this paper at the Royal Colonial Institute lately, and he says,- " It remains to be decided whether or not South Africa is an agricultural and stock-rearing country capable of great development and of supporting many more inhabitants of European origin. My personal belief is that South Africa will never be developed through its agriculture. but that development will first come through the mines, not alone of gold and diamonds, but of silver, copper, coal, and many other valuable 