gentleman has been in the Police Office ten times as often as I have been-I mean for information. Mr. FISHER .- Will the honourable gentle- man kindly inform me what the gentlemen on the other side are laughing at ? Mr. McGOWAN .- Sometimes I am able to explain, but in this instance I am not able to do so-possibly they are laughing at me, and, if so, I have very little objection. He who laughs last laughs best. I think I have now said enough to show that there are no real grounds for the complaint of the honourable gentleman, and certainly there is no ground for the setting-up of a Commission. No doubt there has been a certain amount of friction, and it is just as well that explanations should be made. Without, I hope, disturbing the feelings of the honourable gentleman, I will be glad to do my best to have that friction removed, and I believe that I will be successful. I will not, however, succeed if honourable members are to interfere in every instance. It is not right that any one in charge of a department should be continually interfered with by honourable members, however desirous they may be to do that which is right. I believe the honourable member desires to do what he con- siders to be right in this matter ; but I think I am right in my view, and, being responsible for the department, I must do that which I con- sider to be in the best interests of the public, and not as Mr. Fisher thinks. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- I desire to congratulate the Minister who has just sat down upon the vigorous reply he has made to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the unfounded charges of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). When we hear the charges against Commis- sioner Tunbridge so fully disposed of by the Minister of Justice there is no need to say any more on that matter; but I can assure the honourable gentleman that both in the Force and by the public that gentleman is looked upon as the right man in the right place. No man in this colony has done more effective service than the same gentleman. The Force has been reorganized, and justice is being done to them. The trouble in connection with Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge is that he is too clever a man for many of the schemers in the Force, and because of that a few of these schemers are trying to raise this cry. What has caused the honourable member's action ? Perhaps honour- able gentlemen are not aware that the prime mover in the whole trouble in Wellington is a disappointed man-a man who was sent to England to bring out a Christchurch lawyer who was wanted, and when that lawyer arrived the officer referred to expected to be made a Sub-Inspector. Instead of that he was left where he was and put in charge of the Wel- lington office. From the date that Chief De- tective McGrath was promoted and transferred to Wellington this man has done his best to get him out of the service, and was a party to trumping up a series of charges against McGrath. From that day Mr. Wright has been doing his utmost to have McGrath re- moved or dismissed. No one desires to say a word against Inspector Pender-the services that he has rendered in the past are admitted. But he is now too old for the position. One of the principal arguments in favour of the super- annuation scheme was that it was impossible to continue these old servants in the Force, and to do them justice pensions would have to be pro- vided for them. As a consequence of this the Act was agreed to. The understanding was that these old officers would be pensioned off. Instead of that they are still being retained. Take the case of Mr. Wright, who trumped up twelve charges against Chief Detective McGrath. The Public Trustee was appointed to go into the whole matter. One charge Detective McGrath admitted. Three, I think, were prac- tically minor charges. They had to rake throughout the length and breadth of the Force to find anything against him. As for the rest, they were dismissed. The honourable gentle- man knows what the summing-up of the Public Trustee was. What was one of the causes of the Chief Detective treating the Inspector in charge in an insubordinate manner? The honourable gentleman talks about detecting crime; but if he were in a department, what would he think of the head of that department passing him over and giving information about a case to a subordinate ? That is what Inspec- tor Pender did in Wellington. Was it to be wondered at that the Chief Detective would not put up with that conduct ? The whole thing was a scheme to get McGrath out of the Force, and to enable Wright to get his place. Commissioner Tunbridge has now had time to weigh the whole of his men, and I think he has got Mr. Wright's measure, along with that of many other members of the Force. But, Sir, we can quite understand what is the trouble, because the Minister says the member for Wellington City wishes to run the Police Force in Wellington, and therefore I can quite understand the attack on Detective McGrath. Detective McGrath is in Mr. Wright's road. and Mr. Wright, if I am not misinformed, has been in communication with the member for Wellington City, and, therefore, to get rid of Detective McGrath and make room for Mr. Wright the honourable member has made this attack on the Chief Detective. Why, Sir, Detective McGrath's character can be given by every Magistrate in the colony in whose Court he has practised. He is admitted to be one of the ablest men who has gone into the Courts on behalf of the police, and as a detec- tive he is recognised to be the equal of any man in the Force. That, Sir, is a fact that can be proved conclusively. For myself, I would be quite prepared to give a Royal Commission to- morrow, and if there was brought forward the evidence that it is possible to bring forward against certain schemers in the service the result would be that instead of being ap- pointed Chief Detective, or put into some other position, they would find they would have to look for work elsewhere. Sir, it is surprising to me that the Minister, knowing the difficulty -and I think this is the only point at which 