after as they should be, and are therefore get- ting into mischief. But this does not brand the children at all. I would point out that almost the last thing the Magistrate can do is to proceed against the parent or guardian, and I am not quite sure that something should not be done against them earlier. I am sure this is the most considerate course of procedure that we can adopt if put into the hands of proper officers, and that it will be the means of saving a great many children from troublous ways ; and therefore we need have no hesitation in pass- ing the Bill. I beg to move the second reading. The Council divided on the question, "That the Bill be read the second time." AYES, 20. Taiaroa Arkwright Jones Baillie Tomoana Pitt Barnicoat Scotland Twomey Smith, A. L. Walker, L. Bolt Smith, W. C. Whitmore Bowen Harris Williams. Stevens Jenkinson Swanson NOES. 6. Pinkerton Kelly, W. Feldwick Shrimski. Jennings Kerr Majority for, 14. Bill read the second time. SCHOOL ATTENDANCE BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This is a Bill of considerable importance, because every one must recognise that it is of the utmost importance that our children should take the advantage of the school-teaching which is pro- vided for them. There is too much laxity in some quarters as regards the obligation of parents to send their children to school. The Bill of which I have the honour to propose the second reading does not vary much from the existing law, except in one or two particulars. In the first place, as regards the age of attend- ance, we propose that, instead of it being from seven to thirteen, it shall be from the age of seven to fourteen, because we find, especially in country places, that it is quite fourteen before the children get through their standards. Also that, in regard to attendance during the week, instead of being six a week, as it is in the present Act, we propose to make it seven times out of any consecutive ten times that the school is open, which, of course, means three days and a half out of five. I am not sure whether it is quite enough, but, at all events, it is asking more than is asked now from them, and I trust it will have some effect. Of course, the parents and children are protected in the same way as they are now under the Act by exemptions. In reference to exemptions, in clause 4 there is an alteration. The present Act says (section 3) :- "This section shall not apply to any child whose place of residence is more than two miles from the nearest public school, the distance being measured by the shortest road, or who cannot conveniently reach a public school by railway." Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker "That the total distance that the child would be required to walk from his place of residence to the school, or from his place of residence to the railway or other public conveyance and from the railway or other public conveyance to the school, is more than two miles in the case of a child under ten years of age, or three miles in any other case, the distance being estimated by the nearest road." So that in the case of children over ten years' of age we increase the former distance from two miles to three, which I do not think can be said to be too much. At all events, I know that in my young days in the Old Country there were children who went to school a dis- tance of more than three miles, and were very glad to do it. The same po . ers of appeal are preserved in the Bill as are in the principal Act with regard to exemptions from the Committees to the Board ; and generally, excepting in one or two particulars, the present law is not very much altered. In the matter of penalties on parents for the irregular attendance of children. clause 6 says, - " Where any child required by this Act to attend a public school has been enrolled in the register of a public school, and, being in good health, does not attend at least seven times out of any consecutive ten times that the school is open, the parent of such child shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding ten shillings and not less than two shillings for every such week in which such child failed to attend school as required by this Act." In the Act now in force it makes a parent liable to a penalty not exceeding 2s. This Bill proposes to have that penalty increased to 10s. if the Magistrate so thinks fit, but it can- not be less than 2s. I trust that the Council will pass this Bill. I think it is very moderate, but it is going in the direction which I am quite certain we all wish our young people to walk in. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE. - I think this is a very desirable Bill. Anybody who is ac- quainted with our free school education must be aware of the difficulties which teachers have to contend with, and how the Education Boards are often heavily laden to find teachers for the schools, because there is not enough attendance to keep up a good school. I have noticed in many parts of this town for many years past that if you go about the streets you will see lots of children, ranging from about eight to ten to twelve years of age, doing nothing but playing with marbles and tops. Perhaps some of the mothers keep the elder girls at home to nurse the babies, and the Truant Officer has to 2) round to hunt up these children. I am aware that the parents understand, perhaps, that their children must have so many days' attendance during the year ; but what do they do ? They send their children to school in the morning and they are marked in the register, but they are so knowing that they keep them at home in the afternoon. The children have to have two-thirds attendance at the school during the year, and that is the way they do it. But I see by this Bill they must attend school four hours during 