in constructing the line in the shape of the addi- tional interest they would receive, and at the same time provide facilities to the settlers to get their produce away. Then, in Southland we have the Heddon Bush Estate, some twelve or fourteen miles from the railway. I under- stand that estate is not offered for sale by the owner, nor does he desire to part with it ; but if that property were acquired, and a light line of railway constructed to it along the Limestone Plains, it would be greatly in the interest of the settlers in that locality. That estate, which at the present time only employs a few hands and carries a few thousand sheep, would be admirably adapted for the purposes of the Act. On those estates that have been acquired we now find that instead of a few thousand sheep there is a large and thriving population ; and not only that, but there are probably more sheep on the land as well than there were previously, because it is the settler with two hundred or a hundred and fifty acres that will make the most out of his land, and the consequence is that besides agriculture you will find in the aggregate the lands are carrying more sheep now than they were when held by the squatter before being acquired by the Govern- ment. Then I contend, looking at it from an agricultural point of view, and taking into con- sideration the question of frozen mutton and wool, the land is returning double, or even treble, what it was before being acquired by the Government. Figures will prove that the operations of the Government under " The Land for Settlements Act, 1894," have been in every way successful, and we may have every hope that in the future they will be equally satis- factory. Of course, it is an easy matter to single out and disparage an estate which has perhaps not turned out so remunerative or so well as might have been expected. But no matter what financial institution or land com- pany might go in for extensive operations of this sort, nevertheless there will be in some cases properties that will prove more or less unpavable. But, taking it all through, I con- tond. and I think that every honouravle mem- ber will bear me out in saving, that the land- for-settlement policy of the present Government has been eminently successful, and reflects the greatest credit upon the Administration, and especially on the author of that policy, Sir John Mckenzie. I consider that the distinctions be- tween Crown land and land acquired by the Government should be removed. The Act says that once land is acquired by the Government it becomes Crown land, but there is a great differ- ence between land acquired by the Goverment under the Act of 1894 and ordinary Crown land. Selectors under the latter system have the op- tion of selection for cash, leasing with the right of purchase, and the lease in perpetuity, whereas under the Land for Settlements Act he has only one choice- Hobson's choice - namely, the lease- in-perpetuity system. In one case he is required to pay rent at the rate of 5 per cent., whereas in the other case he pays at the rate of 4 per cent. I contend that this anomaly should be removed. In a part of my electorate the i its provisions themselves that they actually left Waiau River divides Crown land on one side from land on the other side which has been acquired by the Government. It seems ridi- culous to say that where a piece of country is simply divided by a river, the selectors on one side should pay on the capital value 5 per cent , while on the opposite side of the stream they only pay 4 per cent. There is also another point in connection with this Act : Why should tenants be called upon to pay 5 per cent. on the cost for roading and bridging for all time? With regard to buildings and other such improvements the amount may be paid off in a specified number of years, but for roading and bridging the expenditure is added to the original cost of the land, and the selectors have to pay 5 per cent I hold that is unfair to the selectors. I hope that in time to come the Government, taking courage from past ex- perience or from the experiments they have made in acquiring estates for closer settlement, will be more prudent in taking up land which is favourably situated for the purpose of giving effect to this Act, and thus give opportunities for closer settlement, so that the productive capabilities of the land may be increased, and, if they do so, I contend that they will be acting in the best interests of the community and for the benefit of the colony at large. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - It is very plea- sant to listen to the rounded periods and elo- quent phrases of the last speaker, but when you come to boil down his speeches to hard facts you do not und very great results. For in- stance, just now he pictured to us the glorious lot of those settlers who acquired land from the Government and who run a hundred sheep on their sections, making, 1 suppose, $25 a year to keep themselves and their families. I wonder it the honourable member has ever tried to live of the proti's on a hundred sheep. If he had I am sure he would not talk of the splendid prospects obtained. He also spoke of the Moa Flat Estate as a place particularly well suited for agricultural purposes; but I am informed by an h mourable member that there are more hills than flat on that estate, and, as to it being fit for agricultural purposes, al hough a prac- tical farmer himself, he said it would be about the last place he would care to do practical farming on. Sir, the Premier intro- duced this Bill as a measure of urgency ; but throughout his speech there was nothing to indicate where the urgenev came in, and it was left to the ingenuous Minister of Lands to explain to the House really where the urgency came in. The Premier did not tell us, in re. ferring to clause 3, that that was the urgent part of the Bill, and that votes for expendi- ture on roads on lands for settlement were stuck up because the Auditor-General refused to allow the money to be spent without legis- lative authority. It appears the same trouble we always have in regard to our hurried legisla- tion occurred last year. There was passed a consolidating Land for Settlements Act. and the Government were so impatient to get it through and took so little trouble to consider 