So far as the eight-hours day is concerned, the colony is practically unanimous as to that. It is only where it is impracticable that there has really been any opposition ; and I see that the Arbitration Court over and over again, in fixing the hours of labour, in most cases fix them under an eight-hours day, and therefore that shows they are fully aware that it is necessary to differentiate in different trades. I now ask members representing the Ministry to take this matter into consideration, and see if it is not possible to deal with legislation on the lines I have suggested to-night. I feel certain it is almost impossible to get an Eight Hours Bill like the one now before us through the House, and, though we have over and over again affirmed the principle, we have never been able to come to an agreement as to the trades and occupations which should be dealt with in an Eight Hours Bill. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) .- I do not wish to give a silent vote on this Bill. I am sorry that it has been introduced. I think it is quite unnecessary, for in the district which I represent eight hours is considered the regular working-day, and if farm-labourers are working at any other work, excepting where horses and cattle are concerned, they start at eight in the morning and work up till five in the afternoon, with an hour for dinner. Some of the members who spoke in this debate on a previous occasion said a good deal about child labour in connection with dairy farms. Well, Sir, I think more has been said on that than is necessary. It has been said these children go to school after milking, and cannot do their work, but go to sleep during lessons. I think a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 good deal of this talk has been caused by school- masters in certain districts who are not quite up to their work in getting their children past the standards, and they blame it on to the milking. Settlers, I think, are not likely to overwork their children in this or any other form of work on farms. I merely wish to say that I shall vote against the second reading of the Bill if it goes to a division. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) .- Like other members who have just spoken, I feel that I cannot allow the second reading of this Bill to take place without saying a few words with re- gard to it. For a very great number of years in New Zealand now we have considered and prided ourselves upon the fact that we do practically work an eight-hours day. Time after time, as the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) told us, Eight Hour Bills have been presented to this House. Sometimes they have been brief and simple, and sometimes very complicated. Now, when a Bill is brief and simple. as a rule, it is acceptable ; when it is complicated it is not acceptable : and. personally, I think this is one of the most complicated Eight Hour Bills that could possibly be pre- sented to the House. I intend, if there be a division on it, to vote for the second reading. At the same time, when the matter comes before Committee, at that stage I shall move amend- ments or support amendments in connection with the different clauses therein. At the pre- sent time, in connection with our big cities we hardly need an Eight Hours Bill of any kind. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act applies. and is used not only for our organized trades or skilled trades, but the Act has been amended so that those engaged in unskilled trade can take advantage of it. There is another Bill that has been before this House, and in all probability will pass-I allude to the Shops and Offices Bill-that will apply also to those who are in retail shops, and in some offices at any rate ; and when we have these two Bills upon the statute-book we have that which can be taken advantage of by all the employés in our big cities. Then, outside our cities we have our country workers, both male and female. If the Eight Hours Bill cannu: be made applicable to those workers in some way, then it is almost useless to place it upon the statute-book, unless we are to place it there simply for the purpose of affirming the prin- ciple of an eight-hours day. It has been ad- mitted here that it is impossible for us to pass an Eight Hours Bill that will be acceptable and applicable to all country workers. I take it for granted that such is the case, as the country members seem unanimous upon that point ; and. consequently, if we can- not make this Bill so that it will apply to country workers, the question arises whether it is really worth our while to let it go on the statute-book at all. On the other hand. it may be possible, and I believe it is possible. to follow the example of the Boards in another colony, and so group the various workers in the country together that some can be brought under the Bill and mentioned as those to whom the Act shall apply. Then. as to the question of female labour, it has been pointed out by the member for Otaki that an Hight Hours Bill can hardly be made fairly to apply to female servants of any kind. Whether that be ~ or not I am not prepared at the present time to say, but I do say, as one of those representing labour in this House, that I should prefer that this class of labour should not be mentioned at all, rather than that there should be a clause in an Act upon our statute-book hx- ing the hours of labour at twelve per day. And you must remember that they would naturally have something to do during 11.30. the hours of meals, and, if so, when you include the hours of meals it makes four- teen hours a day. I repeat that I should prefer not seeing them mentioned at all rather than have a clause such as this placed upon the statute-book. Then, in clause 5, we have the question of persons employed by the State and also by local authorities. Now, if we can ras an Eight Hours Bill that shall apply in this manner we shall have done very good work indeed, for we must recognise this : that while we passed a Bill last year applying to certain contracts, and making it strictly compulsory and binding that workers under those contracts should only work eight hours per day, never- theless there are a large number of workers employed under the local bodies who work longer hours than that, and when we look at 