equal to the deeds of heroism performed on any battlefield. I also expected the land-for-settle- ments question would be discussed. If we go back for a few years and read in Hansard what some of the members sitting opposite then said about that matter, it is surprising they have nothing to say about it now. Of course, I do not blame them ; but at the same time I certainly expected to hear some criti- cism from them through their old leader. Within the last two months I have myself I was at the visited two of the largest estates. Cheviot and Starborough Estates, and any one who sees them cannot but admit they are an ·object-lesson for the whole colony. I do not in- tend to go into figures with regard to the position .of those estates, because the Minister of Lands will no doubt do so later on. At the same time I cannot allow this opportunity to pass without emphasising the reference to the matter in the 'Speech. Sir, I quite agree with that paragraph, .and the fact that honourable members have not taken the matter up and given their opinion upon it is surely an admission by them that the position of things there is most satisfactory. I can say the settlers are doing well, and are keeping more sheep upon the land than the first owner used to keep there, while at the same time they have increased the number of cattle, and culti- vated thousands of acres for agriculture. Of course, connected with these estates there is the question of the necessity of bringing them into constant communication with the main trunk line of the colony, and on that point and the North Island Railway I certainly expected to hear something from the leader of the Opposi- tion ; but, as a matter of fact, there was no real criticism at all. Last year mem- bers strongly impressed upon the Govern- ment the necessity of completing our main trunk lines ; and any one who goes about the colony cannot but realise that the sooner these lines are completed the better it will be for the colony as a whole. Then, Sir, we have made a wide departure from our usual programme through annexing the Cook Islands, and we have now a young foreign policy to attend to. It is a matter that has been criticized outside the colony, and I certainly expect to hear something about this important question from honourable members opposite. The well-doing of those whom we are now attempting to govern is a matter of some importance. Probably we may hear something later on regarding them, and an expression of their opinion from those who are able to judge and have some expe- rience of the matter may, at any rate, prove valuable to the House and to the public outside. Then, Sir, we have had the census enumeration. We know that the colony is gradually improving, and, although the popu- lation is not growing by leaps and bounds, at any rate a very steady and satisfactory rate of progress is going on. I am one of those who have always thought that an increase in the number of the population would be a very great advantage to a colony like New Zealand, and I have never hesitated to express that opinion, because, realising that as we stand at the pre- sent time we are not more in population, or not equal to what we could call a third-rate city in the Old Country, there is plenty of room for an extension, and for five times the number we have at the present time of the right class of men. This is also a matter of very great im- portance to the colony. Now I have a few words to say with regard to the Advances to Settlers Office, and it may interest a good many honourable members and the country to know that what was stigmatized by the Opposi- tion formerly as a measure leading us to the high road to ruin has proved to be quite the reverse, and that whereas it was stated that those who borrowed from this Advances to Settlers Office would never pay their rent or interest, yet that these predictions have been refuted and effectually dispelled in the working- out of the office itself. It is very pleasing to notice that the results as they stand at the end of the last financial year show that the applica- tions received by this office up to the .31st March, 1901, were 12,999, and that they covered an amount equal to £4,540,828. The number of applications on which, up to the 31st March, 1901, advances were authorised was 9,931. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- What are you quoting from ? Mr. MILLS .- I am quoting from a return of the office, which is authentic. Mr. MASSEY .- For this year or last ? Mr. MILLS .- Up to the 31st March, 1901; and the amount advanced is £3,244,900. Mr. HERRIES .- Has that return been laid on the table of the House ? Mr. MILLS .- Then, the number of advances authorised and declined by applicants up to the 31st March, 1901, was 1,230, and the amount was £565,380. I have just mentioned this to honourable members because it was always understood, from the inception of this great measure, that the cardinal point should be safety to the State ; and therefore, while there may be some regret, and some people may be annoyed that the advances are not made in such large sums as they make application for, the depart- ment had to be guided by the valuers, who go and value the land and bring in their re- port accordingly. The advances authorised to and accepted by the applicants num- bered 8,701, and the amount was #2,678,520. Now, there was also a measure passed which gave a rebate of interest to tenants of the Crown, and the total amount of rebate of interest for the last year was no less a sum than $8,000. I think, therefore, it is quite clear to honourable members that the system is working well, and that it has been most bene- ficial to those who were bound to go into the money-market to get financial assistance. The only grievance I have heard in regard to it is that the amounts allocated are not as much as some honourable members would have wished. But that is almost a natural sequence in con- nection with the borrowing of money, when it comes to examining the securities the borrowers have to offer. Then, I had expected to hear something with regard to the prosperity and the progress of the colony in this debate. 