of the accounts at all? It would become more and more confused and confusing. And that is the state our laws are in at the present time. They are getting more intricate every vear as we pile them up. In Victoria they are a long way ahead of New Zealand in this respect. In Victoria, in the year 1850, they found that they would have to codify their laws, and that codification was introduced under direction of Mr. Justice Higginbotham, and it has been an inestimable boon to the Justices of the Peace and to the public gene- rally in Victoria. Under the present system we are only making work for the lawyers, and even the lawyers and the Judges very often cannot understand our law, which has been amended and patched about so much. I think, there- fore, we ought to compliment the honourable gentleman who has introduced the Bill in the interests of the public. We should endeavour to bring about some system of codification. Sir, there are some of the clauses of this measure I do not agree with. I think, myself, that there should be an officer of this House, who is responsible to this House, into whose hands this classification ought to be given, Some day- - though that day may be a good way off wit-there may be an Attorney-General in this House : and, when we have an Attorney- General, I think he is the responsible person to take charge of this, rather than the Solicitor- General. lí we substitute the word " Attorney- General " for " Solicitor-General " in the Bill, and make him responsible for the book-keeping of the House, I feel sure the measure would be greatly improved. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Hon. ME :BERS. - Hear, hear. Major STEWARD. - I agree with the honour- alle member, and am prepared to make the amendment. Mr. PALMER. - Then, Sir, another thing I would mention : there have been great com plaints that the statutes that were passed in the House last year, and which have come into operation, were not printed for a con- siderable time after the close of last session, and the consequence was that the Justices of the Peace had to administer those statutes without knowing anything about them. We have had people telegraphing down from Whangarei and other places to Auckland asking to be supplied with copies of the statutes; but in Auckland they had not got them, and the consequence was that decisions were given before the Magistrates knew anything about the statutes, and before they were printed. We ought, therefore, to take into consideration, when we are codifying our laws and passing our laws, the desirability of making them as simple as possible, so that the people may understand them. and codification is the best way of doing it. The only real attempt that has been made in the direction of codification at all has been the publication of "Curnin's Index." If it had not been for "Curnin's Index " I do not know what difficulties we would not have been in. In conclusion, I again wish to congratulate the honourable gentleman upon having intro- duced this important and useful measure. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- I have only to thank the House, Sir, for the very favour- able way in which they have received this Bill. I would only like to point out now that the carrying into effect of the Bill, if passed by this House, would practically rest with the Govern- ment of the day, because the direction of the House by resolution is to be given; and the Government will, of course, know which mea- sures it is desirable should be so codified, and will no doubt act upon that resolution and order a codification of such measures as they think desirable. They could, of course, be ap- proached by members of the House with sug- gestions, and there will therefore be no diffi- culty involved. The codification can then go on steadily, and I am quite sure honourable mem- bers will find that the power given in this Bill will be an exceedingly useful instrument in their hands. Bill read a second time. PEDLARS AND HAWKERS BILL. Mr. HOUSTON ( Bay of Islands) .- Sir, it is not my intention to detain the House at any length in regard to the features of this Bill and in urging that it be read a second time. The Bill is of so simple a nature that those who re- side in the country must understand full well its provisions, and must understand that such a measure is absolutely necessary at the present time, and has been for some time past. I have endeavoured in years gone by in this House to get a measure of this kind brought in by the Government, but unfortunately I have not been able to succeed. The interpretation clause of the Bill clearly defines " pedlars and hawkers," and " commercial travellers," and distinguishes between wholesale houses and retail houses. One of the most important features, or perhaps the most important feature, of the Bill is con- tained in clause 5, which defines to whom licenses shall be issued : -- " Licenses under this Act shall be of one class, called . local licenses,' and shall be issued to British subjects only who shall have resided in New Zealand not less than twelve months prior to the date on which the application is lodged with the local authority." Now, Sir, at the present time, in the extreme northern part of this colony, we are overrun by a class of pedlars and hawkers known by the name of " Assyrians," and any one travelling in that district cannot go many miles during the day without meeting one or more of these people on the road, with or without a pack-horse. These men, I consider, do a great deal of harm to the district. They carry about a class of goods which are of no earthly use, in a certain sense, to the people. They get into the back districts and they per- suade the people, unfortunately, to purchase their wares at a very high figure ; and, being principally of the " Brummagem " character, they take the eye of the country people, and the result is that a large amount of these goods are purchased which are of no use to the settlers whatever. Now, it is necessary that some check should be placed on this class of men travel- 