also knows that that gentleman is now consider- ably up in years, and what I suggest to honour. able members is this : that the Inspector is not It was admitted by so young now as he was. the honourable member for the Suburbs that he was of considerable age. No doubt he has his faculties, and no doubt he is still an able man, but advancing age brings with it a ten- deney to rely on subordinates ; it brings a ten- dency to lean on some one in the staff ; it brings a tendency to depend on some one in the office, or some member of the Force to assist and to help, and the actual state of affairs in this case is, I believe, that the Inspector has been lean- ing too much on the gentleman whose name we have heard mentioned already to-day-Mr. Wright. Now, I ask this: Is it, or is it not, a fact that Mr. Wright considers that he should have been appointed to Detective MeGrath's position, and has openly expressed that fact ? An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. BARCLAY .- I say it is. Mr. FISHER. - Mr. Tunbridge 4.30. provided him the position of Sub- Inspector. Mr. BARCLAY .- A Sub-Inspector is not what Detective McGrath is; and I say that Mr. Wright considers that he ought to have been appointed to Mr. MeGrath's position when Melirath was appointed. If that is so, and he is the officer upon whom the Inspector leans, what must be the result ? Naturally, what has occurred -disorganization, and through dis- organization there will result the failure to detect crime, and the administration of the Police Force will not be so effective as it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ought to be. It has been stated that Inspector Pender, if he chose to retire, would receive a pension of $240 a year. I would ask this : Would not the best solution of the matter be for that officer to accept his pension, and then, no doubt, there would be a free hand in dealing with the rest of the staff in the office, and re- arrangements might be made to put the whole department here upon a proper basis ? I think the House is pretty well aware of the position of matters, and therefore I do not think it is necessary that I should elaborate further. I would just like to say before sitting down that Detective MeGrath was a detective in Dunedin, and he did good work in the Police Court there, and, so far as I could judge, he was a very smart and competent officer. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I concur with the remarks made by the Minister of Justice in his defence of the administration of the Police Department, and I sincerely trust that the honourable gentleman will continue the course he has laid before the House this afternoon. If he does so, I will undertake to support him, and I believe he will be supported by the whole of the members of the House in seeing that the efficiency of the Police Force of the colony is maintained. I compliment the Premier on the appointment of Commissioner Tunbridge. No better appointment has ever been made in the interests of the public service of the colony. I exceedingly deplore the wanton attack made on member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). To say that he displayed a want of taste would be a very mild term indeed. I consider that his action this afternoon most reprehensible, and to think that a gentleman with his generous instincts should make an attack upon a public servant who is not able to defend himself on the floor of this House is something that I did not expect from him. I can only conclude that he has been misinformed, and has been smart- ing from delay in the Government answering certain questions he has on the Order Paper. I never was before Commissioner Tunbridge, but he has been frequently before me in my capacity of Chairman of the Public Petitions M to Z Committee. When ex-policemen petition the House to be reinstated or given compensation, I might say that in every case the decision of Commissioner Tunbridge has been sustained by the Committee. We have found him to be an honourable and straightforward man. If he has erred in the administration of his depart- ment it has been on the side of mercy. In- spector Pender has been referred to. I have known Inspector Pender for the past thirty years. I known him, Sir, to be a most offi- cient and capable officer, and if he wanted a testimonial - although I do not think he requires it - I should be glad to give him one extending over a period of thirty years. I may state that there are only three policemen in my electorate. A sergeant and constable live not far from where I reside. I am on intimate terms with these members of the Force, and they all speak in the highest terms of the treatment they have received from Commissioner Tunbridge. I have never heard a complaint made against his adminis- tration. I hope he will continue to act fear- lessly and faithfully to administer the depart- ment under his control in the future as he has done in the past, and if he does so I am sure he will have the support of the members of this House, and even, I venture to believe. of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) who on this occasion has stepped from that dignified position he so frequently takes up on the floor of this House. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .-. Until the Pre- mier spoke just now there was not one word said in this debate as to political parties. The leader of the House was the first to import into a subject like this, a subject that should be quite free from party politics-and he ought not to have used sneers at the expense of the Opposition-an attitude that he ought not to take up. The honourable gentleman told us that the Opposition was laughing because of the attack by a member of the Government party on the Ministry. Why, the laugh was when the Minister was speaking-and the Premier himself joined m the laugh-when the Minister of Justice said that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) was in the police office twenty times for once that he (the Minister) was there. I say it is a serious thing for a matter like this to be brought before the House, and what the members of the Opposition admired more than 