settlers placed on this land ; and, if I were | for those estates. Coming to the Bill which we asked my opinion, I would rather see them | have before us, I need hardly say I am in favour of taken to Mount Eden Gaol. Then, again, there is the question of giving married men a pre- ference as selectors. I think that preference should be given to young men who are going to be married. Give them the opportunity of carving out homes for themselves in the wilder- ness. I would like the young men of the country to travel about, and see what the settlers have done : to go into the settlers' houses to see the comparative comfort of those people who are living in good dwellings, and who were, in the course of my memory, living in huts-men and women who have overcome difficulties that at first appeared insurmountable -that have risen, as it were, step by step in the social ladder, until they have achieved not only comfort, but luxury. I would like the young people to see and realise that the greatest joy of these settlers' lives is in looking back upon difficulties overcome by united effort, sweetened by mutual love, mutual confidence, and mutual forbearance. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .- I have no intention of keeping the House more than a few minutes, and possibly I should not have spoken on the third reading of this Bill had it not been that I 2HR H had not the opportunity of listening to or taking part in the discussion on the second reading. wish to congratulate my old and esteemed friend and newly elected member for Patea, who spoke to-night, on the candid style of his speech. He expressed opinions that we on this side of the House cannot agree with ; but at the same time those who have known him for many years, as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 I have, must recognise that he has come here as a staunch representative of the country settler, and I trust and believe that we shall find him to be a representative in every sense not only http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of the large settler, but of the small settler. Furthermore, he has shown courage which I think no other member on his side has as yet approached. He has shown a degree of boldness which no member has so far aspired to-namely, he has condemned in toto, and from beginning to end, the land-for-settlement policy. I am one of those who believe in the land-for settlement policy, and I believe also in opening up land - the waste lands of the Crown, -also Native lands. I consider that the two policies ought to go side by side together; but there is one thing concerning this land-for-settlement policy about which I would warn the Government. It is my opinion, judging by the outlook of markets for produce at the present time, particularly in view of the fall in the wool-market, that the Government should go very slow indeed in the purchase of large estates. I am not speaking of the smaller estates near the towns, for work- men's homes, but of large estates in the country districts. " I strongly advise the Government to hesitate about such purchases until they have put the markets of this colony on a satisfactory I understand, and I hope, that these basis. markets are being attended to as they should be ; and if they are not being attended to, let the Go- vernment be very chary indeed as to the large estates they acquire, and as to the price they pay the general objects of the Bill. I am the more so because I r present a district which has suffered perhaps more than any other electorate in the colony owing to landowners taking advan- tage of the defects in the existing law. In two cases where land was very urgently needed in the vicinity of Wellington for workmen's homes, the object of the Act was defeated through its defects. Blocks of land which it was very necessary should be taken for workmen's homes were negotiated for in the belief that the owners were bona fide entering into negotiations for their acquisition by the Government, but these gentlemen took advantage of the time so gained to transfer, in one case, the whole or portion, and in the other the whole road-frontage, to their near relatives. This Bill, so far as I read it, will have the effect of putting that matter straight, and that will be a very great step gained. Coming to the new clause moved by the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Rus- sell, with regard to owners of land being able to keep back from acquisition by the Govern- ment certain areas in respect to the number of children in their families, I desire to say that I am entirely in sympathy with what he at. tempted to effect by that clause ; but I could not vote for it, because, framed as it was, as he must himself see, it must have had a pernicious effect. The clause was certainly in the right direction, but it was a very crude attempt at draftsmanship, and would not attain the object which the honourable member desired. I could not go so far as the honourable member for Napier did, and vote for the clause of the member for Hawke's Bay, and trust to luck to get a proviso added later on to have it straight- ened out, so as to render it a workable and satis- factory measure. It was better to vote against it, and to leave the Bill as it is ; and that is the course I took. I am of the opinion that in the case of old settlers who have lived in the colony for many years, who have brought up a family on a tract of country, and have improved that country, if it is the intention of the Government to take their land for settlement, they should be given more consideration in respect to their children, who may have been brought up on that property, than the selfish bachelor or the newcomer. I disagree with the honourable member for Hawke's Bay as to the amount to be reserved for each child. I think it is excessive; but in any case I feel it would be a mistake to fix a hard-and-fast rule. The better course would be to 'affirm the principle in our legislation that special con- sideration should be given to the owners of land taken under the Land for Settlements Act who possess families. As to what the considera- tion should be, that could be left to the discre- tion of the Land Purchase Board. I think that would be a better plan than that suggested by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. In the case of land being taken under the Land for Settlements Act from old settlers, it is usually the case that these settlers belong to the wealthy class. Their sons are therefore 