power they will ruin the rich and plunder | since I have been a member of this House has. them. In Chicago, where they wanted a loan also been deemed undesirable by the honourable gentleman and his colleagues. The Land Act of. of 500.000 dollars for a new Courthouse, 1892 was, in his opinion, very undesirable. I less than one-quarter of the people now pay think he fought very valiantly the whole of the direct taxation, yet the voting was 166,706 against the proposal, and only 18,378 for it, important clauses in that Act. The Land for -howing that the people do not make an unfair Settlements Act was an undesirable one, as was use of the power that is placed in their hands. also the Old-age Pensions and the Advances to We know what has been done in Switzerland. Settlers Acts. I need not go over the whole. lot of them ; nearly every important Bill that There was a proposal that the State should Well, the manufacture phosphorus matches. has been passed during the last ten or twelve years has been undesirable in the opinion of people argued-and there was a good deal of common-sense in their arguments - that the the member for Hawke's Bay. Now, as he manufacture of matches with phosphorus was states that this Referendum Bill is an un- just as dangerous to the people if manufactured desirable one, I take it that it must be placed by the State as by private individuals, and in the same category ; and, if I am to be guided : hey determined that phosphorus should not be by what has happened in the past, I think it used at all. That was how the people there will be for the benefit of the country that this used the referendum. Then, in regard to the undesirable Bill should be passed into law. laughtering of cattle, the people determined The honourable gentleman pointed out that that cattle should be made insensible to pain in Switzerland, where the principle of the referendum is adopted, the citizens are liable before they were killed. Then, they nation- alised their railways in Switzerland. Then, to perform military duty. But is that not the direction in which we are travelling in. there is one other instance I would like to give New Zealand ? Look at the measure which in the United States of America. They have vast forests in some of these States, and in is before us-which will possibly be passed this session, with the help of the honourable one instance the Legislature permitted legis- member for Hawke's Bay - the State-school 'ation to pass which would have had the effect of Children Compulsory Drill Bill. What about allowing injury to be done to the State forests. The people determined that the Bill should be those speeches of a patriotic character that submitted to a referendum, and they rejected we have heard from time to time by honour- able gentlemen, pointing out the import- the proposition by a very large majority. The proposition was practically this : that the forest ance of the Volunteer movement, and trust- -hould be leased out in small areas. Well, the ing that New Zealand would develop into people rose in revolt against that, and, though a thoroughly well-armed, efficient military the Legislature passed the Bill, when it came nation ? Is not that the aspiration of the before the people they rejected it. This shows honourable gentleman himself - that every that they make very good use of the oppor- man capable of taking up arms should be drilled and taught how to use them? Then. tunities and the power given them. I venture to think it would do an immense amount of he also says that in Switzerland every man and good to the electors of this country if we gave woman is liable to be taxed. Is not that the them more direct power. I was surprised and case in this country? How many escape taxa- tion, either directly or indirectly ? Is not pleased to hear the thorough, sound, democratic -perch made by the Premier ; and I hope, when every man, woman, and child taxed in New the Bill is in Committee, he will assent to a 'Zealand through the medium of Customs clause being inserted giving the people the duties, and in a variety of ways? I do not say that it is any disadvantage for the people of power of the initiative, in order that they may any country to be taxed, because it shows that be able to advance legislation that they deem they have something to be taxed upon. It to be advisable in the interests of the people. shows a certain amount of ability, and for that I cordially support the second reading of the Bill. reason I think it is a very good sign that the Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I feel that it is people of a country like this can afford to be taxed. In Switzerland there cannot be a large necessary for me to speak on this Bill, for the amount of poverty and distress if every man and simple reason that a number of years ago we had a similar Bill before us, and, if I remember woman is liable to be taxed, and is taxed, by the Government. Then, the honourable gentle- aright. on that occasion I opposed the measure man stated that we are destroying the power of and voted against it. Now, as I intend to vote in favour of this measure, it is, perhaps, de- the King and Parliament ; we are giving away sirable that I should explain how I have under- said, in another portion of his speech, ancient done some little conversion. It is said that "a safeguards. Well, Sir, I hope that before very wise man changes his mind, but a fool never." I hope I shall always be open to conviction, and long a lot of these safeguards will occupy the if i nnd my views have been wrong I shall be our gaols. I refer to those manacles and chains prepared to amend them. But my conversion I partly due to the remarks and the criticism of the Bill by the honourable member for hope that some of the safeguards which the Hawke's Bay. He told us this was a very undesirable Bill. But nearly every measure of honourable gentleman referred to will be swept away. The sooner the better. In a free and. an important character which has been passed the Royal prerogative ; we are destroying, he position that some safeguards occupy now in that people had to wear in former days, but which are now used for exhibition purposes. I 