always afraid to trust the people. He said, if this Bill passed we should have measures in an incomplete state. We should have them re- ferred to the people, and the people would know nothing of them. Now, I say, in making such a statement, he does a great injustice to the people of the colony. The fact of the matter is that. so far as I can see, the great majority of the people of the colony are as well posted in what is going on, and have their individual convictions just as firmly fixed, as any member of Parliament. To say that on some of the large questions now engrossing the public mind the public do not possess convictions, or that if certain questions were referred to them they would not know what to do. is not giving the people of the colony that credit to which they are entitled. There was something in the honourable member's contention that probably at the end of the session a Bill might be hurriedly passed, and such a measure would have to go before the people. Under the Bill as it was brought into this Chamber it was provided that it should be in the second session, after there had been a recess, and time had been given for reflection and the education of the public mind on the subject. I say that the matters I referred to in introducing the Bill-I do not want to recite them again-are matters upon which the public mind is fully made up. There is the question of the elective Executive, Bible-reading in schools, any interference with the Education Act, the question of Federation, and the dis- abilities of women - all these are questions which the public mind is prepared for if you remit them to the country to-morrow. That https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 is my contention. If there are other questions that could be referred to the people, and if there was a danger of the people being caught, that would be a very good argument against http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the proposal. The passing of this Bill would not affect it. It would enable this House and the Parliament to know whether the matter should be referred to the people. I am referring now to resolutions, not to Bills. As regards resolutions, which are, of course, included in the Bill. I say that in respect to those resolutions it would be very good argument against the pass- ing of a resolution under which, by this legisla- tion, the same would have to go to the people, and, that being the effect, it would be a good reason for not passing the resolution. It would, of course, prolong the matter, and the public mind could in the interim be educated. Rather than lose the Bill. I would accept an amendment to make the reference in the second year. I do not want to go too fast. We want to do what is reason- able. Then, there was a question raised by the honourable member for Riccarton : he mentioned a matter that I omitted-namely, the election of members of the Legislative Council. He to some extent agreed with the honourable member for Hawke's Bay that the Legislative Council now does not represent public opinion, or that it would be an im. provement if the Legislative Council were made elective. Coming from a Liberal, I was surprised at that statement, and it proved to me that the honourable member had made himself conversant with what is going on in the other colonies. He must know now that the safeguard of the Conservatives-of the monopolists-of those who command power by means of wealth -that their power in the Commonwealth is owing to their posi- tion, and the absolute impossibility of men who are endowed with the greatest gifts our Maker can bestow on man having an op- portunity of doing that which he says would be an improvement in respect to the Legislative Council. What was the cause of the Darling trouble ? What was the cause of the deadlock in Victoria ? What has kept that colony back when all the others were going ahead but the fact that there is an elective Legislative Council in Victoria. Can the honourable gentleman point out one statesman in the whole of Victoria during the years of progress in the other colonies-one statesman of broad views, and head and shoulders above his fellows -- a man of liberal views, and one who towers above others in the estimation of the people ? Can he point me out one ? Can the honourable gentle- man show where, in respect to its legislation, Victoria is in advance of New Zealand or New South Wales? No; it is behind both. And that is where you have an elective Legislative Council. If the honourable gentleman would only look at what has occurred during all these years in the neighbouring colony of Victoria, it would be an object-lesson to him. Mr. MONK .- Trust the people. Mr. SEDDON. - You are not trusting the people there ; you are simply giving the power into the hands of a select few. There is a great deal as regards the Hare system of election. Whilst that might be an improvement, we must take matters as we find them, and be guided by results where the experiment has been tried. And if we contrast the two colonies of Victoria and New South Wales-in the one there is a nominated Chamber, and you have reforms and more rapid progress made than where there is an elective Legislative Council. I say, whilst there are difficulties, which we all admit, in respect to our present system of nomination, still you get clearer and closer to the ideals of the people and to their wishes than under another system which the honourable gentle- man would urge upon the colony. I will only 1 say, if the question of an elective rersus a nominated Council were before the people, I know what their verdict would be. The honourable member himself must admit that, with all our faults and drawbacks, our pre- sent Constitution is really the best, and it is proved to be the best because we have passed the most progressive legislation. We have given greater facilities to the people ; we have pro- moted greater happiness and prosperity. There is no freer country or freer people in the British Empire than you have here in New Zealand. Then, when the honourable member finds, as he must find, that what has been desired by the people has been attained under our present Con- stitution, I ask why there should be urged any change in the Constitution. It may be enough to make a change when the necessity arises. 