thing that was likely to be injurious. being introduced into the colony. RIVERS COMMISSION REPORT. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Go- vernment, Whether the report of the Rivers Commission has been received ; and, if so, when it will be laid upon the table ? Mr. McGOWAN ( Minister of Mines) said the Government had received a number of reports, which would be laid on the table as soon as possible. The schedules and other information of a private nature, however, would not be laid on the table. # MAORI ART. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, Whether they will, with a view to preserving to the colony valuable works of Native art, introduce legislation prohibiting the exportation of Maori carvings, implements, &c., except subject to the approval of the Govern- ment ? It was manifest that our very best collections were gradually passing away from the colony, and he was sure it must be the desire of patriotic New-Zealanders to retain objects of interest connected with the past his- tory of New Zealand. In older countries, such as Girece, Egypt, and Rome, laws had been passed requiring that no historical works of art should pass out of the country unless with the approval of some competent authority. He knew that lately some very valuable carvings had been discovered, and he thought the (o- vernment should not only endeavour to retafn such interesting relics, but should endeavour to acquire them, because as time went on the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ditticulty of obtaining them would increase. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) was entirely with the honourable gentleman on this matter. He thought that special attention should be given by the Government, from a colonial point of view, to the preservation of all Maori works of art. and he thought legislation on the sub- ret in that direction would be acceptable to the House. He thought himself that provision might be made for the erection of a building, or a State museum, in which could be collected valuable articles, relies, carvings, et cetera, cha- racteristic of the country and its nativity. # TREATMENT OF CADETS AT CHRIST- CHURCH. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the 5.0. Premier, Whether it is the intention of the Government at an early date to hold a public inquiry into the alleged maladministra- tion of the Defence Department, as regards the reported inadequate and faulty provision made for billeting and vietualling the cadet corps- numbering some four thousand boys-at the Gloucester Street and Normal Schools, Christ- church, during the Royal visit to Canterbury ? He might say that on arriving in Christchurch on Saturday, the 2nd June, by the morn- ing train, he was informed that the arrange- ments made for the billeting and victualling of the four thousand cadets, who came mostly from the North Island and from the west coast of the South Island, were bad. At three o'clock p.m. on the Monday following he went to the Gloucester Street and Normal Schools and made inquiries of a number of the boys, and of the officers in charge of them. He inquired about the treatment they had received, and he had likewise an opportunity of observing for himself the whole of the surroundings. The capacity of the schools might be noticed when he stated that the Gloucester Street School had an average attendance of a thousand scholars, and the Normal School had an average of, say, eight hundred. It appeared that the majority of the cadets arrived by steamer on the previous Thursday afternoon, and were at once entrained at Lyttelton and taken on to Christchurch, and marched from the railway-station to the Glou- cester Street School. They arrived in the midst of rain, and must have felt cold and hungry. It was some time after their arrival there before lights were provided and the school was open for their reception, and. later on, carts arrived with bundles of straw. In the meantime the rain was falling in torrents, and the straw on its way to the school became quite saturated. There were in the Gloucester Street School from a dozen to twenty fireplaces, and, though the temperature was several degrees below freezing- point, no fire had been lighted at either of these schools from the time of the cadets' arrival on the Thursday afternoon up to the Monday afternoon, when he (Mr. Meredith) visited the schools. If proper provision had been made the schools might have been made warm and cheerful for the boys on their arrival, instead of their being placed in the schools wet, cold, and miserable. No arrangements were made for refreshments for them ; and, after placing the bundles of straw on the floor, they were called to fall in, and marched to the Normal School, about half a mile distant from the Gloucester Street School, for tea. He (Mr. Meredith) inspected the arrangements for the feeding of the boys at the Normal School. There was no fire there, and no provision for fire. The floor was covered with mud, as the roads were in a very bad state, on account of the frequent showers of rain and the amount of traffic, and he could see altogether the accom- modation was cheerless and comfortless. The Minister of Defence would see it was not right that these faulty arrangements should have occurred. Some one should have been ap- pointed to make the necessary arrangements for receiving and vietualling these boys. In that case fires might have been lighted, and when the boys arrived from Hawera, Hunter- ville, Featherston, Masterton, Wellington, and other places in the North Island their com- fort would have been looked after. It was ex- ceedingly painful to him, as a member of the House, to find what bad arrangements were made. In one instance, a number of the boys contributed a few shillings each, which were put into a common fund, to defray the expense of getting refreshment at a restaurant instead of going to the Normal School for their meals. He stated what he had seen himself. He thought, instead of being misled by ex parte statements, 