dangers which they have run in attempting to preserve property from fire and to preserve life, and we are not very greatly rewarding them or acknowledging their great public services to the community. Then, Sir, we have been asking for a betterment system to be put into opera- tion. It has been acknowledged by different members of the Ministry, and it has been acknowledged by the House over and over again, that the unearned increment of the land is the property, or should be the property, of the com- munity which creates it, and they ask that the betterment system ought to be put into opera- tion. It has been promised over and over again, but at last we have got a small compromise. We are asked to give the Executive the power of deciding on the purchase of the land, and that they may take it five years hence at the price to be fixed, say, now. A Bill to some extent in the same direction was introduced in the House of Commons, I think, in 1890, and it received 148 votes there; but the differ- ence was this : They were able to fix upon the same system of purchase, but, instead of limiting the period to five years, the proposition was that they should have the right to purchase any time within twenty years by giving the owners interested the whole of the value of the improvements effected on the land; but they were not to get any of the unearned increment that had accrued to that land in the interval which had elapsed during the time that notice was given. I say that 148 members of the House of Commons affirmed that principle in 1890. With regard to the Fair Rent Bill, I am very glad the Hon. the Minister has given effect to the promise which he distinctly made in this House last session-that he would introduce the Bill. Then, with regard to the land-for-settle- ments question, the honourable member for Riccarton complained about the price paid for http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero land held by Mr. James Freeman. Well, Sir, I happen to live in that neighbourhood. It is a Road Board district, and I was a member of the Board for some time, and I know the district very well indeed. Land within about half a mile of that is now being sold in three- and four-acre blocks at #75 per acre. Why the Go- vernment gave £90 per acre for that land I cannot understand. It seems to me there was some want of judgment on the part of somebody, be- cause undoubtedly the land is not worth it. It will not be a dear bargain in the long-run, but it will seriously hamper the authorities in getting rid of that land, on account of the high rents, and because of the low rents that obtain for land in the immediate neighbourhood. Then, Sir, I wonder how many resolutions and how many letters the Government have had, and how many promises they have made, to stop the sale of Crown lands. I find in every Guzett. I pick up, and it has been the same for a consider- able time past, that there are lands authorised for sale by the Minister by auction for cash. Not very long ago there was land put up in this way in the neighbourhood of Napier. Now, Napier has a very bright prospect before it. It is a small town, at present surrounded by large estates, and when they become thickly popu- lated they will increase the value of property in the immediate neighbourhood of Napier. Well, the Government put up land in the neighbour- hood and sold it by auction for #160 per acre. I say that is not in accordance with the promises which the Government have made to honour- able members. Captain RUSSELL .- Whereabouts is that land ? Mr. ELL .- In the suburbs of Napier. Then, other land was put up at public auction and sold for #40 per acre ; and it struck me as a singular thing indeed that a Liberal Ministry who professed to check the sale of Crown lands should go and sell land in the immediate neigh- bourhood of a bright and promising town at £160 per acre. Then, in regard to the 11.30. agricultural labourer, it appears to me the Government should do something for the agricultural labourer. I know a district where labouring-men have been asked from £3 1Cs. to £4 10s. an acre for land to grow root-crops, in order to augment their small earnings ; yet the lands in the immediate neighbourhood are let at £1 15s. to £2 an acre. Here is a case in point : My late colleague, Mr. Lewis, urged the Government to purchase a farm in the Halswell district. The land could have been purchased for £40 per acre; it has since been purchased by a private individual for $46. In that same neighbourhood working men who are only get ting 5s. per day are compelled to pay £3 10s. to £4 10s. an acre for land to grow potatoes on. It is wrong on the part of the Government to leave these people without the means of getting land at reasonable rents. They should pur- chase land in the neighbourhood of villages in the country districts for the benefit of the resident labouring population. I commend this suggestion to the Minister of Lands, and this is not the first time it has been made. Then, we are to have the Factory Act amended, and some provision made whereby the hours of clerks and those engaged in warehouses may be brought within reasonable limits. In many cases they have to go back to work night after night, and sometimes do not even get a week's holiday for the long hours they have to put in without any pay. I hope the Minister will give effect to the promise he made over and over again to the Labour party to introduce an Eight Hours Bill. It had been promised over and over again, but, so far, "No appearance, your Worship." In regard to the public service appointments- I do not wish to set myself up as an example or anything of that sort to honourable members -I believe it has become the practice of honour- able members to make their nominations, on the suggestion of the Government, to fill certain vacancies in the different branches of the public service of the colony. I have over and over again had fathers and mothers with sons coming to me, who have assured me that they had put in applications, but that they had been told- mentioning certain Government officials-that unless they had the influence of a member it was not a bit of good putting in an application. Mr. DUNCAN .- The Government cannot find work for all. 