deliberately moved, that not only should the family of the private owner, but also the part- ! ners should share in that; and the member for Riccarton and every other member who voted-the thirteen members who voted for it -voted for this. We will take four partners with five owners working in partnership on an estate. That would mean that there would be 5,000 acres for the partners. Then there are twenty children - that is only giving four children each -and that means 500 acres each : 10,000 acres-that is, 15,000 acres of first-class land. Then as to second-class land this proposal would give 10,000 acres: 2,000 acres each to the owners, and twenty children at 1.000 acres each, 20,000 acres: a total of 30,000 acres of second-class land. Then we come to third-class land. The partners would have 25,000 acres, the children 2.000 acres eich, 40,000 acres : making 65,000) acres. I sav, in face of that fact, it was a diabolical and deliberate attempt to say that you shall have no land under the Land for Settlements Act. And when you apply that to land in Canterbury, where you have such slices taken out of an estate on behalf of the partners and on behalf of the family, there would be none left either for workmen's homes or for small- farm settlements. And I therefore say that I was delighted to find that there were so few members who voted for that pernicious amend- ment. I say that Captain Russell is con- sistent in that. I have nothing to say against him in respect to the matter. But I do say that there are those who fought this battle https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 before, and I am sorry to find their names put on record as voting practically for the repeal of the Land for Settlements Act. Sir, there is no gainsaving the fact. Must there not 3.0. have been something wrong ? That terrible number thirteen-that unlucky num- ber thirteen. And who are the thirteen ? They are Messrs. A. L. D. Fraser, W. Fraser, Hardy, Herries, Hornsby, J. Hutche- son, Lang, Massey, T. Mackenzie, Monk, Rhodes, G. W. Russell, and W. R. Russell. Those are the thirteen. I will say nothing further. Then we are told deliberately that the tenants of the Crown would be found voting against the Government. My answer to that is this: I say the tenants of the Crown, having been given fair opportunities, given means of communication, and many of them having been placed upon the land who unfor- tunately would never have been placed there had it not been for the land-system of the party now in the majority-to say that they would vote against the party that has given them the great opportunity of their lives is to say that there is no gratitude in man. I will not believe it. We have been told this story time after time, prior to every general election, and yet we have had our numbers increased ; and I believe myself the more people you put upon the land, and the greater the opportuni- ties you give the people, the more will the Liberal majority be swelled. In fact, it has increased to such an extent that there is prac- tically now no Opposition. Then, there are one or two matters in connection with the debate which I regret have occurred. I regret that a -- controversy has arisen between the honourable member for Wairarapa and the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs. 1 am still more sorry that the honourable member for Wairarapa should have made that charge he did against the Advances to Settlers Depart- ment. I say, unless a member is prepared to give all the facts and name the cases in ques- tion, he has no right to deliberately say, as the member for the Wairarapa did, that valuers were sent up by the department to deal with applications for loans, and were directed to bring in a low valuation. Mr. HORNSBY .- I did give instances. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman has not given instances, and I say he has done a great injustice to the officers of the depart- ment. I stand here and I say that no such in- structions were ever given by the officers of the When a Advances to Settlers Department. statement is made like that, reflecting upon the officers of the department-a statement that they are prepared to do a thing of that kind-if I were the Minister of that department I would call upon any one who made such an assertion to face a Committee and prove his assertion on the floor of this House. An assertion of that kind must tend to shake the confidence of the public in a department which has done so much good. The system of cheap money to settlers has been of good service to the colony. May I tell the honourable member what came under my own notice: I say that a deliberate attempt was made to corrupt that department ; that parties conspired and attempted to get a large sum of money upon land there, and the department, after putting in three or four valuations, was supported upon every occasion ; and events, subsequent to the death of the party who made the attempt, proved by the sale of the property that even the department's valution was more than what was given for it. It is very much better to keep things safe and sound than to advance more than property is worth, and so risk the success of the depart- ment. An Hon. MEMBER .- Its valuation for taxa- tion. Mr. SEDDON .- As regards valuation for taxation we never yet come to take up an estate, and more particularly large estates, but we find that the owners want £1 or $2 per acre more than they have been paying land- tax upon. That is what is the matter, so far as valuation for taxing purposes is con- cerned. Of course, the Legislature last session gave the Government power to remedy defects with regard to valuation; but that does not affect the department, or the officers of the department. Then we come to this question of freehold. Freehold, indeed! I say that in many cases, unfortunately, these people are only nominally the owners of the land. These large estates that figure in the return they are nominally the owners of, but $35,000,000 is the amount of the mortgages upon them. And yet these men fancy themselves the owners, when 