years before it is made perfect : and I will not allow it to go forth that I in any way was en- deavouring by an amendment to minimise the popularity and weaken the operation of that statute. I really hoped that, with the amend- ment the honourable gentleman proposed, with the additions I made, and to which he agreed, it would, instead of retarding prosperity and weakening the operation of the Act, have made it more generally popular, and would have given it-I might go so far as to say -- the hall-mark of approval of the entire colony. I consider that long before the hands working on the estate, long before the shepherd manager or the sub-manager, long before even the pro- prietary partners banded together with the ob- ject of honestly making money out of their property-long before them, it is the absolute duty, the sacred duty, of the Government to consider the children brought up upon and so closely connected with the land that may be taken from them and their parents under the compulsory clause. It was a sacred duty of the Government to recognise this, and to adopt the amendment as proposed by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, with the amend- ment I proposed to add, and no honest man could have opposed it. I sincerely trust the Premier, when he replies, will explain to the House and to the country the contradictory position of the statute as it stands now. I refer to the special consideration given to partners in land taken, by which they can retain a thousand acres each. If it is just to them, how much more so is it to the children of the owner? Now, leaving that for a moment, let me say that I feel sure the House and the Right Hon. the Premier will believe me when I assert that my only intention in moving an amendment to any measure is to, . if possible, in my small way make it more workable and more acceptable to the people of the colony. I do not know why the honour- able member for Masterton should take such a special interest in me. I seem to him a kind of bête noir ; he speaks about me with, I might almost say, a scowl on his face, and turns round and glares at me with those stony eyes in a way that would demoralise a more sensitive person. Then he rushes into pathos, and, to quote the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, very often " flapdoodle." Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- This is the highly refined member for Napier, who reprimanded the member for the Wellington Suburbs a minute ago. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- These are not per- sonalities. With regard to the criticism of the honourable member for Masterton, I have yet to learn that he is an M.A. in refinement ; no doubt I shall learn it some day. I hope the honourable member will not take offence at a little playful banter. I do not intend it in an offensive way. But I cannot understand why he should allude to me in the pointed way he does, saying I was a convert to and was drawn at the chariot-wheels of the Opposition-that my seat should be on the other side. And why ? For the simple reason that I supported an amendment proposed by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. My honourable friend the member for Masterton is one of those narrow-minded poli- ticians who feels it his absolute duty to oppose any suggestion or amendment coming from the other side. It is not so with me. I recognize that good can come out of " Nazareth," and that good sometimes comes from the Oppe-itien. Mr. HOGG. - " Nazareth " is over the way. I suppose. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I quite anticipate that " Nazareth " is foreign to my honouralle friend. Leaving this, the honourable menter for Masterton went on to say. " Are we going to have large estates accumulating, and are we going to have land held in the large areas it has been- - land filched from the Natives ?" And then he drifted back into ancient history-the dusty, cobwebby times of thirty odd years ago. He spoke of the " Twelve Apostles." They are also historic. And he spoke of how they accu- mulated large estates in Native lands, and he said that such a policy is entirely antagonistic to the policy of the present Government. The honour- able gentleman is an exemplitication of what the honourable member for Hawke's Bay bas said -that we have these theoretical town men speaking on the land question and on other sub- jects of which they know nothing. What atout Native land? Who has filched large estates from the Natives? The "Twelve Apostles" were but a circumstance compared to this And if the " Twelve Apostle>" Government. gave 5s. or 2s. 6d. an acre in those days, it was a thousand times a fairer price than os. or 101. given by the Government to-day. And I can cite case after case within the last five years, or even the last twelve months, in which the Government have been giving 6s. and 10s. ar acre, when the Natives have been pursued by private purchasers at $2 and $3 an acre, and the private purchasers have been willing to pay 10 per cent. Native duty on the top of that. And what is the position ? When the Govern- ment purchase, the Natives, unfortunately, are left stranded and without an aere to their name. When the Natives receive 50 per cent. or 25 per cent. of the value of their land from the Crown, no inquiry is ever held as to whether the Natives have sufficient left for their maintenance : but when a private purchaser buys the land he has to appear before the Trust Commissioner, and satisfy him that the Native owners have -ti- ficient land left for their maintenance, and that the price is a fair price. Is any inquiry held now when the Government purchase ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - The Premier av- "Yes." I have said when a private purch buys land he has to go before the Trust Com- missioner and satisfy him, first, that the price is a fair one, and, secondly, that the Native has sufficient land left for his maintenance. Now, the Premier says that the Government das the same. I absolutely deny it. And. further than that ---- Mr. SEDDON .- You are wrong. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - The Premier sats I am wrong. Why, I have forgotten more that 