Why, Sir, from the standpoint of pounds, shil- ' never -be removed from our statute-book. I lings, and pence. I say that that alone is a con -. should not have spoken thus, Sir, had it not sideration which should make us appreciate thoroughly the Act that we work under at the : previously, that as soon as any labour legis- present time. I sympathized with the remarks of the honourable member for Lyttelton this morning when speaking of the honourable mem- ber for Waitemita. Personally, there is no member in this House who more than myself appreciates the speeches, who more appreciates the language, who more truly considers the vocabulary that is used by that honourable , being done by this Act, which, I say, is very gentleman as second to that of few, if any, of . desirable, and is doing a great amount of good. the members of this House, and there is no member I like to listen to better than the ! honourable member for Waitemata. But I do say this: that I have heard in the past ! of a certain person belonging to a certain ! turers have nothing to fear from the legiti- nationality who went to another country, , mate working-man or the legitimate working- and, upon landing, asked if there was any Government there, and being answered in the affirmative said, " Well, I'm agin' it." Now, are not workers, those who know little of Sir, there are certain members in this House, : the requirements of the workers, but who be- and there are certain people in this colony, who ; lieve that they require the vote of the workers ask this question : " Did these people ever take off their coats in order to earn their liveli- hood ?" and if the answer be in the affirmative, i legitimate farmer or settler, but it is the men their reply is. "Then I'm against them." And they do everything they possibly can to cripple and to hold them back. The honourable mem- i is their vote that is required to send them back ber for Waitemata tells us that the farmers are organizing, and that they have a right to organize, that they are compelled practically to organize, and that they have to do it in self- d fence. Why, Sir, it is only a few years ago when the workers of this colony and of other countries were not allowed to organize. It is not very long since the working-man could i the question of registration. The question of be sent to gaol if he dared belong to a labour union. The labourers have had to fight for this privilege, and to-day the farmers and Opposi- tion members and the Conservatives of our country are reaping the benefits that were so dearly bought. There was a time, however, when the working-man had to go to the capitalist, when he had almost to prav to him ; and these were not only the words of his song, but of supplication also, as he said to these people,- Let capital shake hands with labour, Let the poor have the brent that they earn, For surely that they need every penny Is a lesson quite easy to learn. Re nember the poor love their children, So give them a smile, not a frown ; Live and let live be your motto, Don't put the poor working-man down. But. Sir, that had no influence upon those who had the power in those times, and the workers had to fight until this party, or the leaders of it, were in power and passed legis- lation which enables them - the workers-to enjoy the privileges that they have to-day. 1 say. Sir. that not only from our standpoint, but from the standpoint of the capitalist and the manufacturer, and the standpoint of every person who desires the welfare of the colony, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is one of the best Acts ever brought into force, and I trust that it will never-I am sure it will been, as an honourable member has said lation is brought before this House we have some of those speeches revived or resurrected which were delivered and were perhaps more appropriate ten or twelve years ago, and because there are those in this House, and also in the country, who are striving to persuade the people that there is a great deal of harm We are told to go slow, and I do not wish it to be understood that I have any other feeling than that we should go carefully. I say that the farmers, commercial men, and manufac- man's representative in this House. Those who are likely to go to extremes are those who to replace them in Parliament ; and those i whom the working-man has to fear is not the in this House who have little sympathy or 1 interest with those people, but who feel that it here. We intend to go carefully. We have no intention of passing any legislation in this House that is likely to cripple any other part of the com- munity or the country as a whole. There are two things only that I will touch upon in con- nection with this Bill, for it has been well debated by others. In the first place, there is registering under the Trade Unions Act has been mentioned here. This is very necessary, and no doubt the Premier will explain why, and I will leave it to him. But I wish to call the Premier's attention to the fact that at the present time it is necessary for all unions to be registered under both these Acts -that is, the Trade Unions Act and the Conciliation and Arbitration Act ; and I want to point out this also : that if a union happens to register in the first place under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, then it is made impossible for them to register under the other, because they register certain rules under the Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act which the Registrar, who is a different person under the other Act, will not accept. I trust that will be looked into, and that it will be rectified by the Minister in Com- mittee, if the amendment already before the House is not in itself sufficient. The only other matter worthy of comment is the question as to lawyers representing unions of manufacturers. Personally, I do not think it is advisable that they should : but I say, from the position of a labour member, that it matters very little as far as the conduct of a legitimate case or labour dispute is concerned. I say that the labour unions will not employ solicitors to any extent-they may as far as advice outside is concerned, but not in conduct- ing their cases, for they feel that they can con- 