The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI. - I think we had | take upon himself the responsibility of prose- better accept what we have got, and what the Government have submitted to us, rather than allow things to go on as they are going. A great many people have been ruined during the last few years, and the Government has been made the subject of all sorts of insinua- tions for not trying to stop the corruption and deception that has been going on. The Go- vernment are quite justified in bringing in this Bill. Let us accept it, and in Committee try to make it a perfect Bill : but to try to do it bit by bit is impossible, and we shall end by getting no Bill at all. I shall support the Bill to the best of my ability. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - I hope the Minister will convey to his colleagues the opinions expressed in this Council to-day, and that they will submit a measure which will meet the requirements of the time. I do not pretend to profess any deep knowledge of com- pany law, but I have had a little experience in a certain direction which perhaps honourable members may guess, and I say that there are people omitted from the discussion to-day who ought to be made by some means amenable to the law. Those are the vendors and promoters. their engineers, and their associates, who are a parcel of swindlers from beginning to end. I will give one instance, in which I myself have been interested. The persons are well known -excellently well known-to every member of this Council, but I will not give names. One of them, a friend of mine, is engaged in share- broking : another is an engineer, who is his brother-in-law. The engineer wrote to my friend, who is a share-broker, telling him https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that 16 gr. to the yard had been taken out of a certain claim, and that that claim would be the richest in New Zealand. I saw the letter, and, on the strength of it, in the belief that the two gentlemen were honest-I know one is honest that is the friend with whom I deal -- I invested my money in this claim, and after a time fresh people were sent to report on the claim, and it was found that it was not worth working. Now, the engineer who re- ported on this ought to be in gaol -that is the place where he ought to be : and I do not know yet but that at some time I may give his name and let the people see what a swindler he is. These people ought to be dealt with. The whole system from beginning to end ought to be dealt with drastically, and the winding-up of companies ought specially to be dealt with. There was another company that was floated with a great flourish of trumpets, and after examination proved to be worthless. The directors, who wanted to secure their fees, and the secretary, who wanted to secure his salary, got a few of their friends together. and, instead of winding up the company, they bought a fresh claim. They have been able to do that because the shareholders are distributed all over the country. Shareholders cannot get from Wellington to Dunedin, for it would not pav them ; and so they pass resolutions and can do anything they like, because the shareholders are so widely distributed and nobody cares to cuting these swindlers. How can I, if I have. say, fifty or a hundred shares in a concern of €10,000, do anything? I say to myself. " It is gone. I know these people are amenable to law, that they could be prosecuted ; but am I going to spend more money in prosecuting them ? No : I would rather let the thing go." The shareholders are so widely distributed over the country that these people carry on swindles in perfect safety, and nobody asks the reason why. These people ought to be dealt with. and dealt with drastically, and I trust that will be done. The " wild-cats " have been floated, and investors have suffered so severely that these people will not, in all probability be able to float many more. But then there comes the question of these companies being wound up. and they ought to be wound up honestly and expeditiously. I see no reason on earth why 3 dredging company should not be wound up in a month, and if there is money to be returned to the shareholders it should be returned to them. But. instead of this, the companies are kept hanging on weeks and weeks, and months and months, and they keep on drawing money till the last penny is secured, and then only are the companies wound up. I think this ought to in stopped, and that immediate steps should ix taken to stop it. This Bill. of course, has not provided for that, but I hope, after the expres- sion of opinion to-day, the Minister will see that the time has arrived when this matter should be dealt with in accordance with the necessity that exists. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I am sorry the Go- vernment did not anticipate what has taken place with regard to mining swindles in this colony within the last year or two, and pass a measure which would have restrained those who are inclined to fraudulent practices at the public expense. I do not think that. even if the measure now before the Council had been passed, it would have had that desirable effect. One honourable gentleman said we had better take this Bill as it is or we might not get any- thing. We might say that with regard to all measures brought down : and I think it is the duty of the Council, and the duty of any Com- mittees to which our measures are referred, to make the laws which we pass as complete and as perfect as possible, in order that they may achieve the objects for which they are designed. I was rather surprised to hear the remarks that fell from the Hon. Mr. Bolt. From what I have heard in regard to mining troubles which have come upon the colony- in part only a: present, but which will be more aggravated in the near future-I am afraid there has been unlimited swindling with regard to mining enterprises. The Hon. Mr. Bolt said that directors are poorly paid, and that if the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith's proposal were carried th n would be no directors. It may be very dra-te to insist that directors should pay in full en application the amount of their shares, but I do not think half the evils would be occasioned from making a stipulation of that kind that I have accrued in consequence of the loosenes 