that was injurious to my district, and it has been admitted by all who have spoken in favour of the Bill that there is something injurious in it. They ask us, however, to affirm the principle, and promise that in Committee the injury will be removed. Sir, I am surprised at such a principle being enunciated in this House. It is a principle that I could not support. I am sorry, Sir, to have to raise a question that I raised last year, when the now Public Contracts Bill was before the House. I then said on the floor of this House that that was town versus country. It was a most injurious Bill, as far as the country was con- cerned. I look upon this Bill in a similar light. I could not support the principle of this Bill. I have always been in favour of eight hours as a day's work, and that has been the custom in my district for many years past. Has this measure been demanded by the country ? I say it never was demanded by the country, and supposing this Bill was referred to the people by the referendum it would be rejected from end to end. I could not, as a repre- sentative of a country district, support this Bill. The Government should have brought in the measure. I think the honourable member who introduced this Bill would be doing right if he withdrew it and allowed the Government to bring in the measure. Those who have spoken in favour of the Bill admit that there is something injurious and wrong in it, and yet they will support the wrong that is in it in the hope that it will be amended in Committee. Supposing it is not amended in Committee, the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 wrong will be perpetuated. I am entirely op- posed to such a principle, and it is my duty as a member of this House to oppose it. I cannot support the second reading of this Bill, and will vote against it. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- I had no intention of speaking upon this Bill, but I have been amused with some of the arguments that I have listened to. The last speaker has ex- pressed himself in strong terms against the Bill, but I, as a country member representing the adjoining constituency, intend to support it. I have never yet in my district known a man to work for more than eight hours, and I have never asked a man myself to work for a longer period. I do not think there is any neces- sity for the Bill, or that the passing of the Bill will have any effect on any labour in country districts ; but, if it is the intention of the members who support this Bill to injure the dairy industry, or any other industry, I cannot see why those engaged in the dairy industry or any other industry should be expected to work longer hours than people in other industries. For people engaged in dairying, farming, or other pastoral pursuits eight hours a day is any amount long enough to work, and they should get a fair day's pay for that day's work. City members have expressed strong sympathy with labourers in country districts: then let them bring down a Bill fixing the . minimum price of produce of the country. Let them do that, and then for eight hours' work in the country the men will receive the same pay as is paid in the towns. That is the way to deal fairly with those who work in the country districts. I am prepared to support this Bill, and I hope that the Government, after hearing the expressions of sympathy of honourable members in favour of the country settlers and those who work in dairy factories, will take steps to protect these people, and see that they get a fair day's wage for a fair day's work. I object to any persons being asked to work six- teen hours a day for a living. From what I know of the dairy industry it is nothing better than white slavery, and it is unfair that a small settler, his wife, or his family, should have to work fifteen or sixteen hours a day for a living. It is the duty of the Government, who encourage and foster settlement on the land, to introduce some measure that will protect the produce of the settlers so far as local consumption is concerned. Of course, we cannot control the London mar- ket, but surely we can pass an Act fixing a minimum price for produce consumed in the colony, and let those who live in the cities and receive high wages pay a fair price for the pro- duce brought into towns by the settlers, then we should have fair-play all round. That is the only way to meet it, and I hope that those mem- bers representing cities will be prepared to sup- port the Government in passing such a measure. I know there are some members in the House who imagine that they can never impose enough taxation upon the country settler. What is the position of the country settler now as regards pro- duce ? What does the wool grower get for his wool ? 3d. or 4d. I can speak, because I am not a wool-grower; if I were a wool-grower. as are some other members of this House, it might be said I was interested; but, though not a wool- grower, I represent a large number of small wool- growers, and I say their position is a most pitiable one. I have attended the wool-sales in Auckland, and have seen bale after bale knocked down at 3gd., and 43d. was considered a big price. It is impossible for any settler to produce his wool and sell it at a profit at that price ; it cannot be done. Take other kinds of produce : What does the fruitgrower get for his produce? During the present season it would not pay the fruit- grower, if he produced his fruit without any expense, to employ labour to gather and pack the fruit and send it to market. Very well; the city people who are employed in the cities expect to work stated hours and get big wages. I do not object to that, but let us regulate the price of produce so that those who work long hours in the country shall get a fair remunera- tion for their labour. You should regulate the price of all produce consumed in the colony, and that is the only way to do justice to the settlers. You cannot produce fruit of any kind at a profit in New Zealand, neither can you produce wool, neither is there a profit in wheat or oats. If you go on increasing the burdens of the settlers in this way, and assist him in no way as to the price of produce. I will point out to the Government what will happen in New Zealand-perhaps sooner than is ex- pected. The Crown settlers will find that they receive no encouragement, and are having 