Public Health Act of last session required the local Health Board to make some such pro- vision, but he presumed the local Board of Health would only be called on to erect an institution for those persons who belonged to the locality, and not for every one who might choose to come to the town. The Go- vernment had already established sanatoria at other places. At Rotorua there was one for skin diseases. The deaths from skin diseases were about fifty per annum, but eight hundred died annually from consumption or other kin- dred complaints. The inhabitants of Naseby hoped the Government would see their way to absolutely prohibit consumptives from going among them, because these people had actually taken the disease into the community. For the first time in the history of that community some people had died from consumption and lung complaints, and the people rightly claimed that either these consumptives should be abso- lutely prevented from going there, or else that such an establishment should be formed as would protect the health of the people from contagion with this disease. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Health) must state, in reply to the honourable member, that he did not agree with the latter part of his proposi- tion at all. There were no legitimate grounds for trying to prevent the people of our own country who were unfortunately suffering from these lung complaints from endeavouring to effect remedies where they thought best. On the main question of the erection and mainten- ance of a sanatorium in the vicinity of Naseby, a plan had been prepared with the view of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 enabling it to be laid before Cabinet for con- It was a very difficult question, sideration. because there were many sides to it, and the honourable gentleman would readily understand http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero that it was undesirable that a hasty decision should be arrived at. It must be carefully con- sidered by the whole of the Ministers, as well as by the members of the House and by the country itself, before they decided whether a consumptive sanatorium should be erected, and then whether it should be located at Naseby or elsewhere. At any rate, he could assure the honourable member the question was receiving the closest consideration from' the Health De- partment, and also from the members of the Ministry. RAILWAY SIDING BETWEEN RAN- FURLY AND WEDDERBURN. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will at once favourably consider the propriety of forming a railway siding between Ranfurly and Wedder- burn ? In bringing this question under the notice of the Minister for Railways he felt sure that, had the honourable gentleman had time to visit the Otago Central line, he him- self would have granted this necessary re- quest -namely, to establish a railway-station about half-way between Ranfurly and Wedder- burn. The distance between these two stations was eight miles, and the country was well settled there. Although petition after petition had been sent in in support of this matter, and although the Minister for Public Works recog- nised the necessity for it when he was up there, yet they had the ordinary official rejec- tion on the ground that it was not required. He would like to know what these officials knew about it at all. The settlers were com- pelled to drive to the station four miles extra for everything. There were main roads con- verging to the spot ; the land was absolutely level, and hardly any cost would be involved in the formation ; and yet, in spite of all this, they have the official reply that it was not necessary. If one considered what was done in other parts of the colony in the matter of railway-stations, it would be seen that there were strong grounds for urging this request. On the West Coast there were lines where the stations were only a mile apart - nine- teen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty- three, and twenty-four miles. In asking for a railway siding to be erected between points eight miles apart, he submitted it was a reason- able claim, and he hoped the Minister would see his way to act on his own initiative, and not be controlled by his department. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was somewhat afraid that, upon the merits of this case, the gladiatorial exhibition of his honourable friend was scarcely warranted. When he told the honourable member that for three months and a half the tonnage to and from this place, if a siding had been there, would have been 4 tons 14 cwt. inwards and 2 tons 1 cwt. outwards, the honourable member would see the difficulty there was in his giving authority for having a railway siding placed there. He would like to read to the honourable member what the Public Works Department, as well as the Rail- way Department, experienced. The Public Works Department went into it before the line was taken over by the Working Railways Department, and both departments were ad- vised the siding was not necessary : "This matter had already been fully considered-first, by the Public Works Department in June, 1900, prior to the extension from Ranfurly to Wedderburn being handed over to the Working Railways Department ; and, secondly, by the Working Railways Department in March, 1901, since the Wedderburn extension was taken over. The Public Works Department did not consider a siding between Wedderburn and Ranfurly was necessary, and a return which had been obtained by the Working Railways Department showed the traffic likely to be dealt with at the siding, if constructed, was too small to warrant the opening of a flag-station or siding." He might tell the honourable gentleman that a return was taken of the actual traffic to and from this place for three months and a half, with the result he had given. The honourable member would see that they could not be expected to authorise a railway siding or set up flag- stations unless there was a reasonable amount of traffic. He hoped, however, by - and - by, through the advantages of having an active member for that district, that the railway traffic would so increase as to warrant the erection of 