souls were not their own till we brought down the cheap-money scheme. They were pre- viously the mere slaves of the money-lender. Now money can be got from the State at 4 per cent., and the State has security; but before the mortgagee got the farm, and the farmer "got the road." An Hon. MEMBER. - What is the rate of interest ? Mr. SEDDON .- The return does not give it. I know what it used to be : a man could not get money under 8 per cent., and sometimes had to pay 15 per cent. I was rather amused at the reference to my worthy colleague, the Minister of Lands, who seemed to be taking matters very quietly. The leader of the Oppo- sition asked why he was not the member in charge of the Bill. "Why is not the Minis- ter of Lands here, as by law he is supposed to be the Minister to administer the Act?" And then, quietly and quite unthinkingly, he said, " We want him here, because he would not get the Bill through." Now we understand the reason of their anxiety to have another Minister than myself in charge of this Bill- because he would not get it through. I know there is no Bill we can bring on the floor of this House the Opposition object to so much as this particular measure ; and there is one thing in respect to which they are to be congratu- lated, and that is the accession to their ranks, and in that respect I congratulate them, be- cause the latest addition to their ranks has told the country what is now meant by honourable members opposite, but which they have not had the moral courage to tell the country. The honourable member for Patea told us to- night that this legislation was "robbery and confiscation." I want to be correct as to the term he used ; he said it was "robbery and confiscation." Now, Sir, there is an honest Tory ring about such an assertion that you can understand ; but why do the honourable gentle- men opposite, who are holding exactly the same opinions, not tell us that? I am giving them the opportunity to-night of saying " Yes" and "No," in voting for this legislation, and when that time comes they will be found voting in the "Ayes " lobby. That is, Sir, where they will be found -- voting, according to the views of the member for Patea, for robbery and for confis- cation. Now, I must come to the remarks made by the member for Napier, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, I cannot allow them to go unchallenged. He asked us why should we not allow the Native lands to be sold or leased the same as other lands. Then he said that in the case of a pri- vate individual who bought Native land, he had to go before the Frauds Commissioners, and that the Frauds Commissioners had to see that the Natives first got fair value, and, secondly, that the Natives had sufficient land left to keep them. He said that that was not the case with the Government. I say, Yes, it was, unquestionably. My reply is that our in- structions are in each case that the officers purchasing had to certify the same as had the Frauds Commissioners. Mr. Seddon Mr. SEDDON .- The land purchase officers. And then, Sir, I want to show fraud, deliberate fraud, because if the Frauds Commissioners have done their duty how is it that we have so many landless Natives in the colony ? I say that, so far as concerns the question of the Frauds Commissioners, it was no safeguard at all. The way they obtained lands, and the frauds in Native lands, simply meant that there was a free-trade in fraud, and it simply meant that the Natives were outraged in many in- stances; and there are thousands to-day who are reaping the benefit, while the unfortunate Native is landless and in many cases dependent. If that is what we are to go back to-if that is the system of trading in Native land-then, I say, it is high time it was locked up. It has been locked up, Sir ; and, for my part, if there is never again any Native land obtained, I say I prefer that to the system of wrongdoing that went on freely under our legislation. It may be, Sir, that in the amendment we have made we have departed from the original track. The other side now deem we want a change. We all know our system of balloting has led to specu- lation. I have been twitted with saying that I was going to enable barmaids to become settlers. I did not mention that. What I stated was that there had been considerable dummying of land, and that those impracticable persons had in- duced barmaids to become applicants, and in this nefarious way they had succeeded in obtaining land. The other side never sug- gest anything at all ; they never do. They simply find fault with what we do. This Bill will help considerably our land-for- settlements operations and legislation. I say it has been found that this amendment was urgently required, and the time we have taken up has shown me clearly and conclusively that this Bill marks the line of demarcation be- tween the two parties in this House. It is a question of land for settlements and of Liberal- ism on this side of the House. It is a question of going backwards and of parting with the heritage of the people-the aggregation of large estates- of wealth to the few, and of poverty to the many-on the part of that side of the House. That is the policy of the gentlemen opposite, and hence I say we are entitled to vote for what we conceive to be just and right, and we can safely trust the people. I beg to move the third reading of the Bill. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. I regret there should have been any misunderstanding as to the statement I made, and which the Premier contradicted. The Premier has so very flatly contradicted my statement that there was never any inquiry made when the Government pur- chased from the Natives, that I can only say I have witnessed hundreds of signatures, and that no inquiry has ever been made as to the value of the land and as to the price to be paid. Mr. SEDDON .- In reply, I wish to state that it would not be the time when witness- ing the signature to the land purchase with the land purchase officer to make inquiries. 