from two to five acres, and not be compelled to reside on it. I am sure if the land was within a mile of their homes they would in their spare time be able to cultivate it themselves, and pro- duce that which is needful for household pur- poses, run a cow, and keep themselves going when out of work. I hope this will be done, and that the residential restrictions will be re- moved and some land procured near the coun- try townships for allotment purposes. At any rate, it is worth a trial, and would be inex- pensive. The honourable member for Wallace said there were several large estates in dif. ferent parts of the country that had not been acquired. That is right, and the Bill be- fore us will allow the Government to acquire such land which has been kept away by the principals of companies and absentees not being able to be got at. I trust after the Bill is passed it will enable the Government to acquire land at less cost from absentees and companies whose principals cannot now be got at under the present law. I would seriously advocate that, if land cannot be bought at a price which will enable people to live on it comfortably, it should not be bought at all, for it would only be a means of introducing poverty into a district, and would be ruinous to the colony. Therefore the Land Purchase Board must be careful and not buy land at too high a price. I believe clause 6 in the Bill is just what is wanted. The honourable gentleman who last spoke said it would have been a good job if the Hatuma Estate and Ardgowan had never been purchased ; but I think it would have been a good thing if the land had been taken under a compulsory clause at a cheaper rate. Clause 6 is intended to meet such cases ; it is only for compulsory purchase, and the honourable mem- ber knows that as well as I do. I do not think the Government intend to use it except it is necessary to do so. Sir, I was rather astonished to hear the honourable member for Waihemo as an agent for the practically acting Argentine, Siberia, and other places. I could come to no other conclusion, after hear- ing his speech, than that each of these coun- tries were going to cut us clean out with their produce. Well, Sir, I believe they will never do that, not even with their men working for Is. a dav, because we have, combined with this grand climate, an enthusiastic, industrious, and energetic people, and New Zealand is bound to come out on top. And though our lands may be high in value, still I believe the colonists of New Zealand will be able to compete with other countries in general produce. Since the Land for Settlements Act came into operation many of the owners of large estates did not wish to part with their holdings excepting at fictitious prices, for the simple reason that they wanted to kill the Land for Settlements Act ; but I trust that the Government will continue to vigorously carry on that Act, and I am sure it will be in the interests of the colony to do so. I was sorry to hear, from the remarks of some honourable members, that the allotments which bad been bought for workmen's homes near towns were not a success. The honourable member for Avon said that the Land Board or the Minister had been petitioned to group these small sections together and had not done so. Mr. TANNER .- The Land Board. Mr. FLATMAN. - Well, Sir, that proves what has been said about the Land Boards to be perfectly true-that they are too conserva- tive altogether, and ought to have done their best to suit the requirements of the district, in which they knew perfectly well this provision was required. As to members of the House being members of Land Boards, I do not see why they should not be on Land Boards, and to say that in that position they would be open to bribery is uncalled-for ; but, seeing that they are paid such a small rate for their services, it would not be surprising if they were open to bribery. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are not paid any- thing. Mr. FLATMAN .- They are paid 10s. a day for travelling a distance of a hundred miles, as I understood the member for Ashley to say-I do not know whether he did the distance on foot. But 10s. is not sufficient ; it barely covers expenses when travelling on a railway-pass ; and I do not see why one member of a Land Board should be paid a fair sum while another member is only paid a wage that will scarcely pay his ordinary hotel expenses. I do not think mem- bers of a Land Board, if they were members of Parliament, would be more open to bribery than an ordinary member would, and I say the members of the Canterbury Land Board who have spoken on this Bill have shown their in- dependence : one honourable member told us that he would snap his fingers at the Premier or any one else, and another member said that the Land Board would not carry out the regula- tions sent down to them by the Government. Therefore they showed their independence, and they ought to be lauded for so doing, and for the spirit they showed. I trust that indepen- dent spirit will continue, and that they will show the same spirit as the time for reappoint- ment draws nearer. But we find in the present Bill something that will make them conform to the regulations which this House intends to put in force. I also believe that married men should have some consideration, but how to do that in a fair way I really cannot suggest for the moment. The only thing would be, I sup- pose, to have, as has been suggested, a rule that people with large families should be allowed some privileges over persons with no families. Whether it should be done according to the size of the family, or whether a married person without any family should be allowed the same privileges as the person with a family of nine or ten children, is a matter for argument and consideration. I trust this Bill will pass, and that in its operation it will prove beneficial in many ways. I shall therefore vote for the second reading. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - Mr. Speaker, almost everything that can be instructively said upon this subject has been said, I believe, and the matter has been admirably ventilated 