ask honourable members whether, when the farmers were relieved of taxation on their im- provements, the Government were blind to the interests of the farmers in that respect ? And honourable members opposite opposed this also. Now, with regard to farmers' unions, I quite agree that farmers' unions are a very desirable institution in the country if they are to be in the farmers' own interests : but if they are intended to serve some subtle purpose not disclosed to the farmers, in order to try and make the farmers go in a particular political direction rather than for the promotion of their own interests, well, those honourable gentlemen on that side will find that if they attempt to set up spurious institutions of that kind the farmers of the country are too keen observers to be deceived by any delusions of that sort. farmers' unions are being formed in this coun- try -- political farmers' unions, as is alleged- it would be a very bad thing indeed for the farmers themselves. It would create strong antagonism from many quarters that are now friendly to them. But if these unions are being formed in the interests of the farmers as a whole, it is a right and proper thing, just as it has been a right and proper thing for their comrades in the town to form unions to pro- tect their own interests. No honourable mem- ber, I am sure, can realise what has taken place in connection with the Waihi Gold-mine in the north without recognising what would have been the condition of affairs but for the intervention of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in preventing a dislocation of trade, not only in connection with the Waihi Mine, but in connection with the miners and workers in the country as a whole. And if there was any- thing in our present laws that would prevent an institution of that sort from having its dis- putes with its men settled amicably by arbitra- tion, or to subordinate it to the indiscretion or the greed of some persons outside the country, then the country would not be doing its duty unless it amended its legislation to enable the men to have their just grievances redressed : and if those of the men who are responsible for putting the grievances of the whole of their co- workers forward are to be punished. I say that is a strong argument why the law should step in and place them in such a position that no in- justice can be done to them. I am surprised at the honourable member for Franklin, when he knows what goes on in such a matter as this, that he does not see that in this period of the twentieth century it is recognised that a great revolution has taken place in connection with the workers and the commercial and in- dustrial world : and such views as those enun- ciated by the honourable member for Waite- mata this morning, if they are the views enter- tained by people interested in the progress of a country such as this, why, it is almost like going back to the times when it was not con- sidered right to have wagesat all, but a wretched system of barter, which any one will admit was not in the interests of the country itself. Now as to all this talk about a high rate of wages . lightened advancement in our country. I being disastrous to the farmers of the country : should almost have thought that those anti- Si J. G. Ward Personally, I believe that consequent on the good times in New Zealand, and therefore the higher rate of wages paid in the cities and towns throughout the colony, has contributed very materially in the direction of keeping up the value of the farmers' products, and that surely makes more productive the properties of the farmers in the country, and the farmers recog- mise that is so. And anybody who thinks intel- ligently at all must realise that, if you have au underpaid class of workers in a country such as this, it is a bad thing for the people as a whole, farmers and every one else, apart altogether from the workers themselves. New Zealand would not be so prosperous to-day, either in town or country, if there had been a low rate of wages ruling during the last ten years. And I must say, while I think there should be every If effort to put this Act - the Conciliation and Ar- bitration Act, or any other Act in this country- on such a basis as to prevent injustice, whether intentional or accidental ; when a proposal of this sort is brought down to amend what is universally regarded as a good law, a law which, if it were in force in Western Australia, for in- stance, would have been invaluable in connec- tion with the railway strike there --- surely the common object of members on both sides of the House should be to prevent any injustice being done to the workers. As the honourable mem- ber for Dunedin City has stated, the absence of such a law in the past has been the cause of a great deal of distress and loss to families and others. It surely ought to be our duty, there- fore, when we have an opportunity of amending the law and putting it on a proper basis, to do so. And then we find the opportunity is taken advantage of by the honourable member for Franklin to level at the Government the ac- cusation that under their administration the farmers have been neglected. It is well known that such a statement is absolutely contrary to fact. I venture to express the opinion. if we look at what has gone on in the country during the past ten years, that. prior to the legislation and administration that has been in operation since 1891 in this country, the farming interests as a whole were neglected ; and most of the burden of taxation was unfairly placed upon the shoulders of the farmers and workers, and es- pecially on the small farmers of the colony, for many years past. Since the present Govern- ment took office a great revolution has been brought about, and to assert that we are doing nothing for the farming interests, and that we are doing something which is inimical to their interests, because by this amendment we are trying to prevent a loss of wages and stress to a considerable body of the workers of the colony owing to the absence of a perfect Conciliation and Arbitration Act, I say is not consistent with what we find from experience in the colony itself. I only wished. Sir. to put on record my personal protest against the extraordinary antiquated and old-fashioned ideas which are being preached to us again by those represet- tatives opposite, and at this period of er - 