gambling or other illegal or improper purposes by boys apparently under the age of seventeen years ; and every such boy there found shall be forthwith taken to the nearest police-station, and there detained in custody until he can be brought before the Magistrate by the police on the charge of being not under proper control, whereupon the provisions of sections seven and eight hereof shall, mutatis mutandis, apply." The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved to insert, after the word "custody, " the words " if not admitted to bail." The Committee divided. AYES, 20. Feldwick Smith, W. C. McLean Gourley Montgomery Stevens Harris Ormond Taiaroa Jennings Pinkerton Tomoana Johnston Rigg Twomey Kerr Scotland Williams. Louisson Smith, A. L. NOES, 7. Barnicoat Jones Swanson Bolt Kelly, W. Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Majority for, 13. Words inserted, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported. The Council adjourned at five minutes past four o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 23rd July, 1901. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 First Reading-New Member -- Sir G. O'Brien and New Zealand-Land for Settlements Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Shipping and Seamen's Bill. NEW MEMBER. Mr. G. J. SMITH took the oath and his seat for Christchurch City. SIR G. O'BRIEN AND NEW ZEALAND. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - I desire to ask the Premier if he will supply the House with a full copy of the speech of His Excellency the Governor of Fiji at the opening of the Wai- nibokasi Hospital, so that we may have the whole of the circumstances before us. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I have given orders for the full report of the speech to be printed and circulated amongst members. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi). - Sir, with other honourable members, I desire to make a few remarks on the Bill now before the House. Notwithstanding that it is a measure of an amending or technical nature, I believe that no harm will come to the administration of the Government Land for Settlements Department from a free discussion of a measure of this im- portance. There is, Sir, not the slightest doubt but that the land-for-settlements policy of the Government has caused a considerable amount of prosperity not only to those who may have had the privilege of acquiring sections, but also to those who are living in towns, and to those engaged in trade and manufacture. But the principal object in view is to extend to the colony the benefit of small settlement. and in that respect I maintain that small settlement has always been more to the interest of the colony as a whole than the wider system of free selection of large areas. The first matter I see in this Bill is one of great importance ; it is the right of the owner to dispose of an estate, or part of the estate, attempted to be acquired. Under that section it is declared that an estate shall not be lessened during the time of the notice and of the actual offer by the Govern- ment. Well, so long as members of the family of the owner receive the benefit of these par- ticular blocks of land I see no reason why this should be brought into force; but if it is to allow the owner to sell the property to any one not connected with his family, then there may be a great deal of necessity for a clause such as this. Then, the next section provides that the Minister, or any person appointed by him on. his behalf, may purchase land at auction : and I see no reason why the Government should not, under any system of purchase. acquire land for settlement. so long as the price is fair market value. Then, with regard to the clau-e dealing with the general administration -that is, the clause giving married men preference in acquiring land for settlement-I am somewhat doubtful what effect this is going to have on the young men applicants. For instance, if it is understood elsewhere as well as in this colony that married men have special preference over the selected blocks of land. what is to hinder married people from Aus- tralia and other places from putting in their applications and receiving the benefit of this amendment of the law ? I contend that if we are to keep the hands of our Land Boards tied in this direction very gross injustice will be done to the sons of settlers in this colony who may have the advantage of some little capital of their own or of their parents with which to settle and stock a farm. That is my reason for opposing this clause, and unless it is amended in that respect, allowing the Land Boards some considerable amount of latitude, I shall cer- tainly oppose it. The intention is no doubt excellent, but there is not the slightest doubt that very great injustice may occur if the sec- tion is carried through exactly on the lines now proposed. Now, there is another matter I desire to speak of, as this is the only opportu- nity members have of discussing the general administration of the Act. I have always con- tended that poor land means poor settlers, and I trust the Government, in the acquisition of 