interest to the district that the dairy-school culty in allowing them to go some distance should be established and attention be called to from their homes. The people to be instructed the Act of 1896. He had an important duty to were all grown up, and the establishment should perform, and he was determined to perform it. be such that they should have the very best Mr. SPEAKER said he thought if the possible instruction. His impression was that honourable gentleman desired to speak fully they had a suitable place already at Levin for establishing a school of this kind. The on this subject, he had better bring the matter up by way of motion instead of question, if he Government had sufficient land there to establish a factory, and it was in a thriving wished to extend his remarks. Mr. McGUIRE said he would bow to Mr. district, admirably adapted for this work. It Speaker's ruling in this matter, as he had was convenient in every way. It was within. always done. He was, however, satisfied there half a mile of the railway-station on the main line to Wellington, and it was not too far either, was sufficient money for the purpose of carrying out what the then Minister for Agriculture, Sir he thought, from any part of this end of the John Mckenzie, had promised to the district- North Island. They had the land, and it was namely, a dairy-school-without any assistance not going to cost much. How could the Go- from the Consolidated Fund. He had drawn vernment be expected to take land which had attention to this matter by letter on the 3rd cost .₺21 per acre for the purpose of starting a June, when he found that a farm was purchased school for dairving ? That was the price paid by the Government in his district. He re- for the land which the honourable member for Hawera had referred to as suitable for ceived a reply on the 12th June, and he now submitted the matter to the Hon. the Minister this purpose. for Agriculture, knowing how deeply the honour- able gentleman was interested in matters apper- given land for nothing at Palmerston if he taining to farmers, and especially to small would start the school there. farmers. Now that the Government had pur- chased more land in order to cut it up for the ber would supply him with 400 acres of land purpose of establishing more dairy farms, he at Palmerston, then Palmerston would be the trusted the Minister's answer would be favour- place selected. It was a good centre and there able and in the true interest of the great Dis- was nothing against it. He was of opinion that trict of Taranaki and the colony. they wanted an up-to-date school when they did Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said start, and there should be one for all the extent if he was to carry out the proposal of the of country he had mentioned. If they had a honourable member for Hawera, then the number of schools they would be inferior ones, Government would have to establish one in the for they could not keep an efficient staff to district of every other honourable member in work them properly. He looked upon it as a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the House. national work, and, that being so, it should be An Hon. MEMBER .- I want one. established in the place most suitable and most Mr. DUNCAN said, Here was one member accessible to the whole colony. wanted one, and every other member had an equal right to one as well as the Taranaki District. Mr. McGUIRE .- How many factories have they got ? Mr. DUNCAN said the less factories in a district the more reason there was to establish a school in order to teach the settlers dairying. Minister of Lands, If provision will be made He was of opinion that one dairy-school was in the estimates for the completion of the quite sufficient for Taranaki and Hawke's Bay. formation and gravelling of the road on the west side of the Waiau from Drummond's At the present time there was no place in Tara- Ferry to the Papatotara Settlement? The naki that was very suitable. The estate that had been purchased lately by the Government West Waiau district was a newly settled for the purposes of land settlement and dairying locality, and the road was just now in an im- was not suitable at all, because it was three or passable condition. four miles away from the railway. session for its improvement, but, unfortunately, Mr. McGUIRE said the Minister need not when the funds came to hand it was so late stick to that particular spot. in the season that the money was not spent Mr. DUNCAN said he was only telling the to the best advantage. He hoped the Minister honourable member what he thought should be in framing the estimates this year would make done. He thought the place they had already provision for the completion of the work, and would meet all requirements, and it would be that the money would be available during the summer months, so that the work might be applicable to Taranaki as well as to other places. If they established the school even at proceeded with at the most advantageous time Hawera it would be of very little use for the rest of the year. It was unnecessary to state that of the Taranaki District, because most of these the Papatotara Settlement was a State farm, settlers would have to come good distances by entirely in bush country, and was so far removed from railway communication that train in order to receive dairy instruction at a the settlers were under serious difficulties. A school there. It was not as though children were concerned, and there might be some diffi- moderate sum only was requisite to complete Mr. PIRANI said the Minister would be Mr. DUNCAN said, If the honourable mem- Mr. McGUIRE .- Where is it to be ? Mr. DUNCAN .- At Levin. DRUMMOND'S FERRY, PAPATOTARA ROAD. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Money was voted last 