The Stationmaster at Dunedin, however, did not know the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton. He only met the honourable gentleman as one of the public ; and the question was, Was the treat- ment meted out to the honourable gentle- man the treatment generally meted out to the public? It was all very well for members of the Council to say they had always been well treated by the railway officials. That might only mean that railway officials paid defer- ence to men who occupied a high position, though he believed they were alike courteous to all. With regard to the system of luggage transport on the railways, he considered it was most imperfect and unsatisfactory. First of all, they wanted a perfect check system. He did not know how to devise it; but any gentleman who was capable of holding a high position in the service should be able to do it. Then, when they had a check system, the people should know it was in existence. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said it was set out in the Railway Guide. The Hon. Mr. JONES said that might be so, but how many people got the Railway Guide. They had to procure the Railway Guide before they knew the check system was in existence. If the people knew of the system they would get the Guide to find out what it was. The public should be made aware of it, and if the Govern- ment would only send out a slip to the news- papers they, he thought, would be glad to print the information free of charge. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said the fact that the check system was in existence in New Zealand should certainly be known to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 people of New Zealand. At the same time he would point out that a notice was put up in every railway-station in the colony intimating that such a system was in existence, and he did not know that the Hon. Mr. Jones or any other honourable gentleman who was growling about the transport of luggage could devise a better system. It was about as good as any one could hope to bring into force. As the Hon. M .. Feldwick had said, there was a difficulty when luggage had to be carried from the train to the steamer : but he thought if the honourable gentleman had checked his luggage at Inver- cargill it was possible that, under the existing regulations, it would have gone on to Lyttelton and then to Wellington, and the honourable gentleman would have found it in his rooms in Wellington. It had been said by several speakers that very often luggage was lost. But that did not prove that the system was wrong. Luggage would be lost, and would continue to be lost, it did not matter what system was in vogue. Every member would bear him out in saving that not only mem- bers of the Legislature, but travellers in general, were treated with uniform kindness and consideration by the railway servants. So much so, indeed, that travellers had assured him that they got more attention, civility, and courtesy from the railway servants in New Zea- land than they had experienced the whole world over. There were isolated cases, he admitted, where a Stationmaster got too big for his boots. An example of that had been given by one honourable gentleman this afternoon. He himself knew of one or two instances in the North Island where he had had to complain of the discourtesy which some persons had re- ceived from a Stationmaster. It was a strange thing to him that while the ordinary run of railway servants - the porters, clerks, and guards-were kindness itself, yet that directly a man became Stationmaster and got a little bit of gold lace on his hat rare instances occurred where he got too big for his boots. In isolated cases, where he had complained of a Station- master who he thought had transgressed, the matter had gone before either Mr. Hudson or the General Manager, and he thought on these occa- sions the Stationmaster received a hint, and he would not be likely to transgress again. He had had occasion to complain of a Stationmaster lately, and he thought the rebuke this officer received from the General Manager would do him good, and also would result in advantage to the travelling public. There was a matter that he would like to bring under the notice of the Minister and the Council. He was assured by a member who had just landed from Australia that in travelling over the Australian railway-lines his New Zealand railway-pass was not recognised. He understood that in New Zealand members of the Australian Legislatures, and also their wives, were given free passes over New Zealand lines. In the case he mentioned the honouralle member to whom he referred had been travelling from Melbourne to Sydney, and he was allowed to travel over the Victorian line on showing his railway-pass. When he got on the New South Wales line, however, travelling on to Sydney, the ticket - inspector assured him that his railway-pass could not be recognised in New South Wales, and he would have to ray his fare. Therefore, to save trouble, he did pay the fare. He (Mr. Jenkinson) thought this circumstance should be brought under the notice of the Government, because if we were going to have reciprocity we should have it in regard to railway-passes as well as other things. He had suggested to the gentleman that he should communicate with Sir Joseph Ward on the matter, and that it would be dealt with satisfactorily. He himself and some friends had the same trouble about passes over the New South Wales railways, but, being invited guests to the Commonwealth festivities, they just managed to get through by the skin of their teeth. Reverting to the subject with which this discussion started, he just wished further to say that he hoped it would not go forth, merely because there had been isolated in- stances of Stationmasters being discourteous, and having trodden upon the corns of some one, that therefore the railway servants of New Zealand were not a most courteous, intelligent, and attentive lot of men. The Hon. Colonel PITT would like to know whether such a debate as this was in order. It was true that in another place it was usual, when a subject had been dealt with in the form of question and answer, that immediately after- wards, or some time thereafter, the adjourn- 