the same time it would not be an unmixed bless- ing to abolish the local bodies of the country and to consolidate them, even for the sake of a saving in expense, if the effect were to concentrate the administration in the hands of a large unwieldy body. I say, Sir, that the traditional policy of Liberalism is to subdivide the functions of government, and to delegate governing powers as much as possible, and to bring them as closely as possible to the people-to bring local govern- ment practically to the doors of the people. I say it would be a retrograde step to concentrate in large County Councils all the administration, and sweep away all the minor local bodies. Over a large area in the North I am quite satisfied public opinion would not tolerate such a thing, because our means of communication are so bad. There are no roads and no railways; and there, practically, one portion of a large county is almost inaccessible to another portion. You would find men in such a case administering the affairs of a district which they had never visited. I will just give you an illustration of what I mean. I live adjacent to and have property in a district called Takapuna, which is administered by the Waitemata County Council. Only some three or four years ago I took the members of the County Council out to Lake Takapuna, as some of them had never seen the district ; and yet they were governing us who lived there, or, rather, misgoverning us, for many years pre- viously. And because we had not enough people to form a borough we were annexed to a district which had no community of interest with us, and were represented by people in some cases https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 living sixty or seventy miles away. Now, this is a progressive district, practically a suburb of Auckland ; and to annex a district of that kind to a county, most of the Council mem- bers of which have no local knowledge of the particular district, would be a mistake. In England it was the policy of the Liberal party to create parish Councils, in addition to the County Councils, and, unless a Parish Councils Bill goes hand-in-hand with the County Councils Bill, I say the step we are asked to take will be a retrograde one, and will not be in the interests of popular government. Besides, I do not agree that a saving of expendi- ture is everything in this matter. I believe that the political education given to the people in the small bodies is of value, and a large number of persons becomes accustomed to the administration of public affairs ; and where you have a large number of people accustomed to administering public affairs, accustomed to the methods of carrying on public business, I think you have a system that has an educational value to the democracy entirely outside the question of cost, and I hope this view of the matter will not be lost sight of. I note with great pleasure that the Government intends to pursue with vigour the construction of the North Island Main Trunk Railway. If that be so, it will be necessary during the present session to devote half a million of money at the very least to that great national work. This sum-$500,000 -will be our irreducible minimum this year, because, supposing the line is to be constructed in two years and eleven months, say, from to- night-that is the time for which a solemn league and covenant has been entered into- namely, four years from June, 1900-we shall re- quire half a million of money during the present session. Then, I hope the Hon. the Minister for Public Works will let the construction of the viaducts beyond the Makohine Viaduct by contract, as experience has shown that the construction of complicated works by co-opera- tive labour has not been as great a success as was anticipated. I believe in the co-operative system where it is possible to carry it on with efficiency and reasonable speed, but it is quite certain that we shall have to wait a good many years for the completion of this work if we have to depend upon those viaducts being constructed by co-operative labour. The Government docs not possess the necessary plant, and to order the manufacture of plant merely to do this work would, I think, be an industrial mistake. I am very pleased that the annexation of the South Sea Islands mentioned has been made an accomplished fact by the Order in Council of His Majesty the King. But I am not quite certain that the Bismarckian methods of Lieut .- Colonel Gudgeon, the Resident at Rarotonga, are the most desirable to employ for the purpose of increasing the trade and prosperity of those islands. I defended him last session when an attack was made on him which I considered unjust, but I am bound to say that the eccen -. tricities he has displayed at Rarotonga since the last session have been unique in their character. For instance, he has passed a law 1 which takes all the fruit from the growers com- pulsorily, so I understand. He assumes the power of sale and disposal of the fruit of the natives-takes it entirely out of their hands- and he sends it to New Zealand to some par- ticularly favoured firm, and then he supplies the returns to the natives. Now, he justifies this, I believe, on the ground that he obtained better results from a trial shipment of fruit sent \- to Wellington than were formerly obtained in Auckland. When I say that the fruit was a special consignment, and was sent at the end of the season, when high prices were ruling every- where, it will be seen that the shipment referred to is no criterion that the step he has taken in destroying freedom of trade is a wise one. I say we have no right, even though we have imposed our government on these natives, to deprive them of commercial liberty. They have a right to send their fruit where they choose, and, now that these islands are a portion of our territory we cannot tolerate that the methods of the Czar of Russia should exist among these natives when they are now our fellow-citizens. I be- 1 lieve that Colonel Gudgeon will become wiser, and will quietly drop these practices, and that we shall have a return to methods more in har- mony with ordinary political economy. The re- ception of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York was, I think, a reception of which colonists generally have every reason to be proud. The illustrious visitors themselves, I believe, went away from our shores with more pleasurable feelings than they felt after leaving 