such hospitals. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) said he might state that the Government recognised the great importance of the matter referred to, and, as he had intimated to other members, they had had it under careful con- sideration for some time past. There was a general consensus of opinion that sanatoria for consumptive cases should be started in some parts of the colony, but an experiment should be made in one place first. Climatic conditions must be the chief consideration in making a selection of a site, and there was no desire on the part of the Government to select a site other than for health considerations. He hoped, first, to erect one consumptive hospital, probably at Naseby. If that hospital worked quite satisfactorily, then, if unhappily the con- ditions of the colony required additional sana- toria, some place in the North Island might be selected in order to have a second one. The Government required to see that the colony, by establishing hospitals of this kind, was not made attractive to sufferers outside the colony to come here and use our sanatoria. The Go- vernment was impressed with the importance of the establishment of consumptive hospitals, and the Health Department was at present ascertaining the number of consumptives in the colony they would likely have to deal with. NEW RAILWAY-STATION AT KAIAPOI. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister for Railways, When he proposes to give effect to the department's intention to build a new station at Kaiapoi, in order to provide passen- gers with shelter while waiting for trains, and minimise the danger of accident at the level https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 crossing? He had no intention of introducing debatable matter and telling the Minister that this was the worst station between Hurunui and Oamaru, but he might instance the fact that the Kaiapoi Station on Easter Monday showed a deplorable want of accommodation. Carriages were not available, and shelter from the severe storm was not adequate, and the public were put to very great hardship. The department knew all about the matter. There was urgent necessity for the erection of a new station. The level crossing was now covered by all passing trains, and the danger to the public was considerable. The buildings might be sufficient for the office-work, but they were certainly inadequate for the traffic : and the accommodation for shelter for passengers wait- ing trains was not anything like sufficient, while the returns from Kaiapoi Station war- ranted better treatment. He hoped the Minis- ter would give him a favourable reply. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) ad- mitted the necessity of what was asked by the honourable member. It was only a question of funds, and none were available for this work at the present time. The matter was under con- sidaration, and if the department got the neces- sary funds from Parliament he would give in- structions to proceed with the work imme- diately. Mr. Graham Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, Whether a fresh classification list for the current year under the Railway Of- ficers' Classification Act has been prepared or is in course of preparation ; also, whether copies of such list are supplied to all railway officers, or will be supplied to any officers on application therefor : and to whom, in the latter case, ap- plication should be made ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said this list was now in course of preparation. A copy of the list was placed at every railway- station, workshop, engine-shed. and office, and was accessible to all members of the service. Any member desirous of obtaining a copy of the list should apply to the Head Office, Wel- lington. REGISTRATION OF DEBENTURES. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If they will introduce a Bill this session to amend clause 9 of "The Com- panies Act, 1900," with a view to settling the question as to whether a fee of 5s. is to be paid for registration on each debenture given by a company ? The necessity for asking this ques- tion was now to a large extent obviated hy the fact that a clause had been inserted in the amending Act introduced by the Hon. the Minister this year dealing with this matter. which no doubt would settle the difficulty which arose in connection with the registration of debentures. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- That is so. The Bill has been circulated. RAILWAY-STATION AT BELFAST. Mr. TANNER (Avon) asked the Minister for Railways, When the long-promised rebuilding of the railway station at Belfast will be under. taken ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railwaystaid the goods-shed and siding accommodation at Belfast had recently been very materially im- proved. and an amount had been included in the estimates for the provision of a store-room for parcels and luggage, and a fireplace in the ladies' waiting-room. He was not aware of any promise having been given to rebuild the station, and did not propose to do so at the present time, there being many more tirant and important works to provide for throughout the colony. APPOINTMENTS TO RAILWAY SERVICE .. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether, other things being equal, he will for the future give >po- cial consideration to applications from lads for appointments in the Railway Department when these lads are members of large families? He would suggest to the Minister for Railways that, instead of having, as at prosent, in the application-for-employment form a clause ask- ing " How many members of your family are now in the Railway Department," or particular department of the public service. the question should be, "How many members are engaged 