cargo ; and (6) the amount, if any, refunded, or expected to be refunded, by the Imperial Government on account of each vessel. SAN FRANCISCO MAIL-SERVICE. On the motion of Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City). it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The number of passengers for New Zealand landed in Auck- land from the San Francisco mail-steamers ; (2) the number of passengers booked from Auck- land for America or Great Britain by the same steamers ; (3) the amount of cargo landed in- wards from each such steamer ; (4) the amount of cargo shipped outwards by each such steamer ; (5) the total amount paid for the mail-service : above return to be from 1st January. 1891, to 1st January, 1901, and each year to be shown separately. # PRISONS DEPARTMENT. On the motion of Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin Citwy, it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The names of all officers in the Prisons Department at date, length of service in each prison, and where transferred, and the reason for such transfer ; and (2) a list of persons employed in the Prisons Department from January, 1881, to date, giving in each case the promotion (if any), length of service in each position, on whose recommenda- tion promotion was granted, and, in cases of persons who have left the service, whether they resigned or not. BANK OF NEW ZEALAND. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. SEDDON (Premier), in moving, That the Bank of New Zealand balance-sheet pre- sented on the previous day be printed. said,- Sir. I notice, from what has appeared in the public Press, that there is a statement made that there would be a dividend declared next year. Now, the period of ten years will soon be up. and there has been very little paid off the shortage in respect of the Assets Realisation Board, the balance-sheet of which is now laid on the table of the House. I think that those intrusted with the control of the bank should first consider the paying-off of debts before they talk of paying a dividend. At all events, the responsibility of the Crown in respect to the Assets Realisation Board still remains almost as it was. There is still a large deficiency as between the value of the assets of the Realisa- tion Board and the debentures issued against them, and very little has been paid off. An Hou. MEMBER .- How much ? Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I cannot from memory give the amount, but it does not amount to much. At all events, I think it is right, in respect to this matter, that one should speak plainly, so that there may be no mistake here- after, and we cannot be told that we allowed this statement to appear and said nothing, and therefore, by saying nothing, tacitly agreed to what has been suggested. When the time ar- rives, and the bank is in the position, well and good ; but to settle what the bank is to do next Otherwise the responsibility on our shoulders is simply in respect to the policy of the bank. That is the responsibility we have. I may say that no one is better pleased than I am to find the bank doing so well, and making the profits they did last year. I am also pleased to see that the disposal of the profits is entirely in accord with the views of the people of the colony. Such being the case, I move, That the balance-sheet be printed. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Before that ques- tion is put I should like to express my surprise at the new dictum of the Premier, that it is necessary for a concern to pay all debts owing before declaring a dividend or launching out into fresh business. Why, Sir, if that principle were applied to the colony, where would be the proposal for a new steamship line with the Old Country ? We are proposing by that to launch the colony into an expenditure of millions, I understand, to buy a line of steamships, not- withstanding that the colony has not paid off any of its debt. Surely the Premier is not going to ask a private bank to differ in its line of con- duct from that of the General Government of the colony. Why, Sir, what are debts? What difference does it make to a concern, taking our experience of the Premier, what its debts are so long as it pays a dividend ? If the same rule were applied to the Assets Board of Management, for instance, where would the comfortable salaries of the three directors and Manager be ? Why, the assets of the Assets Board would have been sold long ago if the Board had been run on good old-fashioned business principles ; but, instead of that, there have been instances where the Assets Board would not sell properties because they are profitable for them to work- because they are making sufficient money out of them to justify the Assets Board continuing its operations. If they were to sell out the profit- able properties that could be sold at the present time, and that possibly will not be so saleable in future, then their balance-sheet and statement of earnings would not look so rosy as at present. I must deprecate also the Premier bringing the affairs of the Bank of New Zealand before this House on newspaper evidence-on a report that he has seen in a newspaper. Why, Sir, who condemns more than the Premier himself the members of the House for quoting statements of the newspapers as evidence of the intentions of the Government ? Captain RUSSELL .- This is his own organ. Mr. PIRANI .-- I understand the Premier sold his shares in that organ, so that I would not like to call it the Premier's organ. At any rate, it used to be the Premier's organ when he was on the committee of management, or directed its policy. Mr. SEDDON .- I was not on the committee. Mr. PIRANI .- No; the honourable gentle- man may not have been on the committee, but at the same time he had a good deal to do with the management. I need only remind him of a scene that occurred in the Government Whip's room after a scene in the House, when the Pre- mier and the Whip were directing what should 