ROXBURGH ESTATE. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Premier, What steps have been taken to comply with the prayer of petitioners who desired that the Rox- burgh Estate, near Milton, should be purchased for close settlement ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this estate con- sisted mainly of pastoral country. The Land Purchase Board did not see its way to recom- mend the purchase to the Government. The area of the estate was 18,200 aeres. # UNPRESENTED RETURN. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) asked the Go- vernment. When the return ordered in para- graph 6, page 164. of the Journals of the House for 189s, will be laid on the table: and, when presented. if it will be brought up to date? This return was ordered on the motion of Mr. O'Regan, showing the classification of landed holdings in the colony. He hoped that it was only an oversight that it had not been pre- sented long ago, but possibly it had been left over on the score of expense. He hoped the Government would see their way to present it early, seeing that it was ten years since the previous return had been furnished : and that the return be brought up to date. It was a return of the greatest importance. Only by such a return could they really judge of the suc- cess or otherwise of the land-settlement policy of the Government. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he saw no ob- jection to the granting of such a return, and he would look into the matter. LOWER ROAD TO SEATOUN. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Government, Whether they intend throwing open the road below the forts at Shelly Bay, in order that Seatoun and Worser Bay residents may obtain a means of access to their houses ? The Hon. the Minister must realise that it was impossible in bad weather, on account of the impassable nature of the roads, for residents at Seatoun and Worser Bay, who numbered some hundred, to get home, especially in the winter, as the only road was that over the hills past Kilbirnie and through the Miramar Estate. The result was that it was most expensive for those living there in the winter to get into town and home again. The objection to this proposal, when he brought it before the House last session, was that it would in some way allow the public to get near the forts. That objection was altogether an absurd one, as he would clearly demonstrate. The road ran at the foot of the hills, while the forts were on the top, and it was impossible to see the forts from the road, whereas anyone who took a boat could see them. He believed in keeping the forts as secret as possible from the public eye, although it seemed to be a particular policy on the part of the British Government to allow foreign experts to inspect its newest guns, and take photographs of them. There seemed to be no necessity for the precaution in this instance, and if his request were granted it would confer a great benefit on the residents in the district referred to. Mr. SEDDON (Defence Minister) said the Commandant was strongly opposed to it. Mr. WILFORD .- He always has been. Mr. SEDDON thought that in a matter of this kind the Government should be guided by their experts; and that had been the reason why this road was closed. If they made a roadway past Shelly Bay, where the Permanent Forces were, the privacy of the place would bw done away with. The torpedoes, shells, and mines were there, and he did not see why, when the Government had made a road to Shelly Bay for defence purposes, private property- holders who wished to realise high prices frem the sale of their land should benefit by the making of that road and disturb altogether the present advantages of that position for defence purposes. With regard to this road, the Com- mandant advised the Government not to open it ; and he (Mr. Seddon) was going to follow his advice. Very shortly, however, there would be another Commandant, and when he arrived he should refer the matter to him, and probably the honourable gentleman, if the decision of the new Commandant agreed with that of the old one, would be satisfied. An Hon. MEMBER .- I hope the Premier will give one of our own men a chance. Mr. SEDDON said, No, it would not do to have one of our own men. The Government had asked the War Office, and had had the ad- vice of Lord Roberts, who had himself kindly gone into the matter, and he had made a recom- mendation, which he should be able to give to the House, he thought, next day. Mr. WILFORD said the Premier had been misinformed, because the road already went pa-t the buildings which the men occupied at Shelly Bay -- they had no privacy there now; and when the honourable gentleman suggested that the opening-up of this road would allow the public access to the barracks and prevent privacy, that was not the case, because the road was there now. Mr. SEDDON said that before any one could get to the Shelly Bay barracks they had to pa-> a gate, and that gate was kept securely locked. and could only be opened by special favour. if it could be opened at all. Mr. WILFORD said, you could get over it. Mr. SEDDON said that was not the que-tion at all. The road had been made to the Shelly Bay barracks, and it was not used as a public road. It was under lock and key, and there was a privacy there now that could not exist if it were an open public road. MILITARY DRILL IN SCHOOLS. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Premier, If the Government will make it a regulation of our public school training that the scholars be taught and drilled in the military manual and manoeuvres? He was aware that military drill was prescribed to be taught in the pable schools, but was afraid that it was in almost general disuse. This was not a new interest on his part, because, as the House would re- member, he had brought it up several times before. He was a great believer in teaching 