notwithstanding the exceptional circumstances, that an exceptional call of the House should have been made, and we should have been here before the visit of their Royal Highnesses to deal with this and other matters. As it is now, we shall be asked to pay money away, and are being asked to pay money away, of which we know nothing, and shall know nothing until the estimates come before us. That is not right ; and I maintain that members of the House ought to insist upon knowing, no matter what side of the House they are on. As it is, no one knows what accounts are to be paid out of this Imprest Supply Bill, and no one can know except those in authority. Members are asked to vote away money absolutely in the dark, and that is not a right position for them to be put in. I do not know that it would be right for us at this stage to object to the passing of this Imprest Supply Bill, so long as the Premier follows the course that is in accord- ance with the Standing Orders and in accord- ance with precedent. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Sir, the honourable member who last spoke was trying to make the House believe that some- thing very unusual was being proposed in ask- ing that an Imprest Supply Bill be passed under such circumstances as those outlined by the Right Hon. the Premier. He says that if you pass this Imprest Supply Bill you are doing it without knowledge of the estimates, and that you ought to have the details of the expenditure before you pass it. Sir, ever since I have been a member of this House it has been customary https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 for the first, second, and very often the third Imprest Supply Bill to be passed before the estimates were under consideration, or even a copy of the estimates was in the hands of mem- bers. That, I think I might almost say, has been the custom since the constitution of the colony. The honourable members who are rais- ing that objection know perfectly well that it is necessary for the proper conduct of the services of the country to bring down the first, second, and not infrequently the third Imprest Supply Bill before the estimates are under considera- tion at all. Then, to this question of the suspension of the Standing Orders, raised by the honourable leader of the Opposition, the mem- ber for Bruce, and the member for Riccarton, why, if honourable members turn to our own Standing Orders-and I am sure they have full knowledge of them-they will find that Standing Order No. 437 confers upon the House the power of suspending the Standing Orders whenever it desires for the purpose of having any matter placed before it for consideration. Standing Order No. 437 says, " Any Standing Order or Orders of the House may be suspended on motion made with or without notice," and all that it pro- vides is that when without notice there shall be forty members present. There were forty mem- bers present to-day when the Premier's motion was moved. Members have striven to make it appear that there is something extraordinary in the proposal made, though it is actually in accordance with the Standing Orders, to enable is the position ? It is this : Every member of the House knows that, as a result of the visit of the Royal party to this colony, it became a question whether a short session of Parliament should be held for the purpose of passing moneys necessary to carry on the business of the coun- try, or the deferring of the meeting of Parlia- ment and then coming down promptly and asking the House to grant the necessary supplies for carrying on the business of the country. That is the position ; and surely honourable members have recognised that the visit that has just taken place has been desirable, and in the interests not only of this colony, but of the Empire itself, and that the deferring of the meeting of Parliament was made entirely to enable that visit to take place. That being so, it is surely the first duty of honourable mem- bers when they meet here, to enable the busi- ness of the country to be carried on, by assent- ing to the proposal of the Premier, and it might, I think, have been done without debate at all even. What is proposed is not an unusual thing. It is to be remembered, too, that this is a very late first Imprest Supply Bill. On no former occasion can I recollect a first Imprest Supply Bill being introduced so late; and it is late because of the circumstances to which I have just referred. The whole position is a very clear one. The Standing Orders provide that we may suspend any of our own Standing Orders. Provision is made for the suspension under the present conditions of certain Standing Orders to enable the business to be carried on. That course is being taken now, and if honour- able members will refer to the Standing Orders they will find I am stating what is right. Mr. J. ALLEN .- After the Speaker called at- tention to it. Sir J. G. WARD .- There is not much in that. The Speaker was perfectly justified in calling attention to it. I am sure the Premier had no desire to do other than carry this Imprest Supply Bill through in the ordinary, and there- fore the right, way. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Not in the right way : he wanted an extraordinary way. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am afraid that it is the extraordinary imagination of my honourable friend which has led him wrong in the matter. Briefly put, the position is a very clear one. We have been compelled upon this occasion to hold the meeting of Parliament at a later period than usual, which, owing to the Royal visit, was unavoidable. That being so, the necessity arises for the present suspension of the Standing Orders. The Auditor-General has called atten- tion to the impropriety of spending money out of Imprest until we have the authorisation of Par- liament to carry out the ordinary business of the country. I am sure honourable members desire to see the business carried out in a proper way. In reference to the extract from May read by the honourable member for Riccarton, if the honourable member had preceded that extract by reading the Standing Order I have just read he would at once have seen that our contention is a right one. If the honourable member 