to injure not only those you desire to help, but also those with whom you have no concern. Now, the statement has been made in the House in connection with a question which last year I put to the Premier : Why does he not introduce legislation by which we could regulate the price of the commodities produced by the settlers? If the Government of the day are going to coddle up all the city industries, let them also take up the farming community, and say, " We will become your factors ; we will take all your produce at a fair price for the hours you have to work, and we will export all that is over and above what is required for local consumption and send it to the Old Country ; we will determine a price which will adequately remunerate the farmer for his extra-long hours of toil, and, if there is any loss, take it out of the consolidated revenue." And let them further say, in regard to the local consumption-the produce that the city people have to use, " We will stand at the gates with an arbitrary system, and fix the price which they must pay for whatever they use." That will only be fair; it will only be just and consistent with the laws I am remarking on. I know my time is limited. I only want to enunciate a few ideas for honourable members to reflect upon, and I know in their hearts they must feel that all I am claiming is perfectly just. Do not let them imagine that because they have arbitrary control of the legislation of this House, and, the settlers in the colony having only some fifteen or sixteen representatives here, they are going to ride over them. Re- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 member that though you are numerically in the majority, and though the hours of settlers are long and toilsome, and they are more in- clined to sleep than, like the city folks, to take http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero to pipes and long beers and discuss matters of legislation-I say with all respect, but it is too true, that you have throughout the colony in- festing all these cities a crowd of agitators who are quite indifferent to the liberties and the welfare of a large portion of the community so long as they can secure remunerative agitation. Let the Premier talk as he may about one class being set against another ; he is specially a transgressor in this respect, and nothing is more ignoble than that attempt to set one class against another. Nothing is fur- ther from the wishes and thoughts of a states- man than that one class should be set against the other ; but if you pass continuously this class legislation, as you are doing year after year, then the Premier must know that the love of life and those instincts of self-preserva- tion will cause the country to rise from one end to the other outside the cities for their own protection, and, in spite of your laws, you will find that the time will come that a wave of revulsion will sweep over the country that not even the Premier, with all his command of the Treasury which he controls, and his ability to continually bestow offices all round to men who lean to his opinions-notwithstanding all this, I say that the large outlying population will vet successfully assert their rights in this country. Mr. Monk said that this Bill was merely a technical one, but, Sir, when the Premier says a Bill is a technical one we generally look very closely into its provisions, and I say I am not satisfied with his explanation with regard to the insertion of trade-unions. I have been looking up the Trade Union Act, and I fail to see why the trade-unions should be inserted in this Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- You have not been watching the proceedings of the Court or you would know the reason why. Mr. HERRIES .- I am trying to get an ex- planation which the Premier did not furnish in introducing the Bill ; but I gather from what I can make out that the intention of the Indus- trial Arbitration and Conciliation Act was that there should be two parties in any dispute- that there should be the industrial union and the employer. Now it seems that we are going to put in a third party. Mr. TANNER .- We had trade-unions in the previous Act. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes ; but I understand that the object of the Act passed last session was to make the trade-unions come in as indus- trial unions, which would simplify the matters extremely ; and now we are not going to do that. but we are going to start and make a third party. I want to know the object. Is it be- cause the trade-unions wish to avoid the regis- tration as industrial unions? Is it because the provisions of the clause that applies to the registration of industrial unions makes them disclose facts with regard to their assets and numbers, and lays down regulations for rules, and generally is more strict in its provision than the Trade Union Act? It seems to me that there is a possible explanation that way ; but I should very much like to hear from the members of the House representing labour what object the trade-unions have in wanting to be put in as a third party in this Amendment Act. Mr. SEDDON .- They do not want it : it is to bring them in so as to bring them before the Court. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, they can come in There is provision in the Act of last now. session that they can register as industrial unions, and why is it that they do not register ? An Hon. MEMBER .- They can, but they will not. Mr. HERRIES .- Why will they not ? Why should we not say. " If you want to obtain the benefits of the Arbitration Act you must register as an industrial union." I do not know whether I am correct, but my impression is that there are certain provisions regarding registration that they do not like to comply with, and they would rather be under the Trade Union Act, which is not so stringent as the Industrial Conciliation Act. I do think an explanation is due to the House as to why these trade-unions should be put in as a third party, because, if you start to put in other people, we shall probably need an Amendment Bill to put in other bodies. I say that, as the general principle of the Bill has been approved. there shall always be two parties to a dispute, and that the whole dispute should 