would point out that there were travellers going on the van and left the rest of it on the plat- all over New Zealand, engaged in commerce and other matters, who must have an enormous amount of luggage; and it would not only be for the convenience of the general public, but in the interests of trade and commerce, that we should have a thoroughly good system of check- ; be found that these mistakes, which were a ing luggage. He trusted the Minister's promise would be carried out, and that at no distant date, so that the next time honourable members came to Wellington all they would have to do ' would be to put their luggage in the hands of the Railway Department at the point of departure and claim it at their lodgings in Wellington without further trouble or anxiety. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said the system was necessarily very different here from what it was on the other side, because there the trade was mostly from one part of the colony to the other, running all the way on land, while here, in order to come from Dunedin to Wellington, there had to be a change. The railway system changed at Lyttelton, and the department could not be responsible for what took place on board the steamers. With reference to the complaint of the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, he might say that this was the first time since the railway system had been in vogue that he had heard of such a charge being made against a public official. For his own part, he might state that he travelled as often as any one, and that he had always received the greatest courtesy and at- tention at the hands of the railway officials. Sometimes on arrival by train or steamer luggage was left behind, but the officers were always very obliging in forwarding anything https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that had been left. He was sorry that the Stationmaster at Dunedin should have been so offensive to his honourable friend. The man was for a time stationed at Oamaru, and while there was civil and obliging. The Hon. Mr. Pinkerton had perhaps exaggerated the position. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- No. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI could not help thinking the honourable gentleman had done 80. For himself, he considered that, taking the Railway Department and the whole of the Civil servants, there was no better class of officers in New Zealand or anywhere. He was sorry his honourable friend had attacked a man who had really no chance to reply and defend himself. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND thought there was occasionally great carelessness shown at rail- way-stations with regard to passengers' luggage. It was caused, perhaps, by the Stationmasters not sufficiently looking after the porters to see that they did their duty. Once, when travel- ling from Helensville to Auckland. his port- manteaux were put out of the train at New- market. Fortunately there was another train following, so that he was not for any length of time without his luggage. Only last Tuesday he left New Plymouth in company with his wife for Wellington. At New Plymouth all his luggage was labelled " Wellington," but just as the train was moving off his wife noticed two of their boxes standing on the platform. One of the porters had actually put half of the luggage form. As a result he had to wait for the two articles until Wednesday evening. He thought Stationmasters should be bound to look after the railway-porters a little more than they did at present ; and, if they did, he thought it would great inconvenience to the public, would be avoided. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH wished to add to what he had previously said that he did not find fault with the staff, but with the regula- tions. He supposed the Stationmaster and the staff generally were doing their duty in refusing to do what he asked them to do, Lut it was surely ridiculous that, if goods had been labelled for a certain town and were wanted on the way, they could not be obtained from the van by the owner on giving up the checks corresponding with those on the parcels, simply because they were labelled for a particular place. That was what happened in his case. He wanted a bundle of rugs for the journey, and he was told that it was labelled for Christchurch, and that it could be delivered to him only in Christ- church. It was only as a great privilege and as a great concession that he was at length allowed to get these rugs from the van. He believed the Stationmaster at Dunedin was a bit of a martinet, but at the same time he had not had the same experience as the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton had had. Such a way of carrying on was very unbusinesslike, and not what was re- quired at all. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY thought passengers were themselves largely to blame for what was done with regard to their luggage. Many of them simply threw their goods on the plat- form and left the porters to find out the destination for themselves. He had some ex- perience in Dunedin lately, perhaps with the same officer as the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton had alluded to. At any rate, the self-assertion of the individual was surprising. For himself, if he had had such an experience as the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton he would have considered it his duty, in the public interest, to have reported it at once to the General Manager, in order to remedy such unreasonable action. He con- sidered that in a case of gross neglect of pas- sengers' luggage, or passengers' convenience in travelling it was one's duty to report to the head of the department, so that anything of the kind might be remedied. Generally, how- ever, he had received the most courteous treat- ment on the railways from officials of all grades. The Hon. Mr. JONES said the Hon. Mr. Shrimski had remarked that he had always been treated with the greatest courtesy by the railway officials. He (Mr. Jones) had also met with exactly the same experience. They, how- ever, were notorious. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Speak for your- self. The Hon. Mr. JONES said, he would say that the Hon. Mr. Shrimski was a notable character. Every one knew he was a member of the Legislative Council, and that was, perhaps, why he was treated with courtesy. 