number voting on a proposition relating to a | but gave effect to last year. That was worked law numbered over 500,000. An Hon. MEMBER. Not by ballot. Mr. ELL. Yes, by ballot. I will give another instance. In the State of Minnesota, where they have 376,000 people of voting-age, 266,000 voted on a proposition by ballot, show- ing that a very good percentage of the voters voted on the proposals submitted. I think those facts should dispose of that particular point. With regard to what the honourable member .for Waitemata said about giving the electors some direct voice in making laws so as to help to strengthen public opinion, and that the people were generally right, I ask, Where was the honourable gentleman the other night as regards the initiative? The honourable member for Waihemo is regarded as one of the jokers of the House, and has probably brought more honourable members to their fect than any one else by what is termed "pulling their legs." He seems to enjoy himself, and has a very hearty laugh when that is the result of his interjection. The Premier said the temperance party only put up candidates with the object of getting their own particular "fad " in and to have a thrust at the Government. I denied that was so. Mr. SEDDON .- I am glad to hear it. Mr. ELL .- Let me say this to the honourable gentleman : I am an old campaigner now, and had been one for a good many years before I came to this House, and I tell him that his own particular organization in Christchurch exists for about two months before the election day, and dies immediately after it, and I can tell him that if he wants to find out the hardest workers on behalf of the reforms he has placed on the statute-book, and for which he claims credit, he will find them in the workers in the temperance party. What about the Old-age Pensions ? Who worked for tha ? Where were the workers for tha ? Were they to be found amongst his political party organization ? Not a bit of it. The association that did most towards bringing tha into prominence was the Progressive Liberal Association, which is re- I will garded as a temperance organization. tell the honourable gentleman what they did. I believe I had the honour of receiving the first le ter from the Premier in February 1894, in which he expressed his sympathy with the pro- posal for a pension for he aged people of the colony, and said that the question had his entire sympathy. I had that letter embodied in a circular, and sent it to the labour and political organizations all over the colony so as to get it as widespread as possible. Then, we had a number of gentlemen at work drawing up a scheme of old-age pensions, and we sent that round to every newspaper in New Zealand, and nearly every newspaper wrote articles on it, and every member of the House at the time also had a copy of it. That was done by the Progressive Liberal Association. Then, with regard to the franchise, that question was also taken up by the same association ; and the same was the case with regard to the Customs taxa- tion, which the Premier objected to in 1899, through the medium of the same organization. I say that, with regard to all Liberal measures, he has been more helped and strengthened by the temperance party that he disparages on the floor of this House than from any other source. Mr. SEDDON. - I do not disparage them. I think they are making a mistake in the course they pursue. I say they prefer to sacrifice everything else for temperance. Mr. ELL .- I, Sir, give notice to move the recommittal of clause 14, for reasons which I will give shortly. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Sir, whether it is right or not that the Electoral Act should be amended in regard to electoral rights I am not going to give an opinion. But if we attempt to interfere with electoral rights at all we should amend the Electoral Act, and not insert a clause in this Bill to accomplish that object. But where there is a lack of sound argument to put forward in support of a motion abuse is generally resorted to by Opposition members. I was astonished to hear the honourable member for Eden-I am sorry that he is not now in his place-abusing a certain Registrar of Elec- tors by saving that a large number of electors were struck off the roll that should not have been struck off. Which suggested, of course. that that Registrar, whoever he was, was not doing his duty; and, Sir, I think this is not the place to come to and make such a charge. He might have made it in some other form, and I think it is altogether out of place to malign people in this manner. It is fre- quently done in this House. When there is no other argument to use members begin to abuse some person or other who holds a responsit le position, and assert that he has gone beyond or has neglected his duty. All I wish to say is that if we alter the electoral law at all it should be done by an amendment of the Elec- toral Act. There is one other thing I would like to say, and that is the honourable gentleman who spoke last, the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), claimed that the organization of which he is one of the leading lights has promoted most of the Liberal mes- sures which have been introduced in the House during the last few years. Now, I will tell that honourable gentleman this : that if the old-age pensions had been enacted in accordance with the proposals of the organization of which he poses as a leader it would have been by this time as dead as Julius Caesar, and the honour- able gentleman knows it. It is simply rid :- culous for him to claim the parentage of the Old-age Pensions, or of any other Act. It may have been suggested, but the hard-grafting was done by the party who has supported a Liberal Government during the last eight or nine years. I cannot support the motion of the honourable member for Palmerston, on the ground that I think this is the wrong Bill in which to insert the clause that he moved. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City). - Whilst I am in sympathy to a large extent with the proposal of the honourable member, I cannot fail to recognise that the question be raised has 