ADJOURNMENT. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved the adjourn- ment of the House. He wanted to say a word or two regarding the answer given by the Minis- ter of Lands to a question asked by the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) regarding stoats and weasels. He did not think that answer was altogether satisfactory. Of course, he was willing to admit that it was an improvement on the answer which the Minister had previously given to the same question ; but the Minister stated that. in his opinion, the protection at present extended to stoats and weasels should be removed in districts like Christchurch and Wellington. He (Mr. Massey) thought they should go a great deal further than that. He did not object to protection being extended to those animals in districts where the rabbit nuisance existed, but he did object to it in those districts where there was no rabbit nuisance. and where there was no possibility of it. He held in his hand a letter he had received from a settler in his district, in which the writer complained that he had suffered serious loss on account of the depredations of stoats and weasels in his poultry-yard. That settler had gone to very considerable expense to get the best and purest breeds of poultry, and on account of the damage done by these animals he had been forced to sell the whole of his poultry to a butcher in the neighbourhood. Then, only on the previous night he was shown a letter by the honourable member for Waite- mata. from one of his constituents, in which the writer stated that the stoats and weasels had attacked his voung lambs. The Minister https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 had said he had never heard of stoats and . Weasels attacking poultry ; but the letter he ( Mr. Massey) had in his possession was at the disposal of the honourable gentleman ; it would show him that settlers were suffering greatly through these animals. Mr. DUNCAN asked if ferrets were not to blame. Mr. MASSEY said, No; the stoats and weasels were responsible for the mischief. He thought the Minister should go a great deal further than the answer he gave to the member for Christ- church City indicated he was prepared to go ; that was to say, in those districts of the colony where there was no rabbit nuisance the pro- tection enjoyed by stoats and weasels should be withdrawn. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) seconded the motion for the adjournment of the House. He wished to bring under the notice of his colleague a suggestion that would have the desired effect. The honourable member said he had never known stoats and weasels to attack poultry, and in that connection he (Mr. Seddon) would like to say this: He introduced from Australia a bird commonly known as the laughing jackass. The members of the Opposition smile at that statement, but nevertheless it was the fact. As most people knew, the food of a laughing jackass was snakes. The bird would fly with a young snake high into the air and then drop it to the ground ; and one would naturally expect that a bird that would tackle a snake would be a match for a stoat or a weasel. It had been demonstrated, however, that such was not the case, for this valuable bird he alluded to was so badly bitten by a weasel that it died. He be- lieved that in a district where there were no rabbits, and where these vermin appeared, the regulations should be relaxed. He was inclined to think that, instead of taking four large centres, the department should note the locali- ties in which there were no rabbits, and in those districts where the regulations could be relaxed he thought that should be done. Stoats and weasels ran away from, and went into localities where there were no rabbits. These vermin, - stoats and weasels, - went over the ranges from Otago to the West Coast ; and on the Coast, where there was valu- able and beautiful fauna, what did they find ? The whole of it was cleared away by them. At present there were few rabbits on the West Coast. At first he believed some of the rabbits in Otago went out to look for the stoats and weasels, and, reaching the top of the range, they went down the Haast River into Westland, and came across that way down to the West Coast. As to the destroying of rabbits, the rabbits lost their companions and came to the Coast looking for them. There was no doubt that the weasels and stoats went to the Coast first. His own opinion was that a time would come in this colony when the importation of these animals would simply be looked upon as a great mistake, and the memory of those who first imported them would not be perpetuated as having been benefactors to the country. He could only say that where there was actual danger was in the centres of population, because there were repeatedly cases where ferrets had attacked children. An Hon. MEMBER said there was a case at Rangiora. Mr. SEDDON said, Very well ; he simply said it was all right to get rid of the rabbits, but they could pay too dearly for that. His own opinion was that the cure for the rabbits was population. When the natural enemies of the rabbit-stoats, ferrets, and weasels - were imported poisoning was not known. On no less an authority than that of his late worthy colleague Sir John Mckenzie the remedy for the rabbits was fencing and poisoning, and he believed if they had known about poisoning and fencing previously to the introduction of these vermin they would not have been introduced. They increased rapidly, and never stopped long in one place, but went foraging about, and any- thing with feathers on they destroyed. He must ask his colleague the Minister of Lands to consider the necessity of getting a report from his officers and fixing different districts where there were no rabbits within some miles, and where there was a barrier to their spread in the shape of population. Where they had a population between the rabbit-infested country and where this fencing existed he thought the country was perfectly safe to give power of destruction. At all events, he might say as far as he was concerned, with due deference to his 