have seen come before the Canterbury Land Board-and I suppose that Board has disposed of more land under the Land for Settlements Act than any other Board probably in New Zealand- good-looking young men and women who have had ma r monial engagements, who were wearing engagement-rines, and they have asked for Section 15 for Maria Jones and James Hayes, and they have asked that they should be bracketed together. And is not that most desirable ? Invariably they say, ' We only want one section between us," and they are asked. " Do you not want two sec- tions between you ; you are not married ?" But they reply, " We only want one section : and in the event of my being successful he marries me, and in the event of his being suc- cessful I marry him." These cases come before the Board time after time, and in every case this arrangement is carried out by the parties, and the marriage is consummated afterwards, and they become good settlers of the Crown. And vet this Bill says that only men who have been married and have families shall participate in the disposal of the Crown lands. Why. Sir, I know of very many couples who have been married a long time and have only got one youngster. I know of people who have not been married at all who have a great many more youngsters than that. I say there is no reason why a young couple whose characters are good. and whose intentions are honourable, should not be allowed to participate in this disposal of the lands, which belongs to them as well as to anybody else. There is no priority of claim to the people who are married than to those who are unmarried, because all people were un- married once. The Premier said there was great urgency for this Bill, but he does not seem to be looking after it very well. He seems to have left it to the tender mercies of this House, and it seems to me he does not care whether it passes or whether it does not. I do not know of a single case in the whole Canterbury District where any occasion has ever arisen for the passing of this Bill-not one single case. Of course, the first clauses may be necessary to improve the machinery of the department, because there are sometimes defects in the law. In fact, I will tell you, Sir, of a case I know myself of a defect in the law, and I think I am within my rights in doing so. Last session, although no urgent condition was made out, the Premier told this House it was necessary in order to appease, compensate, or ameliorate, or gain public favour, or whatever it might be, to pass a Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Bill. Well, I, with other members of this House that is, the more intelligent members of the i of himself, of people who have subdivided their House I should say resented this, and I gave reasons at that time why this Bill should not be passed, because I knew of my own know- ledge of hundreds of instances in Canterbury where the tenants of the Crown could sell out at a considerable increase. I never knew a single case scarcely where a tenant had any difficulty in getting somebody to take his section off his hands. Over and above the value of the im- provements made on the estate, in all cases they got something to the good, and sometimes a very large amount of money. Well. the Premier brought this in, and I will give him the credit for this : that he referred to a lot of cases in the back blocks, speaking. I think, of the Masterton district. Of course, we know the member for Masterton can do anything-we know the Premier can be led by the nose In the member for Masterton-and, speaking of the difficulties and necessities and vicissitudes of the back-block settlers, he said : "I will give you 10 per cent. off your rent : I will remit 10 per cent. on the amount of interest on the money that you pay under the Advances to Settlers Act. All these things are due to you." And. not to put the thing lightly, the Premier passed a general Bill, and gave this remission of the rent to other people who did not desire it at all. I went home in the middle of the night, after having exhausted myself in the House, and had a sleep, and came back in the morning, and the " Hon. Professor" Barclay met me in the lobby and told me the Premier had now given way, and that if I would go and see him he would enter into a compromise with us in regard to the 10-per- cent. rebate. What I wanted was not that the 10-per-cent. rebate should be given in all cases, but that only after due inquiry and where they were deserving cases. The Premier, when I went into the room-I may not tell you what he said, because he is awfully wroth if you dis- close what he says in private - gave me to understand he was going to compromise. He came into the House and gave such a com- promise as deceived the whole country. It did not deceive the people who got the 10 per-cent. rebate because they got it all the same, but he did deceive nearly every one else who thoughi that the cases for rebate were to be indi- vidual cases, and not general cases. No doubt, I believe that the Premier, having gone so far as to commit himself to this It per-cent. rebate of rent, will stick to it until we shove him off the Treasury benches. and put Mr. Rhodes in as Minister of Lands. However, I am going to oppose this Bili. and after having heard the remarks which bave fallen from my honourable friend Mr. Meredith. and the other members of the House who are opposed to such a measure, I feel all the more able to give a pronounced opinion upon the matter. But before I sit down I have a note here which I wish to refer to. When the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was speaking, the Premier interjected about the subdivision of private estates. Captain Russel gave by way of illustration a case that he wnw estates amongst their families. Now. there's a clause in this Bill which provides that afe negotiations have been entered into no peron can so subdivide his estate. I cannot. Sir, fy the life of me see why the subdivision of an estate under such circumstances should be called a dishonest transaction. Suppose I was forit. nate enough to possess 12,000 acres of land wh.c I hold in enjoyment for myself. my wife, and family without any fear of any Government of 