perfect safety for the last fifteen or twenty years. He saw the great inconvenience the Royal party were put to when the steamer was not allowed to go south of Lyttelton, and also the refusal to let her go by the south of New Zealand to Tasmania, which had been con- sidered a perfectly safe route for ships coming and going to and from our colony to take for many years past. There had never been an accident or serious trouble of any kind to any steamer taking that route. Now, the same serious inconvenience was being caused in the case of New Zealand soldiers returning by the " Tagus " ; and not only would that inconveni- ence be caused, but the colony was to be put to a great and unnecessary expense, and the relatives and friends of these men, who had been making arrangements for their suitable reception in the southern port, were all in a state of doubt as to where these men were going to land. He could only say he hoped that the admiral who commanded the Austra- lian Squadron in these waters would take an early opportunity to visit, as his predecessors had done, the various ports of this colony, and that he would use his great influence to remove the extraordinary impression that seemed to exist in the minds of those in authority in England, and who certainly ought to be cognisant of the condition of the harbours of this colony, and so enable officers command- ing men-of-war, or such Imperial vessels as have recently come to this colony, to be in a position that would enable them to take advantage of the ports of the colony. At all events, their harbours, upon which they had spent hundreds https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of thousands of pounds, and where there were up-to-date pilot services, with first class steam- tuss available, should not be slurred in this way without cause. Personally, he had felt most keenly disappointed, as he was sure every mem- ber of this House and many of the people of this colony had done during the last month or so. to find that these highly qualified and fine men, upon whom they confidently relied in times of trouble, either knew so very little about the capabilities of the harbours of the colony, or else were improperly instructed. It must be obvious to the most unthinking that there was something radically wrong when these Imperial steamers, much smaller and of con- siderably less draft, were not allowed to visit harbours that steamers of greater tonnage and deeper draft had done without accident of any kind for many years. He hoped that state of affairs would soon be remedied. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said the whole trouble arose through the Admiralty not possessing up-to-date charts. They were now using obsolete charts, and he thought the attention of the authorities at Home should be called to the fact. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said he did not think it right that two Ministers of the Crown should address this House and speak rather in terms of contumely of the officer who commanded His Majesty's ship " Ophir." the honourable member knew as much about sailoring as he did about politics. But it was well known that there were certain hard-and- fast rules passed by His Majesty's Board of Admiralty, and, whether these rules were ap- proved or not, in all probability the officers who made these rules knew fully as much about the duties of naval commanders as the two honour- able Ministers knew, or even the honourable member for Lyttelton, who also gave us his opinion. However, there were certain rules laid down for the guidance of officers in the Imperial navy from which there was no depar- ture. Sir J. G. WARD. It is time they were altered now. Captain RUSSELL said, Exactly so, and the honourable member for the Bluff Harbour thought he knew as much about what ought to be done as His Majesty's Board of Admiralty. But the facts of the matter were these : that, without professing to know what the orders were, he did know as a fact that certain rules were issued to officers commanding ships in His Majesty's navy, and one of them, no doubt, provided that, no matter whether it was called the best port in the world, in all pro- bability, unless there was a certain amount of water beneath the ship's forefoot she should not go into that harbour, and the fact of a commanding officer transgressing that law, even at the instigation of the Prime Minister of this colony, would render him liable to court-martial; and, however absurd it might be to maintain that law, the least violation of it would in all probability cause that officer to be dismissed from his ship and destroy all his chances of promotion : and he knew the facts were much as he had stated. If a commander infringed that law, -though his common-sense might teach him it was unnecessary,-and went into port, touched the ground, and rubbed off the paint on the ship's bottom, he would stand a good chance of being court- martialled. Well, that being the case, he did not think it was right that a distinguished officer, who could only have been selected for his high position because of his distinguished service, should have been referred to in the terms that two Ministers had used that after- noon. Sir J. G. WARD wished to say, by way of personal explanation, that, even if what the honourable gentleman said was right, he would like to point out to the honourable gentleman that the admiral on the Australian Station who commanded the "Orlando," took his ships in and out of the ports in question with absolute safety ; and undeniably there were steamers- and a great many too - that visited those ports all the year round that were thousands of tons larger and drew several feet more water. His complaint was that the rules which the honourable gentleman said had been laid down to guide the officers of these ships must either be based upon imperfect data, or the want of local experience caused the commanders of 