duction of the rate of interest there has been a natural increase of speculation in land, and land is opened, whether it is Crown land or that has caused the rise in the land-values of land-for-settlement land, people become appli- the colony, and we are now on the verge of a cants who have no serious intention whatever land boom. Why, Sir, land is sold at $60 and of becoming permanent settlers -- people who $65 an acre five miles from Christchurch. know nothing about land, and do not want to know. They go in for these lands knowing An Hon. MEMBER. - For residences ? Mr. ELL .- No: not for residences, but for that, if successful in drawing a section, they will be able to receive a substantial bonus farms. Captain RUSSELL. - How much in area ? therefor, and if they are not successful in doing so there is no harm done. Sir, I think there Mr. ELL .- I can refer to a block of from ought to be a change in connection with the twenty-five to thirty acres, and in a purely agricultural district. Land - values are un- ballot system. The tender system and the doubtedly on the increase, and it seems to me auction system have been suggested, but I do that, seeing that the cheap money and the re- not like either. I think applicants for Crown duced railway freights have reflected themselves lands should be required to give some guarantee in the land-values, we are arriving at a time that they are genuine settlers, and that they when we should have, as the member for Wai- intend to go on the land if they are successful hemo pointed out. more direct taxation, and in drawing a section, otherwise they should not be allowed to become applicants at all. that there should be a further remission of Customs duties. Honourable members will suggest ? find then, that when the direct taxation is inade more general than it is now and there is less indirect taxation, the farmers will not a certain amount of,money, or a guarantee from suffer so much as it is feared they will, but will some of their friends that they are capable of going on the land and becoming settlers, and be better off than they are now. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I can hardly say intend doing so if successful at the ballot. that I am able to work up as much enthusiasm tion now. on this Bill as some of the speakers who have preceded me. Perhaps it is because, unlike the Minister for Public Works, who told his con- gentleman knows, of very little value, and is stituents not many weeks ago that the district not always done. I have been informed that which he represented had received more benefit at a recent ballot in Auckland two barmaids in from the expenditure under the Land for Settle- city hotels were successful in drawing sections. ments Act than any other district in the colony, I. Sir. represent a district which has received tion of going on the land ? The probability is n, benefit at all from it. However, the Bill https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 before the House has to do with one of the most they would sell the sections as soon as they extensive and important departments of the could find really intending settlers to take them Crown, a department which has the handling over at a profit. But, coming to the Bill itself, of many hundreds of thousands of pounds of course it is of a decidedly technical character, annually, belonging to the taxpayers of the and, personally, I have no very serious objec- tion to it, with the exception of clause 6. I do colony, and therefore I want to say a word or two in connection with it. But, first of all, as to the object to clause 6. According to the side-notes manner in which the Bill was introduced this clause 6 is intended to prevent an evasion of this afternoon : I was more than surprised that Act. Perhaps I had better read the clause :- the Bill was introduced not by the Minister of Lands, who under the Act of last year is avoidance of the provisions of the principal Act as to the right of the owner to select and retain the Minister controlling the department, but any limited part of any estate intended to be by the Right Hon. the Premier. I consider acquired under that section, it is hereby de- his action in introducing this Bill was a reflec- clared that the area of the whole estate shall be tion on the Minister of Lands, and if I were the Minister of that department I should say computed as at the commencement of the nego- to the Premier. "Either I am capable of tiations for the purchase under the said Act, and no subsequent disposition of the estate, or managing the business of my own department any part thereof, shall operate to defeat the or I am not. If I am capable of managing the power of the Governor to acquire the land under affairs of my department I must introduce my own Bills, and if I am not capable then it is that Act." time for me to leave these benches." I am not reflecting in the very slightest upon the Minis- mean that if the Government have opened up ter of Lands. I believe that honourable gentle- negotiations for the purchase of any estate, and man is capable of managing the affairs of his have even asked the owner whether he is willing to sell, it is intended to prevent that man from department, and I believe he knows more about doing anything in the way of disposing of his land matters and land for settlement than land, selling it to any one else, cutting it up. or all the other members of the Ministry put to- giving it to any members of his family until the gether. Now, a great deal has been said about Government are pleased to say that the nego- the ballot system, and any one who knows tiations are concluded. Is that just? Land- anything about land-settlement must know that there are many evils in connection with owners, I say, have rights as well as any other Mr. SEDDON .- What guarantee would you Mr. MASSEY .- I would require a deposit of Mr. NAPIER. - They have to make a declara- Mr. MASSEY .- That is, as the honourable Mr. NAPIER. -- Why should they not ? Mr. MASSEY .- Had those people any inten- "(1.) In order to prevent any evasion or What do those last three lines mean ? They 