sume it is brought in by the honourable mem- ber for Ohinemuri at the request of certain ; labour sections. If so, I think the request is ! entirely confined to the workers in that part of the colony. I am not aware of any agitation of this kind having been set up in any other part of the colony, and I am not even aware that this Bill is the result of any special request from the workers in the electorate which the honourable gentleman represents. I think that the honour- able member for Franklin, Mr. Massey, cor- rectly described this Bill as class legislation. have never known a more complete instance of class legislation being introduced into this House than the Bill now before it. Let me refer, in the first place, to what I think is the incorrectness of the Bill. The title is " An Act to provide for Workers the Right of Appeal." Sir, every worker in the colony has the right of appeal already, and it is a mere farce to describe this Bill as one giving the worker the right of appeal. What this Bill pro- poses to do is to give the worker a great advan- tage over the man whom he is suing, in connec- tion with any appeal he may make. And, again, the preamble goes on to state that the rules governing the practice of the various Courts " are oppressive, inasmuch as they preclude the workers from access to the superior Courts by way of appeal, except under conditions as to giving security for costs which are prohibitive in the case of workers." Why, Sir, the experience of most of us has been this : that any worker who has a sound case can almost invariably obtain some member of the legal profession who is willing to prosecute his case in the higher https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Courts, and, if necessary, to advance the costs. The remarks of the honourable gentleman, in introducing the Bill, about the worker being compelled to plead in forma pauperis are mere claptrap. There is absolutely nothing to justify such a statement on the part of per- sons seeking to pursue legal claims in the higher Courts. If the honourable gentleman wants to carry out what he professes to be endeavouring to do under this Bill, why does he not go the whole hog, and propose that every worker shall be entitled to go into any Court in the colony without paying any costs or fees at all ? That would be a logical position to take up. But what he asks for is that a worker desiring to appeal in the Supreme Court, or in the Appeal Court, if you please, shall be able to go there without depositing any security as to th , costs that might be awarded to the other side. It by no means follows that the employer who is going to be attacked in the Appeal Court is in any better position financially than the worker. In fact. I think I should be correct if I were to say that in a very large number of ca . es the operatives who are engaged in factories are better off than the men for whom they work. The tendency of our labour laws in some respects at the present time is really to divide the colony into two classes - the large capitalistic com- paries and the workers ; whilst small men who are employers very often have less money for th . upkeep of their families than the workers the mselves. Now, what is the position under this Bill ? This Bill proposes that a mar desiring to appeal against a judgment of the \--- Court shall be able to go to either the Supreme or Appeal Court, and set the whole of the machinery in motion, without giving aby --- guarantee as to the payment of costs if he is unsuccessful in the action. Thus the person whom he is attacking in the higher Court must go and employ counsel, and support his position in the Court of Appeal, without guarantee of payment of his costs. In that Court I thick the fees are probably too high, and in the I Supreme Court I think the fees are also too high. Now, if the honourable gentleman were proposing that the fees in the Courts should be reduced, I would be prepared to support him in that proposal ; but in this Bill he goes so far as this: that when the person who is being attacked by the appellant has obtained judgment-won his case -and the costs are cast upon the other side, he then has to pay the whole of his legal expenses and recover nothing. Now, I would ask this House, as a body of practical business men. are they going to support legislation of that 1 kind? I have always sympathized with ali labour laws that are in the direction of amelio- rating the condition of the worker : but I say. if this kind of thing is going to be proposed. it simply makes the whole of our labour legi-ia- tion ridiculous, and it will be one of the first means by which the whole fabric of our labour legislation in this colony will come down. If the labour legislation of New Zealand is to be maintained, it will be only by being just, fair. equitable, and such as carries with it the com- mon-sense of the community. But if you are going to pass labour laws which are inimical to justice and fair-play, before long the whole thing will tumble down. Mr. MORRISON .- The Labour party does not want a Bill like this. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I quite agree with my honourable friend the member for Caver- sham, who is ten times more entitled to speak of the wants of the workers than the honourabir member for Ohinemuri. The honourable mem- ber for Caversham represents a constituency where the workers are predominant, and, as we all know, he has the complete confidence of the workers, and I feel sure that if any proposal of this kind were desired by the workers the honour- able member for Caversham would be in a position to emphasize the claim. But what is the fact ? Why, that this advanced legislation for the workers comes from a gentleman of the legal profession, who represents a constituency which is apparently the only one in the colony that has asked for this proposal. I certainly think the House will be only doing justice to the mass of the workers of the colony if it kicks out this hybrid measure at the first opportunity. when the division on the second reading is taken. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- 1 am with those honourable members who say that on a question of this sort we ought to have an expression of opinion from the Government. In former years it was the duty of some member 