ning a man in for being drunk and disorderly, . that at no previous period, excepting during the but he is fully posted in the various branches of criminal law. Here is another honourable member from Dunedin interjecting -- the mem- ber for Caversham. He asks me how do I know ? He has only got to have as much to do with criminal work as I have and he will soon find out. And he would know that counsel engaged in the criminal jurisdiction of the Court come constantly into communication with Inspector Pender, Sub-inspector Wilson, Sergeant Wright, and also with Mr. Tunbridge. Mr. Tunbridge knows this, and would bear me out in what I am saying. I ask the honourable member for Dunedin (Mr. Millar) to do justice to those who are absent, and cannot reply, and not make statements that will be sent broadcast through- out the colony reflecting on Sergeant Wright, about whom he knows nothing. During this short speech I have made I have said no harsh word of any one. I have spoken in favour of Inspector Pender and Sergeant Wright : and in regard to my honourable friend's particular detective, Mr. MeGrath, I say nothing at all, because I had to prosecute in the case against him, and therefore my mouth is closed. There are no recriminations in my speech ; I only speak up for the men that the honourable member for Dunedin City is running down, and ! of whom he has no knowledge at all. I hope good will be done by bringing under the notice of the Commissioner and the Minister the fact that things are not as they ought to be in the Police Force in Wellington. That they are not will be admitted by every one. And, Sir, I am certain, if the Minister of Justice will https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 not only say he will have a stiff back to act, but will act up to what he said in the House to-day, the Police Force will be a credit to the colony. I agree that, so far as the personnel of the Force is concerned, there is a distinct improvement in the last year or two. The | criminal cases in Southland, in which the bearing of the men; the way they give evi- dence ; the reports they put in-of which 1 have seen numbers and numbers -- are alto- gether different from what they were even within my knowledge five or six years ago; and I believe it is the rarest thing in Welling- ton to find a policeman attempting to distort evidence. I have seen the maxims as set out in the police-station for the guidance of officers : " Be temperate, and never attempt to get a conviction by forcing the evidence given." I am prepared to speak up for the Police Force as a whole in the colony, and I am not going to make imputations against a single individual : to my mind it does no good. Let the Minister and Mr. Tunbridge take notice of what has been said, and go to work to do away with the anomalies that exist in the Police Force, and they will do a great deal of good for the colony which will be appreciated and valued by all. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- As far as the city I have the honour to represent is con- cerned, there is absolutely no necessity for this Commission. Since 1883 I have had an ex- tensive Court practice in the City of Auckland, and I have been brought into intimate contact time that Inspector Broham was in charge, has the Police Force in that city been as efficient as it is to-day. There is a greater esprit de corps, and a more thorough knowledge of the duties of their position among the members of the police in Auckland than ever before. I would not have risen but for a remark which was made by the honourable gentleman who moved the motion with regard to Sub-Inspector Mitchell. Now, I have known Sub-Inspector Mitchell since 1881, when he was watch-house keeper at Auckland, and I have followed his career with the greatest interest in the inter- vening period, and I say unhesitatingly that there is no smarter or straighter officer in the whole of the Police Force than he is. The manner in which he conducts his cases at the present time in the Auckland Police Court would be creditable to any criminal lawyer. He is calm, temperate, has a good knowledge of law and Police Court procedure, and I am sure that the Police Force of this colony and the country are to be congratulated upon having so efficient an officer as Sub-Inspector Mitchell. Mr. HANAN . Invercargill. -- The honourable member for the Suburbs in his remarks referred to a little heat which was manifested by : he honourable member for the City of Dunedin i (Mr. Millar), when he spoke on this occasion. I have no doubt, Sir, that that feeling which was exhibited by the honourable member for Dunedin was due to a consciousness on his part that an attempt was made last year to drive a most deserving officer . I refer to Detective Metirath - out of the Police Service of this colony. Now, Sir, I cannot be said to be a friend of Detective MeGirath, but having had ample opportunities of judging of that official's Į character and abilities as a detective, by reason : of my connection as counsel with important detective was engaged, I have no hesitation in saying that as a detective he is second to none in this colony. Strange to say, it is only when that gentleman comes to Wellington that we hear the slightest complaint made against him. During the whole of his service in Otago his conduct as a man commanded the highest respect, while there was entertained the highest admiration for his ability as a police-officer. The honourable member for Wellington Sub- urbs stated that Inspector Pender is an honour- able man; but I also claim for Detective MeGirath that he too is an honourable man. I am exceedingly pleased that the conspiracy, or attempt, which was made last year to drive De- tective MeGrath out of the service failed, and I hope, Sir, that he will long continue his credit- able connection with our Police Force, and only regret that we have not more men of his character and professional capabilities in the service of this colony. I have no hesitation in saying that if the persecution of Detective Metirath had been successful last year it would have been a step inimical to the best interests of the Police Force as well as inflicting a great in- justice on a highly efficient, experienced, and most deserving public servant. 