full and searching inquiry would be made. From that day he had not heard one word as to who was the culprit, or what the Government were doing in the matter. He understood that the Volunteers were lined up in order that the offending man or men might be identified on their return journey; but they were so much alike when they were in uniform that it was almost impossible. especially for a girl, to dis- tinguish one Volunteer from another, and so the culprits escaped. He hoped that the Premier would make a searching inquiry into the matter. His honourable friend on his right-(Captain Symes)-he understood, was on that train in charge of a corps, and no doubt he would be able to throw some light on the affair. But, even though the allegations were contradicted by his honourable friend, he hoped the Minister of Defence would take the matter up, cause a searching inquiry to be made, and, if the Volun- teers had committed what he would say was a despicable crime which they had been accused of, he hoped the offenders would be very severely punished. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said that when he said it was a most regrettable occurrence that took place at the Woodville railway refreshment-rooms, and that the alleged conduct of the Volunteers, if correct, was a disgrace to men wearing the Queen's uniform, he was speaking in moderate terms. Immediately the matter was brought under his notice as Minis- ter of Defence-he received a communication from the Mayor of Woodville, and he also re- ceived a communication from the representa- tive of the district, Mr. O'Meara -- he sent on these communications to the Commandant, and, as it was alleged there had been a taking of things out of the bar, besides an assault upon the girl by spitting in her face, he placed the matter in the hands of the police, and he did not think he could do any more than that. The police were asked to make further in- vestigation in the localities where these men had gone, and, acting upon the information they received, they pressed the inquiry still further, and it was only on his colleague the Commissioner of Police informing him that there was not sufficient evidence upon which the police could proceed that he desisted from doing anything. All he could say was this: that complaints of that kind brought dishonour and discredit upon a body of men who were de- serving of much praise, and if he could find out who had been guilty of this misconduct he would make an example of them, in order to prevent any occurrence of that kind in the future. That was the position. Mr. SYMES ( Egmont) asked leave to make a personal explanation, as his name had been referred to. He absolutely denied the exagge- rated statement of the alleged occurrence. He said from his personal knowledge he felt certain the refreshment-room-keeper had drawn upon his imagination. He was in a position to see the whole of the Volunteers in one refreshment- room during his stay in Woodville, and ho declared that, as far as he knew, the statement was absolutely without the slightest foundation whatever in fact. There was not a word of truth in it, as far as his knowledge went, and he sat behind a counter in the company of Cap- tain Maxwell, of Opunake. The men under his supervision were most orderly. There was one trooper, certainly, whom he heard make use of rather strong language. He was not a member of his corps. He immediately spoke to the man, and asked him if he knew that he was weir- ing the Queen's uniform. He said, " Captain, I am very sorry ; it was only a joke." All these men behaved in a thoroughly gentlemanly way, with this one exception, in the refreshment- room. Captain Maxwell and himself sat out until nearly all the men left. After that be walked up and down the platform smoking a cigarette while he waited for the train. But before leaving he revisited the room to see all was well, and the barmaid spoke to him in the highest terms of the Volunteers; and he (Mr. Symes) said that he was very pleased, because a number of the Volunteers came from his dis- trict, and he knew that they were some of the finest men in New Zealand. There was abso- lutely no foundation for this sweeping state- ment. An inquiry was held at the camp also on Sunday, on receipt of the telegram, and it was absolutely denied by all the officers present. and also by the non-commissioned officers who were in charge as section leaders in each case. so that he thought the whole thing was an exaggerated charge. Mr. SEDDON said, in face of the statement made by the honourable member, he felt impelled to lay the papers on the table. He had wished to keep the matter from being exposed more than could possibly be avoided. Now, however, in justice to the police and others who had to deal with the matter, he felt constrained to lay the whole of the papers on the table. He could not think that such charges could have been made without foundation, and he might, from memory, say that some of the property taken away was actually found in the train. He knew, of course, that the honourable member would not make the state- ment he had done without good grounds, but the honourable member was only speaking from his own personal knowledge. From the evidence, however, that was before the police- the evidence of the restaurant-keeper, and the girls, also of the railway people - - there was not the slightest question that there was some foundation for the allegations made. # RAILWAY RATES IN NORTH AND SOUTH ISLANDS. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Minister for Railways, If it is a fact that the conveyance of passengers' luggage in the South Island is charged at a lower rate than in the North Island ; also, if goods are carried at a lower rate in Canterbury and Otago than in the North Island ; and, if so, why ? It had been stated, and never contradicted, that passengers luggage in Otago was charged at the rate of }d. per mile, whilst in Auckland it was charged 2}i. per mile. It was also stated that in Canter- bury and Otago the rate for goods had been 