Committee, as they had been members of it for many years. Ho therefore preferred to ask the Council to appoint two extra members, and for that purpose moved the motion of which he had given notice for the appointment of the Hon. Mr. Johnston and the Hon. Mr. Twomey. Motion agreed to. REFERENDUM BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, in moving the second reading of this Bill. of course, to a certain extent we must admit it is a new principle that we propose to place on the statute-book. At the same time it is a principle that we have been getting pretty familiar with, and although it has not yet been passed into law, still the people of the country have for some time been accustomed to treat it as if it was a principle that should be adopted in our legislation in order to give expression to the wish of the people in certain directions. I know there is one old objection to it, and that is an objection that holds good to a certain ex- tent-that is to say, it requires from us con- sideration as a reasonable measure in addition to what it bears on its face. It requires con- sideration, I may say, because the only country in the world where it has been thoroughly adopted, and where it was manufactured, is the Confederation of Switzerland, a country whose conditions are very different from ours and almost every other country in the world, and between which and the circumstances of these colonies it is almost impossible to make a comparison. But at the same time, the fact https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that it has been an acknowledged principle of legislation in Switzerland to a larger extent than is proposed in this Bill gives it, at all events, the respectability of a tried principle in another country. In some of the Australian http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero Colonies the principle has been adopted to a It has even been spoken of in limited extent. this colony as being adaptable to certain oc- casions, and this is the first time that it has reached this Chamber, since the Government has brought it down as a proposal with the conviction that the mind of the colony is sufficiently made up on the subject, and believes that the result of the measure being adopted will be satisfactory, and will put an end to a great deal of unrest in regard to certain questions. Now, I feel quite certain in my own mind that to put an end to unrest is a very great benefit as regards many questions that may have been troubling the public mind for a good many years. I believe many proposals that have troubled the public mind could have been exploded by the help of a reference to the people, as is proposed under this Bill, and it would have been much better for the public mind. In fact, I would go a little further and say: From one point of view the Bill does not go far enough -that is to say, that the only measures that can be referred to the people under this Bill are Bills that have got the protection and support to some marked extent of at least one House of the Legislature. In Switzerland they carry this provision a great deal further. They carry it so far as to give the power of initiative under it. If a certain number of electors demand it from the Government, certain propositions can be placed before the electors of the country whether they have been introduced to the Parlia- ment or not. Well, this Bill does not go so far as that. And I am almost inclined to think, from some points of view, it would be a very great benefit to the public to put questions to them much earlier than they can necessarily be put now. However, Sir, the proposal is that there should be a referendum for certain ques- tions under certain conditions. The first pro- posal is contained in clause 3 and the first part of clause 4, on the occasion of a deadlock be- tween the Houses of Parliament. Now, if a measure is rejected by one House for two ses- sions running, the second rejection of the Bill shall be followed by a submission of the ques- tion to the people by referendum. The second contingency is that both Houses may pass a Bill containing the provision that the ques- tion shall be immediately submitted to the referendum. Then the Bill would apply. The third question is not confined to a Bill, but extends to any proposal or resolution : That is, if both Houses pass a certain resolution affirming the desirability of submitting any proposition to the people by referendum, then it shall be given effect to. And then, fourthly, if a Bill is passed twice by the House of Repre- sentatives and rejected twice by the Legislative Council, and the House of Representatives so resolve, then that Bill shall be also submitted to the referendum. The only difference is as regards Government Bills introduced by message from His Excellency the Governor. If such a Bill is rejected, then it goes to the electors. Also if a Bill passed by both Houses contains a pro- vision that such Bill shall be reserved for the referendum. Also- " If a resolution is passed by both Houses in favour of submitting to the referendum any legislative proposal (other than a Bill) set forth in such resolution ; or "If a Bill is passed twice by the House of Representatives and rejected twice by the Legislative Council, and the House of Repre- sentatives so resolves -- " then it shall be submitted to the referendum. Then in order to obtain a certain finality in the matter, and in order to prevent unnecessary troubling of the electors too frequently on any one subject upon which they are supposed to have made up their minds, in clause 15 it is provided :- " It shall not be again submitted for a period of three years after the gazetting of the result of the poll taken on the first submission unless at least ten per centum of all the electors on the electoral rolls at the date of the taking of the poll so request by petition to Parliament. " It shall not be again submitted unless the provisions of section four of this Act are com- plied with afresh." That is to say, the Bill has again to be passed twice by the House of Representatives, and it also requires a resolution of that House. Clause 16 states that the Act shall not apply to- 