# SESSIONAL COMMITTEES. NATIVE AFFAIRS .- Hon. Mr. Bonar, the Hon. Mr. Cadman, C.M.G., the Hon. Major Harris, the Hon. Mr. Jennings, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. W. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. Ormond, the Hon. Mr. W. C. Smith, the Hon. Mr. Swanson, the Hon, Mr. Taiaroa, the Hon. Mr. Tomoana, the Hon. Sir G. S. Whitmore, K.C.M.G., the Hon. Mr. Williams, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker, C.M.G. GOLDFIELDS AND MINES .- Hon. Mr. Barni- coat, the Hon. Mr. Bonar, the Hon. Mr. Jennings, the Hon. Mr. Kerr, the Hon. Captain Morris, the Hon. Mr. Reeves, the Hon. Mr. A. L. Smith, the Hon. Mr. Swanson, and the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker, C.M.G. TOBACCO-SMOKING BY YOUTHS. The Hon. Colonel PITT asked the Minister of Education, Whether he will, during the present session, introduce legislation having for its object the suppression of tobacco-smoking by youths under the age of seventeen years ? He would just like to explain that he had noticed in the public press that in Victoria, where tobacconists were licensed apparently, there was a proposition to insert a clause in the license, that any one supplying youths under the age of sixteen with tobacco were to be liable to a penalty not exceeding £100. Now, he did not want anything of that kind, as probably such a heavy penalty would prevent convictions. had altered his question from cigarette-smoking to tobacco-smoking, because tobacco might be made up in another form, and not be technically cigarettes within the meaning of the law. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he was not so clear as to the amended form of the question. He believed that tobacco-the great goddess Nicotine-could protect herself against youthful votaries in the matter of a sacrifice in her honour, so long as it was absolute tobacco which was presented to the youthful votary. The extreme mischief, to his mind, was as to the cigarette, as the youthful votary did not know the insidious character of what he was taking in recurrent doses-each dose being so infinitesimal that nature was deprived of her customary power of rejection ; and, therefore, while he was quite prepared to consider the subject of suppressing cigarette-smoking, so far as juveniles were concerned, he thought it would be a mistake for the Council, perhaps, to be too virtuous about tobacco in its proper sense, which, so far as he knew, was perfectly able to protect itself. He thought it would be wiser at present to deal with cigarette-smoking by young people as the pressing evil. # IMPERIAL HONOURS. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- I beg to move, That this Council tenders its hearty congratu lations to the Honourable Sir Henry John Miller, Speaker of this Council ; the Honour- able William Campbell Walker, C.M.G., Minis. ter of Education; the Honourable Sir John Mc Kenzie, K.C. M.G .; and the Honourable Alfred Jerome Cadman, C.M.G. ; and hopes they may be long spared to enjoy the dis- tinguished honours deservedly conferred upon them by their Sovereign in recognition of their long and honourable lives spent in the public service of this colony. There are numerous precedents for what I propose. On every former occasion of the kind a motion has been moved generally without notice, but in this instance with notice. I think honourable gentlemen will agree with me that our Speaker's life, spent in the service of the colony. has been a long and honourable one ; as regards its length I may state that it has extended over a period of thirty-six years, as ascertained by myself from public records, during which period he has been a member of the Council. Your uniform courtesy, Sir, to all when a private member ; the dignified manner in which you have conducted and controlled the business of the Council while you have held the position of its chief, has met with universal approbation, as shown by the fact that you are now enjoying your second term of office. Honourable gentle- men, I am certain, appreciate with intense plea- sure the conferrence of a distinction of which you are, we feel, so fully worthy. As regards the second honourable gentleman mentioned in the resolution-the Hon. Mr. Walker-I think no one can deny that he, very often single-handed. has led the Council with great tact and judg- ment. He has sometimes had public measures to deal with, from which not only what we He sometimes call the Conservative part of this Council have disagreed, but from which many of his own party also have dissented. He has carried many of these measures, and has lost some of them. Whenever he has lost any he has sustained defeat with a good grace, and has bowed to the will of the Council. He has never sought to domineer or force proposals he advocated down the Council's throat, nor do anything more than his absolute duty as representing the Government of the dav. The third honourable gentleman men- tioned in the resolution-the Hon. Sir John Mckenzie-has lately been made a member of the Council, and this is a matter, I am sure, we all view with very great satisfaction. It is only tempered by regret that his state of health has not permitted him to join us in the early part of this session's deliberations, and be amongst us now. We trust he will be with us soon, and, in the words of the resolution, long enjoy the honour conferred upon him by his Sovereign. I may say much the same of the Hon. Mr. Cadman. He has had a lengthy term of service as a Minister of our late lamented Queen, and there cannot be a doubt that both he and the gentleman I have previously men- tioned were most capable administrators of their respeective branches in the Ministry. I do not think I need say more than that I feel sure I express the great satisfaction of the Legislative Council of New Zealand that these honours have been conferred ; and, in con- clusion, I will say that the Council feels that, in the honours received by these four honour- able gentlemen, it has itself been greatly honoured by the King. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .-- In seconding 