nite information on the point. I should not think so, however, because the dates of his service and the date of the departure of the Fourth Contingent would clash. He is shown as having commanded the 4th Corps of Mounted Infantry, South Africa, on 3.0 the 4th April, 1900. The Fourth and Fifth Contingents were sent away on the 23rd March from Dunedin, if my memory In answer to the question serves me right. put by the honourable member for Ashley, which is quite a proper one, he ought to be aware that in the training of our young officers at Home, we have four at Home undergoing a course of training. Captain Hume is at Home Lieutenant undergoing an artillery course. Pilkington has been at Home for two years and has gone through a course. Lieutenant Wall has gone through a course, and is now in charge of the batteries at Auckland, while Lieutenant Pilk- ington is at the Cape of Good Hope. I think it ought to be said to the credit of this officer that I cabled to Lord Kitchener asking that he should be returned to the colony some six or seven months ago, and Lord Kitchener said his ser- vices were indispensable, and would I allow him to remain. It is our intention to send our young men Home to have a course of instruction in certain branches, but in respect to mounted corps I do not think there is any necessity. In respect to artillery and engineer- ing it may be necessary to do so, but I am posi- tive as to mounted infantry that we shall have quite sufficient and quite competent officers without the necessity of sending them Home. The difficulty of bringing school-instruction into force has been that owing to the send- ing away of contingents to South Africa we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 have not yet got into a normal condition with respect to our cadets, and the offi- cers to be appointed to the position of In- structors could not be spared from their ordi- nary work. As soon as we get into anything like a normal condition the training and in- struction of our young officers will be re- sumed. Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - The Premier has, I think, glided delightfully round the question a ked by the member for Ashley. I would like to have an explicit reply on the question my- self. It has for a very long time occurred to me that it is extremely regrettable that all these positions are filled up from abroad instead of from our own population. I want the Premier to say distinctly -- and I may say that in replying to me he will be replying to a great many people in New Zealand who are very anxious to be informed on the subject- whether the young men of New Zealand who are identified with our Volunteers, should they go abroad and qualify themselves in the best military schools, will be allowed to compete for the position of Commandant. If it is recog. nised amongst our Volunteers that they will be considered acceptable for appointment to any position for which they may prove their fitness, We will probably not be under the necessity, as We are now, of constantly importing veterans from other parts. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member has raised another question entirely from that raised by the member for Ashley. The question now raised by the member for Masterton is, whether in respect to Commandants in the future we shall give a preference to New Zealand. Mr. HOGG .- No; 1 asked whether they would be allowed to occupy the position. Mr. SEDDON .- I am not aware whether Colonel Henry may not be a New-Zealander. The question raised by the member for Ashley is whether we should train officers to fill every position in the colony, and my answer was most decided-I could give no more pointed answer to the member for Masterton. We have had offered to us thirty commissions in the British army for young New-Zealanders. We made thirty nominations. Only some ten or a dozen at the most have been able to accept those commissions, owing to difficulties that stand in the way. An Hon. MEMBER. -- It costs too much. Mr. SEDDON .-- Well, that is no fault of the Government ; but we have asked the Imperial Government to extend the time, and I have re- ceived a cable from the Agent-General to say that, although the time expired on the 31st December last, it would be extended, so as to give us an opportunity of filling up the number offered, and I am prepared to receive nomina- tions and endeavour to get those thirty offers accepted by young New-Zealanders. And I am living in the hope that the time is not far distant when we shall be able to fill the positions in this colony from amongst our own people. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Is Colonel Henry seventy years of age ? Mr. SEDDON. . I should say he would have been, most likely, eighteen when he entered the service : he has been twenty-two years on full pay, and twenty-two and eighteen make forty. I do not know where the other thirty years come from. Motion agreed to. STATE - SCHOOL CHILDREN COMPUL- SORY DRILL BILL. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .-- I beg to move the second reading of this Bill. Under "The Educa- tion Act, 1877." there is a permissive section -- section 85-which reads as follows :- " In public schools provision shall be made for the instruction in military drill of all boys, and in such of the schools as the Board shall from time to time direct provision shall also be made for physical training, and whenever prac- ticable there shall be attached to each school a playground of at least a quarter of an acre." This Act has been in force since 1877, but, unfortunately, all the Education Boards of the colony have not carried out the intentions of the framers of the measure - that is to say, they have not made provision for instruction to be imparted to the scholars attending all the State schools. Some of the Boards certainly have done their duty in this respect in certain parts of a district, but what I complain of, and what a large section of the people complain 