been so objectionable, so obnoxious, that the girls have made up their minds, if they pos- sibly can, to avoid that form of labour ; and small blame to them. I can quite understand that no girl would care to enter into domestic service if any other occupation at which they could make a living at all were open to them. I say this Bill will be a boon both to mistresses and to servants. I say if the conditions are made easier for the girls, if the girls are put on a better social footing, if they are not treated, as they so often are, as if they belonged to a sort of pariah class, as if they belonged to some very low caste, the owners of the houses will find that there are plenty of suitable girls to assist in house-work and to help overworked mothers of families. Of course, this Bill does not intend to reform at one sweep all the evils of the domestic servant system. only hopes to take one small step in that direc- tion ; but even one small step is something, and I invite honourable members - and I have reason to believe they will respond to the invitation- to support the Bill, and pass its second reading on the voices. Bill read a second time. TOTALISATOR ABOLITION BILL. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, this Bill is an old friend, which has been before the House on many former occasions. It has been supported by a considerable number of members on the various occasions on which it was brought before the House. I believe there is a very strong feeling in the country against the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 totalisater, for the reason that the public have arrived at the conclusion that, instead of de- creasing gambling, it has given rise to more That is the general impression gambling. amongst the public throughout the colony. Sir, I would like to call the attention of honourable members to the opinion expressed by Mr. Justice Edwards in addressing the grand jury in Christ- church last year. His Honour, when charging the grand jury, pointed out that out of thirty prisoners a large percentage-some sixteen per- sons-were young New-Zealanders. He did this with great regret. If there was any country in the world where there was no excuse for crime it was the country in which we lived. He expressed the opinion that gambling, in its many forms, such as the totalisator, was responsible for this. Such. Sir, is the opinion of one of our Judges, and Mr. Beetham, a very old Magistrate, has on many occasions con- demned the evil influence of the totalisator in unmeasured terms from his position on the bench. But we can go further. We have the opinions of members of this House with regard to the gambling evil and its influence on the community, as expressed in the laws on our statute-book for the checking of gambling. I need only remind honourable members that we have on many occasions passed laws with the object of, as far as legislation will do it, re- stricting the natural gambling propensities that unfortunately exist among our young people. In the Act of 1881 a penalty of six months' imprisonment was provided for keep- Mr. Barclay ing a gaming-table ; gambling with instruments was also prohibited, with a penalty of three months ; and, as to Chinese fan-tan, we know that the police have made raids upon places with the object of suppressing it. There is a penalty of three months' hard labour for any one caught playing fan-tan. Then, we have also prohibited lotteries and sweepstakes. We have restricted the number of art unions. We have given the police power to enter billiard-saloons for the purpose of detecting and preventing any gambling that may be going on there. Then, it has been deter- mined that wagers shall not be recoverable at law; and the penalty for keeping a gaming. house is a fine of $500 or twelve months' im- prisonment with hard labour. Our laws thus show pretty clearly in what estimate members It of this House have at different times held gambling. Then, the Gaming Act of 1885 provides that a newspaper may not advertise any lottery or sweepstake, and the maximum penalty for this is $50 or six months' im- prisonment. Money-orders may not be issued to the conductors of lotteries and consultations. There is a penalty of $10 for any one taking part in a lottery, and, according to the Act of 1894 a person making a bet with an infant may be fined .ยง20 or sentenced to three months' im- prisonment ; and a man who sends a gaming circular to an infant, or who sends out a gaming circular to incite an infant to play, is under a penalty for doing so. And in 1899 the repre- sentative of the Government in another place introduced a Gaming and Lotteries Act Amend. ment Bill, of which clause 2 provided :- " If any person is found loitering, or if two or more persons are found assembled together in any road, street, foot-way, court, alley, or public thoroughfare of any kind, for the pur- pose of betting or wagering, each of them commits an offence, and is liable to a penalty not exceeding ten pounds." So, Sir, we have the condemnation 8.30. of the evil in very strong terms a> expressed in the laws passed by the Legislature in different Acts on our statute-book ; and we have the opinion of our Judges; and then we have this further opinion of the Government of the country, that further repressive measure- are necessary on account of the growing evil among our people. Now, Sir, it was contended at the time the totalisator was established that it would decrease gambling. It has tended to increase it, as I will presently show. But, Sir, if I may give further illustrations as to what public opinion thinks of gambling, and the need to repress it in every possible way and check its growth amongst our people, I might point out that the City of Dunedin has provided very strong by-laws against street betting, that the City of Wellington has done likewise, and that the City of Christchurch has also passed by-laws with that object in view; and the police have been authorised by law to back up and assist our local authorities by every means in their power to check street betting and street gam- bling - a very right and proper thing. Now, Sir, all these by-laws recognise gambling as a terrible 