he speaks, will inform the House that the Go- verninent has had this question under their serious consideration, and will introduce a Bill, if not during the present session, next session, dealing with the abolition of the totalisator. I have always spoken in favour of the abolition of the totalisator, and on every occasion I have voted accordingly, and I shall do so on the pre- sent occasion. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- I would like to say a few words on this question. I have been opposed for a considerable time to the total- isator, on the ground that the system is incon- sistent with the laws in force in this colony. If it is illegal to have sweeps, I say also it should be illegal to retain the present system of the totalisator, because they are both matters of gambling. Why, Sir, I think, myself, that the money that is derived by the Government as a profit on gambling should not be en- couraged. I know cases of boys and girls who have saved up their money for the purpose of getting enough to put on the totalisator -to make up the necessary pound-and I know that this money has sometimes been got in a very questionable way. We find now that the total- isator is becoming quite a fashionable institu- tion, the consequence being that while otherwise money would not have been invested upon the machine, now that it has been legalised by the State, gambling through its medium has become the correct thing, and it is considered by some quite right for boys and girls to put their small mite into the machine. The totalisator is greatly assisting . racing in this colony-so we hear ; but I say what is the racecourse of to-day as compared with the racecourse of some twenty or thirty years ago, when horses were raced on their merits, and when we knew something about the horses? But circumstances have greatly altered, and we find now that people go to racecourses in order to see what money they can make out of the game. True sporting in- stinets are often wanting; but there is the instinct of money-making, and perhaps I can say truthfully that the majority of those who go to a racecourse now come away greatly dis- appointed as far as money-making is concerned. But, Sir, it has not the effect of preventing these people from going again ; and I certainly think that if the Government are consistent they will assist to put down the totalisator. the totalisator is to exist, and money is to be put on the machine, and the Government are to take their fair share of the profits, then I say at once that the Government ought to allow gambling in respect to the system of sweepstakes. Money is sent away from this colony in very large amounts because the system is not allowed here, and so strict is the law to-day in regard to these sweepstakes that it is a punishable offence even if a newspaper has an advertisement to the effect that sweeps are being held in other colonies. Well, if the Government are so sweeping in their denuncia- tions of gambling of this kind, in the name of consistency, why is it that the Government at the present time have done nothing towards putting down the totalisator evil ? Sir, I have made no Mr. Meredith secret of my opinions on the platform in my electorate. I have stated there distinctly that if this measure came before the House I would support it. I am doing it although I may have lost votes ; but that should make no difference. because I believe if a man is to be consistent it is not a question of how many votes he is going to receive. Therefore I consider I am perfectly right in speaking on this matter to-night. and I trust that honourable members will seriously consider all the aspects of this case, and that they will look at it from the true position - that while they are encouraging the totalisator system they are encouraging a system of gambling. On these grounds I shall certainly support the Bill, and I can only appeal to honourable members, who have been so ready to support measures which have been brought before this House to put down gambling, to be consistent and assist to put down this totalisator as they would put down other gambling trans- actions. I am aware that this matter has been discussed at some length, and I will not keep the House any further, beyond saying that I sincerely hope this Bill will be carried. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister). - Sir. I will just say a few words before this question is put to a vote. It is pretty well known, I think. in this House what my opinion is in respect to the totalisator. I have always opposed every effort in the direction of its abolition, because I never could see how in any possible way thox. who are endeavouring to obtain the reform they seek could so far improve or alter human na- ture as to free it entirely from the gambling in- stinets, which seem to me to find expression in some way or other, no matter what deterrents or preventatives are brought into play. There is always a danger in absolute extirpatior. whereas some good might be reached through a prudent control of our speculative privilege in association with our higher forms of sport. Sir, we all know very well that the element of gambling permeates all human concerts and transactions; and, though we must give credit to those who take every opportunity of introducing measures for the purpose of bettering, according to them. our moral life and doing away with what they call the terrible evils of gambling, we must recognise by the experience we have had that absolut. If virtue and sinless conditions cannot be attained through the medium of legislation. I think: we must admit that gambling will exist in some shape, modified or irritant. If you close the door to gambling in the one street, it will force itself into action through another avenue. and so it goes on. To be on the right track, all we can do is to take hold of it and keep i: within rational bounds, and in sight of the public eye ; hence the need of the totalisater. Now, the condition of things in respect 10.0. to sport and gambling in this country were in a very bad state some years ago. There was indiscriminate and vicious gambling. There was betting in all its undesirable forms, and a type of being-the spieler-called into creation that hung like a fester round the body politic. Why? Because there were no legal restrictions 