these products. Whether it be that the State itself shall subsidise ocean-going steamers to carry our products, or whether the State shall become the owners of steamers to carry that produce, I do not know; but either of these things will have to be done. Either the State will have to sufficiently subsidise steamers to carry, or else the State will have to become the carrying-power itself to transport our produce. Sir, attention has been drawn to the necessity for the establishment of a State coal-mine. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Hear, hear. Mr. COLLINS .- I do not wonder, Sir, at the honourable member for Riccarton emphatically hear-hearing that point. I congratulate the Government again upon having decided to at least bring this matter prominently before Par- liament, and to endeavour to give effect to it. Members of the House will be as fully aware as I am myself of the inordinate prices which, during the last two winters, have been charged for coal. The effect of this has been a very heavy charge upon the State itself, for I suppose the Government is the largest consumer of coal for business purposes ; and, if only for 8.0. its own supply, it would, I think, be of immense advantage to the State if we had a mine from which the State supplies of coal could be drawn. I feel sure, even if the State could see its way to go no further, the result of the State drawing its own supplies from its own mine would very materially reduce the price of coal to consumers generally. Now, Sir, I have had many reasons during the last few weeks for knowing full well how heavily the high price of coal presses upon the poor people. Unfortu- nately, in spite of our prosperity and progress we still have the poor in our land. This poverty is unostentatious. Sometimes it has to be looked for to be seen ; but it is an undoubted fact that there is a considerable amount of poverty quietly and courageously borne by a not undeserving class of people-as, for instance, when we find an old pensioner having to dis- burse on coal alone the whole of her pension received during the winter months, and which pension has been cut down under conditions which, by the way, suggest the desirability of still further amending the Old-age Pensions Act. I can hardly refrain from quoting the instance to which I refer, of an elderly lady who is the owner of a cottage valued at £240, and who, being the owner of that cot- tage, has had her pension cut down to £6 per annum. Sir, she had to pay the whole of her winter instalments of that pension in order to secure even a small quantity of coal. For that small amount she would not get, at present rates, nearly sufficient coal to carry her through the winter months. I feel sure, Sir, the House will pardon me for bringing these two matters together. I want to see something done to bring the supply of coal within the reach of even these poor people ; and I want, if possible, to see something done in the direction of at least increasing the pension in cases such as this. where the only crime this poor woman commits is that of having a small cottage which furnishes her with shelter and nothing more. Now, His Mr. Collins Excellency told us in the course of his Address that the labour-laws are to be consolidated and amended, and I was particularly glad to note the direction in which the amendment was to take place. The consolidation of the labour- laws will be the most useful work, and every member of the House will recognise that it is a work which could well be done. I have often said that we could well spend a whole session in consolidating the laws now upon our statute-book, and I believe that such a work ought now to be done. We have statutes scattered here and there, and ques- tions dealt with in such a manner that it is almost impossible to know where some of our laws begin and where they end, and the matter of consolidation is an absolute necessity in order to make our statutes clear and under- standable. But I was particularly glad to find that the Government intend amending and ex- tending our labour-laws so as to regulate the working-hours of those employed in banks and in mercantile houses. This most desirable- object has been gained for the workers in fac- tories, mills, and mines, and it is assuredly time that something were done for the "slaves. of the pen." Perhaps they will hardly thank me for using that term, but, Sir, the hours which some of these users of the pen are worked justifies me in using that term. It. is known full well that there is practically no limit to the hours which some mercantile houses work their employés, and practically no limit to the hours to which some bank clerks. are worked also at certain periods of the year. At any rate, I think we are justified in still further extending this particular legislation to meet these cases. and that bank clerks and clerks in mercantile houses should have their hours of employment regulated. I know, Sir, that a Bill is to be submitted to increase mem- bers' salaries, and I feel, Sir, that I am here treading on particularly delicate ground. I said before, and I say once again, that this is the only proper way of dealing with a matter of this kind ; and, if the salaries of members are to be altered at all from the amount fixed by statute, that alteration should be by statute also. It is the only proper way of dealing with the question. Personally, I still adhere to the opinion I expressed on the floor of this House last session, that a matter of this kind ought to be left to the last days of the Parlia- ment, so that whatever might be done by this Parliament as affecting the salaries of members can apply only to the incoming Parliament. That would mean that the people 1 themselves would have an opportunity of deciding who should or should not come to this House and participate in the altered scale of payment. I am sorry, Sir, to have to differ in this matter from some members of the House,. but assuredly honourable members must credit 1 me with holding my opinions honestly and con- scientiously upon this question. It is with no- \- --- desire to differ either from the Administration or from members of this House, and it is for no purpose of posing as a purist in Parliament. Far be it from me to assume such a position. I 