and in administering a great trust like the rail- ways care was absolutely essential. The Govern- ment had already expressed its willingness to allow the employes in the workshops to express an opinion as to whether they should remain under the Classification Act or come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and as soon as that section of the men had arrived at a decision on the matter the Government would give effect with great pleasure to that section of the em- ployés. Mr. GUINNESS asked if the honourable gentleman could not apply that to all the men. Sir J. G. WARD replied that, as he had said before, that would be a most unfair thing to do to the permanent traffic, locomotive, and per- manent-way men. There were some 7,800 men in the Railway service in the colony, and he felt that it would not be fair to force them to any course. He had reason to believe that the great majority of them were strongly opposed to any interference. If one might judge of the feeling of the men by letters that reached him from all parts of the colony, a great many of the men certainly had strong feelings against the proposal now made. His duty was to be fair and impartial to them all, and he endeavoured to be so. WEIGHT OF GRAIN-SACKS. Mr. BUDDO) . Kaiapoi) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether, as importers of corn-sacks are now giving their orders, he will indicate to the House what is the Government proposal in regard to the weight of grain-sacks, and on what date the alteration will be made? At various times the Government had indicated that they were prepared to remedy the existing order of things, and insist that the weight of corn-sacks carried on the railways should not exceed a cer- tain weight. He was not aware what the pro- posal of the Government was in the matter, but he would like the Minister to intimate the weight the railways were prepared to carry, and on what date the alteration would be made. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said a by-law was at present under consideration to meet the requirements, and he hoped to have it published within the next two or three weeks. It was a very important matter, and it had been receiving his close attention. CONDUCT OF INQUESTS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether, for the protection of the health of jurymen and others taking part in inquests on dead bodies, and those whose duties compel them to come into close proximity with the same, they will give directions that the utmost care shall be taken, by the use of disinfectants and other proper methods, to render the poison- ous gases arising from such bodies as far as possible innocuous ? His reason for asking the question was that he had lately received numerous complaints from jurymen and others who had attended inquests, more than one of whom alleged that they had received serious permanent injury to their health on account of i letters. If this were done it would be a great VOL. CXVI .-- 38. the way of providing disinfectants and other- wise, when they were called on to view dead bodies in an advanced state of decomposition. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) said that in the larger cities morgues were being erected, and in all such cases a concrete tank would be provided, in which any decom- posing body or body likely to cause harm would be placed, so that it might be covered by a dis- infectant fluid. As the law stood at present the Coroner had no power to inquire unless super visum corporis-that was, until the body had been "viewed." It was time, however, that the farce of viewing the body should be done away with ; as it was, the jury simply passed by the body, they did not examine it. In the morgue which was to be built here in Wellington the Public Health Department had advised that a window be placed in the room where the body was placed, so that the jury could view the body through this small window. It was in the country, where there was no proper building for receiving or examining the body, that the greatest danger would arise. He was of the opinion that the law should be so altered as to enable the Coroner to hold his Court without the super visum corporis. The viewing of the body was originally meant to prevent impersonation, but, as evidence of identification was always adduced when it could be, the "viewing " as now practised was quite unnecessary. The whole matter was re- ceiving attention in the direction he had indi- cated, and it was hoped that before long an effective remedy would be established. APARIMA RAILWAY-BRIDGE. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, When a start will be made to construct the proposed railway-bridge over the Aparima at Riverton ? He understood some time ago that arrangements had been completed for the construction of the bridge, but so far the work had not been started, and the people in the locality were anxiously looking forward not only to the commencement, but to the completion of the contract. He trusted the department would use every expedition in get- ting the work under way. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the work would be proceeded with as soon as money was available for it. It was a work that was most urgently required by the department. The estimated cost was $3,343. KAIKOURA DAILY MAIL-SERVICE. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Post- master General, If he will provide for the con- venience of the people of the Township of Kaikoura a daily mail-service, within, say. a radius of one mile from the post-office? In asking the question he would point out that in the Kaikoura Post-office there were a Post- master, a telegraph operator, and a cadet. The cadet delivered telegrams within a reasonable radius of the post-office, and he would like the system extended so as to include the delivery of 