at the same time carrying on the process of | to go off either. With regard to the member consolidation. I remember once when Chair- man of a Road Board that we laid it down as a principle that we would carry on work without any reference to the Act at all. Well, I was fifteen consecutive years Chairman of the Road Board, and during that time we never had a con- tested election or a complaint from a ratepayer. I remember on one occasion when I was Chair- man of a Board two members began to dis- pute a particular clause. I let them go on for three-quarters of an hour, and when they asked me for my decision I said, "Well, gentlemen, I wish to inform you that that clause is re- pealed." Sir, I am very pleased with another matter. I was afraid it was a huge mistake to start dealing with Bills at half-past ten in the morning. One effect. however, has been to, in some degree, resuscitate the Opposition. We were privileged to hear the present leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Waitemata, who was followed by the Right Hon. the Premier, and then came our charac- teristic and genial friend the member for the Bay of Plenty, with the result that there has been a debate that has, up to the present, justified in some degree the meeting at half- past ten. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). - Sir. one hardly knows how to take the honourable member for Parnell-in one breath he says the Opposition is effete, in another that it is resuscitated. At any rate, whether it is effete or whether it is resuscitated, there may be a defunet leader but there is also a defunct member . I allude to the honourable member. I quite agree with the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 honourable member for Riccarton with regard to clause 12, and I hope the Premier will have some amendment placed in the Bill now before us to provide against such an occurrence as this : that an industrial union under an agree- ment shall go off the register while the agree- ment is in force. That has happened. Mr. SEDDON .- It is already provided for in the Act. Mr. J. ALLEN. -- Well, I know. at any rate, a union has taken that course, and clause 12 will make it easier of accomplishment than ever before. All they will have to do under clause 12 will be to refuse to send in the return referred to in clause 17, and then, under the amending clause, that union will go off the register. I do not think it should be made easier for a union to go off the register than it is now. As a matter of fact, a union ought to be just as much compelled as the employer to remain on the register, with all the liabilities attached to it, until the end of the award. Mr. SEDDON .-- So it is. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No, it is not. I know of an instance in which it was not so -- an instance in which a union went off the register while the award was still running. Mr. SEDDON .- It is still continued by law. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes. that may be. At any rate, I say a union has no right to go off while an award is running, and that ought to be made distinct in the Bill. An employer cannot go off, and no opportunity should be given to the union for Parnell-I am sorry he is away-I go bacs in spirit, Sir, to last Wednesday fortnight, when the honourable member was addressing his con- stituents at Parnell, and I recollect reading- perhaps only a short account -in our papers a very strong speech the honourable member made with regard to labour legislation. Mr. PIRANI .- He warned the Government. Mr. J. ALLEN. - Yes, be warned the Govern- ment that if they continued this kind of legis- lation they were bringing a scourge on their backs that they would not be able to bear. H. said, "We have had enough of this labour legislation." He was of another opinion then. He also said, "We must ease the burdens placed on the employers, and make things better for the farming community, and do some- thing for the workers on the land." He also remarked that these Acts were doing injuries. and these injuries would have to be rectified. Yet he comes here and gives a speech in which he sings a different song altogether. I do not know whether it is the effect of the place or not. I suppose it is. With regard to one other point in the Bill, I wish to say that I think the Hon. the Premier, in his second- reading speech, ought to have made it more plain to the House what is intended in inserting the word " trade-union " in the Bill. It is quite true the word was in the Act of 1894. It is also true that it is not in the Act of 1900. and therefore we may assume there were some good and sufficient reasons for taking it out. I have looked through Hansara, and gone through the Premier's speech on the Bili of 1900, to find out why the word "trade-union-" was taken out, but I can find no reference what- ever to that point. Now, the right honourable gentleman did not in his speech to-day explain why these words were put back again. . and I think it is only fair that he should have done I understand, Sir, from a casual remark so. made across the table, that his object is to place the trade-unions in the same position as the industrial unions are in under the Act - that is, that they may be registered under the Act and made liable to the provisions of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Well, Sir, I do not know why they should not come under the Act as industrial unions. why they should not be registered as industrial unions, and it has to be explained why they a trade unions are to be allowed privileges .- - if they are privileges, under this Act,-and why they are not compelled to register as industrial unions. I can see one possible reason why they should not be allowed to come under that Act as trade-unions. I am not at all sure if they do that they will come under the direction the Court has made as to membership. Industrial union- have certain directions given to them from the Court with respect to conditions of membershiv. That is to say, instead of being a close corpora- tion as some of the trade-unions were. they must be open to all workers upon the payment of a very small fee. Now, if the rules of the trade- nions are not rules which will be i! accord with that direction of the Court -- 