plain to the House : that Dr. Findlay had nothing to be ashamed of; that the society concerned had nothing to be ashamed of ; and the police did nothing to be ashamed of. The best police, the best society, and the best counsel in the world could have taken no other action than they did. That is a brief summary of the essential facts of the case. I am sorry I have had to occupy the time of the House ; but, seeing that innocent persons have been attacked and they had no one else to defend them, I thought it my duty to give the details of the matter. Though I am one of the honorary solicitors for the society, I speak without prejudice. I knew absolutely nothing of the facts of the case until the matter had become public property ; but I have now a thorough and detailed knowledge of the cir- cumstances, and if any honourable gentleman challenges my statement it will be my duty to lay the whole of the circumstances before the House. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .-- I wish to occupy the time of the House for a few remarks, as I do not want to pass over what has taken place this afternoon without giving an expression of opinion. My particular grievance, and that which prompts me most to say anything at all, was the language used by the Premier to those sitting around me on this side of the House. The Premier may laugh, but I think it is a very serious thing indeed when the Premier can use such language as he did on such an important matter, as to think that we should feel any pleasure at such remarks made by any https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 member of the House as were made use of by the honourable member for Wellington City. Mr. SEDDON. - I was laughing at something that I was reading. http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero Mr. MONK .- I am simply alluding to the expression made use of by the right honourable gentleman-that it gave pleasure to the Opposi- tion to hear the Government criticized by one of their own party. If it were possible for a mom- ber of the Opposition to use the language used by the member for Wellington City, there is not one of the Opposition but would have felt intensely disgusted, and would have resented it. The Ministry may feel satisfied that they can com- mand the support of the Opposition whenever they require it in such an instance as has taken place this afternoon. No one who listened to the statements of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) could have helped feeling intensely depressed with a feeling of sorrow and regret. I am speaking for myself, and I believe 1 am expressing the feelings of all those honourable gentlemen sitting around me. I can only describe it as language that ought never to be expected from any honourable member of the House-the proper term for it would be that in the construction of his charges he used "gutter slang." That is the mildest term I can use for it. Let me sav one word further. I do not think there is any honourable gentleman on the Government benches who will ascribe to me a desire to merely flatter ; but I am ready to accord my of Justice for the attitude he exhibited this afternoon. And let him or any other Minister on those benches pursue that course and he can command our support and sympathy. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do not get him into trouble. Mr. MONK .- Even the Premier can com- mand the support of this side of the House as warmly as any members in the Chamber if only he will take up a certain line of conduct. The division between us is not the ins and the outs, but what is right as against what is wrong. That is all we are aspiring to, and, though there may be much divergence of opinion, yet if my single vote could now take the Ministry off those benches, I would not give it. I prefer that they should stew in their juice until the country realises what will be the result of many of the measures they have introduced. I may be wrong, but I am honestly expressing my convictions with regard to some of their measures. Not all do I condemn ; there is some good, but much I believe to be seri- ously harmful. I will go back to the remarks made by the Minister of Justice. His adminis- tration, so far as I have noticed, has been thoroughly creditable to him and to the Minis- try. He has, so far as I am aware, not made any appointments of Justices of the Peace but what do him credit ; they are men who will discharge their duty to the country in an honourable manner. And if the Government would only continue such appointments, instead of Justices of the Peace being, so to speak, a mark of discredit, it would be one of honour, and to be respected by the people who are sub- jected to their administration. Further, let me say, so far as I know of this matter, there is a distinct improvement in the tone and character of the police at the present time. Policemen do not now feel that if they are of the " right colour," and go to the Ministry when they have been guilty. of misconduct, they can manage to persuade the Minister to reinstate them in their position, as I know was done formerly. I have also heard members of the Police Force express themselves as feeling that their position is much improved, and that their status is much better than it was. They have a prospect now to look forward to, and they have also a feeling that, in the administration of the police of this colony, they are depen- dent for their position upon ability and the manner in which they may conduct themselves, and I say that is just what we need. In one respect I am not sorry-but only regret the language which has been made use of by the member for Wellington City-that this debate has occurred, because I think it has caused this House on both sides to give an expression of their opinions that will go to strengthen the Police Department and support the admistra- tion of justice as conducted by the Minister, and ultimately prove beneficial to the country. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- Inspectors of police, constables, and police-offices are all very good in their way, but it is quite possible to have too much of even a good thing. I think 