Wharf - the day was so fine that it was should have made use of such an occasion, specially suited for such a display-would have made a great impression upon the minds of their Royal Highnesses; and it would have been something so unique that perhaps no other part of the British Empire could have produced any scene so impressive for their amusement and interest as that which would have then taken place. Now, what was the , disappear. There should have been one feeling of reason of the treatment accorded to Mahuta? I claim the reason of it was part of two things: a feeling of ancient pique betwixt the Wai- kato and East Coast tribes, in which the Native Minister joined, and also the feeling of the Pre- mier that his colleague was committed to a certain programme, which he persisted in. But, seeing the influence he possesses, he should have modified it, and then thousands would have tion, and adorned with the warm greetings that participated in the pleasures of a pageant to ! are the reverse of toadvism, and without dis- which, though produced at the expense of the : creditable covert insult to the Opposition. The public Treasury, they have been denied. The same thing that I complain of also took place on ; at the Poultry Association dinner that the the visit of the Imperial Contingent to our : shores. There again, instead of leaving the Mayor and the municipal authorities to entertain them right royally, the Premier-certainly I have no objection to his going up there, but only as their guest -seemed to forget that he was only the i of the "outs" and the "ins"-a singleness of guest on that occasion of the City of Auckland, and his behaviour was contrary to the courtesy due by the guest to his host. It was rude indeed to chide the host on the character of his entertainment in the pavilion where the : Imperial officers were partaking of refresh- ; 1 ments-and let me here assure the Premier that the condemnation which he so grossly inflicted : https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ! it is his duty to educate and encourage the on the Auckland entertainers was really the result of the delay occasioned by his attenuated speech in the open air, which was unnecessary, by the fact that it could be heard by very few, bility of a dignified self-reliance, and that every while he might have put it direct in the member of the Cabinet may feel that it is their newspapers, informing the country that he had , province to present such a noble and elevating passed over His Excellency the Governor, and telegraphed direct to Earl Roberts, asking that the contingent might be allowed to stay on our shores a few days longer than the Imperial authorities had intended. And let me remind honourable gentlemen that at that period every hour of the time of the troops, owing to the Cape war, was precious to such a { the Mayor of Auckland, because he is one of military commander as Earl Roberts. By the lengthened orating on that occasion he caused , the best of those who have benefited the city the luncheon to suffer detriment, and much of . by handsome gifts. I honoured him so much the comment he has uttered, if correct, was due to his own action. Now let me crystallize the purpose of my remarks. It is this: that Lord Ranfurly was the one to have met their Royal Highnesses on Queen Street Wharf, Auckland. He. as the chief personage in the colony, should have presented the Mayor and other officials. and the Premier and Cabinet should have waited in Wellington, at the Empire seat, in the official centre of the colony, and there have entertained to their bent, and have allowed His Excellency the Governor to have conducted them over the other parts of the colony. This complaint has been general, and I do not make it from any personal motive, but I think it is very unfortunate that the Premier where there was one common feeling of cor- diality over the Royal visit, for the purpose of exercising political partisanship by excluding, and rigidly excluding, from consideration those with political opinions diverse from his own. Political opinions and partiality at a moment like that should have been made to absolutely warm hearty sympathy, respect, and hospitality, and there should not have been that grandiose exhibition of personalism which in some in- stances took place. There should have been that to which the Premier has so often alluded, and which I feel myself, and am proud of feel- ing in my own heart -- the simple dignity of a refined and genuine democracy, without ostenta- Hon. the Premier the other day complained Opposition had made an abrogation of their functions ; but, as I interjected to the honour- able member for Auckland City, the prin- ciples of opposition should be for what is honest against what is dishonest, and no mere contest aspiration for the welfare of the commonwealth, and the practice of economy and pruflence in the administration of our finance. These are simple points I feel it necessary to emphasize. not with any captious feeling, but with a desire that the unfortunate features to which I have referred may never occur again. I hope that the Premier of New Zealand will ever feel that citizens in our large cities in the practice of cultured hospitality and the personal responsi- example of proprieties to the young people and citizens of New Zealand as is usually the accompaniment of genuine worth. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). - As a member for Auckland City, I think it is right that I should correct a wrong impression that my honourable friend the member for Waite- mata has, I think, created. We all honour that I declined to stand for the Mayoralty against him : and I assure you that the Premier of New Zealand has shown no disrespect to Auckland or the colony, or to our Mayor, in coming up and being with us on that occasion. Dr. Logan Campbell is a man of great ago -- eighty-four. I think; he has spent all his life and strength in working in the colony; and when he accepted the position of Mavor it was on the understanding that he could not undertake many of the details of the work. He could not come out at night, he could not undertake the laborious work of conducting the . business or making any arrangements, and he distinctly undertook to do nothing else except present the address. The demonstration at 