Force. We recognised it was a right and pro- per thing to do, and I am proud to see it now upon our statute-book. It is proposed now that we shall arrange for a pension or superannua- tion allowance for our railway employés. They are a large body of men, more numerously represented here in this House than any other class of the community, I believe, and there is not the slightest doubt that in course of time they also will receive similar recognition to that which has been accorded the firemen who were referred to by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) ; and that will be done without referring to the people at all. We shall do it of our own volition by our Legis- lature. The honourable member for Christ- church City, in referring to a certain ballot in Washington, said that they had a ballot-paper .5 ft. long An Hon. MEMBER. - Five yards. Mr. CARNCROSS .- I think 5 ft. is what the gentleman said. However, I do not know whether the honourable gentleman thought that this 5 ft. ballot would be an argument in favour of the referendum, but to my idea it added an element of horror to the thing ; and if I thought we were going to have a 5 ft. ballot-paper 1 would stonewall for a very long time to prevent this horror coming upon us. An Hon. MEMBER .- They would not be as long as the Premier's speeches. Mr. CARNCROSS .- Fortunately, we do not have to read all these speeches, but we should have to read the ballot-paper ; and, judging by the large number of informal votes which are cast at our own elections, it takes the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 electors all their time to understand a 5 in. ballot-paper, let alone a 5 ft. one. So we can throw that aside, and not treat it as an argu- in favour of passing this measure. Now, Sir, I am of opinion that we have our elections quite often enough. Every three years we have a general upset and turmoil of the whole people. and I should very much like to see the time for the duration of Parliament extended to four or five years. If I said five years I would be told, of course, that I am not a Liberal, so I would like to split the difference and say four years. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. CARNCROSS .- There you are again. I believe some people would like to have an elec- tion every year, but it is those who are out of office who would like to see an annual election. As for myself. I confess I would like to see it held every four years. Sir, what should we find if the referendum does become law? I say it will become the bounden duty of the members of this House-or, at all events, those who have .studied the questions which come before it - to be continually taking the platform, stumping the country from one end to the other, and try- ing to educate the people on the various points laid before them by referendum. Those honour- able gentlemen who are sufficiently indepen- dent to spend their whole time in stumping the country on $240 a year are quite welcome to do it, but I am not prepared to do it. But it would become almost the bounden duty of Mr. Carncross honourable members to do so if ever this Bill reaches our statute-book. Sir, I will conclude by saying that the passing of this Bill seems to me to be an appeal on the part of those who do know to those who do not know, to give us in- struction how to legislate. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Having on every occasion since I have been in Parlia- ment supported any Bill introduced for this purpose, I propose to vote for the second read- ing of the Bill now before the House. I must congratulate the Premier on his conversion » far as accepting the principle of the Bill is con- cerned. It is true he suggested that although a Bill might pass this House it would probably be defeated in another place. So far as that point is concerned, it is not our business to inquire. We have to deal with the business as it comes before us. I must also congratulate the mem- ber for Masterton on his conversion. I shall expect both the Premier and the member for Masterton. if the opportunity presents itself before the end of the session, to vote for the periodical revaluation of the lease in per- petuity. The conversions going on in that part of the House to genuine Liberal prin- ciples shows me that before long we may have both those gentlemen voting for that strictly Liberal principle. With regard to the remarks of the Premier in introducing the Bili. as to what the Legislative Council may do, it appears to me that one of the questions this Parliament will have to face before long is the reform of that part of the Legislature ; and I believe one of the planks that will have to be formulated by the Liberal party in this colony within the next few years-one of the planks of any policy to commend itself to the country as a whole- will be that for the reform of the Legislative Council, so far as bringing that body into touch with public opinion is concerned. At the present time the power of nominating members to that Council gives any Ministry that may be in office a power of influencing the legislation of this country that is dan- gerous and improper; and, although it is con- stitutional, and according to the Constitution we have at present, I sincerely hope the time is not far distant when the number of members of that branch of the Legislature will be fixed : and not only that, but that they, like ourselves, will be sent to their constituents, although possibly not at the same time, nor in connection with the same constituencies. As I have said, I will vote for the second reading of this Bill as affirm- ing the principle of the referendum ; but at the same time I regard the Bill in many respects as highly impracticable. There was a great deal in what the member for Hawke's Bay said when he pointed out that there might be a Bill passed or rejected twice in one branch of the Legislature during the closing hours of a session, and that within twenty-eight days the constituencies, which possibly were uninformed as to the objects of the Bill, would be called upon to decide. What, in my opinion, this Bill wants is some clause that will provide that the referendum shall be taken, and that the great machinery that is imported into this 