Ward O'Meara Hogg Wilford Parata Houston Pirani Hutcheson Willis Russell, W. R. Witheford. Laurenson McGowan Seddon Steward Tellers. McLachlan Meredith Palmer Symes Thompson, R. Stevens. Millar Majority against, 19. Amendment negatived. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add the following as a new subsection : "If a Bill is passed twice by the House of Representatives and is rejected twice by the Legislative Council, and the House of Representatives so resolves." New subsection added. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) moved to add the following new subsection :- " (6.) If a petition in accordance with the regulations, signed by not less than five per centum of all the electors entitled to vote for members of the House of Representatives, be presented to Parliament demanding that a legislative proposal set forth in such petition shall be submitted to the referendum." The Committee divided on the question. " That the new subclause be inserted." AYES, 9. Tellers. Arnold Laurenson Ell Lawry Atkinson Hoyg Fowlds. Tanner. Hutcheson NOES, 40. Russell, W. R. Allen, E. G. Houston https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Allen, J. Lang Seddon Lethbridge Bollard Stevens Carroll Massey Steward McGowan Colvin Thompson, R. Thomson, J. W. Duncan Me(fuire Mackenzie, T. Ward Flatman Wilford Fraser. W. Mclachlan Meredith Graham Willis Witheford. Napier Hall O'Meara Hall-Jones Hardy Palmer Tellers. Heke Carneross Parata Rhodes Herries Symes. Majority against, 31. Motion negatived, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 7. " The day so appointed shall be not sooner than twenty-eight nor later than forty- two days after the close of such session, but shall not be the same day as that appointed for the election of any member of the House of Representatives." Captain RUSSELL ( Hawke's Bay) moved to strike out the words "forty-two days," before the words " after the close of such session, " and to insert the words "ninety days" in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) moved to strike out all the words to the end of the clause, after the words " such session." Words struck out. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the insertion of the following words in lieu of the words struck out : "and if between the dates herein- before mentioned there shall be a general elec- tion for members of the House of Representa- tives, then in such case the referendum poll shall be taken on such general election day." Words inserted, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 8. - " Subject to the provisions of this Act, such poll shall be taken in each electoral district in the colony by the same Returning Officer, at the same polling-places, and in the same manner as in the case of a general election, and the provisions of ' The Corrupt Practices Prevention Act, 1881,' and . The Elec- toral Act. 1893,' in so far as they are applicable, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply accordingly.' Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved the ex- cision of the words " in each electoral district in the colony by the same Returning Officer, at the same polling-places, and in the same manner as in the case of a general election." with a view to substituting the following words : " by post, in accordance with regulations made by Order in Council." Progress reported. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 16th July, 1901. First Reading-Rhodes Trust Bill-Personal Ex. planation -- Trawling -. Hospital Nar-es Regis. tration Bill- Companies Bill-Arbor Day. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. . PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Cemetery Trustees Validation Bill. RHODES TRUST BILL. The Hon. Mr. BON EN, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it had been promoted in order to get over a difficulty which had arisen under a will which prevented the beneficial us of certain lands in the neighbourhood of Wei- lington. This was against public interest, a> well as against that of the beneficiaries under the will. Every one connected with the family interested in the will were agreed upon the pre- visions of the Bill, and the Supreme Court had approved of it ; but, as there were three or four minors who could not give their legal assent to the arrangement, an Act of Parliament was necessary to give effect to the arrangement approved by the Court. Bill read the second time. PERSONAL EXPLANATION. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE said that in last Saturday's issue of the New Zealand Tunes he was credited with having spoken with me ference to the decorations in Auckland on the occasion of the Roval visit. Now, as he b ...! not been in Auckland for some ten or twelve 