We would have this position : members could truthfully say to all and sundry amongst their constituents who sought any improper advan- tage, "It is no earthly use you asking me to see the Minister, because the law has been laid down that he will not be interfered with in the administration of his department." If that were followed out in the affairs of the colony political life would become compar atively clean ; the Ministry would have the support of every decent man and woman in the community : they would also find their own life very much casier, and would give more satisfaction in the administration of their respective departments. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- Sir, I think it is due to the honourable gentlemen on the other side of the house to congratulate them on their change of front. I remember when the late honouralle member for Christchurch City, Mr. T. E. Taylor, moved in this House that a Com- mission be set up to inquire into the administra- tion of the Police Force of this colony, that those honourable gentlemen applauded him every time he said that the Police Force of New Zealand was one mass of corruption. An Hon. MEMBER .- True. Mr. LAWRY .- True. What did the Com- mission prove? That we have a better Police Force in New Zealand than exists in any other British Dominion. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are better now. Mr. LAWRY. - And why are they better now ? Because they had common-sense men like my- self to represent them in the House. Sir, the honourable member for Eden referred to the Police Commission. Does he not remember that at the time that Commission was set up the Police Force had been for a long time under the administration of Mr. Commissioner http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero Tunbridge ? Mr. BOLLARD .- No. Mr. LAWRY. - Then, the honourable gentle- man's memory is pretty defective. Sir, I do not indorse one single statement made by my honourable friend the member for Wellington City in reference to Commissioner Tunbridge. I believe Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge is a most efficient officer, and I believe that he discharges his duties with great impartiality. But I do not believe that Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge is any more infallible than the Right Hon. the Premier. What I do complain about our Police Force, and about our police system, is this : that every police-officer in New Zealand, every police-officer in England, obtains promotion for detecting crime. I say that when a police- officer has reason to take a person into custody, if he finds that person to be innocent it is more his duty to prove to the world that he is inno- cent than to move, as they are doing, heaven and earth, and perdition, as it were, to prove the charge made against the accused. Then, Sir, reference has been made to what the police have done to hotelkeepers. I know in Auck- land, at the time when burglaries were rampant and when robberies were committed almost every night, the whole Police Force were unable to detect or arrest these burglars. But at the same time it appeared to me that the whole of the Police Force of Auckland were devoting their entire energies in trying to entrap and convict publicans for selling liquor after pre- scribed hours or for Sunday trading. An Hon. MEMBER .- That was before the Com- missioner's time. Mr. LAWRY .- This is in the Commissioner's time. Some honourable gentlemen referred to the removal of Acting-Detective Nixon, I was very proud indeed to hear the Minister of Jus- tice say that that young man was a most profi- cient officer. Iremember, Sir, when the honour- able senior member for Wellington's champion was in the House-Mr. T. E. Taylor - that he got up and said that the young man Nixon was unduly advanced in the Police Force because he had been secretary to one of my election com- mittees. Sir, what did the Police Commission prove ? It proved, and it was attested on oath, that this young man Nixon had never been on any committee of mine at all, and that when I ran the election first for Parnell he was one of my very strongest opponents. Surely he ought to be a good man under such circumstances, be- cause he was true to his convictions; and I wish the honourable member for Palmerston and the honourable senior member for Wellington City could say the same thing for themselves re their political pledges. Sir, I do believe honestly that the honourable member for Wellington City was somewhat intemperate in his speech this afternoon : at the same time I believe the honourable gentleman was honest in his con- victions. He believes what he said about Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge ; but I believe, Sir, that the Hoase voiced the feeling of the country when it applauded the administration of Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge generally. Sir, I have never approached the Minister of Justice rela- tive to his administration of the Police Force of this colony. I say, Sir, that the sooner poli- tical influence is taken away from members of this House, or, rather, the sooner the time comes when they will not be allowed to use their political influence re appointments, the better it will be for the House, and the better it will be for members individually, and the better it will be for the country. Sir, I have on two or three occasions recommended young men for the Police Force of the colony ; and why should we not give simple recommenda- tions, as members of the House, just as if we were private individuals ? There never has been an appointment made that was not a credit to my recommendation. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) .- I have no intention of addressing the House at any length on this question, for it seems to me to be a most extraordinary charge, laid under the forms and protection of this House by the honourable member for the City of Wellington, assisted by the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, who has told us of a condition of affairs that I have never seen in New Zealand. The honour- able member for the Suburbs has told us of the depravity of the people. He has told us that thousands of criminals come before the Court in Wellington every year. That is a remarkable statement to come from a leading barrister who 