the present time, being first under the thumb of the shipping rings, and secondly in the hands of the middlemen. Then, there is no provision made at the present time for meeting the necessities when our produce gets to London and the other markets; and, as I said here last session, it would be money well spent to establish cool stores at the Cape, and it would be a wise and judicious expenditure to meet the requirements in the Mother-country and to have New Zealand produce put before the con- sumers of the Old World on such terms and con- ditions as will do justice to our producers. Sir, I say it follows as a natural sequence. We have laid down the foundation. We put people on the land. We give facilities by roads and by railways. We give the settlers cheap money. We do all that is possible to promote settlement and to increase the number of producers. Our exports for last year are a record for the colony. But I say, whilst you are doing all this, you must let your producers have the benefit of their toil. You must allow the State to profit by what you have done at home, and the only way you can do that is to break down these monopolies and see that your producers have justice abroad. Then, Sir, in this policy outlined we have laid down that the unfortunate bank-clerks-the white slaves of the banks and the white slaves of the merchants-shall not be brought back as they are brought night after night to be worked out of existence on some miserable pittance. I say, Sir, that is a necessity we must meet. We have done a great deal for those in our factories and in shops, and we have done a great deal for the seamen under our shipping laws, and I say https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 now we must do something in the direction in- dicated in this Speech, and which I have just mentioned. Sir, we are told that it means that some of the holidays which we now give to the bank-clerk will be taken from them. Sir, the bank-clerks will be very glad to be placed on the same footing as others. In my opinion, the banks will have to close anyhow on the statu- tory holidays as they do now to meet the public convenience. An Hon. MEMBER. - What about Sunday work ? Mr. SEDDON .- Well, if they are working on Sundays it is the more to be deplored. If the evil exists, it can be remedied, I think, without going to extremes or causing irritation. How- ever, I am pleased to find the House is unani- mous in this respect. Now, Sir, during this debate certain matters have arisen that require explanation. Members on our own side of the House have placed matters on record which I think it is only just and right to them and to the country to set at rest, and to show that they are entirely in error in the conclusions they have arrived at. The senior member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) and other speakers have gone into the question of defence, more particularly in regard to our Volunteers not being up-to-date and in regard to their weapons. Well, Sir, there has been no remissness on the part of the Government in this respect. You will have noticed, in a speech by Mr. Balfour, the con- dition in which they were reduced in respect of small-arms and small-arms ammunition at Home, and when we sent our orders Home for the magazine rifles months ago they were not able to supply them. Honourable members will know the reason why. It was impossible, under the then existing state of things, to fulnl that order, but that was no fault of this colony. Our orders were sent Home months and months ago-some of our orders were sent before the South African war started. Mr. J. ALLEN .- For magazine rifles ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, not for magazine rifles. But what is the position to-day, Sir. I told the House last session, when the question was raised, that it would not be wise for me to dis- close the position. It is unwise to disclose when you are weak ; when you are strong you do not fear to do so. There are now in the colony 4,500 rifles of the .303 pattern ; there are 18,300 magazine rifles and 1.500 carbines ordered. We have already received 2,800 maga- zine rifles, and there have been shipped by the " Waiwera," 500; by the "Wakanui," 7.200 ; by the " Aotea," 4,000 ; and by the " Kumara." 3,800: making a total of 18,300, and also 1.000 carbines; so that, in a very short time, we shall have a total of 24,000 in our colony. I think that is a complete answer to any ad- verse criticism in respect to this matter. I do not blame members for calling attention to it, because it would appear, without explanation, as though there had been some remissness on the part of the Government. Our Volunteer Forces now number about eighteen thousand, so that we shall have in reserve about six thou- sand rifles. Under these circumstances, I hope members will do the Ministry justice, and that they will see that we have not been at all remiss in respect to this matter. There was one speech delivered which I am bound to refer to-the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton. It was a speech which did not do justice to the honourable gentleman. I think I should best consult my own dignity and position, and the dignity of this House, if I refrain altogether from alluding to the personal matter intro- duced, and confine myself to the several public matters which he placed before the country and the House in an adverse light. But it would appear to me, Sir, that some explana- tion is necessary. Members will naturally ask, Why should such an attack be made by the honourable member upon his own leader : what cause is there for it? The honourable member stated during the course of his speech that his remarks were not made in an un- friendly or unkindly manner ; but I think, Sir, that the concluding remarks, and the manner in which he made them, can lead one only to the conclusion that underneath and under- lying the whole position was a strong feeling of bitterness, almost approaching to malice. What has caused this change ? I have looked at the honourable gentleman's speech when he was seeking election as the member for Riccar- ton. He says,- 1 " On every previous occasion there has been a clearly defined issue, but the present Opposi- 