Government were giving £5 for. I know that a Mr. McCardle in the ballot drew section after section for his own family, and another three sections for Mr. Dudding; and the matter was brought before the Minister of Lands, who simply stated that the MeCardle family had been rather more than fortunate, but there was nothing in it. I do not know whether that is the same gentleman 12.0. or not. I would ask, Why should we buy land at this price with borrowed money whilst there are thousands of acres lying idle? With the fall in the price of all produce the price of land must fall, and the speculation is a bad one. There is no occasion to burst up these estates in the North Island ; if left alone they will be divided naturally. A man with four or five sons will divide his land be- tween them, and they again with their children. I met a settler in the back blocks who had far too much land to the acre, it was piled up nearly sky high. He asked me if I thought two hun- dred acres sufficient to make a living on, and I said that I did not think two hundred acres of that land was sufficient. He said he thought that he ought to get two hundred acres more, to which I replied that he had better be careful or he would be "burst up, " it was only a matter of time when four hundred acres would be con- sidered too much. I contend that we have no right to interfere with the acquisition of es- tates in this country until the whole of the un- productive land is made productive. I thank honourable members for the kind hearing they have given me. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .-- I shall not keep the House very long. It is with very great pleasure that I rise to compliment the honour- When able gentleman who has just sat down. I last addressed the House I deplored the small- ness of the number in this House who were intimate with the interests of land-occupiers, and I feel that in having this gentleman here one more has come to our assistance, and I hope he is the beginning of a troop that will represent this most important interest. Nearly everything has been said that can be said on the objects of this Bill, but there are one or two things that have struck me. One is, that the honourable member for Napier should speak apologetically for voting as he did. Indeed, Sir, that is one aspect which the Premier should be ashamed of that he should expect a member to vote for what he believes to be entirely wrong. This morning the honour- able gentleman was spoken of by the Premier as an erring one. That the Premier should make party questions of mere trivial matters, and that those who come here to support him should be denied the freedom to vote as they think right, is immoral. The honourable member for Wellington Suburbs made some disparaging remarks upon the speech of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. I am sure that speech will compare well with the honourable gentleman's own speech, for it is consistent, and will be instructive to the country. Then, again, the remark was made by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) that it is difficult now to distinguish the dividing-line between Liberal and Conservative in this House. Cannot dis- tinguish them ! Why, Sir, they are as easily distinguished as Brummagem jewellery is from that which bears the hall-mark. Their's is only a resuscitation of conceptions that were laid aside as fallacious ages ago and supposed never to be recognised again ; while those on this side of the House who have spoken in opposition, and who have the courage to con- stantly advocate certain principles, are ad- vocating principles that have stood the test of time, which to them is equivalent to the hall-mark. An honourable member says "Oh," but he is one who can say that the policy of the Government has tended to raise the price of butter from 4d. to ls. a pound. I think the honourable member has good intentions. I would not say anything to disparage what he said, but I hope that in time more information and light will come to his mind, and he will be a valued citizen and mem- ber of this House-I mean so far as his poli- tical views are concerned. Now, Sir. I just want to make one remark with regard to what was stated by the honourable member for Masterton. He made the remark that there were persons paying to the local bodies a higher rate upon their freehold than their neigh- bours alongside them were paying in rent to the Crown. I defy him to furnish an instance. If the land was valued at £30 per acre, the highest rate that local bodies could levy is only 3s. 9d. per acre. Why, just look at the returns that are placed before the country as to what they are charging per annum for the lowest-priced lots in the Hatuma Estate, 5s. to 6s. Although I hope it will not take place-and no one hopes it will not take place more sincerely than 1 do. and in my own interests as well as those of every other person in the colony-but I say that there is no certainty that the values of produce will be maintained at the rates now attained. Now, then, I wish to deal with one further remark made by the honourable mein- ber for Masterton. These men he is now speak- ing of so grossly, whose property he would have confiscated by Act of Parliament. and not allow to retain a few acres to their children. are men to whom I feel I am under obligation -although I do not believe in large estates- but these are men to whom I am thankful. because in many instances they sacrificed their property in undertaking risks, and made loves in shipping our produce to the London mar- kets; and the values that in time they esta- blished has brought the land into demand. enabling such men as the honourable member for Masterton to talk in the style he now talk- in order to tickle the ears of his constituents. Mr. HOGG. -- I spoke very highly of the pioneers. Mr. MONK. - Yes, you did. You spoke highly of them while they were of use to you. but you now desire to plunder them withou: mercy. Now, then, I come to the Right Hon. the Premier. I am not against the acquisition of large estates by the Crown for the purpose of 