been rendered necessary through circumstances connected with cases of large accidents, and it might also apply to minor cases in which the injuries are not so large as those to which attention has been drawn. The Bill seeks to give power to the Judge of a Court, in the case of a person claiming compensation or damages on account of injuries received, to order that the person so injured be examined by one or more duly qualified medical practi- tioners named in the order, not being witnesses on either side. Of course, the Rakaia railway accident case was a notorious case, and the trouble there was -- like every similar case in which expert evidence comes in -- that there was expert evidence on both sides, and the experts apparently regarded themselves as the advocates rather than as witnesses from the professional point of view. This Bill is to enable the Court, for the sake of equity and fair dealing, to appoint one or more duly qualified medical practitioners to certify to the Court as to the condition of the injured individual at the time the claim is made, and as regards the damage done. I do not think that any one who desires to see cases of this kind dealt with in a fair way can object to the proposals of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .... I entirely ap- prove of the principle of this Bill, and that these experts should be appointed by the Court. The same practice is observed in the Land Courts of Ireland with regard to compensation and fair rent -that is, that the Court shall appoint its own valuers ; for otherwise the Court cannot give a fair decision as to the value of the land. We know what ex- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 perts are. They are simply men who have a certain amount of knowledge which is avail- able to any person on payment of money, and one expert will give evidence in one direction for payment. and another expert in the same line will give evidence in quite the opposite direction, also for payment. In such cases it is very difficult for a Court of law to decide be- tween the two sets of opinions of men who are equally well qualified; and the only reliable thing to do is to allow the Court to select the experts in whom they have confidence to give evidence. Unless the Court has power to do this, or is prepared to give a decision without hearing expert evidence, it cannot obtain the unbiassed evidence necessary to decide the case, and on these grounds I shall support the Bill, especially Is the experts so appointed will for the time being be officers of the Court. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN. - I am not rising to object to the Bill. I think probably it is all right ; but I would like to ask if it is not to apply to the Workers' Compensation Act. I think there is a clause in that Act, if I am not mistaken, which applies to the principle con- tained in this Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- - I think so: it covers it. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .-- In some way, be- fore the Bill goes into Committee or passes through the Council, I would like to see how far it is consistent with the section in the Workers' Compensation Act. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .-- I think this is a very proper provision to make to improve the Workers' Compensation Act, which I suppose it may apply to ; but there are some other very important alterations which also might be added, and also improvements in the Workers' Compensation Act itself, and notably in this direction-I want to put a supposititious case to honourable members: At the present time an employer is responsible for any accident to his workinen, and in the same way a tramway com- pany, or a coach company, or a coach-pri- prietor is answerable for any employés who may be hurt in their employment. Now, the main thing to be considered in a case of that kind is this : that the compensation shall be obtain- able with certainty, no matter who it is that causes the damage. Let us look how thati works : I know a case where a cab-driver who had not much property was driving a man down a road. The trap, by some mistake in driving on a dark night, ran up a bank and the man was killed on the spot. It happened in this case that the proprietor of the cab was related to the man who was killed: but in the case, we shall suppose, of a non-rela- tionship, and that man upsets an outsider and he is killed, I should like to see it provided that the man or his friends can get comper- sation. But how is he to be sure of getting it now? The man may have only his cab and horse, and therefore there would be no means whereby the friends of the injured person could recover compensation. It strikes me that the Go- vernment ought to consider at once the advisa- bility of inaugurating some system of making provision to meet such cases, by putting on an insurance license-fee, or some scheme which would enable these people, individually or cor lectively, to form some fund upon which they could have recourse in cases of this kind. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON. - The only objec - tion I can see to this Bill is in reference to that part dealing with the order for costs. It appears to me that if we allow this Bill to go through as it is, a Judge may make an order that a man may be examined by one or more qualified medical practitioners, and then mav make such order in respect to the costs of the examination as he thinks fit. It is just possible that these costs may be heaped ap to a somewhat alarming extent. I know a case that happened in Wellington within the last twelve months where a man was injured. and he sued for compensation for an accident to his eye, and the company that he sued asked that this man should go before independen: medical practitioners in order to ascertain the nature of his injuries. I do not know the real reason the company had for forcing the exami- nation on the man: but the man and ins friends thought that the company was doing this simply for the purpose of frightening ham in regard to the amount of the cost -. I am myself of that opinion-that they heaped up costs in every possible way because they thought the man would ery off his action rather than min 