This land-for-settlements policy, I believe, has, in the South Island, at any rate, very largely secured their majority at the last three general elections. And, that being the case, as I have always approved and supported the land-for- settlements policy, I have now only risen for the purpose of showing that the Govern- ment are departing themselves from their own policy, and that this great proposal of the resumption of land for settlements has, since the departure of the Hon. John Mckenzie- now Sir John Mckenzie -- from his position as head of the Lands Department, been com- pletely set aside by the Government that has its existence because of it. Now, how am I to prove that ? Honourable members of this House are aware, even though the public outside are not, that Ministers keep a careful record of the speeches of members of this House, and they are all incorporated in a kind of black-book. Whenever a member speaks in the House and his speech is not acceptable to Ministers, you see this black-book appear on the Premier's desk, and a little later you will see the Premier, or perhaps some other member of his party, passing the black-book round for the purpose of some member of the Premier's party being put up to make a quotation from a sreech of the member who is being castigated. The other evening an instance of this kind hap- pened. My honourable friend the member for the Buller, who is not in his place now, had the black-book handed to him by the Premier to quote from my Riccarton speech. I hope that the black-book will appear again, because I am going to refer to the speech which I delivered https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 it Riccarton some few months ago, and in which I dealt with this very question of the action of the Government with regard to the Land for Settlements Act. In my speech at Riccarton I made this assertion : that during the first three quarters of the financial year which has just closed the Government only spent €11,142 on land for settlements in New Zaland. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh ! Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Yes ; the honourable sontleman may laugh, but I think he knows that when I make a statement like that I know what I am talking about, and I will give figures that will prove I am right, and that he is wrong. I said at Riccarton that during the first nine months of the financial year just closed the colony had only spent $11,142 on land for settlements, and that the inciden- tal expenses of these purchases came to €7,709. Now, Sir, I hold in my hand the return which the Premier laid on the table the other day. I presume that this return was laid by the Hon. the Premier on the table in reply to the speech which I delivered on the Address in Reply. The table shows this : that there was acquired during the year 1900 --- for work- men's homes, 902 acres : for ordinary settlement, 82.974 acres: cost to the colony, exclusive of cost of roading and survey, $356,850. Those are the figures which the honourable gentle- man gave. And he gave these figures in his speech a few evenings ago on the Address in Reply. The return goes on to show that the number of farms, approximately, is 177, and the number of workmen's homes 150. Now I desire, as an act of fairness to myself, to draw the Premier's attention to the way in which that return has been misrepresented. In the Hansard report of the honourable gentle- man's speech on that occasion, on page 95, it is stated as follows : 777 farms were established, and 150 workmen's homes. The return which the honourable gentleman placed on the table himself shows there were 177 farms. not 777 as appears in his speech in Hansard. Now I have no doubt that that has been a typographical error. I have no doubt that the statement that appears in the Premier's address in Hansara, in reply to myself, which adds on six hundred farms to the return of the number established last year, is a mistake, and I tell the Premier I hold in my hand the return and also his speech, and I ask him to admit that the number in his speech is not 777, but 177. Mr. SEDDON. - That is a mistake of the Hansard reporter ; I said 177 farms. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- I said at my meet- ing at Riccarton that during the first three quarters of the financial year the total amount spent on land for settlements was only £11,142, and I shall prove it. During the June quarter of 1900 the Government paid in purchase-money for land for settlement $5,245; the incidental expenses were €3,064. During the September quarter of 1900 the Government never paid one copper in purchasing land for settlement in this colony-not a copper and the expenses came to £1,967. During the December quarter the Government paid $5,897 in purchasing land for settlements, and the expenses came to €2,678. Now, it may be asked, how does the Premier arrive at this return which he has placed on the table, and which says $356,850 has been spent in land for settlements last year. Well, I will tell honourable members his trick, for it is a trick. The trick is this-what the honourable gentleman did in order to get a return that should be satisfactory to him- self was this : He procured a return of the purchases, not for the financial year, but for the calendar year from the 1st of January to the 31st of December of the year 1900. He had to do that, because he knew when he looked at the figures that my position was correct. I had said they had spent in three quarters. £11.142. and, in order to weaken my argument. he included the previous quarter, when he had spent £331,000 in purchasing land for settle- ment- he popped in that as the fourth quarter of the year in order to get this return of $356.850. Now, in order to show that I am correct. I shall quote from the published ac- counts of the colony. I hold in my hand the New Zealand Gazette for the 16th of May this year. which gives the accounts of the colony for the financial year, and I shall tell the Premier exactly what he has done with regard to land for settlements during the financial year. The total purchases for the last financial year amount to #186,621, but of that no less than £141,618 is made up of purchase-money for 