colleague, that where he caught these vermin he would make short work of them. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) would say, with all due deference to the mover of the motion and to the Premier, that great care ought to be exercised about taking off the restrictions. It was all very well where there was close settlement, and it was all very well where there were no rabbits. Up to the present time the rabbits had done an enormous amount of damage and loss to New Zealand. Take all their outlying runs in Otago, and it would be found that about one-fifth of them were unoc- cupied. What was the cause? It was simply because of the rabbits, and the want of proper appliances to cope with them. To such an extent had this been the case there, that many owners of runs lost their property, and all through these rabbits. They could look back to it now, but he could tell them it was so. The honourable member who sat opposite (Mr. Fraser) was one who was eaten clean out of the run he possessed by rabbits, and his run was costing the colony a large sum of money each year -- that was to say, the run he formerly occupied. Of course, he had left it now, but not before the rabbits came and hunted him off it. And he could tell them something about it. If it had not been for the stringent steps taken by Sir John Mckenzie, Canterbury would have been overrun by rabbits, every bit of it, and then there would have been very little noise raised about stoats and weasels in that part of the colony at the present time. Mr. SEDDON .- The fencing saved Canter- burv. Mr. DUNCAN said there was no doubt the fencing had been a great deal of use: but the rabbits had got beyond the fences, were in ad- vance of them, and the stringent measures taken and the construction of rabbit fences confined the rabbits to the Otago side. At one time there was no such thing as coping with the rabbit pest. There were runs that had been let for $3,500 that they could not to-day get €1.300 for, they had been so much depreciated by the rabbit pest ; and people made more money out of them at the higher rents at that time than they could make now. That was largely owing to the rabbits. People near the towns did not realise that, and could not understand it like people who had lived away back in the country districts that were rabbit-infested. If they re- moved these restrictions he was sure things would go ahead again as they had done at that time, because rabbits were different from any pests except the small birds -- they multiplied so amazingly fast. They might see a couple of rab- bits in the spring : six or eight weeks afterwards there would be ten or twelve, the next time sixty or seventy, and the next two or three thousand. That being so, they needed to be careful in pro- tecting the natural enemies of the post, for if they would not alone keep down the pest they would probably enable that to be done. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said he was pleased that the Premier was at one with them in something being done to put down the pests- stoats and weasels. It was some years ago since he had spoken in the House of weasels as simply a source of amusement to the rab- bits. They would simply dart away uncon- scious of danger. As natural enemies of the rabbits they were not effective, and weasels were now finding their way all over Canter- bury, and were getting into the suburbs of towns, if not into the cities. Personally, he did not think there was any means of stopping them. He thought they were inclined to in- crease rather than to become fewer : but, at all events, it would be a step in the right direction that all restriction in the way of killing these vermin should be removed at as early a date as possible. Personally, he would favour taking all restrictions off ; but he would venture to say there was not the slightest probability of these animals decreasing. The farmers round the villages, and even near some towns, were losing young fowls rapidly. The fact was these ver- min had not the courage to attack an old fowl, but they fell upon the young ones in a way that must inflict a serious loss upon poultry-farmers in the country. He did not think they were of any use so far as the extirpation of rabbits was concerned, and he hoped the Minister would re- move the restrictions, as every settler ought to have the right to reduce their number if he thought fit. The hour of half-past five having arrived, Mr. SPEAKER left the chair. HOUSE RESUMED. Mr. SPEAKER resumed the chair at half-past seven o'clock. ELECTIVE EXECUTIVE BILL. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Sir, the mea- sure which I have the honour to submit to the House is, I believe. not only the most important Bill upon the Order Paper, but the most important measure that can possibly be brought before the Chamber ; because, Sir. it proposes to put the coping-stone upon our representative institutions by carrying to its logical conclusion the Liberal doctrine that " Go- vernment of the people and for the people " shall be "government by the people." It proposes, Sir. that as the people elect their representatives to this House, so the representa- tives elected by the people shall choose the Administrators of the Government. That is its first aim. Its second aim, though scarcely the second in importance. is to make this Pari .... ment free-to set every individual member at liberty to exercise his judgment and his cot- science in respect to every measure that is brought before us, free from those artitiond restraints and hindrances that are now impo-d upon us, and by the obsolete system which divides us into two opposing camps, always at v ir with each other. and frequently subordinating. because compelled to subordinate, principle to party. Of the system of party government. as it now exists in England, a recent writer says, - "A member of a party. in order to be staunch and true to his party, must shut his ever !! any virtue which the other party may possess. 