ship Company provide, especially for passengers between Auckland and Sydney. I say those words advisedly. I was travelling with a num- ber of people between Sydney and Auckland at the end of last January, and the steamer was so lad-she was so overloaded - - An Hon. MEMBER .- What steamer was it ? Mr. NAPIER .- The " Mararoa " ; and she is supposed to be one of their best boats. That passage was a cause of so much suffering to pas- sengers that many English travellers on board said that they would never visit New Zealand again. One gentleman, whose wife was almost dying, said to me, "I expected, and do still expect, to spend three very pleasurable months in your country "; but he said many months of pleasure could never efface from his memory the three days of suffering-he used a stronger word-that he had experienced on board that steamer. If we can divert the tourist traffic to this colony, and obtain the benefits of the pre- sence of a large number of wealthy people in our Wonderland, I say it is our imperative duty to establish better means of transit over the waters of the Tasman Sea. There is nothing more socialistic - if that be a word of reproach -in having steamers owned by the Govern- ment to carry people from a continent to their own islands than there is in the Government owning the railways to carry the people over the land. And if we had a couple of vessels like the " Grosser Kurfürst," vessels of 8.000 or 10,000 tons, we would have such an accession of people of means to our popula- tion that the prosperity of this country would be very greatly enhanced. The question of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 State fire insurance is one to which I hope the attention of the Government will be speedily directed. We have lately had a dis- criminating tariff imposed on us in the North hy the insurance combination, and I say that the people ought not to be subjected to the domination of a trust, or a corner, or a ring, or whatever you like to call it. Indeed, it is possible that such combinations are illegal at the present time. There is a reference in the Governor's Speech to the fact of legislation being required to control trusts or combina- tions; but I believe, if the Government took a test case into Court, under the existing law they might probably succeed. The common law is against these trusts, but private individuals have never fought them in the Courts, because the combinations are generally very wealthy, and they could take a case from Court to Court until the costs would be so great as to deter their opponents. I am glad that the question of federation with Aus- tralia has been settled-I hope, and I believe, for a generation. I do not think that this colony would in our time derive any advan- tages whatever from federating with Australia, and I believe if we were subjected-especially in legal matters-to the control of a final Court of Appeal sitting in Australia it would not be to the interests of the New Zealand people. Whatever we do ultimately, even if we do eventually federate, I think the right of appeal to the Privy Council should be maintained intact for every subject of His Majesty. I have also to join with other honourable mem- bers who have spoken in congratulating the Postmaster-General on the inauguration of the penny postage. The success of the new system has been beyond anything that could have been anticipated, and if it be that within two years the original revenue will be obtained at the reduced rate, considering the enormous commercial and social bene- fits which have been conferred upon the com- munity by the establishment of that system, I think the honourable gentleman deserves all the praise and the encomiums that have been given to him for his spirited and statesmanlike action in this matter. Sir, I desire to make a few observations in reply to certain remarks that have fallen from the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs with regard to the San Francisco mail-service. It was evident, of course, to every member of the House that the honourable member was holding a brief for the Union Steamship Company. He dilated in grandiloquent terms upon the benefits that that company has conferred upon the colony. Personally, I have never heard of those benefits, but I have heard of the enormous benefits that the colony has conferred upon the Union Com- pany. I understand that most of their boats have been built out of the earnings of the New Zealand people, and, if that is so, I think we are entitled to greater consideration from that com- pany than we have ever received at its hands. The honourable member said he told some gentleman, who was opposing his views, that he should go to Japan, where if he opened his mouth-erroneously, I think, he said-his head would be cut off. Well, I do not know how many heads the honourable gentleman himself would require if he went to Japan and if such a state of things existed there, because I never heard a speech containing so many erroneous statements as the speech of the honourable gentleman to-night. The honourable member referred to some mythical "thirty-years war of the Caucasus." I never heard that there was a thirty-years war in the Caucasus. With regard to the criticisms that have been levelled against the San Francisco service by the honour- able gentleman, I have only to say I would be pleased if it were possible to have the service performed by a British, and still more by a New Zealand company ; but there is nothing to pre- vent that being done. The Government is not showing any favour to the Oceanic Company. There is a fair field. If the Union Company has the enterprise and the public spirit and the means, let them build steamers of adequate dimensions and of sufficient speed to carry on the mail-service within the contract time-and I should personally be in favour of giving them better terms than those given to the Oceanic Company. The Union Company has not shown any disposition, however, to carry on the work. They simply wish one of their steamers to join in the service-a thing they know is impossible under the American law; and, if that is not done, then they wish to wreck the best and fastest mail-service in the colony. Notwith- 