land-for-settlements policy of the colony into discredit. So far, it has been one of the most popular planks in connection with the Liberal platform. I think, Sir, if a conference of Land Boards of the colony, including the Commis- sioners of Crown Lands, had been held, and if this question had been submitted to them, they would have drawn up a measure of a workable nature, free from political bias, and in which there would be no class legislation, but in which fair and even-handed justice would be meted out to all. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Mr. Speaker, in rising to reply to the speeches on the third reading of this Bill, I must say it is hard to know whether to congratulate the Opposition or to commiserate with them. At all events, there are some reasons for congratulation. In the first place, I congratulate the leader of the Opposition, the member for Hawke's Bay, for having shown to the country his attitude on this question. I would like to say to the Oppo- sition that he is still the leader of that party, for, at all events, he leads them very well in any way that is possible when he desires to injure or interfere with the land - settlement policy or the land-settlement legislation. Sir, one member stated, in the course of the debate, that everything in connection with our political history had been brought into the discussion on the Bill. Well, I may say at once in respect to this land-for-settlements legislation that it has had a most beneficial effect in those parts of the colony where large estates have been cut up and on which people have been settled. It is all nonsense to talk about sending people to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the back blocks or to the State lands. The State lands are situated so far away from means of communication that you must first of all have your means of communication made. Mr. HERRIES .- No. . Mr. SEDDON .- The member for the Bay of Plenty says " No." I say that, if you take the King-country, of which we have heard so much lately, it is only recently you could go there at all, or that you would dare to send a surveyor and cut up the land ; and during the time we have been able to take action we have not lost any time. I suppose that at the very least there will be about 100,000 acres ready for settlement. Mr. HERRIES .- There is land near Tau- ranga. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, there is land round about Tauranga ; but there is some of it, if we are to believe all we hear, that would not feed a goat to the acre. At all events, we must put our people where possible on lands that will sup- port them. Coming back to the question of placing the people on the land. This cannot be done without time and money. I say now, that if we asked the House for the necessary vote, I question very much whether the staff is sufficient. I am told there are numbers of surveyors willing and ready to work. We find quite a different state of things. I say there is work to do to such an extent that if we doubled our staff we should not have sufficient to cope with what is wanted in the way of surveying to open up lands for settlement. We have a state of things existing which has taken time and money to remedy. Under the cursed system that existed-the throwing open of land for settlement prior to survey, the desire to part with the people's heritage in the way of giving the freehold for cash-we have been for years trying to pull up this survey work, and that has kept the country back. Let the re- sponsibility rest on the right shoulders. The re- sponsibility must rest on the shoulders of those honourable gentlemen opposite. During the de- bate it almost rested upon the question of the family selection, as it has been called. Sir, the family selection sounds very nice indeed ; but let us look at the returns which have been laid on the table of the House, and I wonder the Press and members have not gone into those Here is a return to the order of the returns. honourable momber for Dunedin City (Mr. Mil- lar). You will find that there is an increase in the numbers of small holdings from a hundred up to a thousand and four thousand. Does it The increase from $30,000 to stop at that ? $50,000 in value in ten years is from 838 to 394, and fifty-six of an increase of landowners in the colony whose lands are valued at from $50,000 to $100,000. Then we come to the number from £100,000 to $200.000, and the number has gone up from thirty-seven to thirty-nine ; we have two more landowners than we had when we placed our graduated land-tax on the statute-book. Mr. MASSEY. - Companies. Mr. SEDDON .- So far as my argument is concerned, it does not matter whether they are companies or individuals. I knew what I was speaking about the other night when I said the time was not far distant-and it is nearer than those honourable gentlemen think- when we shall have to increase the graduated land-tax, and stop the abuses that are going on in the country. In the face of the land we bought-two million acres, almost-you find these increases going on. And they talk about the present system of taxation on land being unfair. I only say it is high time some one pointed out the abuses that exist, and endea- voured to stop them. In regard to the amend- ment of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, providing for the family of an owner of land in case the Crown takes the land, let me point out to honourable gentlemen that included in this was a partnership. The mem- ber for Riccarton brought in the question of partners, and argued that as long as there were partners getting the right to share and take their 1,000 acres of first-class land. 2,000 acres of second-class land, and 5,000 acres of third- class land, why should not the family share? Sir, I fought that question of partners as fiercely as I fought the question of dividing the land amongst the family. I ask. Where does that come from ? That came from those honourable members opposite, just as this pro- posal comes with reference to the family. Ac- cording to the amendment of Captain Rassell. it was to include subsections (2) and (3) of section 12. He deliberately intended, and he 