us in a previous session ; but I cannot agree with the honourable gentleman who has intro- duced it when he said that it did not attach any stigma or brand to the young person. Why, look at the 4th subsection of clause 5, which their children. says, - " If both the Protection Officer and the person in charge of the shelter concur as to the ex- pediency of the course, the young person may either be detained there until he can be brought ing about the streets at night and getting into before a Magistrate, as hereinafter provided," et cetera. Well, what does that mean ? It means that the child brought before a Magistrate will, Nobody can go about town late at night with- nine times out of ten, have his or her name have no business there, and it will be a merci- appearing in the public papers. It all depends on the reporter who happens to be present in We need not discuss again the details of the Court taking down the proceedings; and I think it would be a very good thing to introduce into I will certainly support it in its main pro- the Bill a proviso that no reporter present shall give the name of any child brought before the visions, and now only wish to protest against Magistrate under this Bill. As far as one city the suggestion which has been made more than once in this Council, that the Bill is to make is concerned, with which I am more particularly criminals, whereas its object is to prevent acquainted - namely, Auckland - I say it is imperative that this Bill should become law. I children from becoming criminals. am not in the habit of walking about the streets against this Bill on previous occasions, and I of Wellington at night, so I cannot say whether intend to speak and vote against it again. I have it is required here or not, or in Christchurch, or not seen any reason, although I have walked Dunedin ; but, as far as Auckland is concerned, about the various Cities of Wellington, Auckland, I am certain it is required, and I am certain also that any decent person in that city would warrant, in my opinion, such a Bill as this be only too glad to see the Bill passed into law. being placed on the statute-book. That there The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Sir, as a new arrival in Auckland, residing there but a few are evils existing I admit, but you cannot re- move them by an Act of Parliament. I can months, I cannot indorse the remarks made by the Hon. Mr. Scotland. I cannot say I have only stigmatize this Bill as a sort of hysterical https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 production, and such as that which emanated seen these things going on that the honourable gentleman has referred to. The honourable from Stead in regard to that indictment which gentleman is living in a country district out- he made in London when he published that side Auckland, and I do not think he comes disgusting pamphlet "The Maiden Tribute." What does this Bill mean in effect ? That any much into contact with the people of that child, in the opinion of some of these officers city. Therefore, as a citizen of Auckland, I think it is only right to express my opinion who are now so common about our colony, may be taken charge of by what you call a "dis- that there does not exist in Auckland anything creet woman." and thereby a brand would be put so bad as my honourable friend refers to. In on that child which can never be removed. Let this Bill there is a very drastic clause which I me ask my honourable friend Mr. Bowen think should be altered. Clause 11 states that what about those unfortunate boys who are put any boy arrested by a member of the Police into Burnham School ? The fact of a boy being Force is to be kept in gaol until brought be- put into that school causes him to be stigma- fore the Magistrate. It does not even allow him to get bail. That is, in my opinion, a tized as an unfit, and his prospects in life may very arbitrary method of procedure. The boy be injured by his being sent to such institution. might belong to a very decent family ; and why should he he kept in gaol without an without it ? opportunity of getting bail ? The Bill requires moral agencies are still strong enough in this amendment in this respect, and I hope when it colony to protect these children ; and I know goes into Committee some alteration will be that in one particular part of the colony where made in that direction. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Without discussing I have been residing lately good people, people with manliness and womanliness in them, are the details of this Bill, which were dealt with in freely doing the work which this Bill is sup- this Council last session, and while admitting posed to do with the aid of paid officials. I that there is room for necessary amendments, say that it is not a good thing at all to give I must say that I disagree, as I did last that authority to the so called "discreet " year, with my honourable friend Mr. McLean women or other Inspectors to take any child as to the character and merits of the proposed into their power in this way; and I do legislation. Some such measure is necessary, as hope that, even if this Bill is passed, it will there is too often in this colony, as elsewhere, be so amended in Committee that it will be very grave neglect of children on the part of parents. Notice has been drawn to this dan- considerably shorn of its powers. gerous neglect over and over again, but nothing has been done to remedy an evil which cannot be denied. There is no doubt that parents are too lax in this colony in regard to the control of The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. - Punish the parents. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Ah, "punish the parents"; but I do not want to punish the children. I want to prevent them from loiter- bad company. If parents will not, we must try to prevent children being led into bad habits. out seeing young children in the streets who ful law which insists on their being sent home. Bill, which can be dealt with in Committee. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I have spoken Christchurch, and other parts of the colony, to The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .-- What would he be The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I say that the 