me turn to clause 15: what is the sense of that ? - "If any commercial traveller solicits orders from any one not engaged in trade, he shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of five pounds for the first offence, and ten pounds for every succeeding offence, and his license shall be declared null and void." What is the meaning of it ? If a hawker or a commercial traveller goes on to a sheep-farm where there are fifty shearers and sells enough moleskin pants for the men, he is liable to a fine of $5 for the first offence and $10 for the second offence. Mr. HOUSTON .- You do not understand it. Mr. WILFORD .- No, I confess I do not un- derstand it as it is drawn ; I admit that at once. "'Commercial traveller' shall mean every person who travels through the country, either with or without goods or samples of goods, as the representative of a wholesale house, and soliciting orders from those engaged in trade only." Therefore, I presume, if a man went tra- velling round selling goods for a commercial house to people not engaged in trade he is not & commercial traveller ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Certainly not. Mr. WILFORD .- But he would be locked up by the constable if found selling. Mr. HOUSTON .- He is not a commercial traveller. Mr. WILFORD .- You say he is not a com- mercial traveller : but directly he is found hawking he is liable to arrest because he has not got a license ; and you say he cannot get a license because he is not a commercial traveller. I cannot understand it. I agree that there is a necessity for some statute of this sort ; but if the honourable gentleman had contented himself with providing for the licensing of pedlars and Assyrians, and dealing with the case of men travelling selling worthless articles, he would be doing good. He has gone beyond his pro- vince and has got out of his depth. In a Bill introduced by the Premier in 1897 it was pro- vided that Harbour Boards, as well as the local authorities, should make by-laws regulating the conduct of licenses and entailing penalties for breach thereof ; but, in addition to that pro- vision, it would be desirable that hawking should be forbidden on the property of Har- bour Boards unless by their consent. If such authority is given to Harbour Boards, the penalties for breach thereof should be payable, as is the case at present for breaches of other by-laws, to the Boards. Now, there is no such provision here at all. I would ask the honour- able gentleman to explain, when replying, whether he does not consider clause 11 con- stitutionally an improper clause to put on the statute-book of this colony, and if it would not be a disgrace to the people if they approve in any way of the desirability of passing such a clause. I cannot understand why it is in the Bill, and I am sure the honourable gentleman will not succeed in obtaining his second reading of this Bill. Mr. Wilford 5.0 hardly say that I like the Bill, and I do not think the member in charge of it made out a very good case in introducing it, except with regard to that part of it dealing with the Assyrian hawkers. The Bill commences by providing that certain individuals, who are de- scribed as pedlars and hawkers or commercial travellers, shall pay certain license-fees which are specified in the schedule to the local autho- rities, and "local authority " is defined to mean the Council or Board of any borough, or town, or county. Now, I would point out to the member in charge of the Bill that there are districts in the colony to which neither one of these terms applies-important districts of the colony where the Counties Act is sus- pended, and where the work of local govern- ment is carried on by the Road Boards. What would the honourable member do with respect to those districts? The Bill as it stands at If we are present does not include them. going to have a law such as this, I think it ought to apply to the whole colony, and not to certain parts of it only. Then, as the honourable gentleman admitted in the course of his speech, those people to whom the Bill applies-commercial travellers, hawkers, and pedlars-will be compelled to pay license-fees in every district in which they do business. The effect will be to do a serious injustice not only to those people, but also to the people with whom they are doing business, because there is no doubt that such a provision will compel those commercial travellers, and pedlars, and hawkers to increase the price of their goods to the people to whom they sell them. Then, it seems to me that this definition of pedlars and hawkers is somewhat comprehensive. As far as I can see, it applies to the bakers', grocers'. and butchers' carts, which go about the country districts selling and delivering their goods. The interpretation is as follows :- "" Pedlars and hawkers' shall mean every person who travels through the country. either with or without goods or samples of goods. whether representing a wholesale or retail busi- ness, and soliciting orders from private indi- viduals." I think it is quite clear that the Bill gos much further than intended by the member in charge of the Bill. If this is the case, I think we ought to thoroughly understand it. as, sup- posing there are objections to hawkers and pedlars, we have to be very careful that the cure is not worse than the disease. I do not propose to call for a division on the second reading of the Bill, but we shall have to be very careful with it when it goes into Committee. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I do not like this Bill. I consider it a bad Bill. I do not think that the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill, when speaking on the second read- ing, made out a good case at all. The whole thing is bad-"lock, stock, and barrel." The honourable gentleman stated that his object in introducing the Bill was to put an embargo on those unfortunate people known as Assyrians in this colony. Our laws have allowed the 