Rifles for Volunteers and Clubs-Railway Passen- gers -Native Land Court-Springburn Branch Line-Overcoats for \\Volunteers-Land for Land- less Natives -Dunedin-Mosgiel Duplicate Line- Charles Lillywhite-Land for Settlement in the King-country-Fair Rent Bill-Wangamomona- Ohura Road - Stratford-Kawakawa Railway- Uniform School.books - Wellington-Hutt Rail- way -Dentists as Jurymen-Terms of Judicial Appointments-Small Birds Nuisance Bill-Im- portation of Big Game-Rivers Commission Re- port- Maori Art -- Treatment of Cadets at Christ- church - State Fire Insurance- Sanitoria for Consumptives-Provision for Injured Constables -Railway-sleepers-Cla-sification of Inmates of Lunatic Asylums-Federation Commission Re- port - Wairarapa Lake Reclamation - Local Authorities Indemnity Bill-Referendum Bill. ## Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. # PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Ashburton County Council Bill, Representa- tion Bill, Borough of Mornington Tramways Bill, Divorce Bill, Totalisator Abolition Bill, Pedlars and Hawkers Bill, Impounding Bill, Impounding Bill (No. 2), Gaming and Lotteries Bill, Westport Harbour Board Reserve Vesting Bill, Woodville County Bill, Cemetery Trustees Validation Bill, Land and Live-stock Auctions Bill, Invercargill Reserve Leasing Bill, Money- lenders Bill, Limitation of Profits and Preven- tion of Rings and Combines Bill. # IMPORTED RAILWAY PASSENGER- CARRIAGES. On the motion of Mr. HOGG (Masterton), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing how many new railway passenger-carriages have been imported into the colony since the beginning of the year, and how they have been disposed of, and, if similar carriages can be made in the colony, the difference in the ascertained and estimated cost. # LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS ACTS. On the motion of Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The number of blocks of land acquired under the Land for Settlements Acts ; (2) the names of the provin- cial districts where situated ; (3) the area of each block ; (4) the cost per acre of each block ; (5) the number of sections each block was subdivided into ; (6) the number of eligible applicants admitted to the ballot for each block ; and (7) the average number of appli- cants admitted to the ballot for each section : this return to be for the years ending 31st March, 1898, 1899, 1900, and 1901. # RIMUTAKA RAILWAY. On the motion of Mr. HORNSBY (Waira- rapa), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The cost of maintenance of the line from Cross Creek to the Summit, and from Cross Creek to Upper Hutt : (2) the complete working-expenses of the two " working-expenses " to include the setting- out in a separate sum of the amount paid for overtime to railway employés engaged on the line from Cross Creek to Upper Hutt ; (4) the approximate cost of the construction of a deviation from Upper Hutt to Woodside, to- gether with the lengths of line on the proposed deviation and by the present line, the approxi- mate saving in time in the journey, and the estimated saving per annum in expenditure on maintenance, &c., as between the present line and the proposed deviation. # VESSELS CHARTERED BY GOVERN- MENT. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing all vessels chartered by the New Zealand Government to convey troops or produce, or both, to South Africa for the two years ending 30th June, 1901 ; the return to show the name of the vessel, terms of charter, the number of troops and quantity of produce shipped, the name of the shipper and quantity each shipped, the price paid on ac- count of freight per ton, &c., and the total freight received. If troops were shipped on a vessel not chartered by the Government : the amount paid for their transport, and to whom. The return to show also any recoveries received by the Government on account of transport of troops, and to state any transport effected by the Imperial authorities. LANDLESS NATIVES IN SOUTH ISLAND. On the motion of Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori District), it was ordered, That the report of the Commissioners with regard to lands for landless Natives in the South Island be laid on the table of the House. # MORTGAGES. On the motion of Major STEWARD (Wai- taki), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return of the mortgages registered in the colony from the 31st March, 1900. to the 31st March, 1901, being a continuation of H .- 45 of last session, and including the like particulars. # STATE FIRE INSURANCE BILL. IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE. On the motion, That provision be made for this Bill, Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said, -Am I in order in observing that we might later on find it necessary to make an amendment, in- cluding in the scope of this measure marine insurance as well ? Mr. CHAIRMAN .- That would not be in \-- order. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I may say, now that I have introduced the Bill in the con- stitutional way by message from the Governor, that it is my intention to set up a special Com- mittee of the House to make inquiry into this matter, and I think sufficient information will be elicited to warrant the House proceeding with 