manages to find his way into the House on the shoulders of the Liberal party. This is what he said before the last general election in con- nection with the elective Executive :- " He deprecated personalities and bitterness introduced into politics. The elective Execu- tive, however, was opposed by leaders of both parties, and he did not think it had yet come within the region of practical politics. The rate of progress made under a purely Liberal Administration would not be possible under a composite Administration." Well, has it come within the region of prac- tical politics during the last twelve months, or since the last general election ? This is what was the honourable gentleman's opinion on party government then : -- "The ' left wing ' at the time of its formation was a wing of the Government, and in 1894, 1895, and 1896 had prepared the way for the Old-age Pensions Bill. But-he said it to their shame-the 'left wing' had since practically joined the Conservatives in opposing every measure brought forward by the Government. He could not possibly ally himself to the ‘ left wing.' The Government party was not without fault, but when such questions as poverty and higher education had to be faced he would go with the party that would take up reforms, and if returned, he would vote with Mr. Seddon and the Liberal Government. (Applause.) There were only two lobbies-the Conservative and the Liberal. There was no independent lobby where a vote of neither 'Aye' nor ' No' must be returned." Which lobby is he going into to-night? The honourable gentleman objected to the Premier's idea that this measure was now introduced to force the reconstruction of the Ministry. In my opinion this Bill has been brought forward for some years for the purpose of forcing the reconstruction of the Ministry. Before the last general election the honourable member for Riccarton had an idea that he was going to be in the Ministry if he worked his way into the House, and this is what he said about the reconstruction of the Ministry at that time :- " As Cabinet reconstruction was imminent it was all the more necessary that staunch and able Liberals should be returned. Re- garding scandals, he said that the Bushy Park, the Marine, and other scandals, were ground- less, and had failed to soil the character of Ministers." We always recognise that the honourable gentleman has got ability, but he is not always reliable ; his consistency is not to be relied on in the House. He makes a good Liberal outside the House-far better than in the House. There is no doubt in my mind that this Bill is brought forward annually to try to force a reconstruction of the Ministry. The Liberal party as a whole do not want it. The colony has made great progress under party govern- ment, and I feel confident the electors do not want the Bill at all. He wanted to make out now that the electors of the colony had 12.0. asked for this Bill at the last general election ; but at the time of the election he did not think it was within the region of practical politics. Sir, I have never thought either before or since I came into this House that it was within the region of practical politics, nor do I think it is ever likely to become so in the history of this colony. In fact, I believe the electors are quite satisfied with party govern- ment as they now have it. There seems to be some parliamentary fatality in connection with this measure, because almost every member who has previously spoken in support of it lost his seat at the following election. Major STEWARD .- No. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I can prove that to be an absolute fact. If honourable members will look at the division list of 1896 on this same question they will go into the lobby against this proposal of the honourable member for Waitaki, if they have any belief in fatality at all. I do not mind placing on record a few of the names of those members who voted for this measure and who have since lost their seats. They were Messrs. Buddo, Buick, Earnshaw, Green, J. W. Kelly, O'Regan, G. W. Russell, Saunders, G. J. Smith, Button, and McNab-more than half the members who voted for it in 1896, and if you follow it up you will observe it has invariably produced a similar result ; consequently I think members must come to the conclusion that the electors do not want this system at all. I do not know whether members are aware that there has been a caucus meeting of the honour- able members on the other side during the last week. An Hon. MEMBER .- There is no truth in it. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- Well, all I can say is that when I was travelling up from Dunedin last week I saw in the Otago Daily Times and the Dunedin Star, and when I came up the line I saw in the Canterbury Press, that there had been a caucus of the Opposition party, and that it was kept strictly private. Sir, it is quite clear to me that that meeting was held in connection with this measure, and the object was to catch the unwary on this side of the House. But the most remarkable thing was that when I got back to Wellington nobody kne v anything about it, showing that those honourable gentlemen who attended knew how to keep the matter secret. To my mind, the conspiracy of silence which existed before the supper adjournment, and which has been broken since, was about the most effective idea of bringing on a no-confidence motion I have ever seen since I have been in this House ; the manner in which it was done was very likely indeed to get votes on the sly. However, it will not come off on this occasion. I am quite sure the honourable member for Waitaki, who has brought the measure forward, never in- tended anything of the kind, but it was done behind his back and without his knowledge. No doubt honourable members will have seen through this "slim " party move by this time. Certainly we must be thankful we have a pro- fessor of constitutional law in this House. He explained the main objects of this Bill very clearly, and after that we had a very excellent 