POLICE OFFENCES BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- "Subsection twenty-nine of section three of the principal Act is hereby amended by inserting the word 'or' next after the words ' public place.' " Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved the addition of the following words to the clause : "and is further amended by inserting the following provision : ' Provided that the term " public place " in this subsection shall have the meaning given in section eighteen of the principal Act."" Words added, and clause as amended agreed t.o. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) moved the addition of the following new clause :-- " Section twenty-four of the principal Act is hereby amended by inserting at the end of line three thereof the words 'or to a penalty not exceeding twenty pounds."" The Committee divided on the question, "That the new clause be read a second time." AYES, 31. Rhodes Herries Arnold Barclay Lang Stevens Bollard Steward Laurenson Buddo Symes Lawry Carroll Thomson, J. W. McLachlan Ward Meredith Duncan Willis. Millar Flatman Graham Morrison Tellers. Napier Hall Hall-Jones Carncross O'Meara Palmer Hogg. Hardy https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 NOES, 9. Tellers. Parata Ell Russell, W. R. Hornsby Fowlds Thompson, R. Tanner. Hutcheson McGowan Majority for, 22. Motion agreed to, and new clause read a second time. New clause, by leave, withdrawn. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "(1.) Subsection two of section twenty-four of the principal Act is hereby amended by striking out the words 'or uses any profane, indecent, or obscene language.' " (2.) Any person who uses any profane, in- decent, or obscene language in any publle place as defined in section eighteen of the principal Act, or within the view or hearing of any person passing therein or residing in such public place, shall be liable to imprisonment with hard labour for any term not exceeding one year, or to a penalty not exceeding twenty pounds." New clause agreed to. Bill reported. PUBLIC HEALTH BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "1A. The Governor may, by Order in Council, from time to time prohibit the. importation into New Zealand of any material liable to convey infectious diseases, and also stipulate any conditions under which such material may be admitted." New clause added. Bill reported. ACCIDENTS COMPENSATION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .-- " Where any person injured or al- leged to have been injured by an accident, through the wrongful act, neglect, or default of any other person, claims compensation on account of the injury, any Judge of the Court in which pro- ceedings to recover such compensation are taken may order that the person injured be examined by one or more duly qualified medical practi- tioners named in the order, and not being wit- nesses on either side, and may make such order with respect to the costs of such examination as he thinks fit." Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved, after the word "compensation," to insert the words " or damages." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported. CHINESE IMMIGRANTS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- " In order to remove any doubts as to the application of the principal Act and its amendments in the case of Chinese mem- bers of the crew of any ship arriving at any port or place in New Zealand, and to give reasonable facilities to such Chinese to go ashore from time to time in the performance of their duties in connection with the ship. the second paragraph of section five of the prin- cipal Act and section eight of 'The Chinese Immigrants Act Amendment Act, 1888,' are hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof the follow. ing provisions of this Act are substituted." Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved. That all the words from the commencement of the clause to "in connection with the ship" be struck out. Amendment negatived, and words retained. Clause 3 .- " On the arrival at any port or place in New Zealand of any ship having Chinese on board as part of the crew, and before any per- son lands in New Zealand, the master of the ship shall, in the presence of an officer of Cus- toms, muster the crew and give to such officer a list signed by the master containing the names and number of such members of the crew as are Chinese ; and immediately prior to the departure of the same ship, and before receiving her clearance, the master shall again in the presence of an officer of Customs muster the crew, and satisfy such officer that all the Chinese comprised in the said list are then on board and will leave New Zealand with the ship, or, if not then on board, have not landed in New Zealand." 