" In these respects especial encomiums were accorded them by visitors to the colony in con- nection with the recent Royal tour, notably by members of their Royal Highnesses' suite, and the English journalists, all of whom, as ex- perienced and world-wide travellers, should be qualified to judge of their merits. " We desire to draw attention to the present condition of a number of American railway- carriages which were imported and put to work on the New Zealand railways in 1878. These carriages are still in regular daily service, and are sound and in good condition. " As compared with carriages of similar age imported from Great Britain, the cost of main- tenance is largely in favour of the American car, a large number of the British carriages having been worn out and rebuilt, while only ordinary light running repairs have been required by those imported from America. " So far as we can form an opinion, the American carriages recently imported promise to give equal satisfaction. Each car has two lavatories, one being reserved for ladies. " They are fitted with quick-action Westing- house automatic brakes, are lighted with Pintsch gas, and provided with improved ven- tilation. " The seating-accommodation is similar to that provided in the latest type of the New- Zealand-built gallery cars. The American car is longer, on account of the additional lavatory and the middle cross-gangway, and the weight is 16 tons, as against 14} tons for the New Zea- land cars, an increase of 30 cwt. " As compared with carriages of modern design and of similar seating capacity on the Austra- lian railways, with railway-gauges of 5 ft. 3 in. and 4 ft. 84 in., the New Zealand American carriages are considerably lighter. "To build similar carriages in the colony would, it is estimated, cost #1,500 each. "T. RONAYNE, General Manager, N.Z. Railways. " A. L. BEATTIE, Locomotive Superintendent, N.Z. Railways. " Wellington, 5th July, 1901." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Is $1,619 the landed cost of the American cars ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes; it is their cost delivered in New Zealand. I may also point out to the honourable member that in every case of the manufacture of cars in New Zealand we always have to import the tires and the axles. The whole of the fitting-up, of course, has to be done in the colony. I may say that I have also been on the new railway-cars, and I tell honourable members, who, like myself, are laymen in respect to these matters, that I natu- rally looked round to see whether they were as satisfactory and as nice as those already in the colony, and there were some minor details about them that personally I did not like. The arm-rests were, in my opinion, too close together, and I so informed the General Manager, and they are to be removed from the whole of the cars, and that is being done. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Another expense. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member must know that, even with his easily fitting figure, if he gets a new suit of clothes from the very best tailor, sometimes he has to have slight alterations made to them before they fit him or suit his taste, even, as I say, if he goes to the most superior tailor in the place. So it is with other things-even railway-carriages. Those carriages were all built from our own plans and designs, and that some of the minor details may require altering is not a serious matter. With regard to the ventilation, what is the fact : that honourable members, while going through the tunnels, possibly left the upper ventilators open. They are different ven- tilators from what we have had in the colony ; but, as I say, all these minor details will be got over, because the cars are being carefully watched and the defects noted. I do know this: they are the most comfortable-running passen- ger-cars in the colony. They are now, and will become more so, popular with the travel- ling public. Regarding the question of going outside the colony for them, I repeat that we did not want, on the score of either workman- ship or price, to go outside the colony at all. It was useless to go to England for these carriages, as speed was the urgent necessity for going out- side at all, and experience showed that America was the country to get them with the least delay. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Why did you not try Canada ? Sir J. G. WARD .- If we had tried Canada the honourable gentleman would probably have asked us why we did not try America. I have already said time was a great desideratum. We know that what we got from America before was a good article ; and we also knew-and honourable members must realise also - that we were bound to consider the time it would tako to get them here, in consequence of the extraordinary development of railway traffic in the colony. We naturally went to the tried workshops of America, which had turned us out such good work before, both so far as engine - power and carriages were concerned. They had, on the whole, given us the greatest satisfaction. That is my answer to that ques- tion. There was no particular reason in going to America any more than to England, only that we could not have got them from England for probably three years, and unless we had got them at once they would have been per- fectly useless to us. While upon this matter let me for a moment refer to what appears to be desirable with regard to the supply of rolling- stock to the New Zealand railways in the future. This session the Government will ask honour- able members to give them the necessary money to extend the workshops and to erect additional machinery, in order to enable us to do the whole of the work of construction of locomotive en- gines, carriages, cars, and everything else in the railway workshops of the colony. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Why did you not do it four or five years ago ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Because you and your friends always said that the outside cost of 