my own feeling, Sir, is that these statements are utterly incorrect ; and let me state, as I have before said in this House, that I am a believer in unions. I believe it is only right for work- men-in fact, for those in every class of employ- ment if they choose-to form themselves into unions for protection against the avarice of some employers ; and also that they may have a combination to operate in recognition of the ebb and flow of industrial values that occur in the community-when there is high water or flood-tide in industries it is right they take ad- vantage of it equally with the employers, who are using their accumulated resources called capital. I believe that to be quite right. But, as I have before stated, I believe the compulsory ma- chinery now being brought into operation has created a continuous feeling of agitation and distrust in the minds of that portion of the commonwealth whom it would be wise to induce to venture their means in the employ- ment of their fellows. It was said last night by the Premier-I think I am not improper in referring to a previous debate- An Hon. MEMBER. - I think you are. Mr. MONK .- Well, I need not mention last night or any time. It is a continuous echo from the lips of the Premier, and also from the Agent-General in Great Britain, that we in New Zealand are in a period of industrial halevon of peace and quietude. Why, Sir, never before was such a condition of chronic industrial war and disturbance as at the present time ; every journal abounds continuously in reports of in- dustrial contention, and it has been induced by the legislation that we have passed. Mr. SEDDON .- Compare New Zealand with Westralia at the present time. There they have three thousand railway men on strike. Mr. MONK .- Strikes there startle because of their infrequency, but they are continuous strikes here: there is not a moment of peace in this country, and as far as possible employers will withdraw their capital. What we have done has been to affright that class in the Old Country that we should try to induce to venture their means in speculation here. Do you think the last action which was taken by the Conciliation Board with reference to the mining industry will not be the means of throwing men out of work? Of course it will not affect those who are engaged in profitable mining-it will not hurt them at all -- and it is only equitable that the workman should par- ticipate in their good fortune ; and had there been a combination without legislative action- simply unions-I believe because of profitable results in those mines quite as good, or even better, remuneration than now would have been obtained : but the present legislative surveillance admits of no elasticity of compromise. Do you think persons are going to pay their money in high wages for speculative effort, or what are called prospecting operations in mining, when it is doubtful if they will get any return ? I think not ; it is not in human nature. And you must deal with these matters according to the impulses that influence human nature and Mr. Monk society. The statement has been made by no less authorities than gentlemen of the Supreme Court that the unions may demand from employers that they shall bring their books into Court. I believe if you had an agreement of conciliation between the employers and the employés, and if you had the mutuality that would set up Boards of Arbitration among themselves-a certain number of the most capable and thoughtful of those who receive wages and an equal number of those paving wages- and they would meet together, the one claiming that they should receive more remu- neration than they were receiving and the other that they were not able to pay more-I say that in such cases as those it is most desirable and necessary that the books should be placed before such a combination of the two interests. This is a practice that in some instances is being carried out in the Old Country, and it is one that safeguards the statement of the employers as to their inability to give a higher rate of wages, while the reasonableness or otherwise of the claims made by employés can be proved. I am speaking from my own knowledge of these matters, and I know that statements have been made before the Conciliation Board of wages that are being paid now, and wages that are being claimed. that are far below those that I paid years ago. It is not so much the rate of wages now being paid, but it is the feeling of unrest, the want of finality, as to what may follow, for surely there is no one here who does not know that in these cases there must be continuous progress- whether right or wrong, our aspirations grow by what they feed on. It is wisely ordered that. as we are enabled to improve our conditions. they make us dissatisfied with the level of those conditions, whether selfish or noble, and we want to ascend to a higher plane, and such feelings promote that industrial energy and readiness to speculate which ought to be the normal con- dition of our communities. It has been stated by the Premier " that there is not one of us who would dare to vote for the repeal of any of these labour measures that have been introduced." Sir, I say that any one may write "coward" after my name if, with respect to such matters as those I am now talking of, I shall hesitate to speak against them, and with my latest breath I will vote against tyrannical legislation : not that I do not believe in unions, but I do not believe in the arbitrary action now being practised. There are two gentlemen in our community who have had an immense influence on our sociology - one on the native maritime affairs of this country. I am alluding now to the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), and the Premier, who claims he has been doing so much for labour. What is the result at the present time"? The maritime aspirations of the youth of New Zealand are completely effaced, and our young people, and the best of them, are going to other parts of the world to acquire that education that is denied to them in this country. There is no gain- saving it, and we members know it well. If the honourable gentleman is not informed of it 