in that fact. I say that this liability does not reflect credit on the Government. We have heard in the Speech from the Throne to-day that the Government are seriously consider- ing the question of roading and the ques- tion of Crown settlement ; but when we find out that there is a liability of £437,000-I have not had time to look up and find what the total voted was, but I guarantee that this is half of the vote that was passed last year- - Mr. SEDDON .- That is works under con- tract. Mr. HERRIES .- The honourable gentleman need not draw a red-herring across the track. This sum has to be revoted this year, and the consequence is that of the total amount that will be voted this year £437,000 will be money that was voted the previous year. There is another reason the Government do not want this sum of $437,000 to be spent. If it is voted but not available for local bodies, or for expen- diture by the Government itself, from the mo- ment the Appropriation Bill is passed it is simply for the reason of swelling the surplus. The Premier will say that the Public Works Fund is quite different from the Consolidated Fund, and does not affect the surplus ; but if this £437,000 was spent we should have to have a larger sum transferred from the Con- solidated Fund, and therefore it would affect the surplus in the Consolidated Fund. And we also find out that in the vote for rail- ways there is £591,000 of liabilities. That means that on the 31st March £591,000 which was voted had not been spent; and yet the settlers are complaining about want of railway accommodation, for this applies both to the open railways and to the railways to be opened in the future. It behoves the Government to http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero see that the money voted every year is spent ; and, if they do so, they will meet a very just demand of the country settlers. I guarantee that if every country member expressed his true mind he would say that this is the great- est fault of the land-settlement policy of the Government. Every one knows that the settlers are charged large sums on their sections for road- ing, and yet they have never got a road. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why did not the local bodies claim the votes ? Mr. HERRIES .- They do so, but, owing to red-tape or some other reason, they are gene- rally prevented from getting the money until after the 31st March. I think one of the first things we should try and settle this session is some way by which the money voted shall be spent as soon as possible after it is voted. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) .- The honourable member is completely wrong. If we spent before the 31st March all the money voted, how would the work of the country be carried on up till the present time? It would mean that public works would be standing idle. Why, in the honourable member's own district authorities have been given for a considerable sum above the votes which were passed -autho- rity has been given for £200,000 over and above the votes upon the estimates. has been said by the Minister of Lands, I have a great deal of sympathy with the remarks made by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty with respect to the question of the ex- penditure of parliamentary grants before the 31st March, the end of the financial year, because if these grants are not spent before that date-if they are not spent during the dry weather-then the settlers do not get the value of their money. We all know that roadworks cannot be done so well or economically during the winter as if done during the summer. So far as the Imprest Supply Bill is concerned, I recognise that the liabilities have been incurred, and that under the circumstances we have got to give authority to the Executive for the pay- ment of these moneys ; but for all that I think we are entitled, as representatives of the people, to have the utmost possible information on every item mentioned in the Bill. I notice, though, that it is proposed to give the Ministry power to spend £100,000 more than was pro- vided for in the first Imprest Supply Bill of last year. One hundred thousand pounds is a very large sum of money, and we were told in a jaunty manner by the Premier that it includes £60,000 in connection with the vote for railway stores. I would like to know whether that £60,000 includes the amount paid for rail- way carriages and engines recently imported from America. I think we ought to have in- formation on that point. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are not railway stores. Mr. MASSEY. - They are railway require- ments; but I think that we ought to be informed fully with respect to the contract for those carriages. Was it let by tender? Was an opportunity given to people in the colony to construct the carriages ; and who got the com- mission, if there was any commission paid ? Personally, I think an opportunity should be given to the people in the colony to construct the railway-carriages. On every occasion pos- sible money should be kept in the country, even if the articles required cost more. Then, refer- ring to the item "Public works," there have been very disquieting rumours in circulation lately about the construction of the Makohine Viaduct. I have seen it in the Press that one of the piers has slipped, and I have also seen it stated that the manager of the works has applied for an extension of time. The House should certainly know whether these statements are correct. We ought to know whether the £130,000 voted for that work last year was ex- pended before the end of the financial year. Coming to a grievance in connection with the conduct of parliamentary affairs, I desire to say that several returns were ordered by Parliament last year and were not placed on the table by the end of the session, nor have they yet been supplied to members since then. One, in par- ticular, was a return showing the Ministerial travelling-expenses for the year ended 31st March, 1900, and I hope it will be supplied to members at the earliest possible date. There are many other matters that might be dealt 