IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3 .- - " The powers conferred upon the Minister by section sixty-five of the principal Act shall be deemed to include the power to construct, or to join with any person or local authority or with the Crown in constructing, road», bridges, drainage-works and river-protec- tion works, and such other works upon or in respect of land acquired under the principal Act as the Minister thinks expedient in order to facilitate the proper settlement of the land or to protect it from injury from floods, river en- croachment, or otherwise, or to agree with any local authority for the construction by such local authority of any such works upon such terms and conditions as the Minister thinks fit, and the provisions of that section shall extend and apply accordingly." Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) moved, after the words "the power to construct," the addition of the following words: "in respect of land acquired under the principal Act." Amendment negatived. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved the addition of the following proviso : " Provided that any powers exercised by the Minister under this section shall be subject to the provisions of ' The Public Works Act, 1894."" Amendment negatived. Clause agreed to. Clause 5 .- " (1.) In any proceedings under section fifteen of the principal Act for the com- pulsory taking of land the claimant shall, not later than twenty-one days after service of the claim for compensation, file in the office of the Supreme Court in the district within which the land proposed to be taken is situate, or, if there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 are more than one such offices, then in the office nearest to the land, - " (a.) A copy of the claim ; and " (b.) A notice stating the name and address of the person he appoints to act as his Assessor ; and shall serve a copy of such notice on the Minister. "(2.) Within twenty-one days after receiving the notice of the appointment of the claimant's Assessor the Minister shall also file in the office of the said Court a notice stating the name and address of the person he appoints to act as his Assessor, and shall serve a copy of such notice on the claimant. "(3.) If the claimant makes default in making or serving his claim, or if the claim- ant or the Minister makes default in appoint- ing an Assessor, or in doing any other act, matter, or thing by the principal Act or by this Act required or directed to be done, then. on summary application in that behalf by the party not in default, the Chief Justice may, on such terms as to costs and otherwise as he thinks fit, appoint an Assessor, or give such directions and make such orders as in his opinion are necessary or expedient to enable the claim to be heard and determined by the Compensation Court, and, if the default con- sists of not making or serving the claim, to enable the order referred to in subsection one of section twenty-two of the principal Act to be made and acted upon in the absence of the claim as fully and effectaall as if the claim were properly before the Court. "(4.) In applying the provisions of section forty of 'The Public Works Act, 1894,' it >ball not be necessary for the Minister to offer the amount of compensation in the matter." Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) moved to insert. at the beginning of paragraph (b) of sto- clause (1), the words " Within twenty-one dass after the filing of the claim the claimant shail file." The Committee divided on the question "That the words be inserted." AYES, 15. Rhodes Bennet Lang Bollard Russell. W. R. Lethbridge Fowlds 'Telis. Massev Meredith Allen, J. Hardy Herries. Monk Heke Hutcheson NOES, 40. Hall-Jones Seddon Allen, E. G. Smith. G. J. Hanan Arnold Barclay Hogg Stevens Buddo Laurenson Svines Tanner McGowan Carncross McGuire Carroll Thompson, R. Mckenzie, R. Ward Collins MeLachlan Wilford Colvin McNab Willis Duncan Millar Witheford. Ell Fisher Mills Morrison Tellers. Flatman Field Gilfedder Palmer Parata Hall. Graham PAIRS. Against. For. Mackenzie, T. Lawry Pirani. Houston. Majority against, 25. Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 6 .- " (1.) In order to prevent al.y evasion or avoidance of the provisions of the principal Act as to the right of the owner to select and retain any limited part of any e-tale intended to be acquired under that section. it is hereby declared that the area of the whole estate shall be computed as at the commence- ment of the negotiations for the purchase under the said Act, and no subsequent disposition of the estate, or any part thereof, shall op rate to defeat the power of the Governor to acquire the land under that Act. " (2.) The date at which negotiations for the purchase shall be deemed to commence shall in each case be determined by the Governor in Council." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, in sub section (2), to omit all the words after the words "commence shall," and insert the ici- lowing words in lien thereof : " be the date upon which notice was given under the hand of the Land Purchase Inspector or other person duly authorised in that behalf intimating to the owner that the Governor has decided to acquire the land." Amendment agreed to. 