country has made up its mind, on this measure. All that is wanted is that the House and coun- try shall have an opportunity of giving a free expression to their opinion. We were told by the Postmaster-General that the adoption of this Bill would bring in a condition of conspiracy and in- trigue. I say that has been going on to prevent this Bill from passing on to the statute-book of the colony, and the sooner we send it to a referendum of the people the better. Now, I will not attempt to go into the arguments that have been used-if they can be dignified by that name : but the Postmaster-General drew a graphic picture to us of the prosperity of Great Britain under a system of party government. Sir, he did not give any arguments to show that party government was responsible for the pro- sperity in any shape or form. He might as well have told us to look at the magnificent position Great Britain has got into under a House of Lords: Let us set up a House of Lords in New Zealand. He might as well have told us to look at the magnificent position of Great Britain under free-trade : Let us have a policy of free-trade in New Zealand. He might also have said to us, Look at the bungling that has got Great Britain into the South African war ; and the party system of government is resposible for that ! I say that Britain became great in spite of the defects of party govern- ment. We have become great because of the intrinsic character of the people of Great Britain ; because we are a progressive people ; because from time to time we have adopted such reforms as that now before this House. Sir. we heard the Premier speak the other https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 night of "rusty, musty precedents." He calls everything rusty and musty if he is opposed to it, but as soon as any one else com- mences to embody their convictions in a re- form Bill, then it is a dangerous innovation. The Premier stands convicted of insincerity, either to-night or the other night. He stood up in his place in the House the other night and gave as one reason why we should adopt the Referendum Bill that a question like the elective Executive could be referred to the people. The Bill, as it is proposed by the honourable member for Waitaki, is simply re- ferring it to the people. Either the Premier tried to mislead us by making us suppose that the passing of the Referendum Bill would mean the submission of this measure to the country. or he ought to support the passing of this Bill in order that it may be submitted to the people. Mr. SEDDON .-- Show me a word in the Bill about the referendum. Mr. FOWLDS .- It is on the Supplementary Order Paper. Mr. SEDDON. - That is not in the Bill. Mr. FOWLDS .-- It will be in the Bill, if the mover of the Bill has his way. It is surely better that a Bill worked out and shaped in Committee be submitted to the people, so that they may know actually what is meant, than that a simple resolution of the two Houses should be submitted for their vote. The whole Mr. Fowlds simply such as might be considered and rectified in Committee. The House will do well to pass the Bill. I am sure if members were free to vote as they pleased, without reference to party influence, there would be a strong majority in its favour. Mr. SEDDON .-- I have been misrepresented by the honourable member. I did not say the other night that I was in favour of the Elective Executive Bill being referred to the referendum : what I said was that if the Referendum Bill was passed, and the Elective Executive Bill . ere passed, it could be referred to the people under the referendum. I did not say I was in favour of this Bill being referred to the referendum. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- In listen- ing to the two speeches made from the Treasury benches this evening against the proposal which is before the House, the most striking feature was their utter inconsistency. In the closing sentences of his speech on the subject the Premier spoke of our colony standing first in the Empire as regards progressive legislation. The same remark was made by the Minister for Rail- ways in the address he gave on the subject. And yet, Sir, is it not a fact that this colony leads in legislation because it has undertaken experiments which have been the means of showing the way to other countries ? Yet the strongest argument used by both these henour- able gentlemen against the Bill before the House was that no other country in the world. except Switzerland, had given effect to such a propo-al. I should like to ask how they show the con- sistency of their arguments when they on one hand claim credit for New Zealand showing the way in experimental and progressive legis- lation, and, on the other, allege this is an experiment for which there is no precedent in the legislation of any other country in the world but one. In regard to Switzerland. which has been mentioned, although there may be things in connection with the economic life of that country which we as colonists do not approve of, we cannot get away from the fact that, though it is a country of only some 16,000 square miles, as against 104,000 in New Zealand, in many respects it is far ahead of this country. Let me say, for example, that it has a population of over three millions of people; its imports in 1899 were $44,000.000. and its exports £32,000,000: in other words, in 1899 this little country had a foreign trade of no less than $76.000.000-as against our own. which is but a little over $20,000,000. There- fore a country which has so much enterprise. and whose revenues are on so firm a footing as are those of Switzerland, and which i- so progressive regarding many economic and social matters of legislation, is certainly not one that should lightly be sneered at hy politicians in a young country like this. I de not say, of course, that everything 10.30. that is done in Switzerland is to be commended ; neither do I think we should advise other countries to follow New Zealand in everything. What we can say in regard to Switzerland is that there the elective-Executive 