question of the planting and creating of forests for the next generation ; and, looking through last year's Lands Report, I find one of the most valuable pieces of information that I suppose has ever been published in the Lands Report, regarding the planting and the various kinds of timber that are suitable for the different parts of the country. Sir, I only regret that the Minister had seen fit to bury that very valuable information away in the Crown Lands Report, instead of taking it out and publishing it for the use of the people gene- rally in a separate form. I hope this year, when the report of the Forestry Department is brought down, if it contains such very valu- able matter as it did last year, the honourable gentleman will go to a little more expense in connection with it, and will publish it, just the same as he publishes the reports in connection with the stock and the dairy industry of this colony. The railways, I am very pleased to see, have had the attention of the Government during this last two years, and I am also pleased to see it is their intention to prosecute the work even more vigorously. I look upon expenditure in connection with the public railways of the colony as the most valuable expenditure of all the loan-money we have had during the last thirty years, and there are many directions in which the amount of money expended in this direction could be increased. I hope the North Island members will not rest content until they have pushed on the railway connecting us with Anckiand. I have never yet been in Auckland, and I want to go and see it. Then, there is the East and West Coast Railway and the Otago Central Railway, and I trust there will be a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 vigorous prosecution of those lines. Honour- able members must not suppose that I think the smaller railways should be neglected. There is a railway which I myself, as re- presenting the district of Mataura, am in- terested in ; and in connection with this ques- tion of the forests of the colony I would direct the attention of the Government to that rail- way-that is, the prosecution of the Seaward Bush Railway extension right through to Cat- lin's. I suppose that is one of the largest areas of natural timber country remaining in this colony. If that railway were pushed on, we have over thirty miles of continuous forest along the route of the railway, which means there is an immense asset lying there. I hope the Government will push on railways of that description, and when furnishing them with rolling - stock I hope the Minister will take a lesson from the recent experiments in placing American-built carriages on our lines. I had the misfortune to travel up from Dunedin to Christchurch the other day in a recently imported American carriage, and perhaps it would be as well to tell the Hon. the Minister my experience. In the first place, we were smoked out of the carriages in going through the tunnels; and, in regard to the carriage itself. it seemed as though no door was made to shut, and the windows appeared to be made never to open. We had to tell off one of our number in one of those little bird-cage carriages to keep the door closed. Fortunately we had an honourable gentleman from another place with us, and we told him off for this duty. But you cannot always be so fortunate when travelling on the Government railways. Then, looking at the carriage as a whole, the general verdict was that the interior fittings were in- finitely inferior to those in the carriages manu- factured in this colony. Altogether the carriage itself and its fittings had anything but the ap- pearance of the New Zealand or English made carriages. I have no doubt myself that the Go- vernment found themselves in the position of having to get those carriages on our railways at the earliest possible moment, and therefore everything had to be sacrificed to getting the necessary rolling-stock to meet existing wants. Previous to this passage from Dunedin to Christchurch I had always been an advocate of sending Home for our carriages, believing that we got a better class of material, and that we got it for less money; but after seeing what the American carriage recently purchased is, I do not see how you could compare the carriage built in this colony, even on the basis of expense, because no amount of expense on the building of the carriage would compensate for the inferior class of carriage which has been supplied to this colony ; and for the future I shall always be an advocate for enlarging our own workshops in this colony, and endeavouring to get our own men taught to build a proper class of carriage at a reasonable cost. Now, Sir, the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) seemed to think that the action of the late leader of the Opposition, in declaring that the Opposition as a party no longer existed, had some considerable significance in the politics of the country. I differ very much from that honourable gentleman in the opinion he ex- pressed. I do not look upon it that the Opposi- tion exists as an Opposition on account of any organization which it may have in the House under a leadership, nor do I hold that the Opposition ceases to exist simply be- cause they do away with the organization that they utilised in the past. It was, as a matter of policy, the very best thing which they as an Opposition could have done. And speaking of the question of an organized Opposi- tion raises the question of the criticism which may take place in regard to Government mea- The country, as a rule, considers that sures. with a strong Opposition numerically you get the maximum amount of criticism. My ex- perience as a member of this Chamber is that the stronger the Opposition organized against the Government the less effective is the criticism you get of measures ; for this reason : that, as long as the Opposition is strong and organized, no Government party will allow the Opposition to alter the policy measures of the Government. The question of the necessity of the existence of the Go- vernment is too serious a question to allow an organized and powerful Opposition to have any say in the policy measures of the Government ; and, while the organization of the Oppo- 3.30. sition itself provides that every single 