member who introduced this Bill because of f secure that Education Boards, at any rate, will the fact that the only compulsory part of it is the title. But honourable members seem to forget that the Bill in its present shape is as it left the House after being mangled in Com- mittee last year. The framer of the Bill had a clause in it under which the Government had power to stop the capitation of any Education Board that did not carry out the provisions of the measure. The House struck this clause out. I may say that last year the Minister representing the department in the House op- posed the passing of the Bill root and branch ; but I understand the Premier is supporting the measure this time, so that, at any rate, there is a change of front on the part of the Government, and that is something to have brought about. Last year I pointed out with regard to this Bill that it would not be neces- sary if the Goverment carried out its duty with regard to drill in schools. I pointed out then that one of the Canterbury Education Boards had the advantage of Government in- structors to teach their teachers drill, and then the teachers instructed the children. This year the Government certainly sent a circular round to Education Boards, adopting, as usual, one of my suggestions-that other Boards should be treated the same as Canterbury-and asking the Education Boards to make arrangements for a class for the teachers and they would supply the drill-instructors. All the preparations have been made on the part of the Wanganui Edu- cation Board months and months ago. but, so far as I can see, there has been no appearance of the drill-instructors. I trust, now that we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 are returning to a normal state of affairs in the colony, and there are no extraordinary military functions to be attended, that the Government will revert to my suggestion, http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero and give the Education Boards instructors to enable them to carry out their functions under the Education Act. If that is done, there is not the least necessity for the measure that is before the House. Undoubtedly there is need for some measure of this sort to stir the Government up to carry out its duty ; but unless the penalty clause I proposed last vear, which the House would not adopt, imposing a fine upon the Education Boards who do not carry out the Act-unless that is included in the Bill we are just wasting our time and our breath in simply assisting to explain what the provisions of the Education Act are at present. Objection has been taken, I notice, to girls being com- pelled to be taught military and physical drill. The honourable member for the Grev can hardly be blamed for that, because two members of the House last year -- the member for Wanganui, Mr. Willis, and the member for Wellington City. Mr. Fisher- - are the gentlemen who are responsible for the amendment including girls in this Bill. I sincerely hope the Minister of Defence will allow no delay by the Defence Department in carrying out the instructions with regard to the drilling of teachers under the Education Boards of the colony, and, if there are not sufficient men competent to carry out these duties. I hope he will take steps to not be blamed for deficiency of duty for which they are not responsible. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I desire to make an explanation, so that there shall not be any misapprehension as to the statement made by the honourable member. I explained this after- noon as to whether the drill in the schools was to be under the Defence Department, or whether it was to be under and regulated by the Educa- tion Department. If there was no penalising of the Board if the Board did not comply with the Act, and it was left to the Government, then it would have been possible for us to hear that the Government had favoured one Board as against another. That is the reason, and there is no change as far as the Government is concerned. Mr. PIRANI. - Sir, the Hon. the Premier misapprehended me. I intended to point out that, whereas the Government at present are employing Government instructors for the teachers in the North Canterbury district, when the Wanganni Education Board applied for a similar privilege from the Government, at the instance of the Education Department, the Government promised to supply the instructors, and all arrangements were made for the teachers to assemble at certain places at certain times ; but we have been waiting for the last five months for the Government to carry out what they promised to do. That is where I think the Defence Department have failed. Mr. SEDDON .-- I will look into that matter. It is the first I have heard of it. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice). - I would just like to say a word or two. I think the honourable gentleman who introduced this Bill will hardly know whether to be pleased with those who commend the Bill or those who condemn it. for it appears to me that they have introduced all sorts of questions that have very little connection with the Bill itself. There are-and it is right that the House should know this-Boards of Education that are not only doing so now, but have for years and years carried out physical drill in the schools without recourse to or special support from the (Govern- The Auckland Education Board has ment. conducted physical drill for years, and in some of the smaller places the Committees have made strenuous efforts in order that physical drill should be taught to all the pupils of primary schools ; and, in addition to that, they went a little further : they allowed a certain portion of military drill to be introduced. such as marching, forming in line, et cetera. But physical drill has been carried on in all the large schools in the North, and, I think, throughout the district. If the various Boards in other parts of the coun- try had been true to their own interests, there would have been no great necessity for the honourable member to bring in this Bill. After all. there is nothing additional in this Bill more than any well-constituted Board of Education, careful of the mental and physical culture of the scholars, should do. The only addition here is the military drill. Objections have been urged that parents are opposed to their children 