the very case of a person who is a bona fide . upon the question, and I shall not hesitate to resident upon land, and who is anxious to leave i place them before the people, however tem. his land divided in smaller areas amongst the members of his family. I have a case in point. I do not wish to harrow the feelings of honour- able members by telling of a poor widow and helpless children, for the children are nearly all grown up; but there is a case that has come under my notice of a lady whose husband did good service for New Zealand. He came to the colony with limited means, but a good educa- tion, and by dint of hard work, good judgment, some frugality and care, succeeded in acquiring a moderate tract of land. Then at the call of i out a widow. The widow's trustees offered the duty he, still a farmer, served this country as Commander of the New Zealand Forces on the East Coast against the hostile Natives with In the course of time he died, and success. his widow and his six children, who had been born on the property, and there grown up, were left a property of between seven thousand and eight thousand acres. I do not know the precise arca. They are now being turned off that land by the Govern- ment, because it is held to be desirable in the public interests that they should be evicted, and their land divided amongst other people. Not very far from this property is the Hatuma Estate lately taken by the Minister, and on that estate we find Government sub- divisions of 1.217, 1,134, 1,509, 1.158, 878, 752, and 774 acre blocks. This is facetiously termed " close settlement !" Now, the total area of these seven blocks is 7,452 acres, if anything of slightly superior quality to the land owned by the widow lady and family of whom I am speaking. If those 7,452 acres are divided into seven equal blocks it gives to each a total area of 1,0644 acres, being an area which practically is exactly what the widow lady and six children would each retain if they were allowed to divide their own property amongst themselves, instead of the Minister dividing it amongst strangers. Now, possibly, that property will be divided into larger areas, and those persons who have made the property, who were born and have spent all their lives on it, will be turned out so that it may be divided amongst other people who have never seen it. I ask honourable members whether they approve of the principle of such compulsory expropriation or not. If my state- ment is right, and I have narrated the actual facts - and if honourable members will go to the Library they can see from the report of the Ha- tuma Estate I have given the actual figures- a grave hardship and injustice has been per- petrated .. This is the clause I shall move, and if it is not agreed to in its entirety I think it is a principle that ought to be affirmed by the House : that people who have lived on a block of country, who have been born on that country, and who live upon it, ought not to be turned out to make room for others if they are willing to subdivide the land among themselves. shall not oppose the second reading of the Bill, but I shall try and improve it. I know it is considered extremely improper to say anything against the administration of the Land for ! they are in the House and the country to-day Captain Russell porarily unpopular they may be. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member has misrepresented the Government. Captain RUSSELL .-- I shall object to the Hon. the Premier being allowed to com- ment, except where he has been himself in- dividually misrepresented. Mr. SPEAKER .-- He is entitled to correct any misrepresentation of what he has said. Mr. SEDDON .- It is a misrepresentation of the Government to say that they were turning land to the Government first. Captain RUSSELL .-- I must be allowed to explain that it is perfectly true the widow was at one time prepared to offer the land. because she then had an opportunity of re investing her money in another property : but the Government refused to take her offer at the time, and her opportunity of purchase lapsed ; and they afterwards said because she had offered it once they were going to take it when they chose. She had an opportunit; of making what I know myself would have been a good investment ; but because the Go- vernment would not purchase her land, tha: opportunity fell through, and then the Go. vernment insisted on taking the land when i: did not suit her. Mr. SEDDON .- The price the trustees offered the land at the Government were prepared to give her, and then they altered their minds and asked to withdraw it. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - The honourable member for Hawke's Bay, who has just sat down, has in the closing sentences of his speech said that he holds still the view- which he always held. I think the fact that he does hold those views is very largely re- sponsible for the position that his party now occupy. Captain RUSSELL .- I cannot change my views for that. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The fact that the honourable gentleman is incapable of ri-in- to a change of public opinion on these 499- tions does personally to his honesty of purpose very great credit; but I think it also shows that he is not so sagacious as a leader as went men like Sir Harry Atkinson and Sir Je Hall, who, in days past, realised the chair> which come over public opinion, and were po- pared to lead parties from time to time to accomplish what they believed the publ required. With regard to the Bill now boer the House, the Right Hon. the Premier he explained that it is largely a technical B. and I do not at all think there is any chats of policy of an important character in ats of the clauses of the Bill. Sir. I ich ... that the policy of the Government and of :h. Liberal party on the land - for - settlements I question is one that is right and just and neces- sary in this country, and that that polley is responsible for them being in the position that 