394 . District Courts Bill. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .-- Sir, I congratulate the Minister of Justice on bring- ing forward this Bill. It is a necessary measure, and one that has been found to be necessary by the new jurisdiction that has been exercised by the Courts under "The Indictable Offences Summary Jurisdiction Act, 1900." I feel sure. however, the Minister will not consider that what I wish to say is said in a spirit of hostile critisiem when I suggest to him that there are several defects in that system which have been found in the working, and which, of course, could not have been apparent to the Hon. the Minister when he fathered the Bill last year. In the first place, there is no power and no pro- vision in the statute of 1900 for the depositions from the lower Court to come before the Su- preme Court. The second defect is that there is no provision in the Act of 1900 for the Crown to be represented at the hearing when the prisoner is sentenced. That is found to be ob- ectionable, and the Crown Prosecutor in the city here applied to the Under-Secretary for Justice, who suggested that, notwithstanding , fore a District Court Judge no grand jury the fact that this had not been provided for, ; the Crown Solicitor should nevertheless attend, in order that any question which might be re- ferred to him might be answered, and in order that the depositions could be brought before the Court, in order that the Judge could be seized of the Crown's side of the story apart from the other side. I hope the Minister of Justice will remedy these two defects. Perhaps the better plan would be to bring in an amendment of "The Indictable Offences Summary Jurisdic- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 tion Amendment Act, 1900," for the Act re- ! it shows the Minister in charge has taken hud quires amendment in that direction. I hope ; the Minister will take these suggestions from ; me and embody them in the Bill, as he has i general ground of the status of the District embodied every suggestion I made in regard to the Police Offences Bill. I do not agree with the 1st clause of the Bill. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .-- This Bill was introduced last session, and met with a good deal of opposition from various monbers, and , ceedingly pleased it has had such a favourab ?? especially members of the legal profession. The chief argument the layman has against it is the : House. I may say it effects precisely the same existing condition of the District Court Judges, : and, for myself, I would not consent to their ! year ago, and one which I also gave notice . ? having enlarged powers unless their status is placed on a more satisfactory footing. If this Bill is proceeded with I shall endeavour, in Com- mittee, to put a clause in putting the District Court Judges on the same footing as the Supreme Court Judges. I hold that it is wrong to enlarge their powers, and give them the legal powers of a Supreme Court Judge, and yet allow them to be removable by the Minister of the day, whatever Ministry is in power. It is entirely wrong, in my opinion, to give them these ex- tended powers and vet leave them in that position. We had an instance of this only the other day, where a member of this House came before a District Court Judge in some civil case, and that District Court Judge refused to try the case, because he said his salary, - or the in- ference to be drawn was that his salary-might [HOUSE.] District Courts Bill. [JULY 16 An Hon. MEMBER .- He was a weak-kneed Judge. Mr. HERRIES .- I do not think he was a weak-kneed Judge. How many of us would like to be put in that same position? How many of us are there who would not be un- consciously biassed either one way or the other if we knew that our salary depended on the judgment we gave? and I say that is a wrong position to put any Judge in. Here we are going to extend their powers and give them the privilege of inflicting a sentence of seven years' penal servitude, and yet we are not going to give them the position of Supreme Court Judges. Another important objection to this extension of power was given last year. I believe. by the honourable member for the Grey. H. pointed out that though we extended their criminal powers, yet no provision was made for trial by the grand jury, as if a man is indicted before a Supreme Court Judge a bill has to !w found by the grand jury. But if a man is indicted under this extension of powers be- is summoned, and the consequence is that one principle of the British Constitution is abolished by this Bill. With regard to the 3rd clause of the Bill, it was not in the Bill vi last session, and, so far as I can see. there is not the objection to that-except the generat objection as to the status of the District Cour: Judges-as there is to the previous clause. The previous clause is a little altered from last year. It does not include all the offences included in. i the Bill last year, and I am glad to see this, a> to some of the objections raised by members of the legal profession last session ; but, on the Court Judges, I shall certainly object to hair ! their powers extended any further than thev are at present. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill, and I am ex- reception from a number of members in this purpose I aimed at in a Bill I introduced s this year, but which I will have very much ple sure in withdrawing -when the proper tin. comes - in favour of the one now before the House. It will be beneficial in preventius large expense ; and not only that, but it will be conducive to justice itself by enabling person to be tried in places where evidence is east available. With regard to the objection which has been taken by the last speaker. I do not think it is at all tenable. I have never m my experience in New Zealand or elsewhere heard of a District Judge being treated bads by any Parliament or Minister. These phantoms that seem to be in the minds of one or two of our Judges are so purely imaginary that I am astonished that such objections should be taken. Their position is in no way menaced : neither is the position of Stipendiary Magi- 