reference to the signature of the Right Hon. the { the country, would at once rise with a certain Premier, His Excellency, ou his own motion, had cabied to Melbourne requesting the Premier to allow his signature to be attached, and a reply was received by His Excellency authorising the Premier's signature to be attached to the Proclamation. That was done in the body of the Proclamation, but through some error it was omitted from the signatures. Then, in the second Gazette the correction was made, and the name of the Premier appeared among the signatures at the foot of the Proclamation. BIBLE-READING IN SCHOOLS. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If they will this session introduce 3 Bill, or move such resolution as will enable the electors to express their opinion on the question of Bible-reading in schools ? The question of Bible-reading in schools was be- coming more of a live question every session of Parliament. The number of petitions already presented this session was sufficient to show that there was a very strong feeling upon the subject. Northern members could not fully recognise or realise the feeling there was down South, but they would notice by the morning's paper that remarks had been made on the pre- vious day by the Rev. Mr. Elmslie in Christ- church to this effect. He said, -.. " A referendum, as suggested at present, might be against those in favour of the reform, from the fact that a large number of them, especially in the North Island, were not suffi- ciently interested or awake to the vast im- portance of the subject, but if it were taken now there might be a majority for it in Otago and Southland." He quoted from this speech for the purpose of showing that in Otago considerable feeling existed on the subject. He would express no opinion as to the question of Bible-reading in schools : all he had to say upon it now was that, in his opinion, the question should be removed from the political arena. He trusted that before the next general election this would be one of the questions that no longer could be made a ery as to the acceptability or otherwise of any particular candidate. He wanted, how- ever. to take the first opportunity, without unduly enlarging upon it, to make one quota- tion from this speech. The reverend gentleman said. - " He was satisfied that the absence of biblical teaching in schools was one of the reasons for the prevalent juvenile immorality. During the past twenty years thousands of children had been turned out of our public schools. and were the young men and women who were causing so much distress at the present time." Now he (Mr. Arnold) was sure that those who bad been in any part of the colony that had been visited by the Duke, and had seen the great gatherings of boys and girls; or any who were brought in contact, through business or otherwise. with the schools and the children who attended them; or who were brought in feeling of indignation with regard to these statements. He would not enlarge upon them at the present time, but in all probability should do so hereafter, and strive to show, as he believed could be shown, that the amount of immorality and of wrong-doing in this colony by the young people was not so great as it was in other places, where religion was taught in the public schools. He might say further that, even if the facts were as suggested, they were not so as a consequence of the educational system of the colony, but from external causes altogether. In asking the question, he might be told that a Bill dealing with the matter would be passed ; but, even if the Bill passed, it would be necessary for the Government to bring down a measure with regard to this question, or such resolutions as would cause the question to be submitted to the people for their vote. He trusted the Premier would be able to answer the question, and give satis- faction to those who were petitioning the House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he should be most happy to give effect to the request contained in this question: in fact, the Bill was now before the House-namely, the Referendum Bill, by which machinery was provided for referring questions of this kind to the people. He might say he agreed with the honourable member that the sooner these matters were settled the sooner they would prevent the population, - the young people, and the colony, -- from being traduced and slan- dered. To read, as he had done, such charges reported as coming from the lips of one who at all events, from his calling, was supposed to be charitable, and who was not supposed to injure maliciously and wantonly his fellow-beings --- then, such being so, if the reports were true, he had directly slandered the whole of the children who had attended the public schools of the colony for years past ; and not only the children of the colony to-day, but their parents, who had also when children attended the public schools, and the whole people -- was very sad. Then, when they turned to the statistics of crime in the colony they could contrast them with the statistics in other countries. New Zealand stood out in bold relief in this respect as superior to any country that was Church- ridden ; and, when they looked back to the time when the Churches were dominant, and looked at the condition of the people with re- gard to crime and the condition of the people at the present time, it made one pause and wonder how prejudice could blind one who should know better the true and sad condition of things in the past. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said he could not help rising to a point of order. This was surely de- batable matter arising upon the question. He had not interrupted the member for Dunedin City, though he thought he had introduced debatable matter. Mr. SPEAKER said he did not think the Hon. the Premier had transgressed the rules of 