perhaps necessary, we made a mistake in pass- ing that Act, and also in passing the extra bonus to members. I agree with the contention that has been made that the salaries of mem- bers ought to be raised, but I think we ought to do it in the only just and fair way-that is, to raise it at the close of one Parliament, to apply to those who come in at the next election, so that the matter might be entirely in the hands of the people, and if they do not approve of it they can elect members who will reduce it. I hope that will be the course pursued by the Government. The Speech also refers to the question of rating on unimproved values, and making a mandatory law in that respect. Personally, I believe in the principle of local option in most things; however, there is no reason why the people should be given a local option on this question any more than on the question of making petty larceny an offence. It is robbery, and nothing short of it, to collect taxes on a man's improvements, and therefore it is fair and just that the local authorities should only be given power to tax that which de- rives benefit from the spending of the taxes. But I hope the same principle will be carried further in the incidence of taxation. The only fair and honest way of collecting national revenue, as well as municipal revenue, is to tax land-values. The time has arrived, and I believe the sentiment of the country will support an increase of the present land-tax by 1d. in the pound. I should be very glad to give all the assistance I can in securing an advance in that direction. Then we would secure a true line of party demarca- tion. There we would have a principle to guide us, and the sooner we get that line of demarca- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 tion, founded on principle, the better it will be for the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the income- tax ? Mr. FOWLDS .- I have no time to enter into a discussion of an income-tax ; but there is no more reason for taxing incomes than there is for taxing improvements. If the principle of the income-tax is right - namely, that a man should pay in accordance to his ability to pay-why not apply it to every branch of the public service, and when a man wants to post a letter, or travel by the train, charge him according to his ability to pay, because those institutions are only ren dering service to the people in the same way that police protection, free education, or any other service does. Unless we take some action in the direction of increasing the present land- tax, we shall presently be in the midst of one of those land booms, the prelude to another burst and period of distress. In many portions of this country land is being sold at prices altogether out of proportion to the producing capacity of the land, and nothing but an increase in the land-tax will stop the speculating in land values, and save the country from a depression such as we have had in the past. Many claims have been made as to the value of the services of the Government in giving us the prosperous times we have had during the last few years ; I believe the principal act of the Liberal party that has tended to produce pro- sperity in New Zealand was the abolition of the old property-tax, and the substitution of the land tax. The economic effect of that change had more to do with producing prosperity than all the other legislation that has been passed by the Government. I think I have now oc cupied a sufficiently long time. I hope the ses- sion on which we have entered will be produc- tive of good work, and I hope also that we shall take care not to rush through legislation in the hurried and incomplete way that we sometimes did last session. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) .- Sir, I had, like other honourable members, no intention of speaking, because of an infirmity. I am suffer- ing from a cold; but I will endeavour, if the House will permit me, to make a few remarks, which shall be as concise as possible. In com- mon with other honourable members, I con- gratulate the mover and seconder of the Address in Reply. They have done their duty satisfao- torily, and have shown that they can deal with important subjects. The death of the Queen is, of course, a subject to which we must make some reference. We could not help it, and we cannot help remarking that she was a good Queen. The visit of the Royal party is, in my opinion, very important, although I do not put a very great value upon Royalty itself. But it is important from the circumstances connected with the visit. The Royal party has been ac- companied by the representatives of the great commercial papers of London, and by the repre- sentatives of wealth and commerce, and when those people go back to the Old Country they will say that this is the place for the investment of surplus wealth. They have travelled very nearly from the North Cape to the Bluff ; they have seen a very great part of New Zealand, and everywhere there has been evidence of content and an absence of poverty. A country such as this, endowed as it is by Nature with all the best elements of comfort and health, must be an attractive country for investment. The general prosperity of the country is not due to the Government ! No; but probably the Government is due to the general prosperity of the country. The Govern- ment, with the exception of the Railway service and Post and Telegraph services, have nothing whatever to do with the development of the country ; and they do not interfere with it so long as they do not impose upon us what my honourable friend who has just sat down has called "restrictive legislation," that will prevent the development of the natural products of the country. They will do well if in this matter they restrain themselves ; and I hope they will restrain themselves more than they have done in the past, because they went as far as they could go to strangle native industries by the most cruel protective tariffs, which have not worked out what was expected of them. What did they do for boots? My honourable friend Mr. Tanner, a gentleman who-I do not say it disrespect- fully-represented the boot-manufacturing in- dustry, came to the House in 1895, and he was an important member of the Labour party which induced the Government to make the extraordi- 