and he will get his £18 a year; but the man who has been careful, and who has, out of his small earnings, accumulated sufficient to provide a decent home and shelter for his family, will be stripped of his pension ; and that is not the mind and will of this House. And yet we have been told by the Hon. the Premier that the Government represents the representatives of the people, and the mind of the representatives of the people. In this re- spect he has not done so, and this is not the only case. With regard to initiative by the Ministry, does the Ministry give effect to public opinion when it is ripe? Public opinion had been ripe for years and years on and with regard to the abolition of plural voting in our municipalities, and the Ministry were ap- proached over and over again to put a stop to the power of casting five votes which then existed under our law. But it was not in the interests of the Executive-not, mind, of the party -to bring legislation down on the subject ; and it is just as well to face this fact. The Pre- mier might just as well have been open and frank with the members of this House. It is not always conducive to the interests of the Minis- try to advance a reform, although public opinion may be ripe ; it may serve the interests of the Ministry better to hold it over till just before an election. " Keep something in hand to go to the constituencies with, because it helps to get votes, and if we get a majority we shall be able to stick to those benches, and if we do not get a majority we shall not." But, whether we have the present occupants of the Treasury benches here or not, if the people of this colony want a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 certain policy they will get it, if you give them the opportunity of expressing their minds and will ; but we have so bound up and tied down the electors that they cannot give effect to their mind and will, unless they get the con- sent of the honourable gentlemen who sit on those benches. What a pitiable spectacle we had here last session, over and over again, members pleading with Ministers in charge of a Bill for certain amendments. What happened in regard to the Land and Income Assessment Bill when we wanted to save native bush from being liable to pay taxes ? The honourable member for Auckland, Mr. Napier, urged that the man who kept 250 acres of bush on his land because he loved the bush should be free from taxation. Would the Minister agree to that ? No. Then, honourable members had to ask him to consent to 50 acres ; but no, he would not. Then, we had to go on our knees and beg him to agree to 25 acres. Yes; he said he would agree to that. But if the Minister had agreed to 500 acres-I say this with all due respect to the members of this House -- the same body of members who went into the lobby and fixed the amount at 25 acres would have followed the Minister into the lobby to fix it at 500. The Prime Minister must confess the truth of what I state; yet he says that the House represents the mind and will of the community. We do not give the community a chance. We pass laws, and put them on our statute-book, and · VOL. CXVI .- 7. community at all. They have never been before the constituencies. What attempt was made last session in regard to the proposed licensing legislation ? The Bill that was brought down here had never been before the consti- tuencies. Was it brought in by the Premier at the wish of the Government party, or where did it come from ? It came from forty repre- sentatives of the licensed victuallers in this city, who sent a deputation to the Premier, and wished the term of license to be extended from three to nine years. The trade wanted it fixed at nine years ; and the secretary, who was one of the deputation to the Premier, stated in a report sent to the licensed victuallers' organ in Auckland that they wanted the term to be nine years, but the Premier thought that nine years was too long, that it might be fixed at six. That Bill was not before the country. The Prime Minister stated that we should not go too far, that we must not get beyond public opinion ; and yet a deliberate attempt was made to pass that into law, although 1 venture to think, if put to the country by referendum the electors would have voted dead against it. That was what happened last year. Then, with regard to the abolition of plural voting in the country districts : the country has been ripe for many years for that. The country has also been ripe for many years past for a remission of taxation. The finances of the country were in a position to have enabled the Government to have remitted that taxation many years ago. When it was remitted the country received the announcement with open arms, and the people wanted more taxation re- mitted from the necessaries of life, and more direct taxation collected ; and I venture to say that the community would be far better off with more direct taxation and less indirect taxa- tion than there is now. The youngest Minister of the Executive deplored the fact that we had got rid of an official Opposition, and that the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had re- signed his position as leader of the Opposition. I believe the honourable gentleman is a native of New Zealand. Then, I am very sorry that a young New-Zealander should wish to keep in existence a system of government which has not been conducive to the interests of this colony. I hoped he would have been one who would have marched in the direction of getting rid of the "musty, fusty precedents, " because that is what he was bolstering up when he was asking for a continuance of His Majesty's official Opposition. I want to see a young New Zealand party in this country, and if I do not come back again there are plenty of young New- Zealanders who will come in. I want them to start on these lines : that every man who comes to this House shall come in to support certain lines of reform, and shall not be bound down to either follow an official Opposition or an official Ministerial party, but to take for their guide the convictions within them to carry out the pledges they have given to their constituents with regard to measures of reform. I do not suggest that we shall be able to get rid of party 