Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister for Railways, If, in view of the fact that fire- wood is becoming scarcer, and has to be con- veved from a greater distance to the centres of population, the department will reduce the freight on firewood or convey it for a longer distance at the minimum rate ? He knew that the Minister was aware that a great deal of our forests were being knocked down, and consequently that firewood had to be ob- tained from a greater distance than formerly. As our forests went back, so the firewood got dearer. He had an idea that something of the kind he suggested in the question had been tried in the North Island, but he did not know whether it was with success He would suggest to the Hon. the or not. Minister that, in the interests of the working- classes who chiefly used firewood, and were not in a position to buy the more expensive article- coal -which also was becoming scarcer and dearer every day, the charges for the railway carriage of firewood should be made as cheap as possible. He thought that the railways might to some extent be made to work in the interests of the working-classes, so far as the cheap freight of firewood was concerned, especially in view of the fact that our forests were going away from the towns, and that coal was every day becom- ing dearer and dearer. The cost of living was increasing, and his object was to enable the great mass of the people .- the working-classes- to buy and obtain their supplies of fuel as cheaply as possible. Another reason he would strongly urge in favour of his proposal being given effect to was that a very large avenue of employment would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 consequently be opened up to our workmen in cutting firewood for the people of our towns. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) might say that the firewood rates now were already so low as to be unremunerative, and the existing rates were the lowest in the tariff. Special rates were tried on the Napier and Dunedin Sections as an experiment, in 1896 and 1897, in response to urgent representation that low rates would foster the firewood in- dustry and lead to increased traffic. The re- sults were, however, disappointing; the busi- ness did not increase, and loss of revenue resulted. The old rates had, therefore, to be reverted to. So that the actual trial put into operation in 1897 at the instance of urgent representations showed not only that it did not do what the honourable member in his sanguine temperament imagined, but it had the opposite effect-that was, that the carriage of firewood did not increase, and the depart- ment made a very heavy loss by it. The under- lving principle and guide to the Government in carrying on the railways was that everything carried on the railways should pay for the cost of its carriage. Firewood was now the lowest rate in the tariff, and it was not right to expect that the department should make a loss on the carriage of any particular article. If he could be assured that by reverting to the tariff of 1896-97 increased business would take place it would be a different matter. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Minis- ter of Justice, Whether he will have a report made as to the advisability of liberating Thomas Looney, now confined in the Mount View Lunatic Asylum? He did not know whether the Minister of Justice had made any investigation into this case, but he was in the asylum last year, and he had an interview with this young man, and he was assured he was no more insane than he (Mr. Pirani) was. He asked the attendant, and he had come to the same conclusion. His sister was really the offender, and the man got into trouble through her. It seemed to him (Mr. Pirani) that he had been there long enough for the offence he had committed. He would like to ask the Go- vernment to have an inquiry made into the man's condition ; and if what he had said was borne out by the investigation would they set him at liberty ? He thought the worst place in which to keep a sane man was a lunatic asylum. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said there were two sides to every question. This man Looney was serving a sentence of five years' imprisonment with hard labour, and had been transferred from the prison to the lunatic asylum. The usual course was for the asylum authorities to inform the prison authorities as to when a prisoner was fit for removal from the asy- lum. In this case no such notification had been forwarded, but he would promise the honour- able gentleman that he would have inquiries made, and if the asylum authorities certified that the prisoner was fit to be taken from the asylum he would be removed. The question as to whether he should be relieved from serving the remainder of his sentence was another matter. He would, as he had already said, obtain a report on the subject. INVERCARGILL POLICE-STATION. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister of Justice, If he will make provision for the erection of new cells at the Invercargill Police- station ? He hoped he would receive a favour- able answer in reply to this question. The cells referred to were a disgrace to the colony. He felt certain that if any members of the House were in those cells for a day they would make the House ring with their condemnation of the condition of the cells. It was desirable that police cells should be suitably constructed and kept in a respectable condition. These cells were simply dens-cold, dark, and wretchedly small. Some time ago a scandal arose in con- nection with the cells at Christchurch. Unless something was done they would have trouble in Invercargill. He contended that to thrust men into the cells at the Invercargill Police- station was a scandal and a disgrace to the Justice Department of this colony. It was, indeed, the essence of cruelty to put offenders in them. He felt certain if the Minister saw the cells he would not allow them to stand forty eight hours. There was only one course open-that was, to pull down the present out- of-date and disgraceful building and erect new and proper cells. 