Annett - Registration of Land Transfer - Lia- bility for Workmen's Wages-Railway through Pahiatua Electorate -- Workmen's Homes at Khan- dallah or Crofton -- Gorge Bridge-Morning Sit- tings-Workers' Right of Appeal Bill-Counties Act Amendment Bill - Rabbit Nuisance Bill - Cemetery Trustees Validation Bill - Local Au- thorities Indemnity Bill . - Referendum Bill -- Police Offences Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Dunedin City and Suburban Tramway Bill, Dunedin Waterworks Extension Bill, Templeton Domain Board Empowering Bill, School At- tendance Bill, Libel Bill (No. 2), Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. # SECOND READING. Land and Live-stock Auctions Bill. # FREE RAILWAY PASSES. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return giving the names of the indi- viduals to whom free passes were issued for the New Zealand Government railways during the three months ending 30th June, 1901. # SESSIONAL COMMITTEE. OLD-AGE PENSIONS REGULATIONS. - Mr. Arnold, Mr. Field, Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. Hanan, Mr. Herries, Mr. Hogy, Mr. Laurenson, Mr. Lethbridge, Mr. Palmer, and Mr. Seddon. COMMONWEALTH CELEBRATIONS. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 On the motion of Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The cost incurred by the New Zealand Government in connection with the representation of this colony at the inauguration of the Commonwealth in Sydney : (2) also the cost incurred by the New Zealand Government in connection with the representa- tion of the colony at the opening of the Federal Parliament in Melbourne. # COST OF THE ROYAL VISIT. On the motion of Mr. MONK (Waitemata), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, in detail, the expendi- ture by the Government in connection with the visit to New Zealand of His Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwall and York. # RAILWAY ROLLING-STOCK. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing separately,-(1) The number of engines, carriages, and wagons pur- chased or ordered outside the colony up to the 30th June last, for use on the Government railways : (2) the names and addresses of the makers or agents from whom such rolling-stock was purchased or ordered ; and (3) the cost of each such carriage, engine, or wagon when fitted up and placed on the rails ready for use. FOOD-STUFFS FOR SOUTH AFRICA. On the motion of Mr. MONK (Waitemata), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, -- (1) The number of bushels of oats sent from this colony to South Africa: (2) the number of tons of flour sent to the same country ; (3) the number of bushels of oats sent to the British Channel awaiting orders : (4) the number sent to Barcelona direct : and (5) the number of bushels of wheat sent to the two last-named destinations. COAL FOR GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing for the year ending 31st March. 1901, and the three months ending 30th June, 1901. the quantity of coal purchased for the Government railways; the return to show the nature of the coal, from whom purchased. the section of the railway on which the coal was or was to be used, and the price paid per ton. # RAILWAY ROLLING-STOCK. On the motion of Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, -(1) The amount already paid for rolling-stock manufactured outside the colony for the railways during the past four years, also the amount of liability for rolling-stock so manufactured on order or delivered to date : (2) the value of rolling-stock manufactured within the colony for the same period ; (3) the amount paid to British manu- facturers. also the amount paid to American manufacturers for rolling-stock since the 31st March, 1896. ## ROLLING-STOCK CONTRACTS. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a copy of any contract or contracts entered into during the last twelve months for the purchase of any rolling-stock for the New Zealand railways ; also a copy of all correspond- ence dealing with the purchase of rolling-stock during the same period. # OATS FOR SOUTH AFRICA. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the price paid on behalf of the Imperial Government for oats for transhipment to South Africa; the return to show the several contracts, quantities, and terms. # SOUTH AFRICAN CHARTERS. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklinh. it was ordered. That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The names and registered tonnage of all ships chartered by the New Zealand Government for the purposes of carrying troops, horses, or cargo from this colony to South Africa for the two years end- ing 30th June, 1901 ; (2) the terms of charter for each vessel : (3) the number of troops carried by each vessel ; (4) the names of the firms from whom such vessels were chartered ; (5) the 