habit of swooping down on the whole of the Canadian ports, returning with cargoes to the United States, while the Canadian vessels could only touch at one United States port. They could not reload for another, but were obliged to return to Canada. He brought the matter before the Washington Government, but they pooh-poohed it. They said, 'This is a mational question. You are only Governor- General of Canada, and you can have nothing to say about it.' The result was that Lord Elgin and his Ministers recommended Parlia- ment to impose taxes on vessels belonging to the United States passing through the Welland Canal from the lakes to the St. Lawrence River, thus almost prohibiting United States vessels from getting to the ocean from the lakes. The people of the United States were thus paid off in their own coin, so that they were obliged to grant reciprocity to English vessels." Canadian vessels at the present time, accord- ing to this gentleman . and he evidently knows what he is talking about are exempt from the operation of the American navigation-laws, and, if Canadian vessels are exempt, I say Australian vessels should also be exempt. I say that it is the duty of our Government to join with the Government of the Commonwealth in approach- ing the Government of the United States, asking them to amend their shipping-laws so that Aus- tralasian steamers may be able to trade between . American ports in the same way that we allow American ships to trade between Australasian ports. Now, the new steamers of the Oceanic Company have been referred to disparagingly on account of the breakdowns that have taken https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 place, and their consequent inability to keep up with the time-table dates ; but any one who has visited those steamers and seen them, as I have, must admit that they are magnificent vessels, and vessels calculated to do a great deal of good to this country ; and if we have to choose between two evils, between putting up with the hardship of the American shipping-laws or discouraging the present San Francisco mail- service, let us stick to the service, in the hope that time and diplomacy will bring about a better and more satisfactory state of things. There has been a good deal of boasting about the so-called success of the 4-per-cent. loan which was floated in the colony, but I do not think there is anything to boast of when we remember that the debentures may be held in London just as well as in the colony, and that the interest is payable in London just as well as in the colony. Probably the greater part of the debentures are held in London at the present time. And another point we ought to re- member is that a 4-per-cent. loan to the Govern- ment is as good as 4} per cent. invested on mortgage, because there is no mortgage-tax to pav. We should also remember that the other colonies have been able to raise money at a much lower rate. The Premier told us that it cost them 4 per cent. Fortunately I have it on record as far as Victoria is concerned :- " Tenders for the Government loan of half a million at 3 per cent., the minimum being fixed at 96, were opened to-day. $549,000 was tendered for. Tenders from £96 1s. to .£97 5s., amounting to 40 per cent., were accepted. The balance was taken at $97 1s .- Melbourne, 5th June." Victoria placed their 3 per cents. at about 97, and New South Wales raised their last loan locally at 3₺ per cent. Sir J. G. WARD .- They both had to pay for underwriting their loans, and we did not. Mr. MASSEY .- Our loan cost us 4 per cent., so that in any case I do not see that there is much to boast about. Then, there is the para- graph in the Speech in regard to the earth- hunger. Undoubtedly, an earth-hunger exists -or, at least, there is a keen demand for land for agricultural purposes. What happened the other day in connection with a block of 5,000 acres of land in the King-country ? For that block of land 2,900 applications were received. I believe that the Minister of Lands means well, so far as the North Island is con- cerned, but I can tell him that there is most intense dissatisfaction amongst the settlers of Taranaki and Auckland at the slowness with which the King-country lands are being opened up. We are only now beginning to appreciate the Auckland lands. Every Auckland member knows that there are blocks of land that a few years ago were regarded as almost worthless, but what is their position to-day? They are growing grasses suitable to the climate and soil, and they are carrying stock accordingly. There are large areas of second-class land in the Auckland District which can be settled if sufficient inducement is given by the Legisla- ture to have the land opened up on reasonable terms, roads made, and bridges built over the streams, and settlers given security of tenure. There is no doubt that the whole of these lands can be settled, and the sooner they are settled the better it will be not only for Auckland, but for the whole of the colony. I have little more to say, but I wish to conclude with a few words regarding the conduct of the business of the House last session. I have no intention, Sir, of making any reflection on the Chair, but I desire to speak of the way in which the business was put before the House by the Government. Last session for the first two months little or nothing was done, the third month was a little better, and in the fourth month members were almost worked to death to make up for lost time. The consequence has been that a lot of useless, contradictory, and unworkable legisla- tion, which will have to be amended this session, was placed on the statute-book. Of course, in former years the Premier would have cast the blame on the so-called obstruction by the Opposi- tion, but last session the Opposition declined to discuss the Address in Reply, they refused to dis- cuss the Financial Statement, and they assisted the Government in every possible way; and vet it took eighteen weeks to get through the business of the session. There is not a local body in the country that could not have done better. And yet I am quite satisfied that the large majority of members of this House want to do the business in a businesslike manner, and in reasonable hours. But why not ? I want 