Mr. MILLS (Minister of Customs) .- So very many important events have taken place since we met here last that I think it is necessary and imperative for me to briefly allude to them. In the first place, I desire to express the deep sorrow which we all felt when our late beloved Queen was called away from among her loving subjects to her last home. As a colonial I wish to say a few words on this point, so as to emphasize the good work which the old pioneers of this colony did in their day by inculcating the pure spirit of loyalty and affection in their children, and teaching them to realise what it meant to have the protection of the great Power under which we have always lived, and to foster a feeling of reverence and love for the head of that great Empire on which the sun never sets. We have also to congratulate our new King, Edward the Seventh, who is now holding the place which our late beloved sovereign held so long and so worthily ; and, judging from the utterances he has made, both before and since his accession to that high position, I am cer- tain the sympathies of the Crown are with every party of this distant colony. I think it has also been plainly shown that the loyalty of the colonists is worthy of all that has been said of them during the last few months, and they have fully demonstrated the fact during the time many of our men have been away in South Africa. Passing from this, we have just had a visit from the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, who have represented Royalty in our colony, and I am sure every one present must have been more than pleased to welcome them to New Zealand. To meet them, see them, and to recognise the quiet, gentle, and unassuming courtesy with which every one was treated, has been unmistakable evidence of the good feeling which exists between the colony and the Mother-country, and must make us all realise that we are an integral part of that great Empire to which we are all so proud to belong. I have very much pleasure in congratulating the Hon. Sir John McKenzie on accepting the high position he has recently had conferred upon him. There is not a member in the House who could get up and say it is not well deserved, and so we must all feel pleased he has seen fit to accept the honour which we know perfectly well he realises, and will worthily uphold. have also to congratulate the Hon. Sir Joseph Ward on the high position he has attained, and there can be no doubt that his determined energy has only received a very slight reward in the distinction conferred on him. We know perfectly well what the honourable gentleman has done as a private citizen in this country and as a leading politician, therefore I am very proud to be able to testify here to his ability, and to see that high distinction conferred upon him. I was pleased to have an opportunity of attending the reception at Auckland when the Duke and Duchess arrived, and also the great demonstration at Rotorua, where I witnessed a more than historical sight, being able to con- trast what is being done for the Maoris with what was their condition in former times; and I am quite satisfied that, if we lived for another hundred years, we should never see such a unique and interesting sight again. Regard- ing the distinction between the two races, and the treatment the Natives receive now and that meted out to them at former times, there can be no doubt whatever that the best of feeling exists as between them and the Europeans, and it is a triumph in Imperial colonising to be able to look back and see the result of what has been done for the Natives of New Zealand. Let us contrast the position of the Native race when the first settlers came to the colony and what we have done and are doing now to improve the Maori race. I say that everything possible is being done to preserve and improve that fine race of people. We also had a visit from the Imperial and Indian troops, which was a very great object-lesson, especially to those, like myself, who are New-Zealanders, and who have not had the opportunity of seeing a representa- tive number of soldiers from different parts of the Empire, many of whom had acquired great distinction in the service of the Queen and the Empire. When journeying down south with them it was very pleasing to me to notice how astonished they were to see the progress and capability of the colony ; and, judging by the numbers of children who attended at every station to see the men pass, one could hardly imagine that our birth-rate has been decreasing, as we find it is. The soldiers received a warm welcome from the inhabitants in every place they visited, and they were astonished to realise what the fruitfulness of the country was. We also had in connection with the Royal visit a number of high representatives of the Press, and I am very proud to say, after hearing their expressions of opinion-which were given with- out reservation-that a feeling has been created amongst them which will be lasting and have a good effect on their return to the Old Country ; because one and all stated that they were astonished to see the progress of this colony, and what a wonderful country it was ; and one can only hope that in time an opportunity will be afforded them to return here again. I regret that they could not go to Milford Sound and the Marlborough Sounds and see the majestic and quiet beauty of both places, but I feel sure that they will carry away with them a vivid recol- SH lection of the wondrous scenery they have passed through during their short visit to this colony. In my opinion, it will mean a great increase to the tourist traffic, as people learn what wonder- ful attractions we have to offer them, and it must mean very great advantages for us later on. The Minister who has charge of that department, I feel certain, will spare no pains in the future to make it what it ought to be. Unfortunately, I was not present when the leader of the Oppo- sition commenced his speech, and with what I have heard I am seriously disappointed. I ex- pected to hear a good round speech occupying an hour, pointing out all the defects in the Address, whereas we have had three speeches in the last hour and a half. That shows me clearly that, so far as the Opposition is concerned, they, like many others, are entirely in accord with what the Governor's Speech has told them is going to 