FARMERS' UNION. Mr. MONK ( Waitemata) .-- Honourable mem- bers will remember that at a sitting last week the Premier charged the honourable member for Franklin and myself with having instigated those who have been engaged in the formation of the Farmers' Union. The honourable mem- ber for Franklin denied it, and, as soon as I could get the opportunity, I craved the same pri- vilege of the House to emphatically express my denial of having any complicity with that matter. I find, Mr. Speaker, that last Satur- day evening the Right Hon. the Premier made a statement at Pahiatua the very opposite to the denial that he heard me make across this House. This is the report of his statement in 11.0. the morning paper : "The member for Waitemata had admitted that the union was initiated at his suggestion." The evening paper, in recording the Premier's remarks, says that "Mr. Monk was its father, and other members of Yesterday I re- the Opposition its sponsors." ceived a telegram from a Mr. Glass saving, " Did you tell the Premier you suggested me start Far- mers' Union ?" Now, Sir, it is not that I object to any false statements being made regarding myself so much as the imputation that I am interfer- ing with the honour which belongs to others. I have always throughout my life aimed -- and, I hope, always shall-that any statements I may make shall, to the best of my ability, be absolutely correct, and the Premier received my denial as being correct ; yet afterwards, for his personal purposes, he makes this statement, and causes an impression to go abroad through- out the country that I have falsely been assum- ing to myself a privilege which I am not desirous of assuming, and that I have been interfering with that to which I had no right, and would be falsehood on my part to assume. Perhaps Mr. ()'Meara, the honourable member for Pahiatua, who is ejaculating, has had something to do with what I am complaining of; perhaps he can throw light on the reason for such conduct. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) .- I find that in regard to some of the remarks made by the Premier my name has been brought into the report in question. It is stated that the Farmers' Union was a political organization, and fought against me during the last election. I made an interjection at the time the Premier was speaking to the effect that the union when first started did oppose me throughout the election, and that I fully believed at the time that it did so : but after receiving explanations from a number of those who joined the union to the effect that they denied all complicity with or any reference to political matters in any shape or form, I accepted that denial, because it came from gentlemen in whom I had considerable confidence; but I have no hesitation in saving that at the first start of the union it had political objects in view. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- When I made the statement in the House the other day the mem- ber for Franklin rose and denied the paternity, but the member for Waitemata did not. The member for Waitemata further stated that he made the suggestion to the farmers to form a Mr. MONK .- In the House. Mr. SEDDON. - " In the House." Well. as this union was started in the next electorate to the honourable member's- Mr. MONK .- No. Mr. SEDDON. - It started at Hokianga, and I understand that that is in the next electorate to Waitemata. If you take that side of the Island, and take the electorate which goes down to and including Dargaville, although there is a slight wedge caused by the Maryd. L electorate, you will find that I am right, and the honourable gentleman is only splitting straws. But the honourable gentleman will not deny what led me to make that assertion. Here is the platform of the Farmers' Union : The first is, " That there shall be expenditure on the passing estimates. and before the Appro- priation Act passed, and virtually the Auditor and Controller-General is to be dispensed with." Another was "That there should be no ac. quiring of land for settlement nutil all the Crown and Native lands have been disposed of." Mr. MONK. Is this a personal explanation ? Mr. SPEAKER .- I do not quite see the con- nection yet. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not wish to do the honourable gentleman any injustice. Another plank was " That the Crown tenants shall have the right of acquiring the freehold at any time during their lease." The next plank was .. Thi there should be no compulsory taking of lands for settlement until all the Crown and Native lands had been disposed of." The next was " That union candidates were to be selected by the union, and in the centres only." And the next was that the Great North Road and no other candidates were to be voted for-was in be maintained by the Government and metalled by the Government. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - I rise to a point of order. I would like to know wis! this has to do with the personal explanation of the honourable member for Waitemata. Mr. SPEAKER .- I really think it has no bearing on the point raised by the honourable member for Waitemata. Mr. SEDDON .- Very well, Sir, I must how to your ruling ; but I would like to say that every point in the Auckland Farmers' Union programme has been agreed to by the honour- able member, and he stated in the House he had urged the farmers to combine. GOVERNMENT WHIP. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). -- I have an an- mouncement to make to the House. The Government have appointed Mr. Carneross te be one of the Government Whips. The health of the honourable member for Caversham will not permit of his continuing in that position. I feel sure that we are all delighted that his health has considerably improved, and we are pleased to have him with us again. We regret that circumstances prevent him continuing it office, but we feel sure that the selection made will be recognised on all sides of the House as one that will be conducive to the carrying on of 