friends of the Liberal party to occupy the time of the House for any great length ; but I can compliment both the mover and seconder of the Address for their well-chosen remarks, and I did expect that the leader of the Opposition would give us, in his usual forcible words, some- thing like a real denunciation of those wicked Liberals who continue to occupy the Treasury benches. However, I came here just in time to hear him give utterance to the greatest demo- cratic truism he has ever uttered in this House, and that was, " We are all equal." Unquestion- ably so. But the funny thing was the remark he made in reference to the senior member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), who, he said, was last session very much like a roaring lion, but was now under the influence of the lion- tamer, and was therefore not his equal. Sir, there is no lion-tamer. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, but there is a tamed lior, Mr. MILLS .- Yes, Sir, and a good many of them among the Opposition; but while there may be one among the Liberals who was ex- pected by others to take up a different attitude to what he holds to-day, because he spoke out very strongly last session, we find that there are something like nineteen or twenty honour- able members, who have openly and consistently opposed this party for years, who are now pretty well satisfied with the position of affairs. Why, we will find before the debate on this Address is over that they agree with everything the Government is going to provide this session. So far, I think the honourable senior member https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 for Christchurch City has shown his wisdom in telling the country what he thought about us, and then in proving after all that he may have looked at things from a different point of view, http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero and now sees that things are going on as they ought to go, and that there was nothing better before the country and nothing better that could be done. I have no doubt that some honour- able members will tell us that the Speech is too long ; but I leave honourable members to say whether it is not a comprehensive Speech, and whether it does not contain matters worthy of the attention of every honourable member who sits in this House. I say it is ; and the more one looks into it the more information one will find it contains. I admit it is not like what used to obtain under the old system. When I first came into this House I was told that the Governor's Speech should be known for its emptiness- information was conspicu- ous by its absence ; but the Liberal party has gone outside the old regime altogether, and they come forward with what they believe to be best in the interest of the country, and they prefer to tell it at the very earliest opportunity, so as to allow the people to digest it before the session is many weeks old. I shall look forward with some interest to what our honour- able friends in the Opposition will tell us with regard to it ; and, whether they have elected a leader or not, I shall look upon the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay still as the leader of the Opposition, and one that I think be his political views, we all have a very high respect for him. Passing onward, I have a few words to say with regard to the penny postage. We have heard nothing from the honourable member with regard to that. Surely that was a matter worthy of his attention. It is most gratifying to know the system has been recognised and adopted by many other coun- tries, but I regret to learn that our Australian cousins have not seen fit to adopt the penny- post system, and that they continue to sur- charge our letters. There has been a good deal said with regard to our federating with the Australian Colonies, but, if we may judge from this first attempt to join hands, there does not seem very much encouragement to federate. However, federation is a very broad question, and one that requires a great deal of attention, and no doubt it will be thoroughly discussed when the report comes before the House for Therefore I have no intention consideration. at present to refer at any length to that subject. Then, the trade with South Africa is a matter which honourable members should give close attention to. It appears to me that there is a growing trade with those colonies, and a trade which ought to be conserved, and this colony ought to secure a fair share of it, even suppos- ing it may involve a present expenditure of a few thousand pounds while the trade is in its infancy. The general opinion is that there is, and must be for some years to come, at any rate, a very large consumption of the natural pro- ducts of this colony ; and, realising that fact, it behoves those who are interested to think out and suggest means for New Zealand partici- pating in the trade with the South African colonies. There can be no doubt that, if we are a good business community, before long we shall have a large trade with South Africa, and I think the export of cereal products is a mat- ter worthy of very great attention. Then, there is the question of State coal-mines. I believe the leader of the Opposition referred to that matter briefly in my absence. It is a subject which has often come before us on previous occasions, but it has now come before the House in a more tangible form, and surely it was a question which might occupy our at- tention for a quarter of an hour, at any rate. Sir, I regard the Government as the trustees of the people over a large estate, containing im- mense mineral deposits of great value, and, that being so, I contend it is quite time some steps were taken to start State coal-mines, so that the Government may provide its own fuel for our railways, and that the people may be sup- plied with coal at what I would call a reasonable figure. I also expected to hear the reference to the fire-brigades criticized. For myself, I am pleased to sce, Sir, that this important matter is now assuming something like a proper form. I have long held that fire-brigades should be treated somewhat as semi-soldiers. They are certainly worthy of more attention and of more assistance than they have been receiving in the past. They fight that terrible enemy fire, and we often hear of them doing deeds of heroism 