inspected it, and the Hon. the Minister him- self had seen the land; and he believed the Supervising Valuer at Auckland had been in- structed to examine and report upon it. So far as he knew, all the gentlemen who had inspected the land, including the Minister, considered the price was reasonable and that the land was suit- able. Under the circumstances, he considered that Auckland had been unfairly treated in this matter; and, seeing the large population and the congested state of some parts of the City of Auckland, something should be done. He was a little surprised that the three progressive members who represented the City of Auckland, who supported the Government, had done no- thing to help him in this matter, and that it had been left to himself, a so-called Conservative member, to bring it forward. He hoped the Minister would at once attend to this matter. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state that the attention of the Land Purchase Board was called to this matter some time ago, and reports and valuations of several suitable areas had been obtained, on which the Board would make recommendations very shortly. This question had not been entirely overlooked, although the honourable member had cast reflections on the Auckland members. He had received several communications from those Auckland members on the subject, and he thought it unfair for the honourable member, in theirabsence, to say they had done nothing to help, because they had approached the Go- vernment on the matter, not only in writing, but also by waiting upon himself personally. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked if the Minister would lay the correspondence on the table. Mr. DUNCAN said, Yes. The train service, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 he thought, could be very easily overcome. Per- sonally, he thought that the land was not too dear, and that something would have to be done for Auckland. That was his opinion. STOATS, WEASELS, AND FERRETS. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will this session intro- duce legislation amending the law so as to enable stoats, weasels, and ferrets to be taken and killed in districts where there is no rabbit nuisance? He might state that these animals were in the neighbourhood of Christchurch, and he had had several complaints from his consti- tuents of fowl-roosts having been visited and fowls killed. In one street seventeen had been killed in one night, and in another street six or seven fowls were killed. There was no rabbit nuisance in Christchurch. He knew of a cer- tain part of Canterbury where a certain local body, in defiance of the law, offered a reward of 1s. a head for the slaughter of stoats and weasels. He asked the Minister to take power to himself by legislation to declare that in certain districts these animals might be taken and killed. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he was of opinion that it was not necessary to enforce the present regulation, and he did not think it would be enforced in Christchurch and Wellington, where these depredations were made ; but his experience was that very little damage indeed was done by stoats and weasels. Now and again ferrets had killed a bird. He had had stoats and weasels about his farm and stable, where fowls very often were, and he had never seen one killed yet by stoats and weasels. An Hon. MEMRER. - Did they take the chickens ? Mr. DUNCAN said they might take the chickens, but generally the old hen took good care of them ; but the ferrets kill young and old as well, and he had known that happen more than once. He thought it would be necessary to relinquish this measure, at any rate as far as the cities, and close settlement around the cities, was concerned. NATIVE BUSH RESERVES. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will, in throwing open land for selection, make reserves of native bush at reasonable intervals of distance ? This matter was brought very much home, particularly to the people in the neighbourhood of Christ. church, by the fact that the beautiful bush that used to be within a few miles of the city had nearly all disappeared. One might ride for many miles without seeing a native tree; whereas, had the authorities in the early days preserved 60 or 100 acres here and there, it would have been not only a source of very great pleasure to the people in the neighbourhood. but a source of profit to the country, and made He had noticed in the it more attractive. Gazette that considerable areas of land -- as much as 45,000 acres of dense bush had been thrown open for settlement, but he saw no re- cord of reserves having been made. What he asked was that the Minister might reserve 100 or 150 acres of bush land every four or five miles ; and what they had to legislate for was not merely for themselves, but for the people who came after them. When once the bush was destroyed there was no possibility of re- He thought storing it in its native beauty. that in future sales of blocks of land the Government should reserve bush sections of 100 or 150 acres at reasonable intervals of disance. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he was in entire sympathy with the question. and some six months ago or more he gave instruc- tions to the Commissioners of Lands to have a return made of the bush areas in their re-per- tive districts, so that he might deal with the question of bush reservation. In the past the matter had been shamefully neglected. It was thought by some people that in thirty or forty vears there would be scarcely any bush left in New Zealand if it was destroyed at the present rate, and if means were not taken to preserve it. As soon as all the returns were to hand the Government would go into the matter and see that proper reserves were made. When travel- ling through the country lately he gave in- structions that several patches of bush should be reserved. Most of the bush patches were in rough gullies, and the land was of little valte. He thought it was criminal to allow such patches of bush to be cleared out. 