at a cost of about $45, and the Railway Depart- ment had been asked if they would allow the work to be done. PAREORA WATER-RACE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, Whether he has received a memo- rial from settlers on No. 2 Block, Pareora, com- plaining of the ineffectiveness of the existing water-race; and whether he will cause the matter to be inquired into with a view to a remedy ? The previous case he had mentioned was in reference to too great a quantity of water ; this question referred to a case of too little water. When the sections on No. 2 Block, Pareora, were taken up the plan of the land showed a water-race for the supply of water to those taking up sections. The race, however, failed to bring down any water, and the settlers had asked him to meet them on the ground- which he did-and to advise them what to do in the matter. The result was that they made an application to the Government for assistance. He hoped the Minister would grant the request, and allow one of his engineers to go down to the neighbourhood referred to and go over the whole course of the race, and inform him what required to be done and what would be the ex- pense of putting the race in proper order. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said representations had been made on behalf of the settlers of the Pareora No. 2 Settlement that there was no water in the existing water- race which traversed this property. This race passed through the Pareora No. 2 Settlement, and also through other lands, and was con- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 structed by and was under the control of a Water-supply Board. The Government was not interested, nor required to provide for the maintenance of this race. It was entirely in the interests of the settlers who required it, upon whom at any time a special rate could be levied, if the Committee so desired it, for the repair or reconstruction of the race. It was understood that the intake was damaged by a flood and had never been properly repaired, consequently the race was now dry. This opened up a very large question. There were many of these water-race districts, and they were all under the control of special Boards. This matter, therefore, was entirely in the hands of the Board, and it was not the Go- vernment that should be called upon in any of these cases to remedy the defects that might exist. This was only a portion of the water- race area, and whatever was proposed should extend over the whole of it. PUBLIC HEALTH BILL. A message was received from the Legislative Council to the effect that this Bill had been passed with certain amendments. Sir J. G. WARD said the amendment was of really no consequence. It was the alteration of a clause affecting one in the original Act, in which it was provided that either a Stipendiary Magistrate or a Registrar was to issue certifi- cates of exemption from vaccination ; it was Mr. Duncan having authority to do so. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) would like to call attention to the fact that last session many Bills had come down from the Legislative Council with amendments, and they only had the word of the Minister in charge as to the purport of those amendments. He had after- wards found, on reading through the Brils when printed in the statutes, that the effect of some of the amendments was altogether different from the explanations which had been given of them by the Minister at the time the amendments were considered. For instance. there was the Native-land legislation, the Public Works Bill, the Noxious Weeds Bill. and others, in which the amendments had not been accurately stated to the House. He hoped the Minister would see in future that any amendments made by the Legislative Council were printed before the House was asked to agree to them. He did not say that the Minister had not correctly stated the amendments in this case, but in the cases be had mentioned the amendments were quite different from what the Minister had stated at the time. Mr. DUNCAN .- But they were very much better. Mr. HERRIES denied this statement. There had been a very important alteration made in the Noxious Weeds Bill, which was not at all in accordance with the intentions of the House ; and the same had been the case with the Public Works Bill, and the same with the Maori Lands Administration Bil. and in the latter case the impression givea by the Premier as to the effect of the altera- tion was quite different from what it was seen to be when the Bill was printed. When amendments were made by the Upper House he trusted steps would be taken to have them printed, so that they might see them, for when the Minister said they were not important alterations they were bound to take his word for it. The House was entitled to know exactly what the amendments were before being asked to agree to them. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he quite in- dorsed what had been said by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty. The hour of half-past five having arrived. Mr. SPEAKER left the chair. HOUSE RESUMED. At half-past seven o'clock Mr. SPEAKER re- sumed the chair, and the first order of the day was called on. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. The consideration of this Bill in Com- 7.30. mittee was resumed, the first question for decision being the following proposed nw clause, moved by Captain Russell (Hawk's Bay) :- " Where an owner of land has children born in lawful wedlock the areas limited by suh sections two and three of section twelve of 