lands for settlement for the purpose of settling wish to speak to, and that is the question of men of limited means, will acquire good land. allowing the applicant the full amount he can Poor land means an extended area, and that apply for-namely, 640 acres of first-class land. means increased cost of fencing and other Now, Sir, I submit justice would be more im- improvements, and which must act detriment- ally on the settler of limited means. In this section. It is true some of the sections of the respect the Government is to be commended for purchasing only those lands that are near to railways and lands of good quality. Then, with regard to the rental. there is a feeling on the part of the public that as far as possible the Government should give special privileges to those who settle on the land. I am not in sympathy with that proposal. I see no reason why settlers settled on bush lands, that take a considerable time to improve and a great deal of labour, should have a special privilege, even to the extent of remitting one or two years' rent altogether. A better proposal would be to charge no rent for these first two years while the settler was preparing the land, and then to increase the rent to make up the de- ficiency. But to say that lands which have been acquired with moneys for which the colony has pledged itself should be given away with- out any charge for rent for the first year or two is undesirable, and I do not think is warranted by the experience of settlers who have been placed on our lands for settlement. They are mostly successful, and do not expect special privileges. There is another matter I wish to refer to, and that is the question of gambling in lands for settlement, for I can call it by no other name. It is very obvious there is a cer- tain section of the community who consistently follow round these land-for-settlements ballots and try to make something out of them. Their intention is, under any circumstances, to get sections, and afterwards sell their interest or good-will. The wealthy man, of course, has an advantage in being able to get his brothers, cousins, and aunts, and all the rest of his rela- tions, to put in a deposit for him and take a number, and in some way he benefits, either by the question of transfer, or in many cases by putting some one to represent him on the pro- perty as a settler under the Act. And this is done by people who have the means of pur- chasing the freehold of land, and by this means they take advantage of the facilities which are specially designed by the colony for those who are not able to purchase land for themselves. If we are to have this land-transfer system carried out, it simply means that this form of gambling will continue. At any rate, there is a remedy. a very easy means of stopping this, by determining that all transfers shall be stopped with regard to our land for settlements, and then when any one desires to get out of his property he will have to surrender it to the Land Board, who will weight it with the improvements and let it be balloted for again. This, Sir, I repeat, would stop all gambling in our land-for-settlements land. The question of the applicant having the right to sell his interest and appeal to the Land Board to agree to the transfer, gives him a privilege which, I think, the colony never desired he should have. There is another question that I partial if an applicant could only apply for one settlement might not be applied for, but the good land would be more than sufficiently applied for. the loss would be infinitesimal. It would prevent the duplication of applications, and prevent an unfair advantage being granted to the applicants who had the fortune of possess- ing more friends to apply and more money to pay the deposits with. I now wish to refer to the cost of our land for settlements, 11.0. and I would point out that the cost is very materially added to by this small-grazing- run system adopted with regard to the poorer portions of estates purchased. The system has grown up owing to the fact that the Government wishes to conserve blocks of land in large areas so as to make the investment profitable, and in some cases prevent small settlers taking grazing land which they are unable to stock. There is another side to the question which throws the colony into a considerable amount more debt in connection with the scheme. I remember the policy of the man who initiated the scheme- the Hon. Sir John Mckenzie when he settled the first estate under the Land for Settlements Act, the Cheviot Estate. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, no; not under the Land for Settlements Act. Mr. BUDDO .- Well, it was practically the same -- the Cheviot Disposition Act. In that case the homestead and five thousand acres was sold for cash, and a considerable area of other land was offered on the same terms, thus relieving the colony from the responsibility of finding money to settle small runholders. Settlers of small means took up the other sections, and the estate was settled at less cost than otherwise would have been the case -- if, for instance, it had been settled under the system adopted at Hatuma. This system is too costly to the State, and if continued must land the State in an increased debt without any adequate benefit, and settle wealthy people on the land. I hold that if a man has got the means to take up sections worth from £3.000 to $6,000 he can purchase a freehold and leave the land-for-settlements to landless people. I now wish to make a few remarks with regard to those members who cast reflections on the Government for acquiring land too slowly. I am aware that they do it with the best of intentions, more especially the Canterbury members, for in that province land for settlement is urgently required. At the present time the money-market is tight, to use a financial phrase, and the price of British Consols is low, which implies that money is tight on the London market, and the supply of money in the colony is limited. Now. Sir, I object to the Government raising money in the colony. There is, it is true, an amount of uninvested money in the colony, but it must not be supposed that that amount is of any great extent, and if half a million is fre- quently borrowed in the colony it will reflect 