senger handing over his check at the steamer's | able members were fully aware of the disastrous side the luggage was put on board for him. He desired to say that the Minister for Railways was only too anxious to make the check system as perfect a success as it was in other countries, and he would do everything in his power to get the co-operation of the steam- ship companies in order to carry it out in as perfect a state as it was elsewhere. The fact remained, however, that the travelling public in New Zealand had not yet risen to that amount of experience to see the benefits of the check system. Any one who travelled under the check system in other countries knew what a perfect system it was, and how enormously it saved the worry of passengers en route and at the point of arrival and departure. The desire of the Minister was that the system should be made as abso- lutely perfect as it was anywhere else, and as far as the conditions in New Zealand enabled it to be made. The Hon. Mr. REEVES asked if the regula- tions had been gazetted. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER replied that the regulations had been in existence for nearly two years, and he felt sure that they were printed in the Railway Guide. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH would move, if necessary, the adjournment of the Council. He would like to observe, in answer to what the honourable gentleman had stated, that in his opinion the carrying-out of the check system was about as faulty as it could possibly be. He happened to have had experience of this a few days ago. He was travelling with his luggage from Dunedin to Christchurch, and it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 chanced that he required to have one of the parcels put into the compartment he was tra- velling in. Well, he had the greatest possible difficulty in getting that done. The officials told him that, as the parcels were booked to Christchurch, they must all go there ; and it was only by the greatest intercession and the utmost pressure that he could get possession of the particular package he required. The Hon. the SPEAKER said the honour- al le gentleman could not be heard without the Suspension of the Standing Orders. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK would move that the honourable gentleman be heard. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON would move the adjournment of the Council for that pur- pose. The Hon. the SPEAKER said that practice had never been adopted in the Council. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said that, so far as he was concerned, he had said all he had to Fav. Subsequently, this question was further de- bated on the motion for adjournment.] GRAND HOTEL FIRE, AUCKLAND. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI asked the Minister of Education, If the Government had offered, or intend to offer, a reward and a free pardon to any person who will give such evidence as will lead to the conviction of any one who has been guilty of setting fire, or assisting to set fire, to the Grand Hotel at Auckland ? Honour- fire that took place last month in Auckland, by which five precious lives were lost, and three young women were now, he believed, in the Hospital, and were likely to be maimed for life as a result of the injuries they received on that occasion. Rumours had been afloat that the place had not been accidentally burned, but that some persons had been guilty of the crime of setting fire to it. He knew nothing about this, however, but from the evidence which was adduced at the inquest one was led to be- lieve that it was not an accidental fire, but that the building was wilfully set on fire by some one. However unfortunate the thing was at the time, it might have been much more serious if it had occurred a week later, because the hotel for that time was entirely engaged for the Royal suite. He was sorry to say that lives were lost as it was, but it might have been more serious if the fire had taken place a week later. He therefore thought some action should be taken by the Government to insure, if this hotel had been set on fire by some person, that it should be sheeted home, because the fact of so many fires happening, especially in the Auck- land District, had become a very serious thing. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER begged to say that as yet no reward had been offered, and whether or not the Government would later on offer a reward and free pardon might depend very largely on the result of the inquest now proceeding. SHOPS AND OFFICES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, this is a Bill that was before the Council last year, and it has not succeeded, up to the present time, in coming into law by reason of the time not being sufficient for its consideration by the other branch of the Legislature. Last year I proposed the second reading pro forma, and the Council was good enough to grant my request, with the view of the Bill going to the Labour Bills Com- mittee. I propose to take a similar step to-day if the Council will allow me. I may point out that the Bill is pretty well the same Bill that. passed this Council last year. There are one or two points which are different. They are marked in the margin, and I do not think I am asking very much in suggesting that the Council should allow it to proceed to the Labour Bills Committee. If there is to be a debate on the subject, I think it may very well be taken when the report of the Committee comes down to the Council. I therefore move, That the Shops and Offices Bill be now read the second time prc formâ. Bill read the second time. CHECKING PASSENGERS' LUGGAGE. On the question, That the Council ao now adjınırn. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON said he wanted to make one or two statements, and he would have to go back to the question of carrying passengers' luggage on the railway. He pre- sumed he would be in order in doing that. They had had some grievances in Dunedin with 