this Bill is carried or rejected ; but I have had a little experience in the matter, and I know what I am talking about, and I say the honour- able member is labouring under the very gravest delusion if he imagines for one moment that the passing of this Bill is going to abolish horse-racing or is going to abolish betting. I say, Sir, it will have absolutely the contrary effect to what the honourable member imagines it will have. If this Bill passes to-night and becomes part of our statute-law, undoubtedly the result will be that there must be an increase of horse-racing, and a consequent increase of gambling attendant thereto, and I am sure that is not what the honourable gentleman wishes to see brought about. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- I am not going into a disquisition upon the ethics of gambling and as to whether it is increasing or decreasing. I think the question we have got to face to-night is this: Is this country as a nation going any longer to recognise and license gambling, and make money out of gambling, or is it not ? That is the question for us to face. The honourable member for Parnell tells us that there is more racing in Auckland than in any other province in the colony. The real fact is that there is more racing, I am sorry to say, in Canterbury than in any of the other pro- vinces. An Hon. MEMBER. - No; Auckland. . Mr. LAURENSON .- Why, at the last No- vember meeting in Christchurch some $50,000 went through the machines in the three days, and I do not think Auckland can equal that, or come within £10,000 of it. Now, one argument that has been adduced in favour of allowing the totalisator to continue is that, although $50,000 went through, that was not the real amount, it was only a sixth of that sum, and that in reality the money goes through the machine half a dozen times. I say all the worse, because the greater number of times the money goes through the machine the more of that money the machine gets and the less the public get. Any fool knows very well that if £1 goes through the machine ten times the machine has got the $1, and therefore the oftener the money goes through the machine the more the people lose. It has also been adduced as an argument against our voting for this measure that on a former occasion when a previous member for Napier introduced a similar Bill he was defeated at the hustings at the following election. Can you, Sir, imagine a more de- grading argument to adduce to members of this House-that the main question is not does he believe a thing to be right or wrong, but is he going to retain his seat or not ? As to my honourable friend the junior member for Christ- church City, I am certain he conscientiously - believes he is doing a right and proper thing in attempting to abolish what is an undoubted evil in our midst, and I am quite certain the question of whether he is going to lose his seat at the next general election does not weigh with him a pennyweight, and I would think very little of him if it did. The honourable gentle- man also referred to the faddists of Canterbury, and he further went on to say, in the course of his speech, that one Auckland gentleman had been so led away by the advertisement of a land agent that he bought his own house back again. Well, we may be faddists in Canterbury, but we never produced a being capable of that sort of thing there yet-that has been left to Auckland to do. He also attempts to justify racing by giving the names of some of the men who patronise racing, and he says, that we ought to "bow our heads" to a sport patro- nised by such honourable gentlemen. 1 give his own words. Sir, I cannot understand how any member can use so degrading an argu- ment as that we should bow our heads to an evil because it is supported by men who have titles in front or letters after their names. I do not care a cent whether this evil is supported by the King on his throne or by the beggar in the ditch, I am against it, and I think any honourable member of this House who has the welfare of this country at heart would not hesi- tate for a moment to condemn it. I do not care a cent who supports it. I say if honourabilo gentlemen in this House or men who have been famous in the country are supporting racing, so much the worse for them or for a country whose leading men act so. I say that we, as repre- sentatives of the people in this House, ought to set our faces against it whether it is supported by the high in the land or by the low. Now let me come to some of the arguments which have been adduced by my honourable friend the member for the Taieri. I really should have expected that he would be one of the very first in the House to support such a measure as this. He alluded to the number of book- makers that existed before the totalisator was brought into operation. Sir, what about the "tote-shops " that have been started since the totalisator has come into force ? Where there was one bookmaker before there are a half- dozen " tote - shops" in full blast now. And this must be remembered : that, while the bookmakers betted with men, the " tote-shops " take the half-crowns of every apprentice boy and servant-girl they can get to bet with them. In the principal town of the district I represent the population has been pretty well nigh sta- tionary for the past ten years, and yet where one man or woman went to the racecourse ten years ago twenty and thirty go now. The total- isator has enabled the jockey club to make the racecourse the most attractive place in the dis- trict. I do not hesitate for an instant to say that a horse-race is an inspiring and ennobling sight. I do not condemn horse-racing itself. I believe it is one of the most exciting, en- thralling, and beautiful spectacles one can wit- ness. A beautiful green field, a well-cultivated and well - kept lawn covered with well-dressed ladies; a number of jockeys on splendidly trained horses, and every animal straining to come in first. A nobler sight could not be imagined : but we have to look deeper, and to see the evils that are behind. I ask every man who is loyal to what is right, every man who has the in- terests of the rising generation at heart, to vote in the direction desired by my honourable 