tion before he started on the tour. Surely this kind of thing is a departure from constitutional principles? I say this House expects the Ministry of the day to be a body of men capable of formulating a policy on any question, and of leading the House and the country in bringing it down. But I should like to say there is, in the second place, a tendency on the part of the Government to override constitutional authority ; and what stronger illustration could I give of that than to point out that last session, on the sup- plementary estimates, the House passed a grant of $500 for the colony to be represented at the inaugural festivities of the Commonwealth- $500-and yet, Sir, no sooner had we got to our homes at the close of the session than we dis- covered that while that very vote was before the House the Premier had cabled to Australia offer- ing to send a body of mounted troops. I say, is this dealing fairly with the representatives of the people ? Is it right that we should be asked to vote such a small sum as $500, while the I'remier is cabling and setting wheels in motion which would probably have required thousands to be spent ? That is a case of constitutional authority being overridden. I do not wish to refer to the small sum voted in connection with the visit of the Duke of York ; that was merely a sum of £6,000. In connection with this I say I am prepared to admit that the Government rose to the occasion, as I said in the earlier por- tion of my speech, and on the whole the money was well spent. But one thing in connection with this I wish to refer to. I am speaking now of the gradual departure of my honourable friends on the Treasury benches from that sim- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 plicity of life which should characterize demo- cratic politicians in a young and democratic colony. A few weeks ago, in Hokitika, the Pre- mier, in a speech which was the subject of some humour on the part of some of the comic papers of the colony, said he enjoyed in the old days a dance on the West Coast in nugget boots, Crimean shirt, and corduroy pants better than he ever enjoyed a dance in a Court suit. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is probably true. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Most probably it is ; but there is no reason whatever why the right honourable gentleman should not have been dancing in his nugget boots, Crimean shirt, and corduroy pants all the time. Who was the statesman-the politician-in this colony who first set the example of putting on a Court dress? It was not the Hon. Mr. Ballance, nor any of the previous leaders of the Libe- ral party ; it was not Sir Harry Atkinson, or any of the gentlemen who sat on that side of the House when in opposition - the Conser- vatives-but it was my right honourable friend the Premier. And though I must say he looks remarkably well in it, I cannot forget the fact that he it was who first started this move of gradually leading the democratic leaders of this colony into the position of aping the dress and the gear that attach themselves to the old Courts of Europe, where our fathers came from, and we ourselves are pleased to have separated and shut ourselves out from. But that is not criticize the Premier. The honourable gentle- man has lately taken to having mounted body- guards-I do not know exactly in what capacity. In Sydney the Maori troopers who went to the Commonwealth celebrations were a body- guard to the Premier. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Then, the news- papers misrepresented the fact. The newspapers stated that the honourable gentleman sat in the carriage with the Native Minister, and the mounted Maori troops were a body-guard. If the newspapers have stated the matter inaccu- rately I cannot help it ; but I believe that the newspapers have stated it correctly ; and, in so far as that account of the matter is concerned, it is a departure from what I believe should be the democratic simplicity of Ministers in this country. But not only in Sydney does the honourable gentleman go in for mounted body- guards. At Nelson the Waimea Mounted Rifles escorted the honourable gentleman from the resi- dence where he was staying a few months ago to the camp ; and only a week or two ago the Right Hon. the Premier went to open a bridge at Otaki, and as he got out of the train at Otaki a body-guard of the Otaki Mounted Rifles escorted him through that village-I presume, Sir, in case there should be some remnant of the old Hauhau rebellious spirit there, and to protect the sacred life of the honourable gentleman from any possible danger. But that is not all. The Right Hon. the Premier has started to institute a kind of knighthood of our own We have, Sir, of course, the Imperial knighthood- and here I express my personal congratulations to the honourable member for Awarua, Sir Joseph Ward, upon the honour which has been conferred on him for his Imperial service in connection with penny postage, and in other directions in which he has assisted the colony ; but what shall we say of the Right Hon. the Premier, who, when he was over in Melbourne a few months ago-I read the account in the Melbourne Argus, an account of the conferring by the Premier upon the Speaker of the Legis- lative Assembly of Victoria - I forget his name ; I think it was Mason. Mr. WILFORD .- Brown ! Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- On account of the friendship of that gentleman, and the courtesy which was shown to the Premier, the latter actually cabled to New Zealand that a special meeting of the Executive Council should be called, and that this Mr. Mason should be made a J.P. And then the Argus went on to report that this honour was personally conferred by the Premier upon the recipient in the legisla- tive offices, or . the hall of the Victorian Par- liament, over which he presided, and in the presence of the officials. I could not help wish- ing that I had been there-in the language of the hymn, " Oh, what must it be to be there." I do not know whether the Premier ordered this gentleman to kneel in the orthodox fashion and receive the honour while he struck him over the back with his stick, or whether this gentleman had the good sense to take bis honour standing; 