receive full and careful consideration and fear- less discussion before they are allowed to be- The honourable member who come law. seconded the Address, Sir, had no cause to crave our indulgence. It was unnecessary that he should do so ; and if, Sir, the honourable gentleman who proposed the Address in Reply had not cause to crave our indulgence either, he had from the bottom of my heart all the sympathy I could spare him. Sir, he re- presented on this occasion the caged lion. We can all remember how he roared last session, but on this occasion he cooed like any turtle- dove. What has caused this change ? I picture to myself the lion-tamer over on the Ministerial bench taking him in hand and taming him, and we now see the honourable member for Christchurch City no longer roaring like a lion, but tame as any little poodle dog. There were many arguments adduced by the honourable member for Christchurch City which I should like to refute, but, as I have already said, it is not my intention to make a speech on this occasion. Indeed, I have very few words to say at all, and they scarcely are relevant to the Address in Reply. But there again I follow the example which has been set me by the two honourable members who have already addressed you. Their speeches were confined to comments upon the current topics of the day. They were scarcely debating speeches upon the matters contained in the Speech from the Throne. But, Sir, the position I want to emphasize to-night is the attitude which we, as members in opposition, feel ourselves compelled to take. The honourable members of the party https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 with whom I have been accustomed to work for some years, held a meeting this morning. We are called "the Opposition," and we decided, after the most careful and earnest consideration of all the circumstances surrounding our present position, after endeavouring to determine what would be best in the interest of the country, that we could come to no other conclusion than this : that as an organized Opposition at the last election, and for some little time past, we have failed to secure the approbation of the constituencies. No alternative was, then, left to us than that we shall each, in our individual capacity, criticize to the very best of our ability the policy and the administration of the Right Hon. Mr. Seddon. Of course, I allude to that one particular Minister only-that it will be our duty to criticize his policy unfettered by party ties, and as a party no longer made to bear the odium of various Acts of Parliament which we, unfortunately, being so numerically weak, have been unable to prevent, though we disap- proved and spoke and voted against them. Now, whatever our political opinions may be on this side of the House-and here I pause for one minute to say that those Old World terms of " Conservative" and " Liberal" have really no real meaning in this country; they are used continually for the purpose of misleading the ignorant, rather than convincing anybody who knows anything about the politics of this coun- try. But, be that as it may, and whatever our that we on this side realise the importance of honest administration and capable govern- ment, and though we may differ, many of us, in our views as to the extremes of Liberalism and Conservatism, we are anxious only to do the very best in our power to advance the welfare of New Zealand, and to see that her Government is administered purely and honestly. Sir, any honourable gentlemen who have paid attention-and we all, of course, have paid attention-to the position of parties in this colony must realise that many of the most advanced Liberals are strongly opposed to the present Government; while, upon the other hand, it has been patent to every person during recent times-during the last few weeks -that many of the most prominent per- sons on the Ministerial side in politics have been addicted to the most exclusive rather than democratic tendencies. And, Sir, under such conditions of things, I would ask why should we endeavour to draw hard-and-fast lines between one section in politics and the other ? But, Sir, I wish to take this occasion to inform the Right Hon. the Premier that this morning, at a meeting of the Opposition party, no leader was elected. Henceforth on the Op- position benches none is greater or less than the other, and in the spirit of democracy all are equal. In my capacity as an old member of the House I shall always be found, I can assure the right honourable gentleman, endeavouring to further and facilitate the business of this House and advance the good government of the coun- try ; but no longer rest upon me the cares, the responsibilities, or the duties of leader of the Opposition. May I be pardoned for going a little further in connection with Conser- vatism and Liberalism, and say how slender the barrier between Conservative and Liberal in this country is. Sir, I have often asserted, but I scarcely realised - I may say I never hoped, even-that the proof of the absolute accuracy of my assertion would come from the Ministerial bench -from the Ministry who have posed always as the great democratic Ministry of this colony. Sir, five honourable members of this very democratic Ministry have, during a comparatively recent period, accepted titular distinctions. I have pleasure in offering my own personal congratulations to the Hon. Sir Joseph Ward, Knight Commander of the Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George. During the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York it has afforded me intense interest and very considerable amusement to watch the process of evolution by which those two honour- able gentlemen, Sir Joseph Ward and the Right Hon. Richard John Seddon, have evolved-have been converted -from socialist democrats to a very clever imitation of much-bedizened society aristocrats. I hope I have drawn attention to the fact that there is really no distinction between one side and the other in politics- when we seek any little distinctions which can be obtained. I hope for the future the bogie of reaction may be set aside once and for ever. 