of those bills when it emerged from Committee provided that eight hours shall continue to be a legal day's work in those trades in which it was already the custom, but that in those trades where the hours before the Bill passed were longer they should continue to work the same hours afterwards. A Bill of that kind would have been harmless enough, but it was not con- sidered worth putting on the statute- book. I cannot see how we are to get at the happy medium between the futile and harmless, in a Bill of this kind, and the rigid and drastic. It is admitted by the honourable member himself, I think, that this Bill would be absolutely dis- astrous to a large number of industries in the colony in its present form. Then, the honour- able member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold), who spoke last, and who speaks with some authority on labour questions. says that it is not really needed in the cities; while the country members have all said it would be positively disastrous in the country. Now, one fails to see, that being so, to what part of the colony this Bill is going to have any satis- factory application at all. I have already re- ferred to the period from 1893 to 1896, when this question occupied the attention of the House a good deal, and I remember arriving at the conclusion then that it was impossible to fix a rigid limit of this kind in an Act of Parlia- ment, or even by a carefully tabulated schedule to provide different but rigid limits for different trades. The conclusion I arrived at then I have maintained ever since, and it is that the Arbi- tration Court must fix these matters. I would like the honourable member to point out to us what relation he supposes this measure of his will have to the Arbitration Act, and whether he proposes in any particular to supersede the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Courts? And will he point out to us what particular class of trade or industry is not covered by an award of that Court that will be covered by this Bill ? Having done that, will he also point out how, in view of the fact that the legal rate of wages is not fixed, he can really make his provisions with regard to over- time operative? If the honourable gentleman will satisfy me on those points, I shall have great pleasure in voting for the second reading of this. Bill. I have full sympathy with the honourable gentlemen's object, and with the abstract principle he seeks to affirm ; but I cannot vote to enact an abstract principle, and unless the honourable gentleman can show me that some concrete good is likely to come of it I cannot support the second reading. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Sir, after the very lengthy debate that has taken place, I think it is unnecessary that I should refer at any length to the points that have been raised. The debate has been exceedingly comprehensive and very instructive, and I have nothing to complain of so far as the fairness with which the provisions of the Bill have been criticized by honourable members on both sides of the House and representing all phases of the industrial life of this colony. I should like Mr. Atkinson speeches that have been made this evening. In regard to the honourable member for Otaki. who pointed out the position of farm-labourers, whose work is somewhat intermittent, I think it is not very often that no work is to be found for a man engaged on a farm. It is true at some seasons work is longer and more pressing than at others, but it is not often that a farmer cannot find sufficient occupation for eight hours of fair work for the men he has regularly about his place. In regard to domestic servants, I should like to tell the honourable gentleman that he is probably one of those masters. and his home is probably such, that his ser- vants would probably not be affected by the provisions of this Bill; but I am aware of numbers of cases where young girls are em- ployed as domestic servants whose lives are practically lives of slavery, on account of the long hours they are kept at work and the labo- rious duties they have to perform. It is quite true that farm labourers are not usually re- quired to work more than a reasonable number of hours a day, but I think it will be admitted by farming representatives that. while at harvest time the ordinary hands are kept at work for very long hours without any extra pay, the farmers have to pay the casual hands overtime for all hours after eight that they work. I fail to see that it is impossible to provide legislation reasonably restricting the hours of farm labour- ers. At the same time I recognise that the sentiment of the House is against an attempt to include farm labourers and those engaged in pastoral occupations in this Bill; and, that owing so, I do not desire to imperil the good points of the Bill by trying to force something that I recog- nise the House will not submit to. In regard to what has been said by the honourable member for Dunedin City, Mr. Arnold, he is recognis, d as a labour authority ; but I would point ent that although he argues that the Bill is im- practicable, and speaks as though an Eight Hours Bill were not even necessary in the country, yet the Trades Council in Christ- church-an extremely active and brainy body - waited on the Premier and exacted from hin: s pledge that an Eight Hours Bill should be intro- troduced. When I say it is only within the last month or two that in the flour-mills of this colony the hours of labour have been lowered- and then by the Arbitration Court-from twelve hours a day to eight hours a day ; when I say that state of things has been going on in a country that claims to be an eight-hours coun- try -- it is not necessary that I should support my position with any further argument. The Arbitration Court made that provision because those men formed a union and were able to utilise the provisions of the Act. There are numbers of cases I could name of persons en- gaged in unskilled occupations in the colony who have not yet been brought into unions or other organizations, and who have now to work long hours, but whose condition would be im- proved under this Bill. I can appeal to th. we members who have, I think, quite as much ex- perience in the cities as even the member for 