somewhat marred by the interposition of the Premier. Now, the only redeeming feature about the reception of the Imperial troops at Auckland was the intervention of the Premier. Had he not intervened those men would have gone away with a bad opinion of the people of Auckland and their hospitality. I was exceedingly grateful to the Premier for coming forward and redeeming our good name. What did he do? When he found there were two thousand men under arms in a scorching sun without even a bottle of lemonade being provided for them he ordered that reasonable refresh- ment should be supplied to the men ; and, as I said on the evening of that day, I think, to the Premier in Auckland, I never felt so ashamed of Auckland as I did on that occasion. There were two thousand troops, and there was so little lemonade ordered that each man could not get one bottle. Therefore, Sir, the intervention of the Government at that time, through its head, was an event which I consider to have been perfectly right and proper. The local authorities failed in their duty. We had a tem- perance Mayor at the time-a very upright man of conscientious convictions, but a man who I think wrongly allowed his conscientious convictions to interpose at a time when the laws of hospitality should have dictated that they were out of place. I hope, Sir, this Bill will be passed unanimously. The City of Auckland did its duty in respect to our Royal visitors. The Harbour Board of Auckland took upon itself the responsibility of spending about $750, whereas it could only spend £50 legally. The City Council also spent a large sum of money. and the citizens contributed $2,000 out little matter to which I would call attention .. of their own pockets. I do not wish to cast any reflections on the other provinces in saying this. I believe every city in the colony did its duty, and did it well. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- It was not my in- tention to have spoken at all on this measure had it not been for the remarks made by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). As regards the action of the com- mittee appointed for the purpose of bringing the Waikato Natives to Auckland, Mr. Napier has charged them with maladministration and want of sincerity. Those are the words he used. Now, it was a matter of grievance with the people of Auckland that the Government refused to extend that respect to Mahuta which was his due as the greatest Native chief in New Zealand. I think it was quite right that the committee should take the matter up when they found that Mahuta, the greatest Native chief in New Zealand and the repre- sentative of the Waikato Natives, proposed to come to Auckland in order to meet their Royal Highnesses there. But, Sir, the Government refused to recognise him ; consequently he felt insulted, and would not go to Auckland ; and when it was found that Mahuta was not coming to Auckland, and only a small proportion of the Natives. then the committee abandoned the whole thing. The Premier was responsible for preventing the Waikato Natives, with Mahuta at their head, from visiting the City of Auckland. Now, that is the true history of the Natives not coming to Auckland. It was not through any fault of the committee which was set up to arrange for that function, and there was no political movement in the matter, as stated by the honourable member. Another matter which the honourable member referred to was that the fact of the Imperial troops being properly entertained in Auckland was due to the Pre- mier. Now, when it was found that the com- mittee were not disposed to treat the troops according to the ideas which a large number of people had-by supplying them with beer-it was the brewers of Auckland who put their heads together and made provision for the entertain- ment of the troops. Afterwards the Premier stepped in. and said that if the committee would not find the troops beer the Government would find it. But the brewers were in before- hand ; and I say, let us give credit to those to whom it was due. I am not going to give any expression of opinion with regard to whether beer should or should not have been given, but let us give the credit where it is due. It was the brewers of Auckland who agreed to give so many barrels of beer, and send them up to the Domain, in order to entertain the troops by giving them one pint of beer each. I did not intend to speak, and should not have done so only I thought it right to set the honourable member right upon that question, and to let the House know the truth regarding it. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Mr. Speaker, I do not think there can be any strong opposition, if any opposition at all, to the passing of this Bill. But, Sir, there is just one It is, I feel sure, an inadvertent omission, but the Boards and local bodies do not include all the local bodies which should have been in- cluded. The Christchurch Drainage Board, I would point out, gave a donation of $100 to the local funds in connection with the Royal visit, and under this Bill it would be just pos- sible for the Auditor-General to refuse to pass that amount unless there is an addition to this Bill including such a Board. I shall propose, as an amendment, that " Drainage Boards" be inserted in the Bill, and I hope that There is just one will be acceded to. other matter to which I would refer. It was touched upon by the honourable mem- ber for Waitemata-as to the sending round of a Commissioner to take charge of matters which were of a purely local character. That, I think, was altogether unnecessary. But I will go a little further, and say I am quite sure that, so far as the Christchurch Reception Committee was concerned, the in- terference on the part of the Commissioner was regarded not only as unnecessary, but, I am quite sure, as little less than impertinent. The local committees took this interference as an unjust and unnecessary reflection upon them- selves. Those bodies knew exactly what their duty was, and there was not the slightest doubt they would do it. I would remind the House-for other members probably had similar experience to myself-that I received a tele- 