well as the publican. He had mentioned this | as correct, and would have the name altered suggested amendment to several publicans, who ! accordingly in cases where the spelling differed. quite approved of such a clause being introduced into the Act. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was admitted that life was very short, and it had fallen to his lot. and to his colleagues, to introduce two or three Licensing Acts. He did not say that their licensing laws were perfect, because every one admitted that they were not, and it could not be so when the law permitted such evasions as the dropping-out of a license in one place and the shifting of it twenty miles away to some other district, when the law said that you should not remove a license more than half a mile. Any one who realised the position must see that the will of the Legislature was being set aside by evasions of that kind. In regard to this question, he knew a case where four men went into a publichouse and misled the barman by stating definitely that they were bona fide travellers. They were brought before the Magistrate and fined $5 each. But as the law stood the publican was liable to have his license indorsed in this case, as he had been fined $5 also. He said that was a monstrous state of things, and yet it was the existing law. Something. therefore, required to be done. There was no doubt our licensing laws did re- quire material amendment, and whether or not we should be able to come to a conclusion apart from the larger question and put our laws as perfect as we could was a matter which time would determine. He could only say that Prohibitionists, those in the trade, and the people generally in the colony, must admit that our licensing laws were imperfect and required attention and amendment. MANGONUI. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Premier, If he will give the necessary instruc- tions to the different. Government departments for the correct spelling of the Maori word " Ma- ngonui." and so make it uniform? The Pre- mier would find that some departments had been spelling it "Mongonui." and there was no such word in the Maori language as that. He would find others spelling it " Monganui." and another department " Maungonui." The correct way of spelling it was the way in which it appeared in the question, and it would pre- vent a great deal of confusion if the Premier gave instructions to the different departments to spell the name correctly. He hoped this would be done. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member had now stated the correct way of spelling the word. The Postal Department informed him that in their department the word was spelt " Mangonui." Mr. HOUSTON said, In the Defence Depart- ment-the Premier's own department-it was written " Mongonui." Mr. SEDDON said, of course military people were not particular about spelling-a man might be a good fighter and not be able to spell at all. At all events, he did say there ought to be uniformity, and he would take this spelling WORKERS' COMPENSATION FOR ACCIDENTS ACT. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Go- vernment, If they will amend the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act by extending its operation to sailors on boats engaged in in- tercolonial trade? The question arose in this way : In " The Workers' Compensation for Ac- cidents Act, 1900," a " worker " was defined to mean, amongst other things, a person em- ployed "on any ship or other vessel (of what- ever kind and howsoever propelled) in any navigable or other waters within New Zealand or the jurisdiction thereof." The result of that definition, apparently, was that no sailors on intercolonial boats, such as those trading be- tween Melbourne and this colony, or Sydney and this colony. would come within the juris- diction of the Act. He would like to ask the Government whether they could see their way to amend the Act so as to include -- and he would like to amend the question to read in this way- sailors on New Zealand articles. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the amendment the honourable member desired would apply to the I'nion Steamship Company, and it would be urged, no doubt, by that company that it would put them in an unfavourable position as compared with other companies trading to the colony. Then, there was also the difficulty which arose if the accident occurred when the ship was away from the colony - where the person meeting with the accident might be in another colony, or might be sick or laid up there-and the time allowed by the Act in which to take action might be materially interfered with. It would be necessary to have an under- standing with the other colonies if the Act were to be extended in the direction asked for. The question was a much larger one than appeared on the face of it. It seemed quite fair that our colonial vessels should have the same law ap- plied to them as those on land, but it would be necessary to have similar laws in the colonies under which they could reciprocate. He would look into the matter. APPEAL FROM LAND AND INCOME ASSESSMENT. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, Whether they will bring in a Bill to amend section 98 of "The Land and Income Assessment Act, 1900," with a view of to allowing an appeal from the assessment of the Commissioner in respect to stamp duty on the estates of deceased persons. Section 98 of the Land and Income Assessment Act empowered the Commissioner to make a fresh assessment, if he liked, of the value of an estate of a deceased person. He might assess the value at any sum he chose and charge duty on it. and, so far as the statute was concerned. there appeared to be no appeal to any tribunal or authority from the decision of the Commis- sioner. It seemed but right that there should be some method of appeal from the ipse dixit 