the Council are aware that within the last two or three years there has been a great excitement in mining, more particularly in the dredging interest. The excitement that has taken place in that particular form of mining has spread throughout, at any rate, the southern part of the colony in such a way that it is difficult indeed to find any one with a little money to spare, however careful and non-speculative the person had hitherto been, who has not to a greater or lesser extent invested in those com- panies. The field. then, was open for great ex- ploitation, especially upon ignorant investors who might be inclined to put a small amount of money into the enterprise offered to them. What has the effect of that been, and how has it been carried out? Companies that were pro- moted called up Is. on appheation on, say, a £1 share, the directors themselves being called upon to pay only this Is. on application, and probably 1s. also upon allotment, and by that means there was created a system of fictitious finance which has been extremely disastrous to almost every company floated in Otago. Of course, experienced business men and those who had a knowledge of the working of companies, and who also knew how extremely speculative this particular form of mining enterprise is, did not touch them, except to a very small extent as a minor gamble. But a great number of small investors went into these companies. The experienced men predicted exactly what has taken place-a collapse. A large number of what are generally called "wild-cat " com- panies were floated, and people, without any discrimination whatever as to the merits -- good or bad-of these companies, made appli- cation for shares, with the full expectation, as the result of, perhaps, some lucky experience in their first dabblings in the early part of the boom, that they would immediately go to a premium, and they could then sell. Now they are reaping what they have sown. Within the last few months, as honourable gentlemen all know, there have been almost daily a consider- able number of meetings for winding-up pur- poses, and there have been disclosed some most extraordinary transactions. Especially promin- ent among those transactions is the fact that directors have taken up a large number of these shares - partly paid-up shares which they as promoters received. and partly subscription shares and they have sold their paid-up shares and perhaps some of their subscription shares. and at the present time there are plenty of companies in Dunedin whose directors are pressing poor people for calls which are far more than they can pay. while in some in- stances they are themselves liable to the com- pany for unpaid calls, and are not being sued for them. I believe that is a thing that is well known; and any Bill that is brought forward now should be based upon a full consideration of all the facts I have set forth, and of many more that I could bring forward if I had the time to do so- facts that ought to suggest to any legislative body the absolute necessity of reforming the Com- I allow the publie to understand that the direc- Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith scandals being again perpetrated as we have noticed in the South. The honourable gentle- man explained the purport of the Bill, and said it was based mainly on the lines to which he drew our attention. Sir, I propose to make a short resume, and give a few of my views as to how real protection could be given to share- holders. First of all, the Bill deals with the ap- pointment and qualifications of directors. . The limit of applications is 5 per cent. upon the nominal shares. Now, how does that work out? Let us take #1 shares, on which a call of 1s. is made on application. In the Bill there is no proper restriction as to the amount to be paid on allotment. It may be Is. or anything else. but not less than 1s. A person who is possibh a man of straw takes a seat on the directorate and applies for a few thousand shares, with the knowledge that he has only to pay 1s. a share. and that by working the thing well he can get out of most of them when the shares go to a premium. That is very misleading to any one who does not know the real position. 1 hold. and I have the satisfaction of knowing that other business - men agree with me, that the main protection you can get in the shape of directorial management-good management- is to make it absolutely compulsory that the directors who form a company shall give good carnest of their belief in the future prospects of the company by paying up the whole of their liability. That is the true way to proceed to insure a good body of directors. We know that there are a very large number of business-men who are very particular indeed, and whose word may be relied on in their private business, and whose transactions are always carried through on the highest principles of honour, who some- times lend themselves to these companies; it is so here to a small extent, and to a large extent at Home-men who have never been mixed up with any form of private wrongdoing are by some means or other tempted to asso- ciate themselves with shady companies. Now. Sir, what course do some of these companies pursue -- how do they get credit ? Mr. A. Mr. B, Mr. C. and Mr. D are men of reputa- tion, and a casual glance at the constitution of the company shows that so much is paid or. application and so much on allotment, while a large amount is left to be called up. That wins the position, the company gets credit for bom a bona fide one, and as a result the public ar: misled. In a private concern it is different. The business character and capital of the fim i known, which is a protection to the creditos but such a condition of things does not apply to the same extent in the case of joint-stock com- panies. Therefore I say it is absolutely ridi- culous to expect that you will insure a good rod; of directors by the payment of 1s. on application and possibly another 1s. on allotment, leavaly 18s. to be called up. What should be done. a. I have said. is to insist on the director- havin. a substantial amount of money invested and available to the company by their pasing up the whole of the money at once. That would 