does from a district where this question is a | 1882. If the Minister finds, in the course of a burning question-to hold his tongue upon it, especially after what has been said by the ho- nourable member for Hawke's Bay. It is true that only one case of hardship has been men- tioned here to-night. That case should be sufficient, without bringing forward special cases, to show that there are grievances in the South. The case mentioned by the honourable member for Clutha is only one case of hundreds where there has either been direct injustice or a belief that there has been injustice. It was because, throughout the southern districts, there has been such an outcry against the administration of the Act of 1882 that the Minister himself last vear had to give notice to his Inspectors to ease off. The reason why there have been no prosecutions during the last twelve months is only this : that the Minister has given such instructions that the Inspectors have been much more lenient. Those are the facts. There are hundreds of cases, and the prosecutions have only eased off during the last twelve months. The Minister himself admits that the reason they are easing off is that the Act was felt to be so grievous a burden to the settlers in the southern districts that he had to instruct the Inspectors to take a little more care in their prosecutions. Rightly or wrongly, there is a widespread belief that the Inspectors are not in all cases fair with respect to the administra- tion of this Act. I do not say it is true, but I have heard it from farmers that they are under the impression that the Inspector picks out one man and prosecutes him, and leaves another and does not prosecute. Whether that is so or not I have no absolute proof ; but I have heard it often and often, and so, I suppose, has every member who comes from the southern districts. But that ought not to be pos- sible. The amendment suggested in this Bill will remove this. Now, there is another argu- ment - that is, the argument first of all touched upon by the honourable member for Wakatipu, and which has also been spoken of by the Minister of Mines and the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. That is the argu- ment that the Act of 1881 contained no drastic provisions such as are in the Act of 1882. Sir, the Act of 1881 was only given one year's trial, and it was tried at the very initiation of the Government dealing with this rabbit difficulty. One vear's trial was not sufficient to prove whether it would work or not. Then we had the Act of 1882, which was a very drastic mea- sure, and from that day to this that Act has been administered, and, Sir, the rabbits have not gone. The rabbits are with us still. We are told they have been on the decrease, and I know they have decreased somewhat. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are farming them in the South. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I am sure that if you ask the Inspectors they will tell you there are fewer rabbits there now than there were eight or nine years ago when there was no rabbit-freezing carried on. At any rate, I say, Sir, we ought to revert to the Act of 1881, and try a period without these drastic provisions in the Act of few years, that a wrong step has been made, he can very soon repeal the amendment we now propose to make. But, I venture to say, he will find no wrong step has been made, and that by repealing the Act a great grievance will be removed from the farmers. To say that the farmers are worse than the rest of men, as I understood the Minister to say, in regard to their producing evidence before the Court, is to treat the farmer in a manner that he certainly does not deserve to be treated. Why are we to assume that a farmer will produce false evidence before the Court? Sir I think it is wrong to suggest that such a thing is even a possibility. Then the member for Hawke's Bay says that the evidence of the Inspector is positive evidence. Let us admit it is positive evidence, and that the evidence of everybody else who goes on the land and says there are no rabbits is not positive evidence, and I will ask members what value the Stipendiary Magistrate would put on both sides. Will he not place more value on the evidence he believes to be positive than on the evidence he believes to be negative ? No doubt there are cases of injustice to particular farmers. I am sure some cases of the kind have come to the knowledge of the Minister-cases in which the evidence of the Inspector is about as false as any evidence could be. I have heard of cases in which an Inspector has given evidence before the Magistrate that he has seen rabbits on a farm, when, as a matter of fact, he was never on the farm at all. In such cases as those, surely it is right for a man calling himself a Britisher, in a British community, to be allowed to bring contradictory evidence if he has it sufficiently strong and sufficiently positive to show that the evidence of the Inspector is not worth taking. At least, it is common British justice to allow a man to have a say, and under the law as it exists to-day the farmer has no say whatever. If the ipse dixit of the Inspecter is all the Magistrate wants, and if he is bound to find on such evidence, such a state of things, I can assure the House, will not long continue in New Zealand, for it has amounted almost to a revolt on the part of the farmers, and those honourable members who come from the South know it. Men's tempers are hard to restrain. I have tried myself to keep men quiet who have been under the impression that they are resting under an injustice, not at the hands of the Magistrate, but at the hands of the Inspectors, and that sort of thing cannot continue. Now, I wish to say to the member for Masterton that I hope he will stick to his Bill, and that he will stick to the Bill in this House. We know what the move is -- to send the Bill to the Stock Committee. If it goes to the Stock Committee it will be "on the stocks " there, and nothing else will be heard of it, and I hope he will not consent to any such a process I heard the Minister making his as that. speech, and I am bound to say I came to the conclusion that he was very half-hearted in his objections to the Bill. He is a just man, and sees the justice of the amendment which the 