decide the matter, and that there shall be no London arbitration for quality claims. The meat to be sold on the New Zealand certifi- cate. Of course, it is urged, on the other hand, that if you insist on conditions of this nature it will stop the purchase of our goods. Such is not the case. Our meat has become a necessity in the homes of millions of people, and if the men in the trade there will not buy our meat, subject to the provisions suggested, there are hundreds of others who will do so and who will be only too glad to obtain the trade, and who will make it profitable. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Mr. Speaker, I do not think it is necessary for me to refer to the exceedingly interesting, instructive, and valuable speech that we have just heard from the member for Waihemo, because it was not of a debatable character; but it is none the less useful on that account. The Minister for Railways, how- ever, with other honourable members who have spoken on that side of the House, seem to imagine that the members on the Opposition benches intend to remain quiet and silent. If so, they are very much mistaken. We intend to exercise our right of criticizing the policy, doings, and proposals of the Government to the fullest and freest extent whenever we think it desirable so to do. But we decline to take part in the wretchedly useless and wearisome dis- cussions such as took place this afternoon and yesterday, and which were apparently intended for the purpose of keeping the galleries for the Premier and the Minister for Railways ; and I think it will be found later on that each member will do his duty in his own way, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 and in a way that will be satisfactory to his own constituents and to the country. Sir, referring to the speech of the Minister for Railways, I do not think it is necessary for me to deal with it at any length, because nearly the whole of his time was occupied in apologizing his department in connection with the recent importations of rolling-stock from America and England. I want to congratulate the Minister for Railways on his speech -- it was a good speech from his point of view-probably the best that we ever heard from him ; but all the same I do not know that he improved his case. except in promising that he would manage better for the future, because he admitted our contentions. He admitted the ability of the people of the colony to manufacture the rolling-stock-the engines, carriages, and wagons-required on our railways. Headmitted that the colonial work- manship was quite equal, if not superior, to the workmanship of other countries, and he admits the cost is less. Now, Sir, it has always seemed to me a peculiarly unsatisfactory state of affairs that we should be borrowing money in England for the purpose of paying for rolling-stock manu- factured in America, and afterwards to be used on the lines of this colony. We have had it admitted even by the Minister for Railways, and we know it for ourselves, because we have all travelled in good comfortable easy - running carriages manufactured in the railway workshops of the colony. We have been told by experts that the timbers of the colony are some of the best in the world for coachbuilding purposes ; consequently, I was pleased to hear from the Minister that importation is going to cease, and that a strong effort will be made in the future to keep the money in the colony, to give employment to our own people ; and, perhaps most important of all, it would follow, I presume, that it would give our young people an opportunity of learning the different trades. I want to say-and as an Op- position member I can criticize the doings of the Government freely- that I do not think the Government encourage the local industries of the colony in the way that they ought to be encouraged. We find at the present time large quantities of timber are being imported from Australia for public works purposes, and thou- sands of railway-sleepers are being landed here from Western Australia. Mr. GUINNESS .- No; that is stopped. Mr. MASSEY .- The member for the Grey may say that it is stopped, but it was only a few days ago that I saw huge heaps of railway- sleepers being put into the trucks at Auckland, and I was informed that it was a shipment of ten thousand from Western Australia. Mr. GUINNESS .-- I have the Premier's as- surance that the Cabinet has stopped it. Mr. MASSEY .- I would believe my own eyes rather than the Premier's assurance, and I can assure you that I saw the sleepers being landed from Western Australia only a few days ago. Sir J. G. WARD .- It is quite correct that for the curves on the New Zealand railways hard- wood sleepers have to be obtained, and it must always be so. Mr. MASSEY .- Even in the case of saddlery for the equipment of the Contingents sent to South Africa much of it was imported. So far as timber for bridges, piles, and railway-sleepers are concerned, I am satisfied that we have still a sufficient supply in the colony for our own requirements; and I am strongly of opinion that the money will be very much better ex- pended amongst our own hard-working and deserving settlers than by being sent to Western Australia, to a country which im- poses high rates of duty on almost every article of our produce. The subject of the railways of our colony is always a subject of interest, not only in this House but to the public outside, and for many reasons. We have spent, from time to time, large sums in constructing our railways, and we are continually being told of the enormous concessions that have been made to the people who use the railways for the carriage of goods and produce, and to the travelling public. Last year the concessions, we were told, amounted to $70,000 per annum ; and I noticed that one member, addressing his constituents, told them that the concessions to the farmers amounted to the enormous sum of $400,000 per annum ; but, Sir, while I admit that great concessions were made last year to many classes in the community, to tourists, business - men, sporting - men, news- paper-men, and working-men living in or near the larger centres of population, what I com- plain of is that little or nothing has been done for the country settlers, the most important 