another place in the interests of the service he must go. This, I say, is a fundamental principle that you must lay down, and you must support the head of your police, because if you do not do so, and if those removals are stopped by political interference, your Police Force must suffer. There may be, of course, cases and times for reconsideration when there are circumstances which perhaps were not known at first, and then it is reason- able to take them into consideration. But the general principle must be affirmed and main- tained -- that when an officer is told to go he must go and do his duty cheerfully wherever he is sent. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Did Sergeant Wright go ? Mr. SEDDON .- Shall I tell the honourable gentleman what happened here last session in respect to Sergeant Wright ? Mr. ATKINSON .- Last week. Mr. SEDDON -No, not last week. We had the Dunedin or South section of the members last session-Mr. Millar, Mr. Barclay, and other members An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. SEDDON. - Well, there was a deputa- tion, at all events, of southern members in fa- your of Detective McGrath, and some rumour was afloat that Detective McGrath was to be shifted from Wellington, and the southern members and Dunedin members- Mr. ARNOLD .- You had better name them. Mr. SEDDON .- I know, at all events, that Mr. Millar was one of them; and I say they protested against Detective MeGrath being https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 shifted. In respect to Sergeant Wright, it was not known at that time what was going to happen. Then they protested against Sergeant Wright being removed. Mr. MORRISON .-- Who did ? Mr. SEDDON .- The Wellington members. Mr. ATKINSON .- How many Wellington members-one ? Mr. SEDDON .- No; more than one- I should say, to be correct, members of the Wel- lington District. Let me say that the situation then was that we had one section of members -- or, rather, some members speaking in the in- tere ts of one officer and saying he ought to be kopt hore, and that to remove him would be an injury to the Force; and another section of members saving of another officer, "If you shift him it will be a reflection on him." I say, to take up that position, as you have it now in all its nakedness, must be injurious to the ser- vice, and it is not in the interests of these officers. Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear. Mr. SEDDON .- Very well. It was considered by the Minister of Justice that it would be better to see how matters would work after this conflict, and if any improvement would take place. I may say that a considerable improve- ment did take place : the warning had its effect. That there should have been recently a renewal of the difficulty is painful to me ; but the Minis- ter in charge is capable of dealing with it, and removing Nixon, who was not, and who should not in this case be considered one of the parties, as between the McGrath and Wright trouble, for that occurred nearly two years ago, and has for a long time been dead and buried. I say he was not, but, in the interests of the detective force, my colleague has deemed it necessary to remove Detective Nixon, and I say that ought to be allowed to stand so long as he is not injured. I may say there is no desire on the part of my colleague to injure Nixon in the slightest or to reduce him in rank or position. My colleague has said that the position he has given Nixon is superior to the position he previously held, and that being the case, there has been no injustice done. Let me, in conclusion, say this : that the Government want to have the Police Force kept as perfect and independent as it is possible to keep it. We want Parliament to give its confidence to the Commissioner and to the Inspectors, because each require to be strengthened, considering the unpleasant duties they have to perform. We all admit the great service that Inspector Pender has rendered to this colony, and I say here that I would never be a party to detract in any way from those services. In fact, if we were to do so I believe there would be great public indig- nation. I can also say-and I will never believe anything else-that, so far as Commissioner Tunbridge is concerned, he recognises and appreciates those services, because he has been for years an officer in the Police service at Home, and knows the difficulties that Inspec- tor Pender has had to go through with his - lengthy service, and to hold the position that he does in the service. I feel satisfied myself that there is nothing unpleasant between Com- missioner Tunbridge and Inspector Pender. I cannot conceive, knowing Commissioner Tun- bridge as I do, that there is any feeling. I am certain that he has one desire, as Inspector Pender has one desire -- namely, that crime should be suppressed, that order should prevail, and that the officers shall do their duty. And, of course, in the Police Force, unless the whole detective branch is working in harmony with the others, it is impossible to prevent crime, or, when crime has taken place, to bring the offenders to justice. We must have harmony, or else injustice will obtain, and it will not promote harmony in the Force ; it will not pro- mote the suppression of crime ; it will not pro- mote the ends of justice if police matters, and particular members of the Force, are to be brought on the floor of the House. The question brought up by the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) has been on the Order Paper some days, and probably it not being answered may have caused the honourable member to become impatient. At any rate, it has not been any fault of the House that the answer has not been given. I believe my col- league would have given the same answer to the question, though in fewer words, that I have given to-day, and the matter would not have been raised on the floor of the House at all. At all events, when we come to view the 