and not defeated by a number of men who un- thinkingly walked into that lobby without the slightest comprehension of the measure- An Hon. MEMBER. - Who are thev ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Why. Sir, there are members in this House who when the division was taken were practically unaware what the motion was. Read the names of those who voted against my motion. It was an early hour in the morning, and they were perhaps taking a little rest in the lobbies. But they walked into the lobby and voted against that amendment, which provided that the grown- up son of a farmer should have the right to 200 acres of his father's property if he intended to settle on that property and become a farmer. Why, I know of them in the Clutha district, and in the district I represent, where farmers have four or five thousand acres of land, whose sons probably for years have done the hardest portion of the work of the farm, and yet they will not be entitled over a stranger to take up a single acre of it. I say you are striking at the very root of that patriotism and love of country that is so essential for the de- velopment of a country. Now, there is another point in connection with the land for settle- ments which ought to be introduced in the measure, and that is that a portion of the cost of the property should, as early as possible, be liquidated by the person who is taking it up. make that suggestion in order that the Govern- ment may be absolutely safe in the investment of their principal. What prevails just now? You are buying estates at their present current values, and, of course, those of us who have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 studied at all narrowly the question of land- values now, and the competition to be faced, are of opinion that it is not likely that the present land-values will be sustained. If that is correct, then when the fall takes place who is to suffer ? If the occupiers are unable to carry on they will throw up their properties, and the Government of the country will have to suffer, which really means all the people of the colony. Now, if the Government wish to make this measure safe and wise, which no ! doubt is what they intend to make it. they ought to adopt the same principle here to a i are erected on freehold property. There .. limited extent that now obtains in connec- tion with the cash advances to farmers that is, that a certain proportion of interest, as you know, in the 6-per-cent. ratio goes to liqui- dating the original loan. You will then safe- guard the principal, and make the estate se- cure, and at the same time you are not doing anything that will injure the occupier, because . he will then pay a lessened amount of interest on the cost of the property. A great deal has been said on the relative merits of the various systems of occupation of land -- freehold tenure, lease in perpetuity, and the deferred-payment systems. My own opinion is that an optional system should prevail, and that a man should be able to take up land on the conditions best suited to his requirements, and that, so far as freehold is concerned, you should not permit a large quantity of land to aggregate into an individual's hands. It does not, to my mind, Mr. T. Mackenzie signify much what tenure the people occupy the land under, if they have the option of taking it up under the tenure that best suits them, so long as we do not permit the aggregation of estates in the hands of a few men. If a man has capital to spare, why should he not have the right to pay for the freehold with that capital, and then be free from the continuation of the payment of interest ? We all know that people have come to New Zea- land from the Old Country in order, in many instances, that they may obtain freeholds. The people left the Old Country because they could not get a freehold there, and they wanted to "e able to get it and say. " This is my freehold, and I shall have the right when I die to hand the property over to my successors." If there are others who have not any desire for the irep- hold system, there is the leasehold for them. and there is also the 999-years lease. That, : course, is giving the freehold without requiring the people to pay the principal cost down. The State, of course, is committed to the 999 veats without even getting the price of the frechon, and so parts with the right to that land. Of the honourable member for Wairarapa I do not think much more need be said. I do not think he made out a good case in connection with his friend who was required to pay 3 per cent. extra on his advance. I feel persuaded that if the security were good there are numbers of people 1 in this town who would only be too glad to ac- vance the money at a lower rate than Thor 8 per cent. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was a leasehold pre- perty, you know. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - Even so: if the security was good I think he would get it a: A less rate of interest. We had, of course. the member for Masterton complaining that the sons and daughters of settlers in the South had come up from the South Island because ties were driven away from the South owing to the large estates there. We also were told by him that the very best buildings in Dunedin welt erected on leasehold properties. That statement is absolutely incorrect. The very best ballns. hotels, insurance offices, and merchants' offers many, of course, erected on the town sections- leasehold property -- and I think it is a v. ry good thing indeed there is that leasehid property, and that the town should got th. benefit ; but I merely allude to the sta :- ment of the honourable gentleman to show that it is not absolutely correct. reeativ: the very best buildings in Dunedin erected on freehold property. And as for :i. complaint that the children of southerners it !: the South and came to the North. why. Sir. ... honourable gentleman himself did the very salt. thing, but not to get on the land. If they have done that, if they have taken with them from the South that enterprise for which the Sort was so long distinguished, surely it is a nikt thing to do if the lands were in occupation :n the South, and while these large estates wifi being cultivated large quantities of Nat.ve I lands in the North Island were unoco. 