half a crown freight on his cycle for a very short distance on the railway, and therefore the cyclists benefit the railways rather than do them an injury. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are a great nuisance on the railways. Mr. PALMER .- Not at all. The cycles are simply stood up in the van; and I believe the more bicycles there are carried in the trains the better the railways will pay. An Hon. MEMBER .- If they are scratched there is a claim for damages. Mr. PALMER .-- There is no claim for the scratching of bicycles at all ; and I think it will be found that the Government make more profit out of them than anything else carried on the railways. Although the honourable member for Riccarton comes from Christ- church, where there are the best bicycle-tracks in the colony, I feel sure we shall have the support of himself and the other Canterbury members to this measure. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .-- My objec- tion to this Bill, Sir, is the proposal to make such large districts. If the cyclists wish to tax themselves to make tracks in the cities and in the neighbourhood of the cities I have no ob- jection whatever ; but if the honourable gentle- man insists upon including the whole of the Provincial District of Auckland in one district I must oppose the Bill. I fail to see why people living in Whangarei or Mangonui should be taxed for the purpose of making cycle-tracks in Auckland, and I am sure if the honourable gentleman looks at the Bill from that point of view he will offer no objection to an alteration https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 in the direction I have suggested. The honour- able member must see it is very unreasonable to ask people to submit to being taxed for tracks they never use. If the honourable gentleman will make an alteration in Com- mittee to meet the views of the country mem- bers in that direction he will probably get his Bill through. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, I regret, out of respect for the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill, that I am called upon to oppose this Bill ; but if the honourable gentle- man, after the criticism the measure has re- ceived from members of this House, will express his intention of modifving its clauses so as to meet the views of the House I will undertake to vote for the second reading, so as to give the Bill & chance of going into Committee. I have, however, to compliment the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill. The Bill was promoted at the instance of the cycle people in Auckland, who some weeks ago sent round to honourable members copies of the Bill, together with a circular containing valuable information on the subject of cycle traffic in this colony and in the United States of America : and I think every member introducing a Bill might in futuro adopt the course taken by the promoters of this measure and send their Bills round to members of the House a month or two before the commencement of the session. I believe if that were done we should have a Mr. Palmer have an opportunity of carefully considering the provisions of such measures. One objection I have to the Bill is similar to that raised by the honourable member for Marsden. That is to say, clause 4 provides that cycle districts shall be coterminous with the provincial dis- tricts. Now, it has been pointed out how very unwieldly the Auckland District would be to work. I would point out how very difficult it would be, also, to bring into operation and to work equitably in the interests of the cyclists in the Provincial District of Canterbury. That is a large district, and the macadamised roads in that district are better than in any other part of the country. The roads in the Provin- cial District of Wellington, for instance, are wretched, more like a Devonshire lane than a road. An Hon. MEMBER .-- NO. Mr. MEREDITH .- I have been eleven years in the House. and I have been into the country round about Wellington and have never found a decent line of road.yet. So that in speaking of the Canterbury District we have, it must be admitted by every member who has been in that district, the finest roads for evelists to be found in New Zealand. It is proposed in this Bill to levy an annually recurring fre of 5s. on every owner of a cycle, and if it is not paid within a month the law can be put into operation for its recovery. Then, again. another clause provides that on a requisition being sent to the Governor signed by a number of cyclists-the number is not defined here- so that though there might be ten thousand cyclists in a cycle district, it is competent for a thousand of the ten thousand to petition the Governor, and on the petition the Governor might declare that district to be a cycle district. But what a hardship that would be on the majority of cyclists. In Commit- tee that clause will have to be amended. so as to define the proportion of eyelists who sign the petition, and also those who send in a counter-petition against the de- claring of the district. I am of opinion, Sir. that as the Bill stands at the present time five or six centres in the colony would reap the chief -indeed, almost the sole-benefit of it. If those who have formulated the Bill had only called to their assistance my honourable friend the member for Marsden, and the mem- her for Riccarton, or any two country members. a different Bill would have been placed before the House this afternoon. Taking the Past Office in Christchurch as a centre, with a radius of ten miles, I have no hesitation in saving the: there are about five thousand evelists within that district. I believe that that number will be one-half the total number of eyelists within the Provincial District of Canterbury. It is evident that these five thousand, within the radius of ten miles, would be the controlling power of the whole provincial district. They would have the power of levving a fee of 5s. on ten thousand cyclists. That would & ve a revenue of $2,500 a year. The first than- that would be done by the Cycle Board would 