agent to look after those things, and the agent would be quite alive to the interests of his em- ployer. With regard to the service of these notices and the response to it, this clause does not bar a claim from being heard in a perfectly fair and legitimate way, even if the notice is defective, and it does not debar the Court from deciding the case. The experience we had in connection with Hatuma was very distressing, especially when you consider that we had three lawsuits over it, and on one occasion we had a weak Judge, who would not decide as between the two Assessors. He said the two Assessors were too far apart in their views for him to take upon himself the responsibility of rectifying the difference, and so he would not decide. Then, the Chief Justice was there when the matter next came up for decision, but there was one part of the estate which was not dealt with. in my opinion, in the way it should have been dealt with, and that is with regard to that portion which the owner was allowed to retain. Now, the Minister can say that the owner shall keep his steading and a portion of the land adjoining. He may select any portion up to 640 acres, but the Act does not allow him to choose, as it were, a spot which might become a corner section, where he could eventually start a little township and sell the sections later on when the estate had been subdivided and peopled with settlers. That was not the original intention of the Act at all; it was simply to allow a man his homestead. But in the case of the Hatuma Estate the Judge allowed the owner to retain land which was away from the homestead, leaving the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 homestead out. That was. I think, not a fair lands of the Crown, as honourable members arrangement, nor was it an arrangement which was intended by this House when it passed the Act. Clause 6 is to prevent evasion of the Act. It has been found that in the working of the Act there has been a good deal of loss in the matter of time, and this clause will facilitate proceedings, and enable the Act to be worked to much greater advantage than in the past. As to the regulations allowing preference to married people, honourable members are aware that we have heard a good deal lately about the non-increase in the population. We have heard that no encouragement is given to people who have families to go on the land. Now, I productive. I regret to say that the settlement think that this is a legitimate regulation to pass. and, personally, I would go so far as to : of that land is not going on at that rate at provide that if there were a man with a fairly , which I should like to see it going on. It is large family he should have the preference , notorious that very little real settlement in over a man with only one child, and I be- ! lieve the House will agree to that too. I do not think I need take up the time of the House any longer, because the Bill is a fair one, and the criticism which has been directed against it has not been what may be deemed prejudicial criticism as regards the principle of the Bill. There is one matter I might allude I settlers often in a most deplorable state. I to, however, before sitting down, and that is the reference the member for Hawke's Bay made to I have come to loggerheads with every Minister the acquisition of the Forest Gate Estate. He i of Lands who has been on the Treasury said, if I remember rightly, that the lady who ! benches with reference to this very subject. owned that estate had been harshly dealt with. | I have been crying out like a pelican in the Well, if there has been any hardship it is un- ' wilderness-continually imploring the Minister known to the Government. She offered her estate to the Government in the first instance. Mr. PIRANI .- How long ago ? Mr. DUNCAN .- Not very long ago; I think about a year ago. Mr. PIRANI .- Land has gone up since last year. Mr. DUNCAN .- It may have gone up, but it has not gone up much in Hawke's Bay. I do not think that even now the land is worth more than the price paid for it, as in many cases it means that you have to pay for the land more than you can make out of it ; and when a thing is dearer than you can get an income out of it after paving working - expenses, then it is too dear, and a good deal of the land at the present time is in that state. If those people who want workmen's homes, which I know they do want, if they think it is right to go in and purchase them at any price they can get them for, they will get them too dear, and it will be better for them not to get them at all. So you have to go steady about these things, and I am quite sure there is no need to over-hurry, and by doing so kill the settlers. I am not going to detain the House at the present time, but will support the Bill as it stands. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera). I am very pleased with the able speech I have just heard from the Minister of Lands on the Land for Settlements Bill. He has certainly shown the necessity that exists for an amendment of the law ; but I think, as I have always thought, that instead of purchasing private lands, unless in special cases, and where there is special necessity for it, our aim should be to settle the Crown lands and Native lands of the colony. The waste know, yield nothing whatever to the revenue of the colony, neither in the way of exports nor in any other way, whereas the private estates are adding to the revenue and adding to the prosperity of the colony. The waste Crown lands are simply the home of wild pigs and wild cattle, and the sooner we subdue our Crown lands and have them occupied with bona fide settlers the better for the people of New Zea- land. It is, therefore, the duty of whatever Government may be on the Treasury benches to do everything that is possible to settle the Crown lands of the colony and make them re- In connection the back blocks is going on. with that, I know there are difficulties in the matter of roads and bridges. Before the land is settled, or soon after the land is taken up, roads and bridges should be made ; and up to the present time we have never had a com- prehensive system of roading and bridging the waste lands of the Crown. We have left the 