amended in the direction indicated by the Queensland Bill I think the objection of the honourable members representing the dairying districts of the colony would be overcome. But it seems to me that, even under the Bill as it stands, there is a way out of the difficulty, because it would appear from the wording-of course I am not in the confidence of the honourable member who introduced the Bill - but it seems to me he must have had in his mind work of an intermittent character, and attempted to make provision for it in section 2. Section 2 says, -- " Provided that it may be mutually agreed between employers and employes that the hours of daily labour shall be so arranged as to exceed or be less than eight hours, but the total num- ber of working-hours per week shall not exceed forty-eight." Now, it might be that under that section such hours could be agreed to between the employés and the employers in a dairying district as would cause a minimum of inconvenience - sav, three or four working-hours in the early morn- ing, and three or four hours in the afternoon, but so arranged that in the week they should not exceed forty-eight hours of actual manual work. As a city member, I am against applying the principle of the Bill to country districts. I do not think the time has arrived for, and I think the circumstances of the colony do not warrant, the application of a measure of this kind to agriculturists and pastoralists. But surely honourable gentlemen who come from country districts will admit that most of our https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 remedial legislation applies to the grievances of particular classes; and there are classes of workers in the cities-and I can speak with confidence of the City of Auckland-to whom this Bill would be a boon. There are men working in some instances twelve, and even up to sixteen or seventeen, hours a day in the City of Auckland at the present time. I believe also that in the City of Wel- lington there are men working an excessive number of hours. I shall contend in Commit- tee that we ought not to adopt the suggestion of the honourable member for the Bay of Islands by defining special areas within which the measure is to operate. It would be prefer- able to put in a schedule of employments. I think if we put in a schedule of employments saying that the Bill shall only apply to those employments-that is, employments for city workers-then we shall overcome the objections that have been raised by members from agri- cultural districts. But it would be a mistake merely to say that the Bill should operate only within the cities, or within a certain radius of so many miles from the boroughs, because in that case factories would be certain to be established just outside the radius, and you would continually have to alter your radius, and the Act would become a dead - letter. I think, Sir, the principle of the Bill may be accepted by the House even without a division. It is twenty years since the late Sir George Grey introduced a short measure simply declaring that a legal day's work should be eight hours, and I think the time has arrived when it should go on the statute-book, and be applied only to such trades and such occupations as are ripe for it. The work of extension must be gradual, and we can trust to the good sense of future Parliaments to extend it as circumstances warrant. I do not think there is any necessity for contention with regard to the second read- ing of the measure. I am satisfied the Bill will have to be completely recast in Committee, and I shall lend all the assistance I possibly can to make it a workable measure. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Sir, I have no wish to vote against an Eight Hours Bill pro- vided it is an Eight Hours Bill, but I agree with the last speaker that this particular measure will have to be recast before it is a workable measure. We are practically asked to vote in the dark on the second reading. When the Premier announced he would support the Bill, I think he should have said the Govern- ment will take the measure up, and have the necessary schedules prepared, so that we may have a properly prepared Bill before us, and so know what we are voting on. I am of opinion the Premier should even yet take the measure out of the hands of the honourable member who introduced it and, later on, bring it before the House in a workable form. For my part, I am not going to vote in the dark, and shall vote against the second reading, as I believe that in its present form the measure is against the interests of the whole colony. How can it be called an Eight Hours Bill when under it domestic servants may work twelve hours a day? Why, I ask, are the females to work longer hours than the males? Is this a fair and equalising measure to propose such a method as that? It is true they are to have a holiday from noon on one day weekly and from two o'clock on alternate Sundays ; but I question whether this would be acceptable in many cases. Sir, I know cases in which men have a long holiday before they go out to muster sheep, and if during the period the men are mustering they were not allowed to work more than eight hours a day, or forty-eight hours a week, what might be the position ? Why, in some cases they could not do their work at all. Sometimes when they go out they are overtaken by mist, and may be idle a day or two in consequence. After the mist goes away they go on with their work of mustering; and in that way-working whenever they have a chance-they get the sheep together. They cannot leave the sheep - they would go back to the place they had just been mustered from, and the result would be that the men would not be able to finish their work in a reasonable time. Then, there is the harvesting ; and vet, notwithstanding the diffi- culties to be met with there, as in other matters, we are asked to vote for the second reading of a very imperfect Bill and run the risk of having it put right in Committee. Sir, that is not the proper way to legislate. I do not think the Bill is an Eight Hours Bill at all. I consider it is badly and wrongly drafted. It is as rough as an unbroken colt, and, although I 