Sir J. G. WARD .- I do know the Standing ! Orders : and I have the right, Sir, I presume, having been misrepresented, to make an ex- planation. The honourable member rose to make an explanation, and produced in support of it a record from Hansard. I then sent for a record also, and I propose to make an explana- tion on the top of the one made by the honour- able member for Franklin. Mr. SPEAKER. - He has a right to make an explanation. He says he has been misrepre- sented, and he has a right to reply to that mis- representation. Sir J. G. WARD .- On the 12th September, 1893, when the Land and Income Assessment Bill was in Committee, Sir Robert Stout moved that the subsection providing for assessments on land to be made after deduction of all im- provements be struck out ; and there voted to keep in the clause: Messrs. Allen, Blake, Buick, Carroll, Duthie, Fraser, Hall, Hogg, Houston. Joyce, W. Kelly, Mackintosh, McGowan. McGuire, McLean, Mitchelson, Palmer, Rhodes, Rolleston, Seddon, Shera, E. M. Smith, Tanner, Taylor, Ward, Willis, Wilson, Wright, and Lawry and C. H. Mills, tellers. The "pairs " were Cadman, Dawson, Hall-Jones, W. Hutchison, J. Kelly, J. MeKenzie, Pinkerton, Reeves, Sandford, W. C. Smith, R. Thompson, and T. Thompson. And there voted against the clause remain- ing in : Messrs. Bruce, Buchanan, Carneross, Duncan, Earnshaw, Harkness, Lake, Moore, Russell, and T. Mackenzie and Stout, tellers. The "pairs " were Buckland, Swan, Kapa, Taipua, Hamlin, Valentine, Fish, Richardson, Fergus, J. Mills, M. J. S. Mackenzie, and Mitchelson. Captain RUSSELL .- May I ask you, Sir, to invite the Hon. the Minister for Rail- ways to put himself right by saying who mis- represented him, for he has not attempted to show who misrepresented him. Mr. SEDDON .- The member for Franklin. Mr. MASSEY .-- I am entitled to make a personal explanation. What happened was this : The member for Awarua stated that the mem- ber for Franklin, referring to me and others, had opposed the exemption of improvements in 1893. I was not in the House at that time, and consequently could not have voted on the question at all. Sir J. G. WARD .- I said that the party opposite supported the property-tax, and I said that when it was proposed to exempt improve- ments the party opposite voted against it. If the honourable member for Franklin was not here, then, of course, he could not vote against it, but his party did. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I was here, and T want the honourable member to say that I did not vote against it, but that I voted for it. Sir J. G. WARD .- At that time the honour- able member was an unaccountable quantity. Mr. SPEAKER .- I really think that these recriminations have lasted long enough, and that it is the desire of the House that the question should go to the vote. Bill read a second time. On the question, That the Bill be referred to -- the Labour Bills Committee, Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said,-I would suggest to the Premier that there is no question of labour policy at stake with regard to the Bill. I understand that the sole reason for wishing to refer it to the Committee at all is the reason urged by one or two of us during the course of the debate, and that was that the whole of the draftsmanship wanted revising. The honourable gentleman thought that pro- bably it could be more satisfactorily done by amending the interpretation clause so that a trade-union should come under the definition of an industrial union or be put in the interpreta- tion of the term "industrial dispute," so that the Act would be made complete and shipshape and trade-unions made subject to it just as much as industrial unions registered under the Act. I would suggest that that is not the proper function of the Labour Bills Committee, and that the Law Draftsman should be brought into requisition, or, failing that, that the Sta- tutes Revision Committee, at present in a state of suspended animation, should be asked to deal with it. Surely all that is required is technical revision by the Law Draftsman or a committee of lawyers. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I have had con- siderable experience in getting Bills through the House, and where there are differences of opinion in respect to the clauses, as now, it would be better to do it before the Commit- tee which is specially instituted. The Law Draftsman will be there, and the honour- able member and others will be there to see that the Bill gives effect to what is intended and required. That is all I desire to send it to the Committee for. 1 believe it is all right, and that the strictures on the Law Draftsman are altogether unwarranted ; but, to give the honourable member and others satisfaction we will take it before the Committee and go through it quietly. Motion agreed to. CYANIDE PROCESS EXTENSION BILL. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it was of a very simple character. As the House would remember, the Government bought the rights of the cyanide patent and paid a certain sum of money for those rights. This Bill simply extended the time during which the money might be recovered from the companies and others who are using cyanide. An Hon. MEMBER .- How much is due ? Mr. McGOWAN said that a little under half the amount had been paid. The amount of £10,000 had been paid to purchase the rights of the patentees, and the Government had recovered $4,253. and the object of this Bill was to extend the time in which it could recover the balance. An Hon. MEMBER .- How long will it take ? Mr. McGOWAN said it depended entirely on those who used the cyanide. He did not think it would take much time-perhaps a couple of years. 