the iniquitous property - tax and substitute therefor a tax upon land and income, and when this party got into power and initiated that policy 1 supported them, and have supported them from that day to this. I would remind the honourable gentleman that 1 supported the Atkinson party. Mr. PIRANI .- Before you ratted. Mr. LAWRY .- " Ratted !" The honourable gentleman knows all about ratting. But I was faithful to my election pledge, and when there was a no-confidence motion moved against the Atkinson Government on the question of the land and income-tax I voted against the Government, and told them that on the occasion when I was elected I promised so to do. I was instrumental in aiding my friends on the Government benches in abolishing the property-tax, and I have been a consistent supporter of them. As to clection pledges, I tell the honourable gentleman I am different from him: I have never vet given a pledge except on the public platform, and have never answered a political question outside of a pub- licly and duly convened meeting, and never mean to. The result is that no person has ever dared, during the course of my political life, to charge me with violating a political pledge. Mr. PIRANI .- Not because it would not have been true. Mr. LAWRY .-- It would not have been true. and could not have emanated from any one but the honourable member for Palmerston ; and no one would have believed him. I take it that this Bill is simply what I may term a perfecting measure. Then, coming back to the question of Land Boards, it has been said that the Land Boards of the country are prac- tically useless - that they have no administrative power. Sir, I know very well that they have but very slight knowledge. Take my honourable friend here, the member for Ashley. I would like to ask what he knew about land when he was appointed a member of the Land Board. The honourable gentleman said in this House the other day that the Canterbury Land Board was a model for the Land Boards of the colony. Well, that says very little for the others, but it says a great deal for the honour- able gentleman's egotism. Sir, I think I shall ask the Government to appoint a Royal Commis- sion during the recess to inquire into the working, the duties, and the administration of the Land Boards ; and I would suggest that the honour- able member for Ashley and the honourable member for Ashburton should be the Com- missioners, and should go round the country and tell the Boards how to administer the Land Acts of the colony. The Premier the other day said there was not a member of the House who would not accept, if offered, a seat on a Land Board. If the nominee system is really to con- tinue, and I dare say it will continue, I should like to see my honourable friend the member for Eden placed on a Land Board. An Hon. MEMBER .- Because he is a man of weight ? Mr. LAWRY .- Not only is he a man of ight, but he differs in many respects from the honourable member for Palmerston. He is a man of intelligence, and not only is he physically broad, but he is intellectuall; broad. Sir, it has been said that the Land Boards of the colony are simply instruments in the hands of the Ministry of the day. I was very much surprised to hear my friend the member for Marsden say that in Auckland the Land Board had nothing whatever to do with the valuation ; they never inspected the land they opened for settlement ; they simply had to accept the Surveyor-General's plans and valuations, and had to vote "Yes" or "No" upon every question that came before them. I would ask members of the House how any man with any spark of independence could occupy a position of that nature. I was very proud indeed to hear my honourable friend the member for Manawatu, a man with practical knowledge, a man who knows what land is, what the settlers can do upon land, and who realises to the fullest extent that land for occupation is only worth what you can make out of it : I heard him say that they manage things very differently on the Welling. ton Land Board-that whenever a block of land was put up for sale or lease they do not accept the official statement as to the value of that land ; they inspect and value the land for them- selves. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who do ? Mr. LAWRY .- The members of the Land Board. I do not know whether they charge their travelling expenses, but if they did it was money well earned; because no man could administer the Land Act without knowing what the land was fairly worth and what could he made out of it. Now, Sir, a great deal has been said about opening up land in the King. country. My own impression is that we are opening up land in the King-country fast enough. I remember, a very few years ago, when I went through the Awakino country it was dense bush, and was an unknown terri- tory. The Auckland Land Board, at the in- stigation of myself and some of my Taranaki friends, put that Awakino country on the market -- of course, at the request and at the desire of the then Minister of Lands. To-day, instead of being a desolate wilderness, the whole landscape is dotted with smiling home- steads, and, figuratively speaking, the wilder- ness is now blooming and blossoming like the rose. Lately we have had a lot of land in the so-called King-country placed on the market, and I am very glad indeed to see that, for the benefit of the bona fide settlers, the whole of the country is being gradually acquired. But what we want, in Auckland more particulariv. is that men who are placed on the Land Boards should know the country they are dealing with. Sir, very shortly the land in the Ongarube Valley will be available for settlement, and if I were asked, knowing the country as I ds -if I were asked to take the whole of the country from the Poro-o-tarao Tunnel to Taumaranui, I would not take it ; and vet you may have a Land Board, without a know- ledge of the country, in Auckland administer- ing the land, and it may have hundreds of 