the honourable member ever knew of Native land legislation. Mr. SEDDON. - Of instructions to Native Land Purchase officers. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - Who fixes the price? The Government. Who purchases the land ? The Government. And let me go a step further, and show the injustice that is being done to the Natives in the purchase of their land by the Government. When a pri- vate individual purchases land from a Native trustee for minors, he has to pay all the pur- chase-money into the hands of the Public Trustee, who retains the money in trust for the children : but when the Government purchase land from a trustee for minors they hand over all the money to the trustee, and it often hap- pens that when the unfortunate minor comes of age he has not 6 ft. by 2 ft. to bury himself in, or a sixpence to jingle on a tombstone. An Hon. MEMBER .- I can give you half a dozen such cases. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Such cases are numerous. Then, again, the Government will not allow the Natives to sell to any one, and land and his family, and the Land for Settle- they will not allow them to lease the land. The Premier has told us what is perfectly true : there is an earth-hunger. But he did not say that the Government, to relieve this, will not allow the Natives to lease their land-in many cases for a rental equal to what the Govern- ment is giving them for the freehold. And what is the result ? Thousands of acres are lying idle in the North Island because the Government have had a surfeit of purchasing land, and now, dog-in-the-manger-like, they https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 will not allow the Natives to even lease. The unfortunate Natives have incurred certain lia- bilities and they cannot pay their honest debts. Why, within this very building, how many Na- tives have waited upon the Native Minister this session and asked him to allow them to amendment was this :- sell or lease their land in order to pay their debts ? But he cannot accede to their request because of the wretched legislation of past sessions. Mr. SEDDON. -- Tied it all up. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- "Tied it all up!" But does the Right Hon. the Premier consider it is just to the Natives that they cannot lease or sell any portion that is of no use to them ? I say at a later stage I shall go fully into this matter before this House, and if honourable cities. I agree with the honourable member members will only take the interest in it that I think they will, and that I think they should, we shall have such legislation on the statute- book that will remove for ever these bastard attempts at legislation we have seen in the past I have, Sir, really drifted away few years. somewhat from the subject, but the matter 1 have mentioned should be of the very greatest interest to the House, and I hope it will not be like it was last session, when during the passing of Native legislation we could scarcely keep a quorum in the House, though we sat from nine o'clock at night to nine o'olock in the morning dealing with the subject. I sin- | only yesterday, and who may leave it again as cerel: hope that I shall have the support of honourable members who hear what 1 have carried in this House by a thinking House, to say, and I shall ask them to support me, even though it may be against the Government. I have only one word more to say, and that is that, after all the arguments I have heard, I see no reason to alter my mind or regret the action I took last night in regard to the provision for the children of the owner. I regret that but two country members on the Government side-the member for Masterton and the member for Wairarapa-supported us upon the question. I was pleased to see the honourable member for the Wairarapa had the courage of his opinions, and was prepared to go into the lobby and vote in favour of what was an undoubted justice to those who own the land. Suffice that though Captain Russell's amendment did not meet with my entire approval, for if passed in the form proposed it might have opened the door to abuse, still I supported it-firstly, because the principle wasa sound one; and, secondly, that with the addi- tions and safeguards I proposed to add in Com- mittee, and which were accepted by the member for Hawke's Bay, I felt all danger would have been removed, justice done to the owner of ments Act immeasurably popularised. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Sir, I do not intend to take up much of the time of the House at this late hour, but I wish to place a few of my views of this land - for - settlements measure before honourable members. First of all, 1 should like to say I regret very much that the House did not see its way to carry an amend- ment I proposed, which contemplated enabling the grown-up sons of an owner of land taken under this Act to obtain the small quantity of 200 acres each of first-class land or 500 acres each of second-class land. I think it was a very fair amendment, and yet only ten members out of this House of seventy-four supported it. My " Any legitimate son (of or over the age of seventeen years) of any freeholder whose land is resumed by the Crown for settlement purposes shall be entitled to take up for his own use an area of such land not exceeding two hundred acres if it be first-class land, or not exceeding five hundred acres if it be second-class land, provided always that he shall farm the land so taken up." Of course, I meant that amendment to apply to land beyond the five - miles radius of the who has just spoken regarding this Act-that it will take time to make it a perfect, workable, and acceptable Act to the great bulk of the people of New Zealand ; and no principle will better secure that end than that the sons of the early settlers in this country-the sons who by their self-denial and their assistance to their parents enabled their parents to overcome the difficulties of early colonisation and to reclaim the land either from a swamp or the primeval forest - shall have a prior claim over men and women who may have landed in the colony quickly as they came. Until that principle is 