Works) said he had replied to a similar question last week. He indorsed what had been said in regard to Seacliff, and the management of that institution was extremely satisfactory. As the honourable member would understand, in mak- ing provision for additions to asylums the Go- vernment were guided by the recommendation of Dr. McGregor, and his advice had been fol- lowed in regard to Seacliff. He was not aware that that gentleman had made any similar recommendation with regard to other asylums, but if such a recommendation was received he had no doubt it would receive the attention of the Government. He quite agreed with what the honourable member had said as to the greatest care being necessary in the early treatment of cases. He felt sure there were many cases of people who were temporarily insane where, if there was special care exercised in the early stages, and if they were lodged in a building detached from the main asylum, a cure might be effected in a comparatively short time. He might say that of late years great improvement had been effected in regard to our asylums. No- thing was heard now as to overcrowding. Large sums of money were expended every year in carrying out the recommendations of the In- spector of Asylums, and this year the Govern- ment would make provision for a continuation of what had been done in the past. TRUANCY FROM SCHOOLS. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If they will introduce a Bill this session to amend the law relating to the pre- vention of truancy from schools? This ques- tion was suggested by the fact that complaints had been made very frequently from official quarters, and also unofficially, of a decrease in the number of scholars attending the public schools, owing to some extent to the difficulty of enforcing the Truancy Regulations. Since the question appeared on the Order Paper he had read the report of the Otago Education Board for the year 1900, and in it this paragraph appeared :- " It is, perhaps, useless to repeat the repre- sentations which have been made in previous years for amendment of the School Attendance Act. In the hope, however, that the Legisla- ture may by reason of importunity be prevailed on to remove the apparent defects in the Act, and by so doing tend to make the efforts of Boards and Committees for the suppression of truancy more fruitful of result than they are, these defects are again adverted to." He could not, of course, at this stage go into the matter of what amendments were desirable in the Act, and he simply now desired to know whether the Government would introduce a Bill to deal with this matter, as he thought they must be aware it was greatly needed in the country. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said this matter was now under the consideration of the department. The honour- able member would notice there was already on the Order Paper a School Attendance Bill intro- duced by a private member, which Bill, he presumed, would be much on the same lines as He could the honourable gentleman desired. not help thinking that if all the Boards worked on the same lines as some of the Boards they would greatly minimise what had been com- plained of. However, as he had stated, the matter was now under the consideration of the department. NORTH AUCKLAND RAILWAY EXTEN- SION. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City), for Mr. Witheford (Auckland City), asked the Minis- ter for Public Works, When the Govern- ment propose to proceed with the detailed survey of the North Auckland Railway ex- tension ? The main trunk line north of Auckland had been proceeded with at a very slow pace, and there was no indication of earnestness on the part of the Government in connection with it. The line had not been sur- veyed, except for a few miles beyond the point of construction, and the result would be that the Government will have to pay a very much enhanced price for the land it would be neces- sary to acquire to carry the line through. The unanimous feeling in the North was that the line ought to be surveyed and the land acquired right to the terminus without further delay. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said that for many years this line had been under construction, and he was surprised, looking at the past records, at the very slow progress that had been made. During the last few years they had been making more satisfac- tory progress. When he was last in the locality he had explained to the settlers in the vicinity what the proposals of the Government were, and they had expressed great satisfaction with what was proposed to be done. The work being done was in the best interests of the districts and of the colony. With regard to the survey, he admitted the honourable gentleman was right. When in Auckland recently he had given instructions for the work to be done. Whether they would go right through with it or carry it on to what was called a paying-point was another matter, but, at any rate, the survey would be started very shortly. HURUNUI RIVER BRIDGE. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Minister for Public Works, Whether he intends at an early date to invite tenders for the construction of the railway-bridge over the River Hurunui on the line of railway now under construction between Waipoua and Cheviot? He wished to point out that this bridge was of great import- ance to the Cheviot people, and that some in- formation should be given to assure them that tenders would be invited for its construction at an early date. The bridge was one which, he presumed, would be built of iron, and orders respecting it would have to be executed in the Old Country. It would probably take eighteen months to build, and it was manifest that the railway to Cheviot could not be completed until this bridge was first constructed. He there- fore asked if the honourable gentleman had 