out of the Act the operative clauses, under which they would have power to construct roads on lands purchased for settlement. While they took power to enable them to lay off road on these lands, they allowed to drop out of the measure the provision by which they could make them after they were laid off. But I do not think there is any such great urgency for this measure even for this purpose, because the Government have a department, which some years ago I named the Government emergency department, which has, as usual- if not more so-been quite equal to any emer- gency during the last year-the department under the control of the Solicitor - General, for I notice he not only interprets Acts as passed by us, but he actually puts words into the Acts and then gives an opinion, not on the Act itself, but on the words he reads into its clauses. Therefore, in regard to this land- for-settlements trouble, the Solicitor-General was equal to the occasion, and explained how- certainly after inquiry from the Governor as to where he obtained the authority . how it was possible to say the construction of roads was included in the term "laving off" roads. An elastic conscience like that is a convenient possession for a Solicitor - General under the present "gime. So, taking this matter alone, it was not such a grievance as the Minister of Lands made out, although when we get a Soli- citor-General who will not interpret the law to suit the powers that be, but will interpret it fairly, the difficulty may arise. It is just as well, therefore, to have an amendment of the law before such an appointment takes place. The Premier, in introducing the Bill, travelled over the whole question of land for settlement. He first told us it was a technical Bill ; then he dealt with the iniquities of Land Boards, the evils of the present system of ballot, and Goodness knows what else. So far as the Land Boards are concerned, the gentleman whom the Government and their supporters are con- stantly talking about -and the work he has done for land-settlement has set an example how to reform the Land Boards. In his Bill of 1892, the Hon. John Mckenzie introduced elective Land Boards. Although so many of the party which then followed the Government objected that nominated Boards were retained, still the lines of reform were laid down. If the Government wish to go the proper way to re- form them, let them place in the hands of the people the right to say who is to go on the Board and who is not, and not nominate men simply because they are supporters of the Government. Look at the Wellington Land Board now : they have been for two years carrying on their duties with only three members, instead of five as the Act allows, simply because the Govern- ment cannot get a supporter pliant enough to act on the Board, or because if they appointed anybody else the honourable member for Pahia- tua might think it a slight if he were passed over. Mr. O'MEARA. -- It is represented already on the Board. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes, the Pahiatua district is represented ; I remember that well, because Mr. Reese was put on the Board when the (io- vernment refused to reappoint me. Anybody who knows Mr. Reese and the Pahiatua district does not need any further comment from me on the action of the Government in that respect. But I say this, and I say it advisedly : that the members of the Land Board who are appointed by the Government are so appointed simply be- cause they are willing to echo what he Ministry of the day want. I say that is an improper position, and it would be better for the mem- bers of the Boards and for the settlers if elective Land Boards were substituted for what we now have. Then, with regard to the ballot. we are told about the difficulties of reforming the ballot. Why, it is the easiest thing in the world if the Ministry will only take the trouble. I have for years advocated in this House an easier system and an improved system, one that would accom- plish everything desired, and one which nobody could say that there was such a thing as Thẻ political preference in connection with. Government have adopted in the Land for Settlements Act part of the system I have advo. cated, but they do not seem inclined to make the plunge fully in the direction in which they must go. If they desire to take a beneficia: step forward, what could be easier than to make a list of everybody who wanted lami. as they apply for it, examine into their boa jidies, put each name on the list in the Land Office, and as the land comes out for settle- ment let the man whose turn it is on the list make his selection, and so on till the land or the list of selectors is exhausted. The lis could be open for public inspection, and there could not possibly be any interference with it ; and thus every man would be able to got a section after inspecting it, without having a section thrown at him haphazard under the ballot. He could most probably get a section be would like, and he would be very much better suited under these circumstances than he covid possibly be under the ballot system which is in force at present. I know any number of m. n who have gone into the ballot time and again. who have applied for land and gone long distances, and have spent money to inspect the land, and then have gone into the ballot only to be thrown out by somebody who perhaps dees not desire to go on the land at all. Mr. SYMES .- Some have tried twenty times and never got a section. Mr. PIRANI .- As the member for Egmont says, some have tried twenty times and could not get a section, and frequently it happers that a man who has only recently come to the colony and applied for land has been bess enough to draw a section at the first ballot : and I say that is unfair to the man who apples first, and who ought to have priority of seleen n when the land is open for sale. I think that if a system like that were adopted by the Minis- ter, and the present ridiculous ballot syste were done away with, we would get very much greater satisfaction in settling the land than we get now. With regard to married people beine allowed priority of selection, I do not think 