present matters should remain as they were. There was no doubt that that was the general consensus of opinion of the people of the colony. That was his opinion long before the Commission was appointed, and he would undertake to say there were not half a dozen members of the House who would disagree with such an opinion, or with the report of the Commission. He would like to say, however, that an opportunity would be given to discuss the matter. WAIRARAPA LAKE RECLAMATION. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If he will authorise the sending of an engineer to the Lower Valley of the Wai- rarapa for the purpose of the taking of levels in connection with a proposal to protect the lands of the Kahutara Valley and the lands ad- jacent to the Ruamahunga River against floods, and also to reclaim the Wairarapa Lake and straighten the Ruamahunga River ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this was a very large subject, which should not be considered without very great care. The Wai- rarapa Lake was bounded at certain places by freehold land, at other places by Native land, and at other places by right lines in and out of the water of the lake. He thought the Govern- ment should not interfere with whatever rights the Natives or freeholders had to this lake with- out an Act of the Legislature. Sending an engi- neer to take levels for the purpose of draining the land would be of little value until it was decided who was to benefit by the reclamation works. Sufficient data was already published in the annual report of the Land and Survey Department for 1899-1900, page 154, to know what would be the result of draining the lake and reclaiming the margin. But he thought, independent of all this, that this was a work which should be looked into. There was a very large area of land which was almost worthless at the present time, and he was of opinion that work could be performed there to reclaim this land and make it very valuable. He would in- struct an engineer to have a look at this place and report on the question of an outlet for the lake, and also as to levels, and as to the cost of the work. LOCAL AUTHORITIES INDEMNITY BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I think 7.30. there can be only one opinion, and that is that this Bill should be passed. As our law stands it is defective. An unusual but most pleasurable circumstance arose, and we found ourselves, unfortunately, so far as the local authorities were concerned, without due pro- vision to meet it. Section 159 of " The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900," reads as follows :- "The Council may in every financial year, out of moneys to the credit of the General Account, expend for purposes not authorised by any Act or law for the time being in force any sum or sums not amounting in the whole to more than one per centum of the general rate struck for that year : Provided always that if one per financial year amount to fifty pounds, the Council may expend the sum of fifty pounds for such purposes as aforesaid." I say that, under the circumstances, in some cases the local authorities necessarily hesitated to incur liability. They appealed to the Govern- ment, and, as will be seen by the following correspondence sent to the Mayor of Wellington, the Government took up this position :- " Wellington, 25th March, 1901. "SIR,-I have the honour to acknowledge re- ceipt of your letter of even date, asking that an indemnity be given to enable a sum to be spent sufficient to give a fitting reception to their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. " As stated at the citizen's reception com- mittee meeting, and later when the deputation consisting of yourself and other members of the committee waited upon me, the Government are prepared-the occasion being exceptional and not by law provided for-to do their best to pass an Act of indemnity, and legalising the expenditure of such sum as will meet the case and enable a fitting reception to be tendered to our illustrious visitors at the City of Welling- ton .- I have, &c., "R. J. SEDDON. " His Worship the Mayor, Wellington." I may say that it will be admitted there may be some exception taken to the measure, be- cause there are no safeguards so far as the sum of money is concerned. Well, I think it would be casting a reflection to some extent upon the local authorities if we were to fix any definite We must take it for granted that the amount. local authorities met the occasion, and met it reasonably ; and by comparison with othre colonies I may say our local authorities are deserving of every credit. There was no lavish expenditure in the way of money, but at the same time there was fair representation and decoration and preparation made; and, that being the case, the Bill as it stands simply legalises whatever moneys were expended. I do not know of any case where there has been extravagance, or where the Legislature should question the wisdom of the local authorities in what they have done. I would deprecate any hostile criticism in respect to the measure-in fact, members may raise a question that might be raised in connection with a Bill of this sort and thereby detract from the pleasure that was felt in entertaining and receiving their Royal Highnesses. I would advise members to simply pass the Bill, resting assured that the local authorities have done their duty. I think that is the wisest course to adopt, and I therefore move the second reading of this Bill. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- Mr. Speaker, the Premier just now made a statement that he hoped no one would say anything that would detract from the pleasure of 'receiving their Royal Highnesses. I do not wish to make any statement of that kind. For myself, I am gratified that their Royal Highnesses made a visit to this colony ; but, Sir, I am one of those who think that, if their Royal Highnesses 