The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Sir, I believe this Bill has been before us on more than one occasion, and on each occasion it has or guardians-the young person shall not be been referred to the Statutes Revision Com- mittee, who are quite familiar with it, and I do not see any reason why it should not be referred again to them. It ought to go to the Statutes Revision Committee according to our Standing Orders, and therefore I have no objec- tion to the second reading on these conditions. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I would like to hear . from the Hon. the Minister whether or not the Government concurs in this measure. I think, with the Hon. Mr. Scotland, that it is one of those important measures which should emanate from the Government, on the advice of the Crown Law Officers. We have had it before the Statutes Revision Committee it is true, for, I think, two sessions. We had it before us last session, and we recognise in it an old friend. In my opinion, there are some amendments in the law suggested by this measure which are very desirable indeed, but it is a measure which requires a great deal of careful investigation and knowledge of the law in order to know what is best to be done with it. I think it would cer- tainly have a greater chance of passing into law if the Government would give some indication as to what they think of the measure-whether they think it would be advisable to pass it or not, and whether they have had the advice of the Crown Law Officers in regard to it. Bill read the second time. YOUNG PERSONS PROTECTION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I move, That this Bill be recommitted for the reconsi- deration of clause 5. Honourable members who take an interest in the Bill will see, on reference to a Supplementary Order Paper which con- tains the redraft of clause 5, that I have endea- voured to meet the position as indicated by the expression of opinion when the Bill was before the Council in Committee in a reasonable way. It will be seen that the position now proposed is that, in the first instance, where the Protec- tion Officer finds a child habitually loitering in the streets or out-of-the-way places at untimely hours, if the answers are satisfactory he merely reports the occurrence to the parents or guar- dians. I trust that will not be looked upon as too extreme. I consider this is the least we can do-to report to the parents or guardians that the child is out habitually at untimely hours. We want to nip the evil in the bud, and this does it in a way that does not cast any un- necessary stigma, or brand a child as an habitual criminal or anything else. Then, the 3rd sub- section provides,- " If the answers are not satisfactory, the Protection Officer shall accompany the young person to his home and hand him over to the person in charge thereof, and report the occur- rence to such person." I do not want to make this a Bill of penal- ties ; I want to make it a Bill to act as a deterrent, and therefore 1 am quite content to allow that on the occasion of a first offence. even though the Protection Officer is not satis- ( d that the young person is doing exactly the right thing-he may be dodging his parents taken in charge, but simply handed back to his parents or guardians. I think that is treat- ing the young person with consideration. This is with the intention of making the Bill an Act, not of justice-but of mercy. Then, subsection (4) says,- " If the young person has been previously dealt with under the last preceding subsection, the Protection Officer shall forthwith take such young person to a shelter." I trust that will be satisfactory to the Council. I have done it to meet their views, fully, I think, appreciating that, in the event of the Bill not being so drastic as it might have been, it may in the milder form be more efficacious. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN. - No doubt what the honourable gentleman proposes is a great improvement on the present clause, but I would suggest that the result might be achieved in an easier way, because the words "if the answers are satisfactory " are still here. Who is to say whether the answers are satisfactory or not ? I would suggest that. after the word "purposes,' in the 5th clause, the following words should be inserted : "he shall notify the parents or guardians of such child loitering, and if such notice is disregarded the following provisions shall apply," and leave the rest of the clause as it is. All one wants is that notice shall be sent to the parents that the child is in the habit of loitering, so that a chance may be given for the children to recover themselves. or a chance to the parents of reclaiming them. I would sug- gest that this is the easiest way of getting rid of the words "if the answers are not satis. factory." The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I was one of those who opposed clause 5 as it stood, and I think I was mainly responsible for getting the Minister to alter it. I think the subsection proposed now will be highly satisfactory if it is left to the Protection Officer's discretion as to whether he thinks it necessary to report-not making it absolutely necessary that he shall report. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I do not object to that. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I am very glad the Minister has taken out of subsection (3) the words I objected to, and has put them into a new subsection in lieu of subsection (4), as I am positive that it must have been the inten- tion of the framers of the Bill to make that provision I instanced. It appears absurd that if a child is caught twice, and the first time the answer is satisfactory, the second time the child must be taken to a shelter. I am quite sure honourable members would have opposed that if attention had been called to it before, and therefore I am very glad the amendment has been made. Bill recommitted, and reported. ACCIDENTS COMPENSATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I beg to move the second reading of this Bill, which bas 