prices ruling for it at the present time. That, abnormal rates for the purchase and sale of Sir, is an application of the betterment principle, and one which is very desirable from a colonial point of view. Now, Sir, I come to a portion of the Speech which is particularly striking and satisfactory to me as a member representing a farming con- stituency. I refer to that part of it which deals with the question of the extension of our commerce and markets for our produce. This is a question upon which I have already had a good deal to say both inside the House and outside of it, and I venture to repeat there is no question before the country at the present time which is fraught with so much importance, as affecting the prosperity of the producers of this colony, as this one. I agree entirely, with those honourable members who have previously spoken, that the time has come when the Government, if they do not own ships of their own, at any rate should charter or subsidise ships for the purpose of carrying this coun- try's produce, so that we may be certain that our produce will be regularly carried, and also at the lowest possible freights. I hear a good deal in the City of Wellington on this point, and many complaints have been made amongst tradesmen recently on the subject of the irregular running of the lines of steamers trading between New Zealand and the Old Country. Only recently I was talking to one of Wellington's most prominent tradesmen, and be was complaining bitterly that goods which he had ordered in the Old Country, and had shipped at London in time to arrive here at a certain date, did not arrive until something like https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 a fortnight after the due time of arrival. This, Sir, one can easily see, is a matter which means a considerable loss to the tradesman importing. For instance, suppose & tradesman imports Christmas goods to arrive here for Christmas, and. instead of arriving before Christmas, they reach him after the New Year, it will be seen that great and serious loss will accrue to the tradesman. Similarly, and more important to the colony still, if our produce be carried in lines of steamers which arrive in the Old Country at irregular dates, we must not be surprised if at one time there is a glut in the Home market and that at another time there is a famine. One of the ruling principles in regard to the export of our produce should be regularity of supplies. As I could be obtained, not only for wool but meat said before, I would not have got up to speak on the Governor's Speech at all if it had not been for some very satisfactory words uttered by the Premier in the course of his speech last indications go to show that it is likely to fall evening. Sir, two or three years ago we had the Premier speaking at Pahiatua, and pro- still lower - it is all the more reason for us to mising that if it was shown that the farmers attend to the market for the meat, particularly of this country, and particularly the meat-pro- ducers, were not getting fair prices for their great deal was said last session on this sub- produce, the Government would step in and ject, and it is not my intention to go into establish freezing-works of their own, and cool- it to-night; probably there will be another storage works in the Old Country. I read in opportunity of dealing more fully with this the Governor's Speech the following :- matter later on in the session. But I am "Recent developments in other countries entirely in accord with those members who and in our own colony, in the formation of advocate the establishment of cool-storage in the Old Country for our produce ; and I am also trusts or combinations with a view of fixing products within the colony, are worthy of attention, and my Advisers are of opinion that the Legislature should, if the evil continues and grows, pass, as a precautinary measure, a law making it illegal for persons, corporations, or companies to enter into contracts or agree- ments fixing an abnormal price at which food- stuffs or coal within the colony should be sold." I draw the attention of the House to the words "if the evil continues and grows" the inevi- table " if." We all know the evil will continue and grow unless the Government steps in. In the Premier's speech, however, we had some'- thing of a more definite nature, laying down the policy that it is the absolute intention of the Government to deal with this great and im- portant matter, the markets for the produce of the colony. This must be particularly satisfac- tory to the country members, many of whom, I am pleased to say, have addressed the House on the subject, and shown the Government the necessities of the case, and that they are deter- mined that something shall be done in this matter. The small producers of this colony- the small farmers - are those who lead the hardest lives of any of the inhabitants of the colony. I should recommend any of those members who are talking so glibly about in- creasing the land-tax to visit some of the settlers in the country districts and see how they live. They will find the settlers half the year up to their knees in mud, experiencing every discomfort, working with their wives and families, slaving from morning to night, and barely making both ends meet. With this state of things before us, surely it is improper for us to be calling out for an increase in the land-tax. I was particularly interested with the words that fell from the honourable mem- ber for Pahiatua on the subject of the produce markets. He laid down what I have already dealt with outside the House recently-the desirability of some kind of combination be- tween this colony and the Commonwealth of Australia, and possibly the Argentine, for the purpose of fixing the price that should rule for the produce of all those countries. I am not so sanguine as the honourable gentleman ; I do nor think our wool could be expected to realise Is., not that we could get that price if we asked it ; but I am certain a largely increased price and other produce, if some such scheme as that were carried into effect. With the price of wool as low as it is at the present time - it was never lower in the history of the colony, and recent the mutton, which the colony produces. A 