people in our colony. One honourable mem- ber who preceded me referred to the question of the Fr'isco mail-service ; and I would like to say a word under that heading. I was rather disappointed when I heard the member for Auckland City referring to that service. When I heard that, owing to the conduct of the ser- vice at the present time, a great deal of dis- satisfaction was being expressed in connection . with the carrying of our mails, I hoped that the member for Wellington Suburbs had rather incorrectly stated the position. But when I heard the member for Auckland City reply to him I could not but admit that he had made a very good case. And in looking at this ques- tion of the Fr'isco mail service, I am free to con- fess that I do not see well how we would be able to improve on the present condition of matters. It was rather unfortunate that the Union Com- pany did not find itself in a position that it could take part in that service. I think I was one of the first in this colony who publicly called attention to the fact that when Honolulu be- came an American possession it would be im- possible for us any longer to have a share in the carrying of the San Francisco mails. That has turned out just as was anticipated at the time ; and, so long as the legislation of the United States in regard to the introduction of foreign vessels into American ports prevails, I do not see that we can hope that the Union Company, or any other New Zealand company, will be able to compete with the American liners between Auckland, Wellington, and San Francisco. The position has been complicated of late years by the American Government giving large grants https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to their own vessels, and, although an attempt has been made to induce the American Govern- ment to forego that provision of their law, I do not think we can look forward reasonably in the future to getting any concession from them. The policy of the American Government has been a policy of isolation since it first became an independent State. The Monroe doctrine indicated to the world that the Americans were going to plav a lone hand ; and they are a nation sufficiently great and wealthy to be able to play a lone hand. At the present time they have a population of something like eighty millions of our own race gathered to- gother on one continent, and by both wealth and power they are in such a position that I do not suppose there is a single European Power, or a combination of European Powers, which could successfully carry on a war against the United States. They have such enormous resources that they could practically defv any single European Power or any combination of Powers. And, with that enormous power, backed up by the great wealth which they possess, I do not see that they have anything to gain by conceding a pound or two to a colony or colonies in the Southern Pacific: Therefore we have only got to sit down and face the position of having the traffic between Auckland and Fr'isco for ever under the American flag. I think we should direct our attention rather to see whether we cannot devote our energies in | the question of conservation, there is also the Mr. McNab I would like our Postmaster-General, before he is much older, to see if he cannot revive the old line which connected us with Canada, and per- haps, vidi Australia, or, at any rate, a line with Canada, with Wellington as the trading centre. An Hon. Mr.MBKR .- Why Wellington ? Mr. McNAB .- I would like to remind the honourable gentleman who has just interrupted me that you cannot carry on all traffic through Auckland. I have always admitted, in connec- tion with our postal arrangements with America, that the first port of call should be Auckland, and I have advocated the pushing-on of the railway between Auckland and the South ; but I think the honourable member will be the last to admit that heavy traffic between New Zealand and America could best come vin Auckland as a distributing centre. It cannot be done. Wellington is the best distributing centre for the colony. I would like to see the energies of the Government directed towards the preservation of our forests. I come from a dis- trict where there are extensive forests, and I think I come from a district where we may claim that we have made the most economical use of the forests that have been made in any part of the colony. In the southern part of New Zealand we have a forest called the Sea- ward Bush Forest, extending for about twenty miles along the east coast ; and since 1860 right down to the present time we have had sawmills in that bush, and they have brought out millions and millions of feet of timber. I do not suppose that if we got the statistics in regard to that forest we would find that there are two hundred acres of that immense forest that had been burned down, or absolutely de- stroyed, in the sense in which the forests of the North Island have been destroyed. Now, during that long period of forty years that forest has given employment to hundreds and hundreds of men, and even at the present time, with all the mills at present in operation, I suppose it will take something like fifteen years before that forest is cut out. There is one of our railways at the present time which is rendered one of the most profitable railways in the colony because it is going right through the heart of that bush, and the immense loads of timber which come out of that bush every week is the most paying kind of traffic the railways can get. When I have gone through that forest by rail- through the most distant parts of my con- stituency-and have compared it with what has taken place in the North Island, where -- you ride in trains for miles and miles through immense forests that a few years ago contained magnificent timber, which has all been dissi- pated away to the heavens in smoke, we cannot but regret the wanton destruction of a national asset that has taken place in this colony. I do not say it could well have been prevented. I do not profess to know what the circumstances were at the time the destruction took place ; I only know it is a matter of extreme regret that it ever had to be done. I hope the Government will not lose sight of the fact that, apart from 