sure that I presume is somewhat similar to this. and woman ought to have a voice in the govern- ment of the country, and that, as far as political At all events, the principle is similar-the prin- ciple of referendum. I do not think the con- power is concerned, they should occupy the ditions, however, are precisely the same. We same plane. The proposal means the levelling- have to bear in mind the wide suffrage we have up of the masses ; it will give the people a mea- sure of political power which they never enjoyed in this colony. Here we have thousands of before ; and I believe it will be for the permanent young women just exactly turned twenty-one benefit of this country if this Bill is passed into years of age. We have also thousands of what you might almost call boys, because they have la w. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) .- I have always only just reached the age of twenty-one, and noticed, Sir, that converts are the men who we are going to throw upon them very largely most frequently are real and whole-souled en- the responsibility of deciding for us what we If you want a real and red-hot, thusiasts. are to do in the way of legislation. Sir, I think it is not a wise thing to pass legislation of whole-souled temperance orator you will find him often in one who has been a "soaker" in this nature. It is absolutely impossible for the vast majority of those to whom we would the past. The honourable gentleman who spoke last is a convert on this question of appeal, under a measure of this kind, to be the referendum, and I must congratulate him masters of the question we would submit to upon the whole-souledness of his conversion. them ; and what is the use of appealing to It really did one good to listen to his speech. those who in the vast majority of instances I do not know what it is that converted him know less about the question than we do so thoroughly. I do not think it can be the ourselves ? arguments adduced during the course of the should be doing. The idea has been thrown debate this evening ; but I shall give him the out that if we adopted this referendum we credit of supposing that he was possibly con- should then make easy and speedy the passing verted during the recess-that he has not been of what we are pleased to term " Liberal mea- persuaded by what has been said to-night, but sures." Sir, woman suffrage has been classed as a Liberal measure, and I feel as certain as that that he has calmly made up his mind during the recess. It is said that it is only fools and I am standing here that if that question had been referred to the constituencies by means of those who are dead who never change their the referendum there would not have been the minds ; therefore I will not for one moment taunt the honourable gentleman with incon. ghost of a chance of its becoming the law of the sistency. I have upon previous occasions voted land. That is my opinion. The same thing against this Bill, and I have heard nothing to applies to the Old-age Pensions Act. If that induce me to change my mind to such an had gone to the referendum, there is, of course, extent that I shall feel inclined to vote for it not the slightest doubt that those who had the now. I think the only logical argument was hope of enjoying the benefits of that scheme that adduced by the honourable member for would have voted for it, but the vast majority Hawke's Bay-it was the most convincing I of the people of New Zealand would not have have heard to-night. There might be argu- reckoned that they were going to derive any of ments vet to be brought forward in favour of its benefits, and I once more assert that that the Bill, and I shall be quite prepared to listen measure also would have suffered defeat. to them, but I do not expect to hear anything Judging from the interjections, there are those like the arguments submitted by the member who differ from me, but I have good grounds for holding the opinion I do. I do not think, for Hawke's Bay. I may mention that the honourable gentleman who has just sat down Sir, that appealing to the people in the manner said, " If it can be shown that it is essential suggested in this Bill is going to help us with that this measure should be passed, then we Liberal or any other legislation in any shape should welcome it, and pass it." Quite so; I or form. Now, it has been given to us as an argument to-night in favour of this Bill that am quite at one with him there. If it can be shown that it is essential that this Bill should in some States of America, as the result of the be passed, no doubt we can vote for it; but referendum, they have agreed to pensions for I do submit that no argument submitted to- disabled firemen. Sir, that proves absolutely night has shown us that it is essential for the nothing. In those States where there are huge political welfare of the colony that this Bill populations, of course the firemen are a con- should be passed. It appears to me that this siderable body of the community, and they have measure would afford us, as parliamentary influence they can bring to bear, and there are various sections of the community who recog- representatives, an easy way of shifting our responsibility. All we have to do is to get a nise that the firemen should have pensions. I measure before us, secure its rejection twice, have not the slightest doubt that as this colony and submit it to the people, and then we can grows, and as the number of our firemen in- say we have got the authority and mandate crease, we shall recognise them as a very of the people as to whether we must put important body, and we shall in time give certain measures through this House, and so them similar recognition to what has been cast the responsibility upon the people. I extended to firemen in those particular States. think, Sir, it is a deliberate shelving of our And, after all, it is to a great extent a matter of finance that has to be very carefully considered. own responsibilities. Now, we have heard some arguments to-night about what has been done Now, without any referendum whatever, we have a scheme of pensions for our Police in other places under the provisions of a mea- That is really what I think we 