If I were to apply the term " carping" to the speech, if I were to say the honourable mem- ber was briefed to throw ridicule upon what has been done, I think I should pretty well charac- terize the remarks of the honourable gentleman and sum up his speech. Sir, not satisfied with finding fault with the Government and with the local bodies, with the members of Parliament, and, more particularly, with "the Right Hon. the Premier "-and not like the honourable member for Ashburton, whose jocular remarks were well taken by the House-he has indulged in personalities which I suppose one must put up with under the circumstances; even an elephant, politically and metaphorically speaking, could be stung and tantalized by a mosquito. But, Sir, what I do take exception to is the attack made by the honourable gentleman upon the King's Representative in this colony. Under the guise of raising a constitutional question, the honourable gentleman has brought into debate on the floor of this House a difference that arose between himself and the committee with which he was connected and His Excellency the Governor. It was simply a question as to how far their Royal Highnesses were to be driven around Wellington to suit cer- tain business people-the very thing the honour- able gentleman now takes exception to. The proposal of the committee to which the honour- able gentleman has referred was to take their Royal Highnesses from the wharf, down Cam- bridge Terrace, round by the Recreation Re- serve, bring them down Cuba Street, then down Manners Street, along Lambton Quay, and then to Government House. I wonder who would have been held responsible if such a route as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that had been adopted. Surely His Excellency the Governor. In respect to this question, I want to have it laid down very clearly that His Excellency had special instructions and special responsibilities. That being so, he in no way trenched upon the position of the Prime Minis- ter or the rights of the people of the colony in what he did respecting the reception of the Royal visitors. I think the honourable mem- ber ought to have been aware of that, because His Excellency the Governor has never, in the slightest, trenched on the rights of the people. The same responsibility was cast upon the Governor-General of Australia. Mr. ATKINSON .- Whose instructions? Mr. SEDDON .- The Secretary of State's. And, in respect of that, I again say there was no breach whatever of the constitutional position : there was no breach whatever in respect to the visit of their Royal Highnesses. That had nothing whatever to do with the ordinary ad- ministration of the affairs of this country. It was no question of administration ; there was no interference with the rights of the people of the colony, and consequently every argument the honourable gentleman used in that respect falls to the ground. I think the honourable gentle- man, in preparing his brief, having some slight knowledge of the constitutional position, ought to have realised the absurdity of his own con- tention, and refrained from saying anything on the matter. I go further now, and say that what was really an act of courtesy on the part of His Excellency the Governor is now alleged by the honourable member to be a breach of privilege. His Excellency communicated with the Mayor of Wellington, and, when it was pointed out that there was a special commit- tee dealing with the reception, they also were invited to attend. Under those circumstances, what position was I to take up? His Excel- lency wished for information. He desired to discuss the matter in a courteous and proper way with those who had made certain requests to him. The committee did not request the Government to fix the route. What had we, as a Government, to do with it? The request as to the route went direct to those who were responsible. That being so, Sir, I do not think we should have had to listen to speeches such as were delivered to-night by the honourable member for Wellington City and by the honour- able member for Waitemata. I will say more later on about the speech of the honourable member for Waitemata. The member for Wel- lington City further said that Parliament should ask for a return of the expenses incurred by the local bodies. Sir, in moving the second reading of this measure, I said, and I now repeat, that you must trust the representatives of the people in the local authorities. It has generally been the other way about. The Government have generally been told they are trenching upon the functions of local bodies. Now, when the money has been spent, the honourable member asks that a return should be asked for before we pass this measure. Sir, I think the majority of the members of the House will ask for no such return. If we were to get such a return, the honourable member might take upon himself to object to some of the items. Well, is heto be the judge, or are those who are in the Borough Councils to be the judges? I under- stood the honourable gentleman took a lively interest in sending men to these responsible positions, and surely after they are there they should have the responsibility put on them, and the honourable member should not ask for accounts to be submitted to him, so that he might say that this or that account should not be paid. Sir, we must take it for granted that those who are responsible have done wisely and well in spending the ratepayers' money. There- fore it is proper that we should pass this Bill indemnifying them for their outlay. Now, I wish to refer to one or two other remarks the honourable gentleman made. He attacked the Minister for Public Works with respect to the shelter-sheds. He said that advantage was taken of the occasion to work out our spite on the Wellington City Council with of those sheds. respect to the removal Sir, the honourable member did a 9.0. grave injustice to the Minister for Public Works. But, Sir, it seems to me that it matters not to whom he acts unjustly, so long as he for the time being gratifies his own innate vanity or spleen, as the case may be. Sir, it was stated that the presentation of the address should take place opposite the Post Office. Naturally enough, with the body 