is a proper rule, because, as in this case, a question may be decided in a thin Committee, when members are not aware of a motion being sprung upon them, and therefore it is proper that the views of the House should be taken on the question. It is at the Premier's 11.0. suggestion I make this motion to- day, because in Committee the Premier sug- gested that, as the Committee had not an opportunity of considering this matter at a moment's notice, it would be much better for the sake of the motion and for the sake of members of the House that they should have another and better opportunity of considering it. Now, I am accepting the Pre- mier's recommendation, and adopting a different course to what he thought I would adopt, and therefore you see he takes objection to it. I am very sorry, because I am always only too pleased to help the Premier ; but in this case I intend to pursue my own course and have a vote in open House. The objection to taking the vote by post has been made, that in very many places there is no such thing as a post-office : but the clause I intend to propose allows the Govern- ment by regulations to make such provision for the taking of the polls as may be most con- venient, providing, of course, that the post- office is used as a vehicle in every possible way. Now, I maintain that by taking a vote in this way by post you will get a very much larger percentage of the electors to record their votes, if you give them, sav, a week in which to post their votes at the nearest post - office to which they live. Then, the people would take the trouble to record their votes on almost every question submitted to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 them. Does the House mean to say for one moment that the majority of the electors are going to lose a day's work-are going to spend a whole day in going to the polling-booth for the purpose of recording their votes on a mere abstract question ? Why, how many employers would give their employés permission to leave their work for a day to record their votes on a question like this ? Mr. R. MCKENZIE. - Make it a half-holiday. Mr. PIRANI .- If there was some sensible suggestion in the Bill for taking the poll I would not have raised the question at all ; but the member for Motueka, I am sure, will agree with me that it is ridiculous to say we are going to set apart a special day in the year and have all the machinery of the polling-booth for the sake of an abstract question such as will be submitted by this Bill. I think, at any rate, a trial should be given by the colony to the referendum ; but to have that trial pro- perly made, the machinery should be made as simple and as effective as possible. Now, under our laws relating to general elections employés have a holiday in which to record their votes ; but under this referendum employers are the only people who will be able to record their votes on a question of this sort under the machinery of the Bill; and I say that the working-men of the colony are just as intelligent in deciding many matters of this sort as a good many of the employers. I do not see why the Mr. Pirani the population when we want to take, if possible, the voice of the people as a whole on any question submitted to them. I know that, so far as the ballot taken in Switzerland is concerned, the great fault of it is that you do not get a vote of anything like a majority of the people. Now, if some simpler system were adopted which could easily be devised if the Government took the trouble to make regulations to suit the special circumstances of the case - you would be able to get a ballot cheaply, and get an effective ballot, and I feel certain that the secrecy of the ballot could be easily maintained if proper precautions were taken. In fact, there are polling.booths at the present time, where only ten or a dozen votes are recorded. where the ballot is not secret at all : but, on a question like this, if polling-booths were set up we know what the result would be. Take the Patea election, which is just now being decided : there are fifty polling-booths in the electorate. and in a number of them there will be only something like four or six votes cast. Where does the secrecy of the ballot come in in these cases? Why, the way every man votes is known just as well in these small polling- booths as if there was open voting, and it is ridiculous to say that under a system by which a post-office could be used, and by which the votes could be so enclosed that the subject- matter would not be known by anybody outside those who have to count the votes, you would not get a much better poll, a more secret poll ; and you would find that a majority of people would take the trouble to post a letter when they would not take the trouble to go through a crowd on a special day and record their votes in the same way as at a general election. I feel very strongly on this subject, because I ardently desire to see the referendum given a fair trial. But I am certain under the clumsy system under the Bill there is no such prospect of its getting a fair trial, except on the general election day, when it is liable to confuse the issues just as much as the licensing poll does at the present time. I am sorry the Government have not seen fit to adopt this suggestion. At any rate, I am determined that there shall be an open vote on the question, and that we shall be able to see who it is who desires to see the referendum carried into effect properly. sensibly. and sanely, and who is simply desirous that At should be a farce on the statute-book. second Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I rise the amendment, and I shall heartily support it. I consider there requires a very great alteration to be introduced into our system of voting. In a new country like this, where there are very large electorates, where the population is spare and scattered, there are bad roads, and in the winter, for instance, you will not, in any elec- tion in the country districts, get a full and ex- plicit expression of public opinion ; you cannot possibly do it. Not only is this feature a defect in our present system, but there is also a great waste of time and absence of facility. It should above all things be the desire of any Adminis- 