NIGHTCAPS STATIONMASTER. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minister for Railways, If the Government will, in view of the increased traffic and growing importance of the locality, appoint a Stationmaster at Nighteaps? He thought the Hon. the Minister for Railways would recog- nise the necessity for, if possible, appointing a Stationmaster for Nightcaps. Owing to the increase of settlement in the locality, and the large amount of business that was being done, the services of such an official were urgently required. Of course the difficulty was that the railway-line to Nighteaps belonged to a private company ; but nevertheless the settlers were making use of the line, and the miners in the locality considered that a Stationmaster should be appointed there. It was said that the caretaker at 10s. a week could not afford. at such a stipend as that, to devote the time which was needed to look after the interests of those who made use of the railway. He hoped the Minister would be able to give a favourable reply, and that the objection that this was a private company would not be al- lowed to stand in the way of dealing with the matter. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was sorry to say that from the report which he had on this matter the traffic at the present time did not warrant the expenditure that would be necessary for the appointment of a Station- master. This had been confirmed by the recent Conference of the Trathe Managers of the rail- ways of the colony. WAGES OF CASUAL RAILWAY-HANDS. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister for Railways, If it is a fact, as reported, that wages paid to the casual hands in Dunedin, Christchurch, and Wellington goods-sheds for eight hours -- that is from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m .- are 8s. per day, while in the Invercargill goods- sheds the amount paid to such employés is 7s. per day ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the practice, where men were engaged by the hour, was to pay them Is. per hour for the time worked. Such men were, however, liable to be paid off at any time, as soon as the job on which they were engaged was completed. Where men were engaged for considerable periods, the practice was to pay them 7s. per day, their work being continuous. Instruc- tions would be given to put all casual men em- ployed in goods-sheds on the same footing as regards pay. ADVERTISEMENTS OF QUACK MEDI- CINES, ETC. Mr. BARCLAY (City of Dunedin) asked the Government, Whether they will introduce legis- lation this session to prevent the natural beau- ties and scenery of the country being defaced by advertisements of quack medicines and other nauseous productions? The question might not interest members of the House who came from districts which were less fortunate in the beauties of their natural scenery than the dis- triet he came from. Dunedin and its imme- diate neighbourhood were by general consent pre-eminent in the colony for the natural beauty of the scenery : but a practice had grown up of defacing this scenery by putting up large advertisements on rocks and conspi cuous places, and on fine trees and so forth. Thus, in these places one would find one's-seif confronted with huge placards trumpeting the virtues of " Brown's back-ache pill," or " Jones's universal cure soothing-syrup," or "Scrubb's infallible ammonia for making hair grow on bald heads." His object was to find out whether the Government would initiate some legislation dealing with this affliction. He hoped it was the intention of the Government to do some- thing to put a stop to this nuisance, which was offensive to the eyes, disgusting to tourists from other countries, and repulsive to good taste and good sense. Sir J. G. WARD ( Minister for Railways) said Yes, he proposed introducing legislation dealing with this matter. STOCK-LOADING YARDS AT INGLE- WOOD. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will give instructions for the erection of loading-yards for stock at Ingle. wood ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the erection of loading-yards for stock at Ingle- wood was considered a necessity, and would le put in hand when funds were available. "L" WAGONS FOR NELSON-MOTUPIKO RAILWAY. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will as soon as possible place six additional "L" wagons on the Nelson-Motupiko Railway, the number of wagons at present on the line being inadequate to give reasonable facilities for carrying on the traffic ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said arrangements had been made to increase the number of " L " wagons on this section of rail- way. PREFERENTIAL RAILWAY-RATE ON WAIPAHI-HERIOT RAILWAY. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill), asked the Minis- ter for Railways, If he will remove the prefer- ential railway-rate which exists upon the Wai- pahi-Heriot Branch, and is operating to the detriment of the trade of the Port of Bluti. the present rates conceding 5d. per bale on wool being a differential rate in favour of Dunedin and Port Chalmers ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railwaysi. said the rates were now being reviewed, and this matter would receive careful considera- tion. CLIFTON RAILWAY-PLATFORM. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Mini- ter for Railways, If he will cause the railway. platform at Clifton, on the Invercargill-Bluff line, to be extended and otherwise improved ? 