on one side of the House would not be taken up i will accept. He is not now bound to accept in contradicting anything advanced by the other side." Now, Sir, not only is this proposed reform, as I have already shown, largely supported by the Press, but I have received, myself, numerous resolutions from public organizations, and num- bers of letters from individual electors, in all parts of the colony, heartily approving of the proposal of the Bill and urging me to proceed. For example, the following is from a gentleman who was once a respected member of this House -an Auckland gentleman-who writes as fol- lows : - "I hope you will persevere in spite of all discouragement, believing as I do that there is a growing feeling in favour of the reform. It would probably effect the greatest improvement, as far as machinery of government is concerned, of anything that has been before the House for years." Mr. SEDDON .-- Was he a defeated candi- date ? Major STEWARD .- I am not aware that he was : his name is Mr. Withy. Mr. SEDDON. - A defeated candidate. Major STEWARD .- I have known gentle- men who were defeated candidates who now have seats in the House. Now, let us see shortly what the Bill proposes. Its proposals are extremely simple. It accepts the number of Ministers as now approved by the House, and proposes that eight Ministers shall be elected by members of the House -- seven of the number from among the members of the Lower House, and one from amongst the members of the Legislative Council : the ninth Minister to be a member of the Executive without portfolio, and to be elected by the Legislative Council. The election is to take place immediately after the election of Speaker. Each candidate has to be nominated by ten nominators. This will prevent the possibility of every member going to the poll; and if a member cannot get the support of ten of his fellow-members it is quite evident that he would have no chance if he did go to the poll. Then, when the ballot is declared, the members elected as Ministers, seeing who are to be their col- leagues respectively, have it within their own choice as to whether they will agree to serve. If they find they cannot serve with some of those elected they can refuse to do so, and a fresh election takes place, and then you have a number of men who agree to act together in the interests of the House. The Executive so elected remains in office for the term of Parlia- ment, subject to means whereby one or two or more may be removed by vote of the House. Then, it is further provided that the Executive shall allocate the portfolios amongst themselves. This is a necessary provision, because other- wise, if the members elected them to specific portfolios, power would still have to be given to change the allocation, if necessary, during the recess without reference to the House. Then, of course, the right of the Crown is preserved. The Governor has to notify his acceptance of the names submitted to him. No doubt he the names submitted to him by the member forming the Administration -- be it Mr. Seddon. or Captain Russell, or any one else ; but, as a matter of fact, he always does. Still. the power remains to the Crown to refuse to accept any name. This power is reserved in the present Bill, in accordance with the Constitution Act. The Governor having assented to the selection made by the House, the Government take office, and there is no further trouble about the matter. The only departure from the present system is that members of the t.xeeu- tive themselves choose the Prime Minister : and that would present no difficulty under present circumstances. A minor provision of the Bill which I should like to see become law. as I hope it will, is the proposal which I regard as very essential -- namely, that Ministers shail be able to take charge of their measures in either House, whether they are members of that House or not, but shall not have a right to vete except in the House in which they hold seats. Then, Sir. I propose, in Committee, to move that there shall be added a clause that, with the exception of clause 16, the Bill shall not come into operation until a referendum has been obtained, and that that referendum shall be taken under the provisions of the Referendum Bill which is now passing through this House : and then it will be for the people to say whether or not this change shall be made. Now, much for the methods of the proposed reform. Just a word or two more as to its objects before I sit down. The first object is, as I have said. to enable the House itself to choose Ministers, instead of leaving the selection to one man. Surely it will not be said that the wisdom of the whole House is necessarily inferior to the wisdom of any one of its number. It seems to me that that is an altogether illogical position for any one to take up ; and surely it must be possible for the House to select a Government which will take charge of the various depart- ments of the public service quite as effectually -I think more effectually-than if that On- vernment is selected by one person to whom that duty is delegated by the House. Then. Sir, it proposes also to separate the fate of Ministers from the fate of measures. - look upon that as a most important thing. I do not think it is right that we should ever ix put in the position of having a complicated issue before us. There are a great many of us wh . believe that though we have for years past had the best Government in this House on thex benches-and I have loyally supported that Government : no one can gainsay that . bu. Sir, I say this: that there have been many occasions on which I have felt that one's lovales was strained, and that one had to vote for + measure even though disapproving of it, na wishing to injure the Government which one was supporting. Now, Sir, there will still ie "party " if this Bill passes. There will always be Liberals and what are termed Conservatives. and the dominant political opinion will tr- doubtedly be dominantly reflected in the Cabinet. So it will not make any violent 