Justice, Mr. Rhodes. Now, what would His Excellency the Governor say when the Hon. Major Steward waited upon him with his Ministry so composed? His Excellency would most likely ask the Major to look around at the pictures on the walls, or he might ask the honourable gentleman if he knew anything about " Yorkshire fog " - that beautiful meadow-grass - - but it is scarcely pos- sible of belief that he would make any re- ference to such a Ministry, and the genial Major would probably gracefully retire with a tale untold. A similar occurrence happened at a time when Sir George Grey was Governor of New Zealand. No doubt there are faults, there are blemishes, in the party system ; but, suppose that be admitted, can any member of this House point to any human thing which is without blemish ? Now, we who support the Government have many faults to find with the Ministry. But they are our Ministry-they are our creation ; and, as a party man -and I am a strong party man- still, while supporting them, I am entitled on occasion to express an opinion-an independent opinion-if I so think fit. For instance - there is no use disguising the matter many of us find fault with some of the recent appoint- ments to the Ministry. There is no use blink- ing the fact: we do find fault with these appointments. I am entitled to speak freely on the point, because I have told the Pre- mier in writing that I never expected any appointment in the Ministry. I have writ- ten to the Premier after each election, tell- ing him that I expected nothing. And he that expecteth nothing-well, I got it. But, seriously speaking, a proposal to bring into existence the system of elective Executive is nothing short of absurd. In all honest con- viction I seriously recommend the honourable gentleman to submit his proposal for careful consideration to a committee of babes and suck- lings. It is not material sufficiently serious for a House such as this to deal with. We know there is discontent in the minds of those people who are not ardent, experienced, and hardened politicians. It is a theoretic matter upon which debating societies may well descant ; but those who have read history from the time of Oxford, Harley, and Walpole will see that, with all its imperfections, with all its impurities and corrup- tions, it is the party system that has stood by England for so many hundreds of years, and still remains, for it has stood the test of the very severest criticism that men of the highest intel- lect in the world could bring to bear upon it. There it stands to-day. Nothing can shake it ; nothing can undo it. It is well to speak of the theory of the elective Executive, but in the country of its native growth -Switzerland it is, without doubt, a dire failure. But it is the only acceptable thing there, because of the in- congruous elements which compose the Govern- ment of the country. Here we have no such incongruous elements. We are a concrete whole, having one desire, and one only, and that being, to the best of our power, according to our lights, to advance the welfare and the Mr. Fisher prospects of this country. I vote with the best of feeling toward the honourable member for Waitaki, but I vote and speak as strongly as I can against his Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, I could pos- sibly, were I to raise the question that this Bill was a money Bill-more especially one of its essential clauses-ask that the Bill be not allowed to proceed any further, or for the elimination of clause 17; and that clause must go when the Bill gets into Committee. But I wish to bring members to look at this measure in all seriousness. I was sur- prised earlier in the evening that a grave constitutional change such as is proposed in this Bill should be treated with levity. No more important question has been submitted to this Legislature, and it ought to be dealt with seriously ; and, if it is dealt with seriously, I feel satisfied that, in contrast and in comparison with our existing conditions, no good reason has been shown for the change. Much a> I respect the honourable member for Waitaki. I listened with pain to his speech this evening. It is not, Sir, on those members who object to this measure that the onus of proof lies to show it is not required. The onus of proof rests on those who bring forward the proposal for so grave a constitutional change as this is. And when the honourable gentleman intro- duced his Bill, what did he give us in support of it? And are some of the newspapers he quoted those who have been in support of progress ? Did they help to bring this colony to its present satisfactory condition ? I say, No. One writer gave as his reasons for advocating these changes. that, owing to the autocracy of the Premier, dictator like, there should be a constitu- tional change in this colony. Sir, I would say change the Premier, do away with the autocrat and dictator, but do not run the risk you propose in a measure such as this. This thing can be shown nowhere else except in Switzerland. Contrast Switzerland and the con- dition of its people with New Zealand, and ask the unfortunate Swiss if they would like to change with the people of New Zealand. They would say, " Yes! God grant it may be soon." That would be their cry. Travel through Switzerland, get amongst its people, take ther earnings, take their method of living-take it any way you like -- and contrast their position with that of the people of this colony, ard you must admit that our position is incompar- ably superior to the position of the Swiss peasant or the Swiss working-man. But. Sir. I have said the onus of proof rests with the who propose a change of this radical nature. Coming to the Bill itself, I shall show that it is absolutely unworkable. Who bas demand. d this change ? Have the people at the ballet- box demanded it ? Was this question su'- mitted to the people at the last generalelection. or at any general election in this colony ? 1 say, No. I say the last appeal to the prop'e was, Whether or not the policy of the Liber party should be approved of - whether or net the Liberal party should continue in power. These two questions were submitted to the 