He had a letter from the petitioner in which she said that nothing whatever had been done to carry out the recommendation of that Com- mittee. Two reports had been made last session. The first was objected to by the Hon. Mr. Cad- man, who was at present absent, and on his motion it was referred back to the Committee for reconsideration. That honourable gentle- man attended the Committee, and a thorough investigation took place, all the papers in con- nection with the matter having been submitted by the Native Department. He thought it very hard that nothing had been done to carry out the Committee's recommendation. On the 28th September, the day following that on which the Committee reported, the House adopted its recommendation. He hoped to hear from the honourable gentleman that something would be done to set this grievance right. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the Go- vernment had taken the whole matter into consideration, and determined that they could take no action in it. GORSE ON RANGITAIKE RIVER. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND asked the Minis- ter of Education, Whether the Government will take steps to stop the spread of gorse on the banks of the Rangitaike River, which, if not checked, will spoil that river for tourist trout-fishing, whereas by a small expenditure now the gorse can be effectually stopped ? The Rangitaike River was one of the finest trout streams in the world, and was becoming of world-wide fame. About eighteen months ago a great fisherman was paying a visit to New Zealand, who devoted his life to sport. He had been fishing in America, Norway, and Scotland, and said that no stream he had fished had the same sport and attractions as the Rangitaike. It formed a great attraction to tourists, and the attraction was becoming more and more every year. He had been informed that the gorse there was a considerable hindrance to the sport, and it had increased considerably, and men conversant with the place, and sportsmen, said that in another year or two, unless it was attended to, the river would be unapproach- able. A very moderate expenditure would enable the river-banks to be cleared. He thought something like #100 to $150 would answer the purpose, whereas if it was allowed to go unchecked much longer it would be almost impossible to do anything with it. He believed the river ran largely through Crown lands, and the Crown had duties connected with the mat- ter, in addition to conserving what would be one of the attractions of tourists to the district. The efforts of the Government in the direction of tree-planting in the thermal-springs country were deserving of great praise, and he should say that the persons in charge of that would be proper persons to intrust with the direction of the clear- ing of the gorse. He hoped the Minister would tell him that the Government would devote some of the funds which he believed were at their dis- posal for noxious weeds to dealing with this pest, and thereby assist in the maintaining of what Hon. Mr. W. Kelly would prove a great national asset in the shape of a great attraction to the tourists whoin we were so anxious to get to visit New Zealand. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER was informed that the Rangitaike River flowed to the sea at Whakatane and Matata. Along a part of its course the freehold had been granted right up to the bank of the river, and the Crown could not interfere with the riparian rights of the On another part of the river then owners. was the usual chain reserve along its banks, and possibly the Crown ought to remove any gorse growing there. Higher up the river the land was altogether sold or in the hands of the Natives right up to the bank of the river. Therefore it was a difficult matter, un- less the honourable gentleman should say the exact spot at which the gorse ought to be cleared, to say what was to be done. He acknowledged that the honourable gentleman had made out a strong case, and in the interest of making the country as attractive as possible to tourists it should be safeguarded and improved, and the Crown undoubtedly might remove the gorse so far as it owned the land. As regarded the other part of the river, he was afraid, as gorse was not a noxious weed within the meaning of the Noxious Weeds Act, they could not compel any one to remove it from his land. the bank of the river, or his boundary. He could assure the honourable gentleman that, as far as the Government was concerned, they would do their best to improve the condition of the river. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND explained that the part of the river referred to was not the part at which it emptied into the Bay of Plenty. but higher up the river. It commenced where the coach-road crossed the river on the way to Taupo, and flowed down about thirty miles. He fancied a good part of that was Government land and some was Native land. He did not think there would be any difficulty in having the gorse cleared if the Government authorised the expenditure of ¥150. INSPECTION OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK -- I move, That there be laid on the table of the Council a return giving the names of the Education Bouras of the colony which permit their Inspectors to examine private schools under the provisions of section 95 of " The Education Act, 1877," and the napis of those which refuse so to do. The motion does not quite explain itself- perhaps I had better make some remarks upon the subject. Honour- able gentlemen are possibly not aware that the Education Act is administered by different Boards of Education in different ways. In some parts of the colony, when managers of schesis -for convenience called " private schools." but which very frequently mean Roman Catholic schools -apply for . Inspectors to examine 1 these schools that service is willingly grante i. and children attending those schools received their standards in the same way that children attending the Government schools receive theirs. The children are so examined in Southland. I am informed by my hancer- able friend Captain Baillie that they are »0 