known that the Premier was always responsible for the departments. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not constitutionally. Mr. SEDDON .- You take a vote of want of confidence, and, if carried. it applies to all. An Hon. MEMBER. - Each Minister is re- sponsible for his own department constitu- tionally. Mr. SEDDON. - If the Government is blamed, and is censured, the head of the Go- vernment, if he is worth his salt, says, "I accept the responsibility." An Hon. MEMBER .- He often dismisses his colleagues. Mr. SEDDON .- That has never been done by me. An Hon. MEMBER .-- It happened under Sir Harry Atkinson. Another Hon. MEMBER .- It happened under the Grey Ministry. Mr. SEDDON .--- Very well ; then, it shows that you have had two autocrats before you got me. I desire to say this: At the meeting at Waipawa they produced to me a statement that had been made by Mr. Ballance showing that he had promised that land would be taken in that district under the Land for Settlements Act, and so relieve that unfortunate county from its undesirable condition, surrounded as it was by large estates : and it was not at all in reference to the administration of the Land for Settlements Act. I said, as Mr. Ballance's successor, as head of the Government, I would take the responsibility. That is what I want to say, and Mr. Hall, the member for Waipawa, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 was there at the time. As I succeeded Mr. Bal- lance, and as land had not been taken, as, I believe, Mr. Ballance had promised, I could say no more than I did as head of the Go- vernment who succeeded Mr. Ballance. At all events. it was not done. But I never said, as far as Hawke's Bay was concerned, that we had never done anything, because in that district we bought 58,855 acres of land, for which we paid $317,996. Consequently, I could not say that there was much blame at tachable to me, or the Government, or the Minister of Lands, because Hawke's Bay stands third. First comes Canterbury, $774,900: next comes Otago, 5336,000: and Hawke's Bay comes next with $317,000, paid for land in these respective districts. I have not much. therefore, to apologize for ; but I do object to being held responsible for what may be tele- graphed to some of the papers, particularly, may I say so, Sir, a paper near Christchurch. The honourable member made a statement that I as Premier, with the concurrence of my colleagues, had taken over the administration of the Purchase Department of the Land for Settlements Act. That statement, Sir, is abso- lutely incorrect. What happened was a matter of readjustment. Since Sir John Mckenzie went Home, now nearly three years ago, that depart- ment was left practically to be administered by some one other than the Minister of Lands, and no one knows it better than the honour- able member for Riccarton. As there is a very close affinity between this department and the Colonial Treasurer, who has to find the funds for the payment, I say that the Minister of Lands and the Colonial Treasurer must work together. If they do not work together you will find yourselves in a difficulty. But there is more than that. In respect to workmen's homes, I am Minister of Labour, and you cannot disconnect the Minister of Labour from workmen's homes. I say the two things go together. In respect to finding land for workmen's homes, as Minister of Labour I have done as much as is possible. I would have liked to have done more. I am not satis- fied, myself, with the manner in which some lands that were bought were cut up, but that is easily rectified. But what I do say is this : that until you get these lands for workmen's homes, until you give these men whose em- ployment is intermittent a piece of land on which they can work in their spare time, you will have constant difficulties, and you will have men crying for work with larger wages and a higher log. If you get them away from the towns and slums and give them a couple or three acres of land on which they can keep a cow and grow vegetables, and sell enough to make up the difference between what they earn and what it will take to keep them, I say if you do that you are doing a good thing. Mr. TANNER .- Why not do it, instead of talking about it ? Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman talks about the Government not doing it. Canterbury has had more land bought for workmen's homes than any other place, My friend Mr. Bollard will say that Auckland has not been treated justly. What have we heard about Dunedin ? Nothing at all. I simply say now, you are better off : you will have lower rents in Christchurch, you have not anything like the slums in Christchurch that you have in Dunedin, or Wellington, or Auckland. You ask me to take the four large centres of population and say which requires workmen's homes the least, and I say Christchurch. 1 am simply showing that in the acquiring of lands for workmen's homes I am, perforce, as Minister of Labour, connected with that ; and in that respect I have nothing to apologize for. I never did apologize, and, what is more, I never will. I believe in doing what is right, and we have been doing what is right in this respect. In laying this paper on the table I ask mem- bers to contrast its contents with what has been said by the member for Riccarton. It is he who should apologize, and I hope to see him come to the table-to the penitent-stool-and say, " I will never do it again." Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON .- I desire to move now, That the paper asked for by the member for the Bay of Plenty be also laid on the table. Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON. . I have another paper, pre- pared by the Treasury, and I move, That it be laid on the table. Motion agreed to. 