12.0. or to interfere with the Commissioners in any way, but thought it should be pointed ont to them that in fixing the quota for these electorates the lowest quota should be allotted. He believed no other country electorate in the colony had anything like the same population as these. The population in the three northern electorates was 31,000, and they should only have had 8,000 each. There were not many other country electorates in the colony over 8,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- Mine is 13,000. Mr. R. THOMPSON said probably the honour- able gentleman's was also too high, but that did not alter the fact. In the northern elec- torates the population was very much scattered, and he thought the lowest quota should have been allotted. He hoped when the appoint- ments were made this matter would be brought under the attention of the Commissioners. As to boundaries, he did not desire to raise any question. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was a much larger question involved here than seemed to have struck the honourable gentleman. It might be that an injustice had been done to the North of Auckland, to the three electorates there as compared with other electorates similarly situated, but he held that the Government would be violating a constitutional principle if they addressed the Commissioners upon any- thing electoral at all. As the law stood, Parlia- ment practically appointed these men to be Commissioners; and to do what the Government was now asked to do, once they were appointed, would be almost tantamount to giving directions to a Judge of the Supreme Court. The Com- missioners held statutory powers, and, in his opinion. there should be no interference what- ever with them in carrying out their duties. OPIUM IMPORTATIONS. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Premier, Whether the Government will bring in, during the present session, a similar Bill to that brought in last session prohibiting the importation of opium into this colony ? He need hardly remind the honourable gentleman that a large number of the members of the House were in favour of the passing of this measure. Even during the last year it would be found that the habit of using opium had increased : and not only was it increasing amongst the Chinamen, but, unfortunately, the habit was being taken up by European youths. He trusted the Government would consider the matter with a view of bringing in legislation. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) desired to inform the honourable member that the Government would take this matter into consideration. COMMANDANT OF THE FORCES. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked the Minister of Defence, What steps are being taken to provide a successor to Colonel Pole-Penton as Commander of the Forces when that officer's period of service expires ? This question might have been allowed to go off the Order Paper, the other day whether Colonel Henry had ac- cepted the offer, perhaps he would now give them that information. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he had not received any communication as to the actual acceptance of the appointment, but he took it for granted the recommendation would not have been made without consulting the officer. He hoped that within a few days he should be prepared to announce the acceptance of the appointment. WAIRARAPA LAND FOR SETTLEMENT. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked the Pre- mier, When the people of the Wairarapa may expect the fulfilment of the promise made by him to acquire land for the purposes of settlement in the Wairarapa electorate ? He hoped the Premier would be able to give him an assur- ance that some land would soon be purchased in the Wairarapa, for he could assure him that there was a great demand there. Only last Friday he attended a public meeting at Grey- town, when the same question was brought up. Many people in the electorate were crying out that land should be purchased by the Govern- ment for settlement purposes, owing to the fact that the whole of the natural increase of the district was drifting to other parts of the colony, because there was no land for the young people to settle upon. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the people of the Wairarapa might rely on the promise that the Government would acquire land for settle- ment purposes near Wairarapa Lake. He might say he was getting somewhat tired of the method of procedure in the matter of ac- quiring land. The power was given to the Minister to direct the acquirement of land in certain districts, and, although the people ex- pressed a wish that land should be acquired, nothing further was done to secure the land. That was why he was getting somewhat tired of the position. As far as the Wairarapa district was concerned, the facts were these : Cotter's Estate, of 5.000 acres, near Greytown, was a shingle plain, quite unsuited for small settlers. But there were about 350 acres of good land on the north end of the estate next the township. An offer was made for this and other 350 acres, inferior. alongside, but the offer was declined. Tyer's, 1,603 acres, near Greytown, was thin land on shingle, and some of it was swampy and required draining. The price asked-an average of #11 8s. per acre-was $3 per acre above two independent valuations obtained by the Land Purchase Board. Mr. Tyer withdrew the land on being informed to that effect. The land of Mr. William Barton, 1,400 acres, at north end of Wairarapa Lake, was very much subject to flood, and was of inferior quality. The price asked was $14 per acre-a great deal too much. The Pigeon Bush Estate, 5,000 acres ( Mr. Tring- ham), was mostly inferior hill land. It might be subdivided into three sheep-farms. The price asked was $5 per acre, and was much too high. The Board could not recommend the purchase. 