Yet we find that only a small proportion indeed of the population have any say in their election. Well, I think, when the Bill dealing with the County Councils is brought down before us, honourable members would do well if they looked into the question and saw if the failure of local bodies to carry out the administra- tion of their affairs was not due to some weak- ness in that direction. I do not propose to detain the House at any greater length in dealing with the question of the Address in Reply. There will be ample opportunity when the measures themselves come up for discus- sion. and I only rose because I jotted down a few facts while honourable members were speak- ing, and I wanted to direct the attention of the House to them for a few moments. I desire to thank honourable members for the patience with which they have listened to me during the time I have occupied their attention. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttleton). - Sir, before saying anything on the Address in Reply I would like to join with other honourable mem- bers in expressing my admiration for the very capable way in which the mover and seconder of that Address delivered their speeches in in- troducing it to the House. I think the honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Col- lins) especially dealt with it in a very fair and impartial manner, and gave the Address in Reply very capable criticism. I could not help being struck with something that fell from the honourable member for the Suburbs in speaking of the mail-services. He was very severe on the Spreckels line, and he condemned that con- tract in no measured terms, and referred in anything but complimentary terms to the great Republic across the Pacific. Well, I am not here to defend the Spreckels Company or their contract, but I think it is to be deplored that we should say anything here that is disrespect- ful to our brothers across the Pacific. I be- lieve. after all, the more far-seeing of us look forward to the time which is going to be some day or other-perhaps after we ourselves have passed away, but I believe it is coming - when there is going to be a union of the English- speaking race ; and I believe when it does come along it will be for the good not only of these people, but for the good of the whole earth. We should do all that in us lies to promote a friendly feeling with the great Republic, and not an unfriendly feeling. That being so, I think the honourable gentleman made a mistake in speaking of them and their shipping laws in the way he did. He also referred to the noble part our sons and relatives had played in South Africa in upholding the honour of the Empire, and he said we all knew they would acquit themselves well. Well, I do not think we all did know that they would acquit themselves well : and it was with a great deal of anxiety that we saw our connections in this part of the world going to what was an entirely new experience to them - namely, to fight on the field of battle. It was with no slight anxiety. I say, that we saw our connec- tions going away, and it was with no slight anxiety we waited to see how they were going to acquit themselves; and it must have given us a sense of relief, as well as pleasure, to see that they did not discredit the race from which they came. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay delivered a speech to which I listened with extreme pleasure; I should also like to express my regret that he should have ceased to occupy the prominent position in the Opposition that he has so long and honourably held. In this connection I think many of his supporters will bear with me if I draw attention to what strikes me as a very peculiar thing. We are never done, day in and day out, hearing those honourable gentle men denouncing Minis- ters in the present Administration ; we are told the truth is not in them ; that they have harried and brought the country into a state that is going to end in national ruin ; and that, politi- cally speaking, they are dishonest. Now, either these statements are true or they are untrue. If they are true, and those men are the true patriots we understand they are -- most of them are men of means, which most of us are not-why do they not stump the country from the Three Kings to the Bluff and denounce the Government? If I believed one-half of what those honourable gentlemen state to be true I would never cease night and day exposing the iniquitous state of things throughout the country, and would never rest till I got those honourable gentlemen off the Government benches. But, instead of that, what do we see ? We see the Opposition taking their rest, and we see some of them resigning their seats. Is that the action of patriots? Is that what we might expect from patriots ? Nothing of the sort. So I really believe that they do not believe half of what they state about the Government. I believe their state- ments are caused by the present system of party warfare in the House, and I excuse these honour- able gentlemen, because I am convinced in my own mind that they do not believe half of what they say about the Government. The next gentleman who gave us a criticism on the Speech was the honourable member for Riccar- ton, who, when he rose to speak, nearly took the place of the Minister of Customs. I hope it is no indication of what he intends to do in connection with that honourable gentleman. The honourable member for Riccarton was very unsparing in his denunciation of a Bill the leading features in which I voted against last year-namely, the Public Revenues Bill. But the Premier has already referred to the fact that that honourable gentleman who denounced the Bill with such ability voted for the Bill and took what it produced. The honourable mem- ber for Ashburton referred to the fact that the Government had bought sections of land to settle with working-people in the immediate neighbourhood of Christchurch, and said the Government had cut them up into quarter-acre sections, and that the greater portion was still unoccupied. I believe there are few members who are so reliable authorities on the land question in the House as the honourable member for Ashburton (Mr. Mclachlan) is ; and I am struck with the fact that he does not see that the reason the land is not taken up is just 