friend was hung up. But, so far as the pro- posal now before the House is concerned, I can assure the House it received the approval of the Steck Committee. If the mover of the Bill will take my advice. I would suggest, seeing that this is the case, he should accept the Minister's offer, because, no doubt, the Stock Committee will do as it did last year. It is early in the session, and the honourable member runs no risk of losing his Bill. If he does not see the matter in that light, and decides to proceed with the measure without referring it to the Stock Committee, I shall certainly vote with him : but it is for him to consider whether it would not be the wiser policy for him to accept the Minister's offer, and refer the Bill to the Stock Committee. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) .- I wish particularly to draw the attention of the Minister to the remark made in which he expressed the opinion that the Rabbit Acts of New Zealand were working satisfactorily. I suppose the remark he made was based on his experience of the South Island. Mr. DUNCAN. - And the North Island. Mr. HALL. - I can tell the honourable gentleman this: that when he visited my electorate for some one or two days there were three or four deputations of people within the rabbit district of Hawkes Bay-the bush dis- triet especially - who wished to interview him and point out several things - Mr. DUNCAN .- Why did you not introduce them ? Mr. HALL .- I will tell the honourable gentle- man why : he came without giving sufficient https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 notice, and went through the electorate like a streak of lightning, and nobody could corner him up. I can tell the honourable gentleman, if he will give me the opportunity of introducing those deputations, I will do so, because I can assure him my life has been anything but happy during the last twelve months in respect to this very question, and I can point out where the trouble is. The Minister of Lands is a fair man, and when he gets a grasp of the situation he will. I am sure, be ready to concede what I say. In the first place, the State is the owner of very large areas of forest reserves all along the foot of the Ruahine Ranges. Along these ranges there are small settlers. Yet the grant to assist in clearing rabbits in that district is small com- pared with the grants given to other districts. Some $150 was given in that case, whilst some hundreds were given in other cases. I advise the honourable gentleman to give a larger subsidy, and see that those reserves are cleared. because the present position acts prejudicially to those settlers who live in the neighbourhood of the reserves. I know of a wettler who lives alongside Crown lands there who has been brought again and again before the Magistrate, and the Magistrate has had no option but to fine him. Mr. DUNCAN .- Not during the last twelve months. Mr. HALL .- I can assure the honourable gentleman that the evil is just as intense now as it was then. If the honourable gentleman will come to my district I will give him proof that there are several other ways in which the Act should be amended so as to act more fairly with small settlers. Cases have occurred in which it was shown that a settler had done all that he possibly could to keep down the rabbits, vet he was brought before the Magistrate and fined again and again. The Minister should endeavour to remove any injustice. I invite him to visit my district, and I will prove to him the truth of every word I have uttered to-night. I hope he will assist in passing this Bill and having justice done to the settlers, in giving the Magistrate the option of fining or not, as he thinks proper. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- The Minis- ter says there is now not much occasion for this Bill. I am quite aware that there have not been many prosecutions lately. This is owing partly, perhaps, to the fact that there are not so many rabbits as there used to be, and also, apparently, to the fact that the officials have been instructed to interfere as little as possible. But our present Act is wrong in principle, and therefore the settlers are anxious to have it amended. A settler who is taken to Court on a charge of having rabbits on his land is bound to be fined. He cannot escape, even though he leads evidence to disprove the charges made. Just to show how absurd the law is, I may refer to a case which, in February last, came before the Court at Tapanui. The Stock Inspector and Rabbit Agent appeared in support of the charges made. After these two gentlemen had given their evidence the counsel for the defendant said that, accord- ing to his interpretation of section 11 of the Act of 1890, now was the time for the Magistrate to say what the fine should be, and that he, as counsel, would lead evidence with the view of mitigating the fine. The Magistrate agreed with counsel's interpretation, and he fixed a mini- mum of $25 and a maximum of $35. He said that the evidence for the prosecution justified him in fixing on these sums. He said that if the defendant should make out a good case, then he would deduct the £10, making it £25. Now, just look at the absurdity of the position. The Stock Inspector and the Rabbit Agent had given their evidence, and the defendant and his witnesses were present to give theirs ; but before taking the evidence of the defendant and his witnesses the Magistrate said what the fine would be. That is certainly altogether wrong. It is not in accordance with common-sense. The evidence for the prosecution ought to have been followed immediately by the evi- dence of the defendant. The Magistrate, with the whole of the evidence before him, would have been in a position to give a verdict that would have met the justice of the case. However, the defendant at last gave his own evidence, and he brought witnesses to support his contentions. The Magistrate said the de- fence had been a good one, and that the penalty would be reduced from $35 to £25. It almost appears from the evidence that there was no case. At least, the probability is that, if the case had been gone on with from the begin- 