I am a loyalist and Imperialist now. I believe in proper provision being made for the defence of the Empire. I believe in proper and suffi- cient encouragement being given to Volunteers. I believe that we have reason to be satisfied and proud of the doings of our representatives in South Africa; but we may have too much even of a good thing, and I think we have had too much trading upon the loyalty and the military spirit of the people of this country. I think the time has come when we ought to re- member the words of Kipling's " Recessional," and particularly the last line,- For frantic boast and foolish word, Have mercy on thy people, Lord. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) :- I only wish to say a very few words to give reasons why I shall vote against the compulsory clause of this Bill. I do so because compulsion, or conscription, is antagonistic to the nature of an Englishman. It removes from his mind that inherent gift that is given to him of feeling he is a free agent. Secondly, I shall vote against the Bill as regards its compulsory clause because it is superfluous. If any honourable member chooses to cast his mind back to what we saw only a few days ago in Christchurch, when three thousand cadets assembled there, he will see that it is quite unnecessary for us to place any such com- pulsory enactment on the statute-book. These cadets are a credit to the colony, and they have been brought to that state of perfection without any compulsion from teacher, Board of Educa- tion, or parents. It is the natural instinct of a boy to become a defender of his home, and inferentially a defender of his country. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 An Hon. MEMBER. - You only saw a twentieth part of them at Christchurch. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - Yes, of course, it was only the small portion whom their parents would allow to be taken there by steamer and by train hundreds of miles away from their homes. I find, Sir, that in the city I have the honour to represent we have the finest body of cadets in this colony. I am not giving my own opinion only when I say that, but I am quoting that of the military authorities of New Zealand and of His Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwall and York. On his visit these cadets marched past His Royal Highness, and he asked who they were, and then said that they were the best drilled boys that had passed before him. I am not saying this in any spirit of romance or unnecessary adulation to the boys, who some day will have votes and know how to use them. But I do so for the reason that we want to follow out the course which has been laid down by the gentleman who has so ably con- ducted the Napier School for a number of years. Mr. Morgan has worked on this plan : When a new master has come to the school he has said to him. "It is my wish that you should join a Volunteer corps." They have done so-every one of them-and two of those masters now have reached the positions of subalterns in local Volunteer corps ; consequently, every master in that school is a drilled man himself, and can give to the children the necessary elementary drill required in the cadet corps. If this plan were carried out in connection with all the large schools of the colony I do not think it would be at all necessary to have any instructors. I would again recommend this plan to the Minister of Defence, and more especially to the Minister of Education ; and I . would sug- gest that he should be prepared, if masters so qualified themselves, to add, say, 5 per cent. to their salaries when they have reached the position of sergeants or subalterns in a Volunteer corps. It would be beneficial to the school, to the boys, and also to the teacher himself, for when he applied for a position of a higher grade he would find that such a high testimonial would stand him in good stead. ] have already said that I am against making this measure compulsory. It would be better to leave it entirely to the discretion of the master himself. I think there is a good deal, however, in what has been said by the member for Wellington City, and other members, that we are carrying this Jingoistic feeling a little too far. It is inherent in every boy to be a fighter, and the feeling only wants a little encouragement-a little judicious moulding -- to enable him to reach that high position that will be satisfactory to himself and his country. For these reasons, brief as they are, I shall vote against the compulsory clause of this Bill. The other clauses have much to commend them : but I strongly disapprove of having girls drilled as soldiers. It is a monstrous idea to try and bring about a race of Amazons. We want to bring up a race of mothers who can look after their children, and bring up their children in a proper way -the boys to be honourable men, and the girls to sew, and cook, and be good mothers after them. I think, Sir, that some physical drill could be given to girls for their benefit. For one thing, it would make them walk well, and it is regrettable to see how very few English and colonial girls and women can walk decently. It would be a good thing if the girls had physical drill, because it might improve them in their health and carriage. There are many other matters that I think might be dealt with in connection with this Bill, but as it has been so lengthily debated I shall not detain the House further. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- Sir. I merely wish to state that I shall support the second reading of this Bill, but when in Committee I shall strongly oppose the clause providing for com- pulsory military drill. Honourable members know that I have been very anxious that there should be manual instruction taught in our schools, and I would like that to be compulsory both for boys and girls-for girls up to a certain age, and for boys so long as they were attending the public schools; and I believe that both sexes will have life-long benefit by the drills, and probably the State may reap incalculable advantage by the increased fitness of citizens for its defence. I think a great deal of un- necessary debate has been uttered this after- noon, and some of it, I think, of a very mislead- ing character, particularly that which has been given in such flowing language by the senior member for Auckland City, Mr. Napier. The 