whole so strong that we can now be said to be a nation impregnable on the face of the earth. Sir, it does appear to me that the remarks of the correspondent to which I have referred are worth considering; for assuredly, if it be true that the colonies have shown that they feel their position and their duty, it is equally true that it is absolutely necessary that the Mother- land should understand more fully the condi- tions of all the colonial possessions, and that she should be drawn nearer to them, and should have come to a clearer understanding of what is required at her hands. Now, Sir, these are matters which are briefly referred to in the introductory remarks of His Excel- lency's Speech. They are matters which have necessitated a great degree of excitement on the part of the people, and I am quite sure that continuous excitement is not good for any people ; and it is perhaps a good thing, see- ing that we have had close on two years of suc- cessive pageants, to settle down to the quiet life and steady work which is characteristic of the colony. Passing on, Sir, to the details of the Address, there are one or two matters upon which I will venture to touch. I do not intend by any means to attempt to deal with every matter brought forward in this long Speech from the Throne ; but, Sir, I would like at once to congratulate the Postmaster-General upon the unqualified success which has followed the introduction of the universal penny postage. It must be gratifying to every member of this House to have heard from the Postmaster- General himself that probably within two years' https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 time the revenue of the Postal Department from postage alone will be equal to what it was under the higher rate of postage. We are told that several of the Australian Colonies have not seen their way to adopt the system, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero and are now surcharging our letters; and, very briefly, I would point out that we have here just one of those indications of the diffi- culty we would rest under were we a part of that Commonwealth. The inauguration of this uniform system of penny postage would have been an impossibility had we been part of the Commonwealth ; and it appears to me that here alone we see one great advantage of maintaining our individual and independent position. It is perfectly natural that His Excellency should draw attention to the question of defence. We are informed that the estimates for the year will show that, while paying due regard to economy and the requirements of the colony, a normal condition of expenditure in respect to defence is impossible until the war in South Africa is over. I feel quite sure, Sir, that Par- liament will be ready and willing to offer every consideration to the Government until the war in South Africa is terminated. The colony, with the full consent of Parliament, committed itself to participate in that war, and I do not think that any member of this House will to- day regret the action Parliament took nearly two years ago. Sir, I, for one, feel proud of the action of our colonial troops in South Africa. I feel proud of what they have done, and I feel equally proud of what they are Mr. Collins doing, and I think it redounds to the credit of this colony-a colony so young, a colony which has developed so rapidly, a colony which has been so little known and perhaps less understood by the Mother-land-to have set the example, so rapidly followed by the other colonies, and which has to-day established us as & power of considerable importance so far as help to the Mother-land is concerned. While speaking on this question of defence, I would briefly refer to a scene which took place a few weeks ago, in the city which I have the honour of representing in this House, in connection with the Royal visit. I refer, of course, to the great review in Hagley Park, Christchurch. That review, Sir, was essentially-if I may be pardoned for using the term-an " eye-opener " to a very considerable number of the people of this colony. In the first place, it showed dis- tinctly what ample material we have at our command for present defence; but perhaps even more important, it effectively presented hoth a prophecy and a guarantee of the future safety of this colony, when we saw rank after rank of juvenile soldiers pass by in the form of our cadets. Those favoured to witness the review and the march past must have been truly astonished at the order and at the soldierly bearing of the troops ; and I, for one, venture to express the hope that the Government will see their way clear to a much greater development of the cadet system in this colony. And, Sir, I believe, and I hope the House will believe me when I say, that I am not affected in any sense of the word by any mere jingoistic spirit. I am not a lover of militarism as such ; but we have to learn this lesson-and we have learned it, I think : that the security of permanent peace is to be found in effective defence. The stronger we are, the greater will be our guarantee for peace. But there is even more than this, and I feel quite sure that the effect upon the youth of this colony will be of a far-reaching character- I mean the effect so far as training them in the ranks of cadets is concerned -as endowing them not only with a true spirit of patriotism, but to cultivate a spirit of self-control, teaching them obedience, discipline, and self-respect, making them what they should be - citizens who thoroughly understand the duty of citizenship and all that such a duty entails. It should be part of the education of the youth of this colony, and I am quite convinced that the result physi- cally and morally upon the youth of this colony would be beyond all estimate. But, Sir, I am bound to confess that there is just one element of disappointment even in that review, and it was the recognition of the fact, as those troops marched past-splendid men and splendid men in prospective-that those troops were almost exclusively armed with weapons of an obsolete character ; and I venture to hope, Sir, that the Defence Department will see the necessity and the wisdom of at once taking steps to supply our Volunteers with the latest and most up-to- date weapons. It is no use expecting our Volun- teers-men who ungrudgingly give their time, attention, and energy-it is no use expecting them to continue to do this unless the State it- 