and the country will support the Government in saying that we will not have the police, from the Commissioner down to the humblest member of the Force, dragged into our po- litical life and politics. But we must keep them and support them in their arduous and often unpleasant duties in the protection of property and life in this colony. I would ask the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) to withdraw his amendment, and allow us to go on with the Imprest Supply Bill. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- I believe the Right Hon. the Premier said, whilst I was out of the Chamber, that I formed part of a deputation last session to request that Chief Detective MeGrath should be kept here. I state most emphatically that I never inter- viewed the Premier last session on behalf of Chief Detective McGrath. Two sessions ago, when the northern men were interviewing the Premier with regard to shifting Chief Detective McGrath, I was one of a deputation of southern members who went to put Detective MeGrath's case before the Premier. So far as De- tective McGrath himself is concerned, I have not spoken a word to him for about fifteen months. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- If I made a mis- take it was only in the matter of the session. It is true what I said: that the honourable member was one of a deputation that waited upon me, only it was not last session but the session before last. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- There was one re- mark made by the Premier in his speech that I wish to say a word about. He said that honour- able members on this side of the House were rejoicing in the fact that a member on his own side of the House had attacked a department under the charge of a Minister. I, for one on this side of the House, was not laughing, and I did not laugh once while the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City was speaking. I did not laugh, because it was no laughing matter. I rejoice, as every member on this side of the House will rejoice, whenever a member on that side of the House attacks the Government rightly, and I will laugh as much as I can laugh. But on this occasion I regret, and I believe that every one on this side of the House regrets as do members on the other side of the House, the speech delivered by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). To me it is an open expression of what I believe has been taking place secretly, silently, and surreptitiously. The honourable member has come out in the open to-day, and he has been attacking the administration of the Police De- partment, and attacking the Commissioner in charge of the police. With what object? Be- cause I am afraid that the scheme that has been going on secretly and silently has not had the effect that the honourable member desired it should have, and so he comes out into the open and attacks a man who has done good service for the colony, which every one has recognised to-day by their voiced opinions. And for what purpose? As I indicated, for no other Mr. Seddon attack in the House, where he cannot be met by the Commissioner of Police, to influence the department with respect to appointments and removals in the service. If that is his intention I hope it will have no effect, and I hope the country and the Minister in charge of the department, so long as the Commissioner is doing his duty-and I believe he is doing his duty-will uphold the Commissioner and resist these attacks, whether they come from this side or from that side of the House. Now, Sir. whilst I am on my feet I would like to say thi -: that it is rumoured that not only individual members of the House-such as, for instance, the honourable member for Wellington City, Mr. Fisher, I do not know whether I ought to include the honourable member for Wel- lington Suburbs, Mr. Wilford, the counsel for the petitioner in this case-but members seek to use influence with the department. I hope the Minister will be able, not only to resist the influence brought to bear upon him from individual members of the House, but I hope. too, Sir, that he will be able to resist any influence that may be brought to bear upon him from other members of the Ministry. Sir. if rumour be true, the Minister has a hard fight to fight ; and, Sir, the Hon. the Minister will find those who sit on this side of the House with him to a member, if, when his department is menaced, he keeps a stiff back and keeps the department under his own control, and resists the influence for bad of his own colleagues. Sir, the words used by the honourable member for Wellington City to-day, in making his vile attack-I can use no other word to describe his attack upon the Commissioner of Police - I should hope might have been excised from Hansard. I hope it will never go on record that any member of this House, nor, I believe, in the other, is in accord with what the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has done or said in this matter. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I think it is right that I should say a few words in regard to this matter, though I will endeavour to say them as shortly as possible. I think I ought to congratulate the honourable member for Wel- lington Suburbs on the calm, temperate, and dispassionate manner in which he treated the question, although I must confess that he seemed to make rather a virtue of necessity. He said, with an assumption of much virtue, that he would be temperate and dispassionate, and would say nothing that would hurt the feelings of Mr. McGrath. I think, Sir, that it would not have been easy for him to say much that would have discredited or injured the character of that gentleman before this House at all events, in the minds of those who know him. So that if he were temperate, and moderate, and dispassionate, it was to a large extent ix- cause he could not well be otherwise. Now, I think my colleague, the senior member for Dunedin City. laid before the House. perhaps with some little heat, the true facts of this matter. All New Zealand knows, I support. the eminent services that have been rendered to 