second time in another place, and this Bill is passed, it is referred to the people. Yes, that is a clincher ; and that should carry the second reading of this Bill if nothing else will. I am not going for a moment to say that the people will carry that measure. Then, Sir, we have the Bill by the honourable member for Mataura -the Absolute Majority Bill., Some change in the manner of determining elections, I believe, is necessary. We do not at the present time have the representation of majorities when we have candidates that split up the votes. In fact, we have in this House at the present time minority representation. That is the condition of things. Well, Sir, that Bill is one which might be sub- mitted to the people to deal with. Then, there is another matter. Of late the Legislative Coun- cil has been in touch with the people. An Hon. MEMBER .- With the Ministry. Mr. SEDDON .- The Ministry is in touch with the people, and you yourself admitted that when you said there was no Opposition. There- fore, if the Legislative Council carry out the behests of the people Captain RUSSELL .- The behests of the Ministry. Mr. SEDDON .- Nothing of the kind ; you yourself admitted that there was only one leader and one Government, because you said, " We are all equal now." The honourable gentleman himself told those in another place, " You must be guided now by the Government, because we are all supporters of the Govern- ment." An Hon. MEMBER .- He did not say that. Mr. SEDDON .- There is no other inference https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to be drawn from what was said ; but the mem- bers of the Opposition find they have gone too far. They told the country the other day there was no Opposition, and now they find the people have taken them seriously-that there is no Opposition, and that they are all going to vote for the Government measures. Suppose, then, you refer to the people the question of the abolition of the Legislative Council. There is no machinery for it at the present time. Mr. ATKINSON. - The Council would have to pass it before it goes to the people. Mr. SEDDON .- As I have said, there is no desire for that now ; that feeling against the Council has gone, for the Legislative Council is in touch with public opinion. Then, there is another measure-the Removal of Women's Disabilities Bill. It is a measure that might go through this House, but it is questionable if it would go through another place. However, if that matter were referred to the people, the machinery would be provided in this measure for any such reference. I am not saying that the suggestion of those who advocate the placing the women on the same equality as men is desirable or practicable. All I say is that there are a large number of members in the House who are in favour of it. It may be there is a majority. It may be that the House by reso- lution might agree to have the matter referred to the country. Sometimes we have vexatious debates. We have assertions made on both . Bill, if it is passed, will completely take away and to meet a situation of the kind this Bill --- has been drafted. I submit it now with confi- dence. I feel it will be read a second time. and I should like to see it passed into law. We know we have a precedent for it in Switzerland. where it has obtained for years. I cannot say the references have been successful : in fact. they have been the reverse. At all events, the reference has been made, and as one who is at all times desirous of giving effect to the will of the people, as long as we can have that will fairly and fully expressed, I believe it is the duty of the Government to promote this Bill. I hope that those who are in favour of it will vote for it. Let us get it through, and make one thorough step forward in progressive legislation. Sir, I move the second reading of the Bill. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Sir, I cannot compliment the Right Hon. the Premier on the manner in which he has introduced this Bill. What his object was it is difficult to understand. No honourable member in this House, I think, will dream of judging what the Premier means by what he says. He gene- rally gives to the House an example of the old adage that words are given to men to conceal their thoughts. On this occasion, however, he scarcely did conceal his thoughts. He knows full well that the tone he used in recommending this Bill to the House was one that damned it with faint praise. If he had any object at all in view, it was to prevent the Bill becoming law. I did not by any means tell him the other night that the Opposition had ceased to exist. I told him that, as an organized body, the Opposition had ceased to exist; but that. individually, we should still to the best of our ability criticize every measure he brings down. Then, Sir, though the right honourable gentleman is mistaken in saying that the House is all one party, I believe that on this occasion we shall vote as the Premier desires. and that is to reject the Referendum Bill. He is just as hostile to it as I could be myself. but for extremely opposite reasons: I might oppose the Bill because it probably would be Conservative in its operation, but the Right Hon. the Premier will vote for it because he believes it is really a Conservative measure in all its bearings. Why did he not treat the question seriously? Why did he bring the measure under the consideration of the House without endeavouring to explain the extreme width and scope of it ? Sir, as I read it. this is a Bill which ought not to be introduced in a jocular fashion ; this is not a Bill which ought to be voted on by people who have never con- sidered it at all; and I honestly think. as 1 listened to the Premier this evening, that be had no true idea of the extreme significance of the alterations in our Constitution he proposes. Why, Sir, if you consider this Bill. and study it for two or three minutes, you will see that it is to bring about a complete revolution of the Constitution of New Zealand. Whether that may be right or wrong is a point which. of course, will be open to argument. but that this 