bably that is largely due to pressure, and I frontier settlements. Then, we have the state- ments made by other honourable gentlemen- as, for instance, the member for Avon, who said that paralysis had seized the Land Pur- chase Department of the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- In one department. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- It is all very well for these gentlemen to make such statements, but, as was pointed out in the very able speech of the member for Ashley, the lands acquired in the vicinity of Christchurch, within two miles of the Cathedral Square, have not been taken ought to do in discussing a question of this up. An Hon. MEMBER .- Quarter-acre sections. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - Well, if a man cannot take up a quarter-acre section will he take up an acre? We have men who are pro- bably earnest in their advocacy of the purchase of land, but Sir, they have not that idea of responsibility they should have in connection with this work. The honourable member for Masterton said that the land-owners by retain- ing their properties now were enjoying mag- nificent prospects ; and they are, but by whose agency ? By the agency of honourable mem- bers of the House, who are bringing undue pressure upon the Land Purchase Board, by asking that prices should be given out of all proportion to the value of the land. And what will be discovered ? It will be discovered that the very men who are now hounding on members of the Land Purchase Board to acquire proper- ties, when those properties have been acquired at too high rates will bring forward petitions clamouring for reduction of rents, because they could not take the interest out of the property https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 which would repay the interest we have to pay for the money with which the properties were purchased. I have an instance of this in my own district. I was approached by the men who acquired land under these circumstances and told that I should get their support if I promised them a reduction of their rentals. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that Pomahaka ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- No, it is not Poma- haka. The circumstances in connection with that estate are peculiar, and the question has been threshed threadbare on the floor of this House, and I do not intend to allude to that estate at all. I refer to an estate in the Wai- hemo district, and these settlers told me they could not afford to pay the rent. But they also gave me to understand that unless they were promised a reduction they could not support me. Of course, I could not make any such promises. I said the whole essence of the success of our land-for-settlement policy was contingent on the purchasers paying to Go- vernment by way of rental a sum equal to the interest we had to pay on the money we have borrowed for the purpose of acquiring these estates, and the honourable members who are now bringing undue pressure on the Land Purchase Board to buy at high rates are, in- stead of being friends and supporters of the land-for-settlement poliev. the biggest enemies of that policy. I would like to refer to a pro- perty recently purchased not far from Balclutha. | from 10s. to 30s. an acre, and land within from i five to fifteen miles of a railway-station. The It was purchased at #4 2s. 6d. an acre, and pro- venture to say the tenants of that land will not be able to pay the interest on that money. The price paid was in excess of the value, but pressure was brought to bear. The Premier said the Land Purchase Board has erred on the side of caution, and I say that it is a right thing for them to do. Honourable members in this House, I am afraid, have not taken that expansive view of the prospects of the perma- nency of the value of our lands which they importance. I am perfectly sure that every one will admit that I do not belong to the Croaker pessimistic family. I believe in taking a hope- ful view of the prospects of the country, but at the same time I am not able to shut my eyes to our surroundings, and the countries and conditions with which we have to compete in the markets of the world. And, Sir, what do we discover-and in that connection you will see I want to point out only that the present values of land in this country are too high ? And if the present values are too high, I then commend the band Purchase Board for show- ing a certain amount of caution. I do not believe the present high values will continue in this country. Allusion has been made to the dairying industry. Why, the money that is now paid for dairying land is out of all pro- portion to what you are obtaining from the produce of that land. The value is being taken, unfortunately, out of the bone and sinew of the young children. But against whom, Sir, have we to compete ? We have first of all in produce to compete against Canada, which is able just now to give for nothing two hundred acres of excellent land to any settler that may like to go over there. I have here an excellent report showing that although the population of the United States is gradually increasing, vet the surplus produce she can now export to the markets of the world is greater than ever. This report I am quoting from was sent to me from London no later than last month. In dairying produce Russia is also coming to the front with an enormous area of country. There is a stretch of eight hundred miles by one hundred miles of country which is excellently adapted for the production of butter, and they can produce that butter at 7d. a pound, perhaps as yet not equal in quality to ours, but the fact that it goes into the London market at that price is calculated to seriously affect the value of our produce there. Then, coming to our pastoral products, wool was never cheaper than it is now. Fancy wool selling at 4d. a pound ! Then, taking oats at 1s. 3d. and wheat at 2s. 6d., I ask. What prospect is there in prices like that maintaining the high value of land, especially when the Argentine is grow- ing wheat at a profit at Is. 7d. a bushel ? And then let us come to the actual question of the value of land. There is the Argentine, an enormous area of country, and I have evidence before me here, on the most reliable authority, that you can get wheat -growing and sheep land at 