privilege-fifteen thousand people in our dis- there was more money spent in connection with trict were refused this privilege. The peeple the Roval reception by public bodies and pri- from the country districts wished to go to vate individuals than there was any necessity Oamaru-mothers, and fathers, and children- for. In this case, as in many other cases, we might have set an example to the whole world. if they had been afforded the opportunity, and I do not think that loyalty should be measured they would have seen Royalty and have gone home quite satisfied. But there was a neces- by wealth : yet we found the cities of New Zea- sity, I suppose, for pandering to the big cities as land competing with one another as to how usual. There was need that the railway reve- much they should spend, and how they should nue should be increased, and what do we find ? spend it : and we found them all competing, -that if any of our citizens or country settlers aiso. with Sydney and Melbourne. Now, I am from North Otago or South Canterbury wanted perfectly certain that Royalty never expected to see Royalty and pay their respects to them as anything of this sort, and if we had only done loyal subjects of the King, they must go either everything decently and modestly-if we had to Dunedin or Christchurch by rail, necessi- conserved our wealth for better purposes-I am tating an absence from their homes for two or quite sure that our Royal visitors and their entourage would have been quite as highly three days at least, and an expenditure of seve. ral pounds. Now, I say that this is too great a pleased as they were when they left the colony. strain to put on any person's loyalty. It does Sir. the arch-fiend was too much in evidence. not matter how loyal a person may be, if he has to I would like to ask honourable gentlemen suffer inconvenience of that sort, if he has to put what good the arches were. I think if we had a little greenery displayed in our towns, in up at hotels at great cost, and take his children the shape of arches, festoons, and so forth, they to boot, then I say it is too much to expect. would have been much more characteristic and It was only at the last moment, and after I had much less vulgar. I do not mean to say that I spoken to two or three members of the Ministry, that we got the concession made that Royalty would defend the cutting-down of the beautiful would remain fifteen minutes, or thereabouts, trees in the forests for that purpose. Indeed, at Oamaru. Of course, we were much obliged I must say here that I consider it is a shame that trees should have been bodily cut down- for the concession, but the evil was done-the demonstration was spoilt. It was said that fern-trees, and other beautiful trees-for the purpose of making the display. There was no somebody asked what was the matter with the necessity whatever for it. The trees might have people of Oamaru that they could not raise a been denuded of their branches and leaves, and cheer. The fact of the matter is that the bulk they would then have come on again in another of the people of Oamaru were in Dunedin. They had taken rooms at the hotels in that season ; but there was no necessity to cut whole trees down to their very roots in order to city, because they had been denied over and get the greenery. There is another point I wish over again the privilege of seeing Royalty in to refer to. I cannot sympathize with those Oamaru. Now, I think that was very bad who, having the management of this affair, treatment, and it is not at all in keeping with decreed that certain dress should be worn on democratic principles, nor is it consonant with certain occasions. We do not wish to set up the principles of that decentralisation which an aristocracy of clothing in this country. the configuration of New Zealand renders abso- An Hon. MEMBER .- We have done it. lutely necessary in the interests of its people. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Well. let us make a retrograde movement in the direction of pro- prised to hear my honourable friend go on in the manner in which he has done about Minis- gress, and let us do away with that sort of feeling-that the man who has the most loval ters. I thought he was such an ardent sup- heart is the man who wears the most expensive porter of the Government, and that he always jewel-bedecked shirt-front. costing 5d. at the supported them in everything. laundry. Sir, I consider that tawdry display is not becoming the people of New Zealand. Ministers. The tribute of the little Dublin boy who, see- ing the newspaper poster announcing the death gentleman said Ministers did everything ; and of the Queen, bought a bunch of violets at a he said he saw Ministers, and that, after a great penny and pinned it over the name of the deal of trouble, they acquiesced in his request Queen was as noble and as loyal as anything to get their Royal Highnesses to stop for a that has ever been recorded in the history of the quarter of an hour at Oamaru. Sir, if Oamaru wide world, and shows that there is no necessity is unfortunate in the position in which she is to make a vulgar display by means of a large to-day, my honourable friend is a good deal to expenditure of wealth in order to exhibit our blame for it. He helped to aid and assist in its loyalty. Now, I want to make a reference to downfall. the treatment which Oamaru suffered at the hands of those who had the management of into Parliament. the Roval visit. For several weeks the people of Oamaru besought the authorities, through to that at all. It is the honourable member and the Premier, to allow Royalty to remain at the like of him who help to put Oamaru in the Oamaru for a few minutes in order that they unfortunate position she occupies at the present time. I unfortunately was single-handed in this might pay their respects to them in a decent and humble way. But, Sir, we were refused this Chamber to fight against the many Bills which The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .-- I am really sur- The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I did not refer to The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- The honourable The Hon. Mr. JONES .--- I helped to put you The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI. - I am not referring 