quiry into this particular case. I received a letter from the unfortunate man asking me to beseech the Government to provide for his wife and children. I hope the Government will do something in the matter, because this man, like many other settlers in the back blocks, has not received that assistance from the Government which he was led to expect he would receive. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- I do not intend to say very much in regard to this Bill, because the matter has already been discussed pretty freely, and very many objections have been raised with regard to it ; but there is one matter that I think we should consider-that is, with regard to the clause dealing with do- mestic servants. It is provided that they shall have a holiday once a week, and also once a fortnight on Sundays. I think any one who knows anything about domestic servants is aware that they are generally able to make their own bargain, and they are so scarce that they have no difficulty in getting wages and arranging hours pretty well on their own terms. If this Bill becomes law we shall find that these girls will have to leave their mistresses' house in order that they may have these holidays. Four years ago the then member for Inver- cargill introduced a Domestic Servants' Half. holiday Bill. When that Bill was introduced the honourable member had a pretty rough time of it from the servant-girls, who wanted to know why they were being interfered with, and what was to become of them if they were to leave their houses in order that they https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 may take these compulsory holidays. What does the Bill say ? " Any employer who refuses or neglects to allow to any employé the holidays provided shall be liable to a fine not exceeding five pounds." Does it mean that the servants are to remain in the house doing nothing during that time, while the mistresses are doing the work ; and will it be a holiday at all if they are idle about the house ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. Mr. WILLIS .- Well, consider what the position would be with the mistresses doing the work while their servants were reading novels or watching their mistresses, and not being allowed to assist them. I say the situa- tion is absurd, and it is not necessary to in any way interfere with the present arrangement. We hear no complaints from domestic servants that they are not allowed these holidays. As a matter of fact, they take very good care that they get them, and I quite agree that they are fully entitled to their holidays. But to say that an employer shall be liable to a penalty of $5 if she merely neglects to see that her servants take their holidays, simply means, in my opinion, that the servants would have to leave those homes or, possibly, lay an information against her employer. My opinion is that they do not need to do anything of the sort. All a servant has got to do, if she is dis- satisfied, is to go to her mistress and say she is going to another situation, which she can easily do, as situations are pretty plentiful for them. It seems to me there would be very great diffi- culty in the working of this Bill, because the question of whether a girl works twelve hours or eight is entirely a matter between her and her mistress. If a mistress and a servant wish to work together, I do not think it is anybody's business to interfere with them. With regard to the question of country labour, it seems to me that the tendency over the whole colony is to raise wages and shorten the hours of labour. I do not object to anything fair and reason- able ; but my opinion is that if the payment for every description of labour is raised, and the hours of labour reduced, everything will become dearer. and the consequence will be that those who apply for a "rise" will afterwards require another " rise " in order to keep pace with everything that is rising throughout the colony, because if labour becomes dearer the labourers themselves will also find that they are charged more for the necessaries of life, and must re- ceive more wages. Take the tailoring trade, for instance : I know that the tailors have been compelled to raise their prices in many cases because they have been compelled to pay higher wages. An Hon. MEMBER .- You can get your clothes cheaper now than you could twenty years ago. Mr. WILLIS .- What kind of clothes are they ? Shoddy, I should think. However, I am only expressing my own opinion. But with regard to this Bill, I am not opposed to the principle of it. I do not wish to see low wages. and I feel inclined to support the second read- ing ; but I see so many difficulties in the Bill that I cannot see how it is to be made work- able. At the same time I am not going to throw any difficulties in the way so far as the second reading is concerned. I will support it at this stage, and if it can be shown that it can be made workable in Committee, and suitable to the circumstances of the colony, I shall be pleased to see it pass through the House. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I hope the House will agree to pass the second reading of this Bill, as it can be amended considerably in Committee. I think I might make a suggestion to the honourable member in charge of the Bill which will overcome the objections of the country members to the drastic character of the Bill as it at present stands. Some time ago a Bill was introduced into the Queensland Parliament by the Premier of that colony, called an Eight Hours Bill, and it overcomes. I think, every possible objection I have heard urged against the general character of this measure to-night. The clause in the Queens- land Bill is as follows : - "The term 'manual or clerical labour' in- cludes any kind of work except as herein expressly excepted, but does not include the work of sailors when the ship or vessel is under way or on a voyage, or the work of domestic servants, or the work of persons employed in ships or vessels to do similar work to that of domestic servants, or the work of persons employed in work of an intermittent character in connection with agricultural or pastoral pur- suits." Now, Sir, if in Committee the measure were 