from other members of this House; but I do feel that, in a matter of this kind, it is abso- lutely necessary that one should speak with no hesitation. Sir, another matter of great im- portance to be dealt with is one which has been very forcibly brought under the notice of the Government and the members of this House during the last few months, and that is the necessity of dealing with the question of coping with these lamentable conflagrations which now and again occur in our larger towns. We are told that conflagrations attended with serious loss of life render it necessary that fire- brigades and fire appliances and water-supply should be rendered more effective and efficient. Sir, I am glad the Government is alive to its duties in this matter. Personally, I think the colony has all too long failed to appreciate the work done by the fire-brigades of the colony. I know of no men who have worked more un- grudgingly, who have worked more unselfishly, in the interests of the State than members of the fire-brigades of the colony ; and hitherto they have received too little recognition at the hands of the State. I think this is at least a matter upon which we can congratulate the Go- vernment-that they have decided at last to deal effectively with the question of the complete re- organization of the relation of the fire-brigades of the colony to the State itself. They have been sadly neglected in the past. They have been left to the tender mercies of the local authorities, and in many cases men have been seriously injured in the fulfilment of their duties in connection with the fire - brigades of the various Municipalities-have died at their post, or have been unfortunately killed whilst fulfilling their functions as firemen. And, Sir, what happens? As a rule, it devolves on the people of the particular locality to make some provision for those who are left behind, or, if the fireman is injured, to make some pro- vision for him. As a rule, a private subscription is got up or a public concert is tendered, and I say that this kind of thing ought not to exist longer. It is high time that the State itself at least saw to its duty to make some provision, not only for the effective organization of fire- brigades, but to see that the services rendered by these unselfish workers in the interests of life and property are sufficiently remunerated, and, in the event of accident to life or limb, that at least some adequate provision is made for them. Sir, a Bill is to be introduced, we are told, indemnifying local authorities for the expenses to which they have been put consequent upon the recent Royal visit. I do not think any member of the House will object to this indemni- fying and legalising Bill. It was absolutely essential that Municipalities should make fitting arrangements for the reception of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of York, and it is only right and proper that we should now pass a Bill indemnifying and legalising the expenditure so incurred. We could have done none other than we have done. That the colony has done so well from one end to the other in this respect is a matter for sincere congratula- His Excellency's Speech. I have not touched upon many of the points which one might well have considered; there is much here which for a long time will demand the most serious con- sideration on the part of every member of the House. I do not pretend to have done full jus- tice to the Speech, but I have ventured to point out some of the more salient points connected with the matters to which I have referred ; and I sincerely hope that, in the course of this session,. if we do not see much work done we shall see good work done, for I am rather a believer in quality than in quantity, and I hope when the House rises we shall be able to congratulate the Government not only upon the nature of the measures introduced, but upon the details of such of those measures as shall have become law. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Mr. Speaker, I rise to second the motion moved so ably by my honourable friend the member for Christchurch City, and in so doing. I feel that it may be necessary for me to traverse some of the ground he has covered in regard to points. which have been referred to by His Excellency the Governor in his Address to the Legislature. I trust the House will pardon me if I may seem to be, in some way, repeating or discuss- ing some of the proposals that have already been discussed by my honourable friend. One of the very first parts of the Speech from the. Throne to which I shall refer will be that part which deals with the present mail arrange- ments between the colony and the Mother- country. It will be well known to honourable members that during last session of Parliament certain resolutions were propounded and passed by the House relative to granting some kind ot a preference in the way of subsidy to an American shipping company presided over by Mr. J. D. Spreckels; and it will be equally in the recollection of members that during the debate that ensued there was a general feel- ing of regret amongst members that it was necessary, in the interests of the colony, in dealing with the question of subsidising a foreign company which was endeavouring to make profits out of this country, for the time being to put aside that company to which New Zealand owes so much-the Union Steam- ship Company of New Zealand-in favour- using the words of the American statute-"of a foreign Power." However, honourable mem- bers, in discussing the question of the mail arrangements, felt that we had to obtain an improved and a better service, and they felt, if a sacrifice had to be made, even at the expense of a company which employed a great number of hands and was an important com- pany so far as New Zealand was concerned, something had to be done to make the means of communication between this colony and the Old Country constant and rapid, and with the idea of this the resolutions were passed by the House in 1900, and afterwards given effect to by the Government. I would ask honourable members to bear with me for a few moments. while I detail to them the events which led up 