tion of the future historians of New Zealand than their administration of the past six or seven years will bring to them. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Nonsense. Mr. MONK .- Yes, it is those gentlemen who talk on subjects about which they know nothing who give utterance to nonsense in this House. However, I promise not to delay members in this debate. The few minutes in which I have spoken on this matter are a sufficient indorse- ment of my sentiments in regard to land-settle- ment. There is, I admit, a land-hunger, and the tardiness which those honourable gentlemen opposite have practised in the opening-up of Crown lands and the notorious defec s of the ballot system have developed : hat hunger, but they might easily have placed half a million more acres in : he market to satisfy tha: hunger than they have, and in doing so they need not have spent any considerable sum of money in the acquisition of land. All the expenditure that was required from them was in paying surveyors now numerously idle in the surveying, and nothing more. They know that right well. Then, we are told about the political railways. Sir, they have allowed us in the north to struggle on for years and years without railways, in localities where men have struggled -as the Minister of Lands knows very well, because he kindly took a trip round to see the state of things for himself -men who have been struggling up to their middles in mud, men who have had to pack up their produce on horses and take it to market, men who went on the land twenty or thirty years ago with the idea -- with the certainty, begotten of promise that in a short time the railway-whistle would be heard near their homes. Yet nothing has been done. Small sums have been doled out to them year after year ; and we know full well that beyond the localities in which they reside there are many, many acres of land on which settlers might be protitably settled, cultivating, improving, and expanding our national output. If honourable gentlemen opposite wish to operate in land settlement with an unassailable certainty of immunity from the complications which depression evolves, there is no process by which they could secure more safety in their efforts than in settling people on the Crown lands of the colony at comparatively low prices. There was great truth in the utterance of the honourable member for Waihemo that we cannot be sure of the value of our products in the future. I do not wish to depreciate them, but all thoughtful men know that there is a limit to the remunerative value of certain products, and, while fair prices have been secured in the Old Country for butter and cheese and meat for some time past. the margin is not large, and what we have had has been much the result of the wave of prosperity that has passed over the world, from which we have felt a benefit. That wave of prosperity has, no doubt, been augmented to some extent by the war in South Africa. It has given to the people of the Old Country a buying-power that we cannot be sure will continue at the rate at which it has been maintained within the last twelve or eighteen months. There is nothing the Government can do with respect to land- occupation, and with respect to the products of the soil, that will assist the country more than in the periods of prosperity to act with that judgment and prudence that will cushion the touch of depression, should it come, with an elasticity that will make its presence a matter of the smallest moment. I hnd my time is up. I have spoken more than the few minutes that I intended to occupy, but I do not wish to trespass further, or to break that very wise rule, for which I ardently thank the Premier, that the hours on two days of the week shall commence at half-past ten in the morning and finish at half-past ten in the evening. If there is anything for & hich the Right Hon. the Premier would secure from me a wreath of laurel on his brow, it is the sacrifice he has imposed upon himself by relinquishing his privilege of being able to "sweat " us after half-past ten. Debate adjourned until half-past ten a.m. on Tuesday. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 23rd July, 1901. Third Reading - Bible-reading in Schools - Young Person> Protection Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Chinese Immigrants Bill. BIBLE-READING IN SCHOOLS. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY presented a petition from the Rev. Robert MeCully and 101 others in and around Riverton, praying that a plebis- cite be taken for the purpose of ascertaining the mind of the electors on the question of Bible-reading in the public schools. This was the petition to which he referred the other day. He referred to it then with the view to getting it inserted in Hansard, so that it would be seen he had not ignored it. He understood, how- ever. that Hansard did not take any notice of petitions, and consequently it did not appear. That being so, he had obtained the fragments of the petition and pasted them together, and, although it was not complete, he thought it was sufficient for the purpose. The petition was ordered to lie on the table. YOUNG PERSONS PROTECTION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 11 .- " Any member of the Police Force may at any time, under warrant signed by a Magistrate, enter and search any house, shop, building, or other premises occupied or fre- quented by prostitutes or gamblers, or which he has cause to suspect to be frequented for 