advanced in favour of the establishment of the elective Executive system here ? The ad- vocates of that system will tell you that in the Swiss system we have an example of good administration ; and those members who ad- vocate the change are largely prompted to do so because of their desire to effect a change in the personnel of the Ministry. They would sweep aside all the glorious traditions we feel so proud of, and risk an experiment which no British country has yet seriously considered. We know that under the party system in Eng land the strongest navy that the world has ever seen has been built up, and this has been brought about largely by those who were in opposition continuously criticizing the want of progress or alertness shown by the party in power, and, in turn, as that party has become the Opposition, they have followed the same course, and discharged their batteries of criti- cism at the party in power, the result being that the consensus of public opinion on both sides outside the House of Commons has compelled the reigning body to pass re- forms which, I repeat, has made Great Britain, under the very system of party go- vernment which we are asked to condemn, the strongest and at the same time the freest country in the world. And, after all this grand result, achieved under the system by which our nation has been built up, we are asked in this young country, which is now only on the threshold of its career, - which is just com- meneing in these early years of settlement and these early years of colonisation to progress and make headway,- we are, I say, asked to ignore https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 these great traditions. Much good has been done in the past so far as the British House of Commons, with all its imperfections, is con- cerned ; and, so far as relates to the welfare of the British people, are we to do away with that party system which has helped those who were in power and those opposed to the Government. as well as both sides outside the Imperial Par- liament ? We are asked to change this system, and for what reason ? Because some honour- able members would tell you that they do not like, perhaps, one man in the Ministry, or per- haps the whole of the members of the Ministry, or because they cannot, under the existing system. get into that Ministry. That is why we are asked to make the change. An Hon. MEMBER .-. It is one of your own side who has brought in the Bill. Sir J. G. WARD .- I do not care what side it comes from, although I know that even some members on our own side are prepared to support the elective Executive system for the purpose of creating chaos in the party, and that there are some honourable members opposite who would not be averse to giving votes against the party system for the same reason. All I say to members of this House and to the country is to pause before you elcet to make a change from a system which in the Old Land and in this colony has done such an immense amount of good, and which has enabled New Zealand to become the most advanced country in the world , impress upon this House-and I cannot get the now that other parts of the world continually send here for copies of our measures. America is continually sending here for copies of our measures, which this House, backed up by public opinion outside this House, has, under the party system, passed into law. We find Australia doing the same thing. We find many of the older countries sending to New Zealand, asking us to give them the benefits of those progressive measures which are now on the statute - book of this country, and which have only been got by strong party battles, both outside and inside this House. When you find the amelioration in the con- ditions of life, and that the masses of the people have been placed in such a splendid position as they have been in New Zealand under the party system, will members of this House be prepared, for the sake of a temporary individual gain of some kind, to destroy that system which has done so much to build up our country and make it great ? Sir, I do not believe, if the matter were put fairly before the people of this colony, that they, realising they have their children as well as themselves to think of, are going to allow any members of this House. even though some specious or subtle motives may be placed before them, to take away these great privileges that they enjoy under the party system, simply because at the moment some people are not favourable to the composition of the predominant parts of this country, but which party as a whole has the confidence of the majority of our people, as the general elections clearly demonstrated. Chaos is to be brought about because these honour- I able members suggest substituting for the party system an elective Executive system. Sir, I have the greatest confidence in the people of this country. If they have a voice in the settle- ment of this matter-if the question is put fairly before them-they will determinedly and firmly show that they will not allow any honourable members, however sincere the: may be, to take away one of the heritages of their nation, and to substitute for it a system I that has never been adopted in any British dominion. Much good has resulted from the party system, and I say, in all seriousness, do not let us lightly change what a long experience of years has shown to be of beneht to the country. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- Sir. 1 wish to say a word in personal explanation. I have never once expressed the slightest sym- pathy with the Boers, nor have I at any time : ever expressed any dissatisfaction with the Go- vernment for sending away the contingents from the first to the fifth ; and, when my friend Sir Joseph Ward referred to my having shown my appreciation of the Goverment policy by sending my son to South Africa, to a certain extent he is perfectly right ; but I may say my son is a native-born New-Zes- 1 lander, and he went on his own impulse to fight for the flag we all love so well. That is what took place. Then, a point I have endeavoured to 