before the Canterbury Land Board during the last eleven years. We have had cases of adventurers and speculators coming in and obtaining land and preventing the bona fide settler from taking it up, but I am not aware of any case of dum- myism. So that the present Act is sufficient to cope with the difficulty of preventing what was some fourteen years ago in this colony known as dummyism. Sir, under the operation of the new clause, what will happen ? Clause 8, sub- · section (1), states,- " Whenever land acquired under the prin- cipal Act is cut up for occupation, the allot- ments shall be classified according as they are suitable for ordinary farms, or dairy farms, or small grazing-runs, or partly for farms and partly grazing-runs." All that this paragraph provides for has been done for years. When a block of land is bought, it is subdivided under the supervision of the Land Purchase Commissioners. The District Surveyor, who is intimately acquainted with the land, is then called upon to write out a description of each section, and that descrip- tion is most accurately and correctly made out. The description of each section is forwarded to Wellington, and is subject to revision by the Minister of Lands. Then there is issued a hand-book. As a rule, the information given in the hand-book is so correct and so accurate in detail that I have heard applicants state that it is unnecessary for them to go and inspect the land for themselves. Sir, in reference to sub- clause 8A, let us assume that a block of land is subdivided into thirty sections, varying from fifty acres to 400 acres. We will assume that a man with his wife and two sons, who have spent all their life working on a farm, and are there- fore acquainted with farming in all its opera- tions, desire to have a. home of their own and to establish themselves on the land. They make an application to the Land Board for sections 3, 8, and 15, say, containing respectively 300 The Com- acres, 360 acres, and 400 acres. missioner of Crown Lands immediately informs them that-under the provisions of the Bill before the House for its third reading-they cannot make application for any particular sec- tion, but that they must go to the ballot and take their chance of the largest or the smallest. After some hesitation these four people, belong- ing to the same family, decide to go to the ballot. Supposing one hundred persons apply for the sections, the first thing to do is to ballot seventy out. One of the four is successful in being retained in the ballot. But this man, in- stead of being allotted a section of 360 acres, or 400 acres as he desires, is allotted a section of fifty acres. The applicant is disappointed ; the small section is of no use to him. The Com- missioner of Crown Lands immediately asks him if he is willing to take up this fifty-acre block. He states that the block of fifty acres is of no use to him and his family- it is too small ; and yet, if he refuses to take up the fifty acres, his deposit is to be for- feited. There is no provision made in this Bill to return that man his deposit in the event of what I have stated happening. Now, I ask honourable members, is that fair, is it right, is it common justice? Then, again, on the other hand, it may be that a man of small means, but of high aspirations, desires to go in for a section of the same block. He expresses his wish to go in for blocks 4, 7, and 11, containing respectively fifty, fifty-seven, and sixty-one acres. The Commissioner informs him that the law will not permit him, under the provi- sions of this Bill, to make application for any particular section. After some hesitation, the man agrees to go in, and the result is that he comes out of the ballot with a 400-acre section allotted to him. He tells the Commissioner that it is utterly impossible for him to work that area, and that what he wants is an area of fifty acres or more. The Commissioner asks if he is prepared to take the section of 400 acres, otherwise his deposit will be forfeited. Now, I ask, is that fair? Would it be right and proper ? Then, again, the seventy persons in the assumed case I have stated will feel themselves greatly disappointed if they are excluded from going to the ballot. Then, Sir, there is no reference whatever in this . clause to the question of deposit. Under the existing law it is fixed that a person going in for a number of sections pays as his deposit half a year's rent for the highest- priced section. No such provision whatever is made in this Bill, and if a man of small means goes in for a section, and is called upon by the Commissioner to place a deposit equal to the rent of the larger sections, he is at once ex- cluded from the ballot. Let me illustrate the point : The Government have lately bought an estate of fifty acres in the neighbourhood of Belfast. I know the land well. It is proposed to subdivide the block into ten half-acre sec- tions, one ten-acre section containing the home- stead, and into seven five-acre blocks. I can easily imagine that a number of workers in the Belfast Freezing-works will go in for some of these half-acre sections, as they front on to the Great North Road, and are within a few chains of a good public school. Others, on the other hand, will go in for the five-acre and ten-acre sections. But it may so happen, according to the provisions of this clause, that a person going in for ten acres with the homestead thereon will have to take the chance of being allotted a half-acre section ; and if such smaller area is allotted to him he may simply say it is of no use to him-it is too small- that he wants a ten-acre or a five-acre block. I believe, if this Bill is passed into law in its present shape, it will cause a considerable amount of friction, and I would suggest to the Premier that in another place the Law Draftsman should be called upon to redraft this clause and make it more workable than it appears to me at the present time. Clause 8, eliminated by the Premier, was an objectionable one, and the honourable gentle- man took the right course in his own motion in eliminating it. On the other hand, however, I say that to introduce clauses that have not been carefully considered by the House is to make a mistake-one that is likely to bring the 