Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the extension and improvement of the platform at the Clifton Railway-station would be con- sidered in conjunction with other railway- works throughout the colony when funds were available. GLENAVY STATION-YARD. Hon. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether instructions had been given for the fencing of the station-yard at Glenavy, admitted last session by the depart- ment to be a necessary work, and promised " so soon as fonds were available." Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said no funds were available for this fencing, which Lad to give place to more urgent works. He would, however, carry the work out as soon as the necessary funds were at his disposal. RAILWAY EMPLOYES' CLASSIFICATION. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will in the new Classification Act arrange for all persons who have been a fixed time -- say, three years-as casual hands in the Railway service being classed as permanent ones ? Sir J. G. WARD ( Minister for Railways) said this could not be agreed to, as the effect would be to very largely increase the permanent staff, which was not considered advisable. CASUAL RAILWAY-HANDS. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL ( Riccarton) asked the Minister for Railways. Whether he will allow the casual bands in the Railway service to vote on the question of the service coming under the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the intention was to permit all the workshops men who were over twelve months in the Go- vernment service, whether casual or permanent, to vote on this question. As regarded casuals, they had to limit the number to those who were over twelve months in the Government service. as it was only fair to the men who were gene- rally in the service that the expression of their views should be from those who would be affected. PERIODICAL RAILWAY RETURNS. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will consider the advisability of stating in the Railway returns published from time to time the amount of cash revenue, and the value of the services rendered for other departments of the State, as is done in connection with the Post and Telegraph returns ? This was an important question, and he wished This was : that he to emphasize one point. was only asking in connection with the Railway service what was already done by the same Minister, and had been done for a number of years, in connection with the Post and Telegraph services. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said, Yes, he intended to have the Railway reports made up to date, and to have the whole of this information supplied. EMPLOYÉS IN RAILWAY WORKSHOPS. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will, in accordance with his recent statement in the House, intro- duce legislation to enable the employés in the respective trades at the various railway work- shops in the colony to come under the operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) might tell the honourable member that, as he had pre- viously indicated, it was not proposed to disturb the classification of the general staff of the Railway Department, but that all the men in the railway workshops throughout the colony who had been more than twelve months in the Railway service were to have the opportunity of voting on this question ; and, in fact, a circular was already set up in order to be issued, asking them to vote whether they desired to remain under a classification scheme or to come under the operation of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He might say that their con- venience in the matter would be in every way considered. ADDINGTON RAILWAY-STATION. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister for Railways, If he, in preparing esti- mates of expenditure for the present year, will consider the desirability of extending and en- larging the railway-station at Addington? He would like to direct the attention of the Minister to the fact that the railway-station at Addington was one of the first railway-stations that was erected near the City of Christchurch, and, al- though the traffic had grown enormously during the twenty-five or thirty years that had elapsed since its erection, it had not been materially altered in any respect. In every possible respect this station was now behind the age ; the accom- modation was too limited, and in fact the officials had no room in which to work the train service in their own yard. This not only affected the Riccarton electorate but also a large part of the Christchurch electorate, because the station was on the boundary between these two districts, and the station was not only the station for the dis trict of Addington but for all the south-west portion of the City of Christchurch, and all the important stores, depots, and granaries in that locality. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the department purposed re-arranging and im- proving the station and vard accommodation at Addington when the necessary funds were available. The work must be considered in conjunction with others, preference being given to the most urgent requirements. ISLINGTON, HORNBY, AND TEMPLETON RAILWAY SERVICES. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will, in accordance with the memorial of 528 residents of Islington. Hornby, Templeton, et cet. ra, arrange for enlarged railway services to those districts, especially on Saturday evenings ? He had handed to the Ministor a requisition or petition signed by 528 residents of those dis- 