gentleman's remarks which I must take notice of. He said-or I understood him to say-he thought that if any notice were taken of the conferment of these titles in the cases of the Hon. Sir John Mckenzie and the Hon. Mr. Cadman it should have come from the other House. The honourable gentleman forgets that in serving in the Lower House of our Legisla- ture these gentlemen have been serving the whole colony ; and if any honourable gentlemen were entitled to distinction at the hands of His Majesty for services done to the Empire and for having conferred benefits on the Empire by their political conduct, I say that those gentle- men are distinctly the Hon. Sir John McKenzie and Mr. Cadman. That is all I want to say. I suppose one ought to congratulate honourable gentlemen for the distinction conferred upon them, and in that spirit I shall be very pleased to vote for the resolution of my honourable friend ; but at the same time I think that the honour has been already conferred upon those gentlemen in the public estimation, and that they will more adorn the titles than the titles will adorn them. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- Sir, in a very few words I would like to express my congratula- tions, and publicly state that I am exceedingly pleased that the honours have been conferred upon those honourable gentlemen who have received them. I do not see at all that the statements which my honourable friend Mr. Scotland brought forward have any cogency whatever. It does not matter what honours you may think of- academic, political, or social -if you like to go far enough back you will https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 always find any number of people who have got them unworthily. We know very well that barely a century ago it was considered a right and proper thing in actions in the Court for the parties to the action to bring a couple of ducks or a turkey into the Judge's room before the case went into Court. Surely we would not think that, in consequence of such like actions at that time a Judge's position now was dishonourable. And I say the same thing applies to the honours which have been conferred upon those honourable gentle- men. I say the fact that those distinctions have been conferred unworthily in some cases in the past has nothing to do with what we have before us at the present time. I hold, Sir, that from the position which you have occupied in the public service of the colony, and from the very high position you have held for many years in this Council, the Imperial authorities were amply justified in granting you the honour they have done. And so it is with regard to my honourable friend the Minister of Education. He has not only been in the public service for a great many years, but he has been in charge of a department of State which I venture to think has greater issues in store-has a greater application to the welfare of the people-than perhaps any other department of State; and we know very well that he has carried out the duties of that department with the greatest satisfac- tion not only to the Parliament of the colony, but to the people of the colony generally. I Hon. :formula: Jones think on that ground alone he has a right to the title which has been conferred upon him. My old friend Sir John Mckenzie and the Hon. Mr. Cadman are alike entitled to them, and I am sure it would be a very ungracious feeling that would begrudge them the honours which have been conferred on them. I may say this : that I have no sympathy with those who hold what I cannot help describing as a silly idea that by granting these titles we are setting up class distinctions. There is nothing, to my mind, that will create class distinctions but great wealth. That is the only thing that can bring class distinctions amongst us ; and I am happy to think that the policy which we have pursued in this colony for several years past will have a tendency to equalise wealth, and consequently do away with any chance of class distinctions arising among us. We see honour- able gentlemen getting honours now and again, but they do not alter the men. They shake hands with us, talk with us, and laugh with us just as they did before. They wear the same clothes, live in the same houses, and follow the same avocations as they did before, and what is the difference ? They have only had conferred on them the Imperial symbol of honourable service, which, to my mind, makes no class distinction whatever. If we want to avoid class distinction in this colony, we must endeavour to have the wealth of the colony equally distributed amongst the people of the colony. Personally, I am extremely gratified that the people men- tioned in the resolution have had this honour conferred upon them. I am sorry the usages of the Council do not allow us to mention the name of the Hon. Sir Joseph Ward in the resolution, but I suppose, as we are not allowed to censure any member of the other Chamber, we are not allowed to congratulate them ; but I must say I should have been very pleased to have seen his name associated with those other gentlemen mentioned in the resolution now before us. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- In the debate on the Address in Reply I made a few remarks, and consequently honourable gentlemen may think that it is unnecessary for me to speak to-day. But I think this is an unique event. In no part of the previous history of the Council will you find four of its members honoured in this way in one year. I think it is an honour to us all, and it becomes the greater honour because we know full well that the honourable gentlemen richly deserve it ; it is a case of " Well done, thou good and faith- ful servant." The Hon. . Mr. Jones said the honour had been won already, and that it added nothing to the recipients of it. That is absolutely truth, Sir. It is only the placing of the stamp of the mint on what public opinion That is what this has already approved. means : nothing more and nothing less. My honourable friend who moved the resolution told us that you have sat in this Chamber for thirty-six years. You were selected first for some distinguishing reason, and your conduct during the period you have been here met with the approval of your fellow-Councillors so that 