by the Land for Settlements Board in other centres-there is no such necessity in the im- mediate neighbourhood of Christchurch. Seve- ral blocks have been acquired in the neighbour- hood of Christchurch during the past seven years, and the: all have hung fire. The same day these sections were balloted for, a block known as Rainchiff was offered for lease. It was pastoral land, consisting of 538 acres, at a rental of 3s. &d. per acre for the block, and there were ei htcen applicants. Another block offered a short time before, known as Takatu, consisting of 1,400 acres of pastoral country, at a rental of 3s. yd. per acre, there were thirty -five applicants for ; while for the Kohika, known as Teschemaker's, consisting of 3.820 acres, divided into fif een sections, there were eighty-six appheants, or an average of six ap- plicants for each section. I admit there is some force in the argument that land in the nei chi our- hood of Christchurch is bringing hich prices, and the particular bl ck I referred to, for which there were onl, applicants for eight sec- tions, was acquired at something between {90 and 41 0 an acre ; but, inasmuch as streets had to be laid off, with the cost of survey and all expenses connected with the acquisition, it would mount up to about 4132 an acre, which at a rental based on 5 per cent. on the capital value, gives an annualh-recurring rental of $6 12s. per acre. Honourable members will see at once that when land is acquired at such a price and is leased at A6 12s. an acre, it would not pay any working-man to become the lease- holder of more than sufficient as a site for a cottage. Two acres at $13 4s. per amum would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 not do more than give a site for a house and garden and keep a cow, the keep of which at that rental would be too expensive a luxury, and no man lut a Chinaman could grow vege- tables to make it pay at such a rental. These are facts which should weigh with members, so that they should not make sweeping changes without duly considering the position. Sir, I now ce me to a remark made by the honourable member for Christchurch City, Mr Collins, ard I wish to clear up this point. He referred to the 10 per cent. rebate under the Crown Tenants' Rent Relate Act of 1900. He stated that in Cante bury the rebate was allowed to all and sundry of Crown tenants affected by : that Act, while it was not so in Auckland, and ! it was only partially granted in Otago. Honour- ' able members must be aware that the Land Boards have nothing whatever to do with the administration of that Act. Its administration , sardise it again; but that regulation the is carried on purely by a Board set up under the Act, consisting of the Commissioner of Crown Lands, who is a Goverment servant, and the Receiver of Land Revenue for the lind district, who is also a Government servant. Now, Sir, it happened in Canterbury in this way : the Commissioner of Crown Lands was on sick-leave at Rotorua. There was therefore at the time only the Receiver of Land Revenue in Canterbury. At each meeting of the Land Board the members did me the honour to elect me chairman, but under the Land Act there is no power to appoint a Deputy Commissioner, of an applicant before the Canterbury Land and consequently I had no legal status, and could not take a place on the Board as consti- tuted under the Crown Tenants' Rebate Act of 1900. The Receiver of Land Revenue, a care- ful public servant, found himself in a difficulty as to the meaning of the Act, which was entitled the Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act, and he thought that he was justified in making an all- round reduction to the Crown tenants mentioned in the Bill who applied for the rebate. The Receiver of Land Revenue came to me and asked my opinion. I said to him, " Well, the intention of the Legislature in placing that Bill on the statute-book was this-that if a Crown tenant held a block of land where the capital value was in excess, the Receiver of Land Revenue, after careful consideration of the cir- cumstances of the whole case, and knowing that the Crown tenant had an actual grievance, could make a rebate ; and in such a case as that I would make a rebate of 10 per cent., but not otherwise." I, moreover, pointed out to him that it would apply to persons in Taranaki, in Wellington, and in other places who had gone on to the back blocks where they had no roads, where there was din culty of access, where they had during the winter months, through the inaccessibility due to the absence of roads, to carry everything on their backs. I said the Act was to meet such cases as those, and he had to carefully consider all the circumstances before allowing the 10 per cent., and that this was in my opinion the intention of the Legislature. He came to me a second time, and even a third time, when I re- peated my view of the question, and I then said that he had better refer the matter to the head office in Wellington, and ask for guidance. He applied to the Head Office, and received the reply, " We give you no advice ; there is the Act, interpret it as you think proper, you have the administration of it." Now, the Receiver of Land Revenue is not to Llame, and no mem- ber of this House has anv right to cast any slur on the Boards constituted under that Act. This House is to blame in allowing that Act, to pass. Sir, I would like to devote a few minutes to the most objectionable feature of this Bill, and that is clause 10. Clause > embodies a regulation passed some time ago, and sent to the Canter- bury Land Board, and I presume it was sent to other Boards also. That regulation was read to the House by the honourable meml er for Ashburton, who is a member of the Canter- bury Land Board, so that I need not han- members of the Canterbury Land Board considered unjust and unfair, and we said to the Commissioner, " No; we will not admit the legality of that Order in Council ; we will place it on one side," and it so happened, without consulting a legal gentleman, we were right and the Crown was wrong, and the regu- lation nitra vires. Now, Sir, with the intention of making it a statute law, that regulation is embodied in clause 8. That clause as it now stands is unfair. A married man to have the preference ! Why should he? Take the case 