exercise being taught the boys and girls in our schools. Indeed, it is being taught at the pre- sent time to a large extent, and would have been taught to a greater extent by the Educa- tion Boards and School Committees were it not for the want of funds. At one time the North Canterbury Education Board had a drill-in- structor. His salary and expenses ran into an expense of $600 a year, and the Board found that they could not continue to retain his services, and elementary military drill fell into disuse in the district. Clause 3 of this Bill says that the Education Board of each district shall from time to time, with the approval of the Go- vernor in Council. make regulations, and so forth. But the Education Board has not power to alter the syllabus and introduce military drill The initiation and power into the schools. of veto lies with the Minister of Education. The Boards of Education and Committees have neither power to add to nor take away from the syllabus. Then, again, that clause is also defec- tive in this way : While it calls upon the Educa- tion Boards to provide the military drill, it does not supply the Education Boards with the necessary funds to enable them to do so. When the honourable gentleman deals with the Native schools he says, --- " Out of the vote provided for Native schools the Minister of Education shall make provision for the teaching of military and physical drill to all children over the age of eight years at- tending Maori schools." The Native schools are to be provided with funds for carrying out the provisions of the Bill from the vote for Native schools, but the schools under the Education Boards are to be https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 provided with no funds at all- - the Education Boards shall be expected to make bricks with- out straw. Now, let us see what effect this Bill would have if introduced into the schools of the colony, and especially on a large number of country schools away from the centres of population. The Bill might do some good in the large schools in the large centres, but, forasmuch as I have pointed out that the cadet corps are established in the large centres in connection with nearly every large school of the colony, it is unnecessary. With regard to the schools in the remote country districts, take the Provincial District of Marlborough. In that district there are sixty-five public schools, out of which forty - one are aided schools, and not one of those forty-one aided schools reaches an average of twenty - three scholars. The largest attendance is twenty- three, and the lowest runs down to three or four. Now, just think of having military drill taught to three scholars in a remote country district. Each of these aided schools is in charge of a mistress. There are one hundred and twenty-five schools in the Nelson 3.30. District, of which forty are aided schools, and the average runs from twenty to five scholars. If this Bill were passed it would be of no advantage whatever to those schools. The fact of the matter is. we are trying to overdo the thing-we are weighting the sylla- bus too much ; and in the course of time, what with military drill and extra ornamental sub jects of all sorts in connection with our schools, the three Rs will be neglected. In the country schools, where the children have to travel long distances to reach school, with bad roads, and sometimes inclement weather. it is of the greatest importance that the three Rs should be attended to, and the greatest encouragement should be given by the Boards to country schools. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- I consider clause 6 is the one redeeming feature in this Bill, and to hear the honourable mem- ber for Waihemo declare that conscience claus to be a defect, and urge, in tones of arrogant intolerance so characteristic of the jingoistic spirit of the age, was simply atrocious. Sir. we have undergone a two-years' period of wild military debauchery. It has now reached such a state that a man is not safe in the exercise of his privileges as a free man ; to speak openly and freely his views, to talk as he feels, is almos: denied to a man in this country. For wha: reason ? Because of the overshadowing in- fluence of the demon of militarism that has been propagated and fostered by the honourabie gentlemen on those benches. If being a pro- Boer means the holding of views the very anti- thesis of those just enunciated by the honourable member for Waihemo, then I glory in the title I am one of those who consider the freedom of the subject to speak and think as his in- telligence prompts him the highest privilege of man, without which life would not be worth living. All the other advantages and privile- are as naught compared with that. I do believe in the physical training of our youth ; I do con- sider it beneficial for the physical welfare of the children that they should be taught dis. cipline and a method of combined motion and action ; but for heaven's sake let it be volun- tary. I believe aggressive warfare for the acquisition of fresh territory to be legalised murder, and I am not one of the community of Friends, of whom the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) spoke. But I have looked at this question carefully, and I hold these views strongly, with the memory of the pressgang in my mind -- with the picture of the Continental school of militarism before my eyes. And we are moving in that direction. But, thank God, there are a few men who are not afraid to deprecate this state of thing- in this House. When we come to think of the German schools, where the very badge of scholarship is a scarred face and the swaggerinc truculent air of the military roue, what are our circumstances that we should seek to follow their ignoble example-a handful of peaceful settlers, whose forefathers braved the dangers of the deep to subdue the wilderness in this non land, which is completely isolated from the other countries of the world? What are our requirements? Let us take our example from the Boers that the honourable member for Wai- hemo talks about : what military organization have they? And has not their defence been good " Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- They are not afraid to fight. 