be lost sight of. Mr. LANG might say, by way of explanation, that he had not the remotest idea of being appointed to the Commission ; he never ex- pected anything of that kind from the Premier. He was very sorry the Premier had not given a decided answer, because it was an important subject, and a great number of people were interested in this matter. Mr. SEDDON thought his answer was de- finite and decisive. # OLD-AGE PENSIONS. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Premier, If he will this session introduce a Bill to amend the Old-age Pensions Act in the direction of enabling persons to receive the pension who have been unfortunately disabled by accident, and consequently incapacitated from earning a livlihood ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was not clear what the honourable member meant by the words "disabled by accident." Assuming that he meant persons who were permanently injured or disabled, the Government had not the statistics to show the number of persons so incapacitated. In the census of 1896 upwards of a thousand persons were returned as suffer- ing from accident. Probably most of those persons were only suffering temporarily. The present cost of the Old-age Pensions Act to the taxpayers was very heavy; and the question was whether overloading might not bring down the structure. One required to be very careful, at the same time that one might desire to meet cases such as those the honourable member re- ferred to; and, presuming that the persons were permanently disabled, he thought there ought to be some treatment other than they received, but whether it should be by a cer- tain provision whereby the State should find one moiety and the local taxation of the district the other it was not for him definitely to decide at the present time. He knew of many cases where men had been permanently disabled and no provision had been made for them. The Charitable Aid Boards sought to shirk the responsibility and put the cases off from one district to another, and meanwhile the unfor- tunates were in want. The Workmen's Com- pensation Act of last session would, he thought, go in some measure to meet the necessity. He could only say that he sympathized with the honourable gentleman, and he would obtain fuller information, so as to be able to know what really the cost would be ; but he would not take a leap in the dark, and could not at the present moment say what course would be taken. # SURVEYOR-GENERAL. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Government, When the vacancy in the office of Surveyor-General is to be filled up, with a view of carrying out the provisions of section 4 of "The Representation Act Amendment Act, 1896 "; and, further, when the House will be given an opportunity of nominating the unoffi- cial members of the Representation Committees, Mr. Seddon did not wish to embarrass the Government with regard to the departmental appointment of the Surveyor-General. All he wanted to know was with reference to the position of the Surveyor- General as one of the Commission to decide the boundaries of the new electorates. Under the Act to which the question referred there were two Commissions, one for each Island, and the Surveyor-General was an official mem- ber of the Commission to deal with the boundaries of the electorates in the North Island. The other Commissioners were the Chief Commissioners of Crown Lands in the various land districts. The Act provided that as soon as the census department gave the Com- missioners the returns they must proceed to determine the boundaries. The Surveyor-Gene- ral had not been appointed, and the Commission could not act till he was appointed. With regard to the second part of the question, the Act provided that the unofficial members were to be two gentlemen nominated by the House of Representatives. He was not aware whether the \- -- four unofficial gentlemen who had acted when the previous boundaries were defined were still in office or not. He thought the House should know as soon as possible the boundaries of the new electorates. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it would be con- tended that, constitutionally, if they fixed the boundaries at once or defined the new districts. then Parliament should be dissolved. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh, no. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, that had been con- tended by high constitutional authorities. He did not know that it had been followed as a rule, but he did say that the moment the districts were changed it to some extent dis- organized business, and he had known it cause unpleasantness. He had known one member invading the preserves of another member when he knew that a particular part of a district would fall to his lot at the next election. It led to that ; but, at all events, there was no neces- sity whatever when there was no Royal Com- mission. Under the existing law an Order in Council authorised the Representation Commis- sioners to proceed to business. The honourable member who interrupted him had not read the law. However, that order had not been issued, and it would not be issued until the census returns \- - -- -- were in. Such being the case, there need be no anxiety as to the appointment of the Surveyor- General or of the Representation Commissioners. In the meantime the Representation Commis- sioners would not go to work until next year, unless something extraordinary occurred, and he did not think there was much danger of that at the present time. # PORTFOLIOS AND DEPARTMENTS OF MINISTERS. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Premier, If he will state to the House the port- folios and departments administered by each member of the Cabinet? Since the accession of two or three gentlemen to the Cabinet during 