and I think I have clearly shown honourable members that it would not be advisable for the Government to acquire land in that part of the country at the present juncture. Now we have another case-that of a man named Phillipson. I do not know who he is, but I suppose he wanted his grievance aired. Let me say this with regard to the honourable member : Phillip- son, whoever he is, had a (2000) loan from the bank. He said he wanted to get some more money, but he could not get it with- out going to the loan company and paying extra for it. He said later on that that individual sold his property for a large sum of money -I think he said $1,200, but I do not know what the price was. What does the honourable member mean by talking that nonsense in this House? When the man wanted $200 more, and his improvements were worth $1.200, and he already had $200 from the bank, why did he not go to the bank for the money? What did he want chasing about loan companies and paying commissions if he had $200 from the bank and he could sell for $1.200? It seems an extraordinary thing, and one that ought to be explained before one can take it that there is a real and fair grievance It is for the idea. in regard to that matter surely, of airing some other grievance that ought not to have been brought on to the floor of this House at all. There is one other matter that I wish to speak of, and that is this-it is a peculiar fact, and one that I wish honourable members to take note of, especially when the votes of money for public works are before the House : We have here the honour- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 able member for Masterton, Mr. Hogg, and the honourable member for Wairarapa, Mr. Hornsby, both representing practically the same district of the colony, the one honour- able member suggesting that the Goverment should acquire lands in his district and cut them up for settlement, while the other mem. ber for the same district Mr. Hogg-is abso- lutely silent on the subject. Are we to under- stand from that that the two members have a divergence of views in regard to this matter? Are we to assume that the views of the honour- able member for Wiirarapa are antagonistic to the district the honourable member for Master- ton represents? I do not know. Let me finish up by saying this : Let me tell the honourable member for Wairarapa-I do not know what his political heaven is, but it is evidently painted blue, with cast-iron dogs on the lawn, or some- thing of that sort . but if the honourable gentle- man will preach the doctrine to the Govern- ment as I intend to do, and as I pledge myself to do to the best of my ability, if he will help as I will earnestly help to get the Government to cut up for the people of the colony the lands they are already possessed of in the Assets Company ; if they will deal with these large properties that are remunerative already and which the people are ready to buy, real good will be done. Take the Upton Downs and Weld Hills Estates, which the Hon. Mr. Mills knows all about, and which are well- Mr. Wilford on the banks of the Awatere, bounded on the north side by the Medway, it will be found that there is plenty of timber and plenty of water on that property, which adjoins the Richmond Brook Estate, and which in its turn adjoin- the Starborough Estate, which has recently been cut up by the Government. That is a prom rty which the Government and the Hon. Mr. Mills are aware the settlers in that district wish to acquire. I am aware that a valuation of that property was made recently by a brother of the Manager of the Assets Board, and I am aware that the chairman of a local body in Blenheim has made representations to the Government for the acquiring of that land. Let that land be cut up and given to the people. You have got a tremendous saving in the machinery of procuration. I shall always advo- cate that, and I feel quite sure the Hon. the Minister is coming to this idea : that he must give first help in obtaining the cutting-up of these properties already acquired and repro- ductive. Now, I can realise the argument against it. and I further realise that if you are going to discuss a question of this kind von should not only look to what are the argument, in favour of it, but also the arguments which are against it. I am aware that this estate is a payatile estate. I know the Assets Beard are receiving a fairly good income in return for the capital invested ; and probably if you asked them why the property is not cut up the answer will be this : because it is probably making a good return, and helping to equalise a defier my which has been created somewhere eler. and if that deficiency which has been created some- where else is not met by the purse of some other land there will be a deficiency and ako- gether a failure in the passing-out of these estates. Sir, I trust the Government will :ke into consideration, in view of their powers under this Bill, the advisability of at once going to work in this matter. I trust they will tire the earliest opportunity of cutting up some of these estates, and if they do that they will do a great deal of good so far as this esiony is concerned. My question in regard to clause 9 I will discuss no further. Lonk will say this : that it seems to me futile. after I divided the House upon this matter - I divided the House, when twenty - eight votes were received in regard to clause 9 again -! thirty-two; and I divided the House again to - night, when twenty - nine votes were re- ceived against thirty - one - I have done mais best to get that clause exeised from the Bill. I have failed : but I do feel in my own mi this : that the principle still left open in ties clause is not a principle that should command itself to this House. I say this. and I am quite sure the honourable member for the Ba of Plenty will bear me out : that, though he was the first member to speak in regard to clause 9. and though he spoke about the que- tion of the Government making regulations under the provisions of that statute. I was the first one to point out to this House the question of creating ultra vires regulations. 