many brothers and sisters have you ? " He know of one instance where a father was em- pl ved in the Government service with a family of two sons, and these were both employed in the service. He knew of another instance where tive members of one family were employed in Government billets, and that sort of thing ought not to be while there were cases of large families who never got a chance of a single billet in the Government service. He hoped, therefore, that the Minister for Railways would take a step in the right direction by doing what was suggested in the question. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the question raised by the honourable gentle- man was a very important one, and he quite admitted that in the case of large families some consideration should be shown to the appli- cants. The most important thing, however, was to obtain suitable lads with the proper quali- fications to fill the appointments, and that must be the first consideration of the department. If the qualifications were right, and assistance could be given to large families he thought it should be done. Under the existing system the Minister for Railways had little or nothing to do with the selection of those appointed to the department, as they were made from every part of the colony, and, he thought, rightly so. Honourable members knew they were made on the recommendations of members themselves. The Minister could not possibly know anything of his own knowledge about the applicants. He did not see one of them out of every hun- dred. All he had to be sure about was that they possessed the proper qualifications as to education, age, and character. It was the duty https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of the responsible officers to call his attention to any deficiency in these respects. If, however, there were cases of large families brought under h's notice by honourable members for favour- able consideration, he would be happy to con- sider them. It was, as he said, not unreasonable for the Minister to give effect to the recom- mondations of members in such a direction, provided, of course, that the present regulation, that not more than two members of the one family were to be appointed to the Railway ser- vice, were adhered to. He was of the opinion that if two members of a family got into the Go- Vernment service, no more should be allowed to join from that family, and that would give an opportunity for those belonging to other families to enter the Goverment service. He should be very glad to see the system of the two limit that now applied to the railways made appli- cable to all departments of the Government service, and he would bring the matter before Cabinet for its consideration. As he had already stated, the Minister for Railways only made appointments to the department on the recom- mandation of members of Parliament, who were asked by the Minister to nominate candi- dates for the various positions. This was the only system which could work satisfactorily to the public. If they attempted to set up a Board, as had been suggested, it would mean the setting up of several Boards. They had a the colony, and people in those places who de- sired these appointments should have a fair show of obtaining them ; and therefore the system in vogue was the only one, as far as he could judge, which appeared to give general satisfaction to the public. It was impartially and fairly carried out as far as he knew. No complaints of any kind had been brought under his notice. If there were any cases that mem- bers knew of where partiality had been shown, he should be exceedingly glad if they would bring them up, because, personally, he knew of no cases of the kind. DUNEDIN RAILWAY-STATION. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Minister for Railways, What is being done with regard to the Dunedin Railway-station ; when is it likely the erection of the new station will be commenced, and whether the work is to be done by contract or not ? Some 12.30. twelve months ago the Government decided to do justice to Dunedin by erecting a railway-station suitable to the amount of traffic in that town. Recently, in consequence of the greater amount of traffic, there was one morn- ing three trains leaving the station, two of which had about twenty carriages and the other one was very large indeed, and this was in addition to other trains that were arriving. While, of course, that was a little heavier traffic than usual, still the traffic at the Dun- edin Railway-station was very large indeed. As a rule they were blessed with very fine weather down there, but sometimes they had showers of rain, and when perhaps two or three thousand people were on the railway-station - people travelling, and friends seeing them off it be- came very awkward indeed. He would like to know what steps the Government were now taking with a view to pushing this work on as soon as possible. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the department had taken the land necessary for this work, and had arranged with the Harbour Board for its reclamation. As soon as this was completed a new road would be formed giving access to a level crossing in line of St. Andrew Street. Immediately thereafter the de- part ment would be enabled to close Stuart Street and proceed with the erection of the main build- ing, which it was proposed to let by contract. AUCKLAND RAILWAY-STATION. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Railways, If the Government will put the necessary sum on the estimates for the erection of a footbridge at the Auckland Railway-station ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the cost of the bridge was estimated at 9500, and the officers of the department had reported adversely upon this. The department said the saving of time to the travelling public would be very small, that the bridge was not required for railway purposes, and that there were more urgent and important works to be provided for throughout the railway system of the colony. 