are submitted to the people by way of refer- gentleman know that we are quite aware of endum should be submitted to them in the same way and on the same day as that on which the general election is held, but during the other two years I am strongly of opinion that the proper way of submitting these ques- tions is through the post-office. If people are expected to leave their work or business and women are supposed to interfere with their household duties in order probably to travel long distances to vote on such questions as may be submitted to them, I have reason to believe that many of them will not do it, and, consequently, there will not be a satisfactory expression of opinion on the part of the people. I say we shall get a more satisfactory expression of opinion by the people if the questions are submitted through the post. It will cost less money, and will certainly be more satisfactory. The Premier stated that what has been suggested would interfere with the secrecy of the ballot. Much he cares about the secrecy of the ballot. What has been happen- ing in the Patea electorate? I happen to know that the Government organizer, Mr. Edwards, has been travelling through the Patea elec- torate promising roads and bridges and Go- vernment billets to all and sundry in order to get them to support the Government candidate ; and yet the Premier talks about liberty of con- science, the rights of the people, and the secrecy Sir, were it not that undue of the ballot. influences are brought to bear in the interests of the Government by organizations formed for the purpose, I believe the Government would not be in office for a single month. That is the position at the present time. There has been wholesale bribery and corruption going on for years, and many of us have good reason to know it. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines). - A short time ago we heard it stated that there would be no Opposition, but, Sir, in this case we have the old Conservative element strongly represented by the honourable member for Franklin, Mr. Massy. I think it is like the story of a certain animal that has only been scotched, but not kill d, and he is now coming out in his true colours. We have just heard a strong Oppo- sition speech from the honourable member for Franklin. I like to hear a good speech, but I like to hear reason along with it. The honour- able gentleman said that there was no doubt that influence was being used. He is a reason- able min, and let him reason out what undue influence means. Who is most likely to use undue influence ? Is it not those who have weilth at their back ? Is not the opposition to the Liberal party the landed aristocracy ? They have influence and power and wealth, and if influence can be used it is by these people. Wherever you have wealth you have influence, and we admit at once that the wealthy people of the colony for the most part have been more inclined to the Conservative than to the Liberal sido in polities. Those are the mon that have wealth, and it is from them that influence most comes. However, I do not want to say anything about that more than to let the honourable Mr. Massey the position he takes up on all occasions. He was born that way, and cannot get out of it. One word regarding a remark made by the honourable member for Palmers- ton in regard to the easy method of allowing people to vote through the post-office. It is all very well for that honourable gentleman to say so. He lives in a town and has town experi- ence. Apart altogether from politics, the post- office is a very good thing for the dissemination of information in the towns, but it is absolutely useless with regard to the out-districts. And for this reason : There are business-men in this House, and I have no doubt they have sent out business circulars, and these circulars have come back to them by hundreds. Or take gentlemen who have been candidates for posi- tions on public bodies. They take the names out of the directories, and the result is that these notices come back perhaps a fortnight or a month afterwards, and in few cases are they delivered. At many post-offices in the out- districts of the colony it is impossible for a letter to be delivered within a fortnight of the letter's arrival at the post-office. Is that a way of getting a correct return of the opinion of the people of the colony? It is simply nonsense. In the matter of the referendum it is only important questions that would be referred to the people, and if when these questions are referred to them the people do not take the trouble to go the short distance, or whatever distance it may be, to a polling-booth, then they have not much interest in the question that is submitted. At any rate, the polling system that we have under the present ballot is the best that we know. I have endeavoured to consider the electoral right and the polling by letter, but, as far as my experience goes, either of these sys- tems would be worse than the present one. I do not mean to say that the present ballot sys- tem is complete. I do not mean to say that we could get the whole of the colony to vote. Take the number of electors in Christchurch at the -- recent election and see the number of votes polled. There is an instance. I say that no system you can institute will bring the whole of the people to the poll. Under the ballot system I saw that if the people are interested they will! come, and if they are not interested they will not come, and you will have on that occasion a short vote. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihomo). - We do sometimes have from the Ministerial bench 's an indication of progressive measures. Th measure is as progressive a one as we have con- sidered this session, and. whether the Minister of Justice realises it or not, the electoral right will become established in this and other conu. 1 tries within a very short period. If the electoral right were wrong, why, then, did the honoura? ? gentleman support the policy of extending to seamen the electoral right ? Why did he extend the granting of the electoral right to e. m- mercial travellers ? If it is wrong, and if those votes were improperly used, then I could mr .. derstand the honourable gentleman saving th : this is a policy which interferes with the secrecy 