sum to carry out these three great works- namely, the North Island Main Trunk line, the Midland Railway, and the Otago Central, then by all means borrow sufficient money to finish these works. If, however, the ma- jority are against that, then, of course, we must proceed with them in the very slow manner that we are doing at the present time. But to say that we shall go on borrowing a million each year, and spending the greater part on these three works, which for years to come will be unproductive, is to my mind not adding to the prosperity of the country. With regard to light lines of railway, I favour the extension of a system of light railways, which shall act as feeders to the main lines, give encouragement to the settlers to bring their produce to the market, open up the country, and tend to stimulate and enlarge the industries of our really productive colony. Seeing that a measure is to be brought before the House to improve and consolidate the Counties Act, I hope that power will be given to the local authorities to borrow a sufficient sum to carry out some of these smaller public works, such as the construction of light lines of railway, with power to rate those for whose benefit these lines are being constructed. Respecting trade and commerce, it must be borne in mind that, seeing our debt, public and private, is about one hundred millions, and that the interest is between three and four millions, which is paid not in hard cash or gold, but in produce, it behoves us to make that produce go as far as possible in liquidating our indebtedness. This brings me to the question of opening up new markets, and I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 consider that were the Government to borrow, say, a million, and establish a carrying fleet of its own-three or four vessels, at any rate-to take our produce from New Zealand to South Africa or to the Home-country, it would be a very good speculation, and one that would produce numerous advantages to and confer many benefits on this country. As has been stated by a previous speaker-the member for Waihemo - there are possibilities of opening up a good trade with the Mother-land ; but the question is, How are we to go about it ? We find difficulties in the way of landing our produce and disposing of it in the Home- country. I consider, Sir, we should have a real live representative there in order to look after the interests of the producers in New Zealand. I am pleased to see the Govern- ment have appointed a Commissioner to in- quire into the possibilities of establishing new markets wherever there is an outlet for the produce of New Zealand. Knowing Mr. Gow, the new Commissioner, as I do, I feel every con- fidence that his appointment will redound very much to the credit of the Government and to the benefit of the colony. I hope the Govern- ment will take into serious consideration the advisability of opening up new markets for New Zealand grain, wool, and frozen meat in the Home-country and elsewhere, and also equip a fleet of our own to carry produce away as cheaply and expeditiously as possible. With regard to the railways, I consider a reduction should be made in fares and freights, especially in the freights. I quite agree with the member for Franklin that we should endeavour to increase the speed of the passenger trains where practi- cable. With regard to the freights, I consider that the railways should not be looked on as merely money-extorting machines. The railways belong to the people-they are a national asset- and consequently it behoves us to work them in the interests of the people of the colony. Therefore, if we can endeavour-and we should endeavour-to help the producers to get their produce as expeditiously and as cheaply as we can to the seaport towns, we should do so, and so bring the foreign money into the country. The Government, I consider, should not only keep that steadily in view, but should endeavour to bring such a scheme into successful operation. Seeing we will have the opportunity later on of discussing the all-absorbing question of federa- tion, which has been reported upon by the Commissioners who were appointed to inquire into the advantages to be derived by this colony from our joining in the Commonwealth, I shall defer my remarks on that subject until that opportunity presents itself. I hope the Govern- ment will carry out the programme as delineated in the Speech from the Throne. I notice an effort will be made to adopt a system which is akin to State fire insurance. The time has come, I think, when the Government should establish State fire insurance. We find the fire insurance companies of the Australian Colonies have adopted a very high rate of premiums, so that were the Government to adopt a system by which the State would become the insurance body, and take up risks at what is considered a fair figure, I have no doubt great benefits would accrue to the property-holders, while the high premiums that are being extorted at the present time would no longer exist. I wish to congratulate the Postmaster-General, Sir Joseph Ward, for the successful inaugura- tion of the penny post. While speaking on that subject, I might allude to the honour recently conferred on that gentleman by the Duke of York. As one who has personally known the honourable member for Awarua for a number of years, I can bear testimony to the very high respect in which he is held in the southern part of the colony ; and we all know the undoubtedly great work he has done to advance the welfare of this country both at Home and abroad. I am sure there is not a man from the North Cape to the Bluff who is more deserving of a title than Sir Joseph Ward. I consider that greater encouragement should be given to Volunteering in New Zealand. We found, when occasion required the services of our men, that our young soldiers went forth and acquitted themselves creditably in South Africa ; and, coming home again, all these tried men-these men who have borne their part so nobly on the veldt and the karoos of South Africa-will stimulate and encourage the Volunteer move- ment in this country. Therefore I hope that the Government will give what facilities they can to encourage the establishment of 