narrow sense to which the member for the Grey objects. I do not know whether the Hon. the Minister intends that a man in his own house may use insulting language, and if persons in the street hear it, that he may be brought up before the Magistrate and dealt with, whether he was using it to passers-by or to persons in the house. If that is the intention of the Hon. the Minister, I certainly object to it. But I have always been led to understand that a man's home is his castle, and I think a man can use insulting language to persons there as much as he likes, and if he is heard by passers- by he should not be pulled up and prosecuted for it, as it has nothing to do with the public at large, and the persons aggrieved have their own remedy. That is a matter the Minister has not apparently looked at. It seems to me that the word "or" does not do what the Minister intends it to do. He intends, as I understand it, to make it liable to prosecution to use insulting language in a public place in the larger extension of the word, in the same way as obscene language, and that was what the honourable member for the Grey also in- tended to do. But the addition of the word " or " does not alter the definition of " public place." It only says that this thing may take place in a public place-in the narrow sense of the word-or in the hearing of the passers-by. It does not say where these passers-by are to be. Therefore, I do not think, as far as my humble judgment goes, that the alteration will effect what the Hon. the Minis- ter designs it to effect, and I believe it will have ulterior effects which the Minister does https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 not seem to have foreseen. Now, with regard to clause 3, I think that is a very dangerous clause to put in the hands of any policeman. I would ask the honourable member to read it carefully,- " Section twenty-six of the principal Act is hereby amended by the addition of the following subsection :- "' (4.) Who habitually consorts with reputed thieves or prostitutes, or persons who have no visible means of support."" Under that almost anybody could be arrested. 11.30. Now, I should like to ask what a " re- puted thief " is. I say that if a man consorts with a convicted thief he has no right, and I say that no man has a right to be called a thief until he has been convicted. A reputed thief does not exist under our Constitution. No man should be called a reputed thief, and no man should be called a thief until he is con- victed of that offence. Therefore I say that the words "reputed thief" have no right to be put on the statute-book. It is contrary to the English law. Then, what evidence will be given to convict a man under this new clause? We shall have the evidence of a constable that he has seen the unfortunate man consorting with what he calls reputed thieves, or with persons who have no visible means of support. It seems to me that you have first of all to prove that the people he consorts with are reputed thieves, or that they have no visible means of support. That will depend on the evi- dence of a constable. Then, how can they prove that a man habitually consorts with them ? It is putting the liberty of perhaps an innocent man under the control of a police- man. I protest against clause 3, as putting the liberties of a man whom the police may have a "down " on at their mercy ; and, even if he is innocent, a man has always hanging about him the fact of having been brought into a Police Court for an offence like this. I trust the Minister will reconsider the full meaning of the clause. It is with no captious spirit I am alluding to the matter, but I really believe it will have a further - reaching effect than he is fully aware of. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) .- I am not going to speak to the merits of the Bill at present, as I hope we shall have the benefit in Committee of the opinions of legal gentlemen as to its meaning and effect. It seems to me we are widening the powers of the constable very much : there may be excellent reasons for doing so, and I am prepared to listen to argument on the question. I have risen to speak in reference to the remarks of the member for the Suburbs concerning the condition of the law at present in reference to its dealing with persons charged under the Police Offences Act. He mentioned the case of a man who, using obscene language in a railway-carriage, would escape with a fine if proceeded against under the by-law, but if he were proceeded against under the Police Offences Act the Magistrate would have no option but to dismiss or imprison the man, there being no discretion to meet the case with a fine. This has been a long-standing blot on our legislation, and the Minister should avail himself of this opportunity to bring an amendment into the Act to meet this condition of affairs. I have many times known cases where men have been charged with obscene language under the Act : possibly it may have been their first offence, and the Magistrate is very unwilling indeed to send them to gaol and brand them as gaol-birds, but he has no option. What is generally done is to convict the man and order him to come up for sentence when called upon, which is merely a burlesque, and an extremely unsatis- factory method of dealing with the case. I think the Minister of Justice should avail him- self of this opportunity of amending the Act, so that the Magistrate should have the option, when a man comes before him charged with using obscene language, of punishing him by fine, and should not be compelled to convict him and discharge him, ordering him to come up for sentence when called upon. A very simple amendment would meet the case. In a Bill proposed last year, section 4 reads as follows :-- "Section twenty-four of the said Act is amended by inserting at the end of line three thereof the words 'or to a penalty not exceed- ing twenty pounds." " I hope the Minister will engraft this desirable amendment on his Bill ; but if he does not I or some other member will move in that direc- tion. and I hope he will support it. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I should 