London market the resources of this colony. By the means adopted the colony was saved the whole of the payment for underwriting and the cost of commission. I say a great deal of good must be done to the colony ; and it shows the colony is presided over by Ministers who, at any rate, have some foresight. My honourable friend the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) has spoken of the recent visit of their Royal Highnesses to this colony. I shall touch on that question very lightly. During the reception I heard one man say, "I wish it was all over," or some such remark, and some one went so far as to say something about the expense and the style of show that was going on. I turned on that man who had made such a remark and said, " You ought to live in Japan, where you have only to open your mouth to have your head cut off, and then you would understand the benefits of living in a country of peace and quietness." To my mind, Sir, very few people appreciate the conditions under which we live, and very few people appre- ciate what we get by being an integral part of the British Empire. There is no doubt the effect of the visit of the Duke and Duchess to this colony has, if possible, brought the ties of kinship closer than they were formerly, and in that connection I wish to quote shortly from a speech delivered by Mr. Scott Cranston, at an impromptu Press function in Dunedin, in reply to a toast proposed by the Right Hon. the Pre- mier. He said,- "Mr. Seddon,-If you had felt it your duty to specially float a loan of a million specially https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 for advertising your colony, it would have been but a circumstance compared with what must accrue from the visit of Royalty and repre- sentatives of leading English papers. England is ignorant of your colony, its loyalty, its pro- sperity, its natural beauty, its possibilities. We have, even in our brief visit, had these attrac- tions forced upon us, and even beyond our duty to those who have sent us here we are bound to return to the Mother-land with one greater mission, and that is to compel the people there to appreciate this colony as this colony appre- ciates them." Sir, that is all I propose to say in reference to the visit we have had. We are fully alive to the importance of it ; we are fully alive to its value. Upon the mere question of its worth to us for the purposes of advertisement it need not be discussed. Upon the question of binding this colony closer to the Mother-country there can be no doubt whatever in the mind of the most sceptical individual. As to the subject of defence my words will be very few. I consider that the latest munitions of war should be ex- changed between the Mother country and its dependencies. We should have a mutual reci- procal system of defence. We should have and will have the assistance of the British cruisers. We ought to have, and no doubt will have soon-and the sooner the better-the oppor- tunity of being properly armed ; and I feel sure that if to-morrow any country attempted to send its soldiers to invade this bright little island, and our soldiers were armed with the most recent munitions of war, it would take a foreign country a far longer time to wipe out our soldiers than it is taking us to wipe out the Boers in South Africa. Why, Sir, the thirty years' wars in the Caucasus would be nothing to it. In concluding my speech, I trust I have not been tedious to honourable members. I should like also to say and to place on record the fact that it has not been a surprise to New-Zealanders to note the way the young New-Zealander has acquitted himself in South Africa. It has surprised the world, because they did not know the stuff the young New- Zealander was made of ; but, Sir, it never surprised New Zealand. We knew they had that capacity; and when we saw them take their place as they did in South Africa, and compare in honour, decency, respect, and obedi- ence, and in fearlessness also, with the best from the Mother-country, we felt our hearts. glow with triumph and satisfaction, but we were not surprised. We knew that they would be in the thick of the fight, and that they would be found in the van of battle, as we have been in the van of legislative progress. We knew they would uphold the dignity of the colony. We knew they would place one bright red line- one indelible cross-upon the pages of Eng- lish history, and we knew, whatever they did when they went to South Africa, they would come back honoured and respected by the whole world. Let me describe their doings in verse, illustrating their daring, pluck, and fearless- ness :- Yes, that is where you'll find them, Far out across the veldt, Where the shot and shell are flying And the hardest blows are felt ; Where cannons roar their thunders, Facing death without remorse, You'll find them in the thick of it-The brave New Zealand Horse. Sir, they do not require any tribute from me .. Every honourable member will help the Go- vernment in voting what it requires for the purposes of defence and for meeting the extra- ordinary expenditure that has had to be in- curred owing to the extraordinary nature of the circumstances that have arisen. Desperate cases require desperate remedies, and the extra- ordinary expense which has had to be incurred must be met with a free hand and no grudging purse. I feel sure that, when the question o\_ the vote which is foreshadowed by the Speech of the Governor is brought down before the House, there will be no difficulty in getting it passed and putting it before the country in the form it ought to be-namely, as an expenditure which we all agree with, and which we feel has been justly incurred. Sir, I thank honourable members for listening so patiently to my re- marks in seconding the Address. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) - Sir, I intend to imitate the example of the two. honourable members who have already ad- dressed you. My speech will be short - far shorter, indeed, than either of theirs. Mem- bers can discuss the measures which have been alluded to by His Excellency the Governor in his Speech when they are brought before us in. 