reduced by 8d. per ton, whilst in Taranaki and Auckland it had been reduced by 64d. per ton. . Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) might say that the rates and regulations go- verning the conveyance of passengers' luggage were the same throughout the colony. There were a number of local rates and regulations governing the conveyance of goods traffic over certain portions of the lines of both the South and North Islands. These local rates were in- duced by competition and local circumstances. As a result of sea competition there were cheap rates for conveyance of goods traffic between Lyttelton and Timaru, Dunedin and Oamaru, and Dunedin and Invercargill. Similar rates, however. existed on the Auckland and Welling- ton-Napier-New Plymouth Sections. He might sav there was no such thing as differentiation in rates in one district as against another, and there was no partiality shown to any district. The whole of the rates were fixed with a view to doing what was just to all parts of the colony. SANATORIUM FOR MOUNT EGMONT. Mr. SYMES ( Egmont) asked the Government, If they will this session take the necessary steps for the erection and proper equipment of a sanatorium at Mount Egmont ? Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said it was proposed to have an inquiry made and a report submitted, when the question of providing and maintaining a sanatorium at Mount Egmont would be considered. # POST - AND-TELEGRAPH OFFICE FOR https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 MORNINGTON. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Post- master-General, If he will make immediate ar- rangements for the establishment of a post-and- telegraph office in Mornington, and place the same under a competent officer? Twelve months ago he had brought the question of a daily delivery in Mornington before the Minis- ter, with the result that he kindly not only gave them another messenger, but also caused two deliveries a day to be instituted ; and this had been greatly appreciated by the people there. However, the district was rapidly grow- ing. They had now between four and five thousand residents, and the want of a post- and-telegraph office was very much felt. A telegraph arrangement, of course, they had, but it was in a private house, and people did not care to go to a private house to send tele- grams, which were frequently of a private nature. Then, again, the telegrams were not always de- livered as promptly as they might be. But the greatest drawback was with regard to postal orders or money -orders, as the residents of Mornington had to go all the way down to Dunedin to do their business, which was not only very inconvenient, but also expensive. He hoped, therefore, the Minister would see his way to give a favourable answer to the ques- tion. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) thought the time had arrived when a post- office savings-bank and post-office should be established at Mornington. The difficulty in the past had been that they had been unable to find a suitable site, although inquiries had been made. There were no Government reserves at Mornington. However, further inquiries were being made, and if they could get a suitable place he would be very happy to give instruc- tions to have a Postmaster appointed there and a better postal service arranged for. ST. ANDREW'S TELEGRAPH-OFFICE. asked the Major STEWARD (Waitaki) Commissioner of Telegraphs, Whether instruc- tions have been given for the promised en- largement of the telegraph-office at St. Andrew's ; and, if not, when the work will be put in hand ? Sir J. G. WARD (Commissioner of Tele- graphs) said the enlargement of the St. Andrew's office provided for a telephone-box, which would encroach on the main road, and the District Railway Engineer had been instructed to erect it in this position if the County Council agreed. The Engineer advised that he was now await- ing the consent of the Council before proceeding with the work. OAMARU-KUROW RAILWAY. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, Whether he will endeavour to arrange the time-tables on the main south line and the Oamaru-Kurow Branch so that pas- sengers from the North bound for stations on the branch line can be transferred from the down express to the Kurow train at Pukeuri, and thus avoid the loss of a day now incurred ? Since this question had been placed on the Order Paper the honourable gentleman had been good enough to send him a reply, in which he stated, as he (Major Steward) understood it, that the department would be quite willing to make the arrangement asked for provided there were unanimity on the part of all persons inter- ested. Well, it was absolutely impossible to obtain complete unanimity in almost any matter, and he would ask the honourable gentleman to make the change if he were convinced that a large majority of the residents in the district were in favour of it. He would suggest that the honourable gentle- man might take into consideration the feasi- bility of making the two trains dovetail by shortening the time of the stoppage of the ex- press at Timaru. Seeing that there was now a dining-car on the train, there did not appear to be any necessity for a stoppage of twenty minutes at Timaru. If the time for the stoppage at Timaru were shortened by ten minutes he thought the matter could be arranged. A delay of five or ten minutes in arriving at Kurow, he thought, would not be objected to; and the connecting of the trains would prove of great advantage to passengers from the north, who could then be transferred at Pukeuri Junction, and so save a whole day. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said there would be no difficulty so far as the Railway Department was concerned in detaining the Kurow train at Pukeuri as suggested, provided the persons served by the train service desired the 