the honourable member says obtains. Tram- way employes work considerably more than eight hours a day, and they have been com- plaining for many years past. There are also many other callings. The men engaged in con- nection with the railway-carting contract also complain about working more than eight hours. Seeing that this Bill is going to benefit those people who are working more than eight hours now, why should not the gentle- men who agreed to the eight -hours prin- cipie vote for the second reading of this Bill, and when it gets into Committee we can get the objectionable portions of the Bill removed. Let the Bill go to the Labour Bills Committee, where there are country members, and no doubt the welfare of the country districts will be well looked after. I think we have had sufficient to show us that there is need for the Bill. I, for one, shall cordially support it, and vote for its second reading. I congratulate the member for Riccarton upon the interesting debate which has taken place on the measure. I was glad to hear the very conciliatory speech we had from the Premier. There is one other matter I should like to say something on-in regard to the question of town versus country. This was raised by the member for Egmont. He stated that the town members last year wished to hinder the back-block settlers. We did nothing of the sort. What we urged was that the Bill introduced to assist back-block settlers would not be any assistance to them, but would grant a concession to those who did not require it, and we urged that if they were in distress, so far as their rents were concerned, they should have their rents reviewed. We are quite pre- pared to do it now if any proposition comes before the House in that direction ; but we do object to concessions being granted to settlers not in need of it while others in need of it are not assisted. There is a lot of misapprehension in the minds of country members with regard to the effect of labour legislation, as there was in the minds of employers before the labour legislation was brought into operation. Take the half-holiday, for instance. It was contended by the employers in Christchurch that if the half-holiday was introduced it would ruin the shopkeepers. Now, Sir. the shopkeepers were never more prosperous than they are now, and they have received no injury from the applica- tion of the half-holiday. Neither have our in- dustries suffered. I venture to think we shall be able to frame a Bill to shorten the hours of labour for those in the country districts without seriously injuring the agricultural industries. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). - The for Christchurch City honourable member suggested that the Bill should be referred to the Labour Bills Committee. If it is the inten- tion that agricultural matters should receive proper attention before that Committee, I would suggest that some country members be added to it. The Committee as constituted consists of city members, with the exception of Captain Russell, and Mr. Hardy, who is more connected with commerce than agriculture, although he most ably represents a country district. An Hon. MEMBER .- Mr. Bollard. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- He is a member for the suburbs of the City of Auckland. Eden is a suburb of Auckland ; but the other 12.0. members of that Committee cannot possibly be called country representatives. I will name the members constituting the Labour Bills Committee, who are all town men- Messrs. Arnold, Bollard, Collins, Ell, Hutcheson, Laurenson, Millar, Morrison, Palmer, Tanner. While the gentlemen who are on the Labour Bills Committee are, no doubt, all excellent men, and will give these measures attention, there is not on it a representative for a purely agri- cultural community, except Captain Russell. When you are dealing with measures affecting that particular interest you should have agri- cultural members on it. I therefore maintain that the Labour Bills Committee should have a larger representation of purely agricultural members. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Pre- mier ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - It cannot surely be said that he represents an agricultural consti- tuency. I agree with Mr. Ell in saying that the half-holiday in the shops has done no harm. I was one of the most prominent supporters of that measure in this House, and I am quite satisfied that instead of doing harm to the employers it has been a distinct benefit to them. There are points in this Bill which are worthy of consideration, but that it will suit the agricultural interests I emphatically deny, and it will have to be very materially re- modelled before it can assist them. The people engaged in agricultural pursuits in this country must work out their own salvation in their own way, and I think it is very undesirable that measures affecting the agricultural labourers of the colony should be passed through the House without very sincere consideration indeed ; in- stead of being an assistance to them it might be the reverse. We must also bear in mind that we have to meet to-morrow morning at half- past ten, and unless we adjourn now we are not likely to be more than eight hours out of the Chamber. I chiefly rose to point out that I think we have made up our minds on this Bill, and to suggest that we should come to a division on it at once. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at five minutes past twelve o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 12th July, 1901. First Readings - Sessional Committees - Appoint- Inent of the New Commandant - Standard Certi- ficates-Hospital Nurses Registration Bill-Local Authorities' Indemnity Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. 