Mr. HUTCHESON .- No; nor yet were they boastful braggarts who " sooled " their brothers or their sons to fight, with no intention of doing so themselves. And I have invariably found it the case in the vicissitudes of life through which I have passed that the vainglorious boaster was not the man I would put my money on in a aight. We are all liable to military service in spect to the present situation and what has led to it, I say I am not responsible for it. I the present state of our law, if the dire neces- sity arose, and very likely the man who depre- cates war will be most like the Quaker in the oid English rhyme, who was averse to the shedding of blood. The rhyme begins in this way :- We sailed from the downs in a ship called the " Lion." With forty good brass guns our crew could rely on. Among the crew there was a Quaker, who declined to shed blood ; but when the enemy as he. From whom do they hold their privi- came aboard he took the galley poker and leges to-day ? To those who advocate no mili- acquitted himself as a brave man in defence of his life and belongings. When the actual by and allow the Empire to be insulted ? Are necessity arises there need not be the slightest apprehension of the failure of New Zealand's we, Sir, to go in the way in which such nations ions to rally to the call of " Homes and Coun- try." Are not our young men now in sufficient third-rate nation, subservient to other nations ? numbers volunteering to bear arms as soon as No, Sir, I say it is the British pluck ; it is the they are physically strong enough to support a rifle? Until then let us teach our young maintenance of our national honour- and that honour has been maintained for years-the love ones the arts of learning. " Why make educa- of country, its freedom and inherent justice, tion compulsory?" asks the member for Wai- hemo. Could any one, but a man mentally blind, is inborn in us; and I am not responsible for his reason obfuscated by the spirit of militarism, enunciate such a proposal before sane men ? Is was a latent spirit, a latent British feeling, in not the absence of education a source of danger to the community and to the individual ? Has the fathers, and in the forefathers before them ; the State not the right to interfere? Is not and when the emergency arose they rose to the ignorance crime ? Are not ignorance and crime occasion for the good of the country, for the good of the honourable gentleman : and those synonymous terms? Why restrict the liberty of those who break the law ? But the proposi- who have reaped all the benefits are not prepared tion is absolutely absurd and without analogy. to move a single finger for the Empire's good ! While I have no hesitation in opposing this Bill in all its stages, I do recognise that clause 6 opposed the First Contingent being sent to South Africa, and in his heart he has been opposed to is the one redeeming feature in it. But to say that our youngsters are now not being properly trained wherever possible is to say what is not honestly deny it. But, Sir, if this is his convic- in accordance with fact. As has been pointed tion, by what force of reasoning can he show to out by some speakers, there would be great this House logically that he should, as he said, difheulty in getting a qualified instructor -- and metaphorically spit upon an honourable gentle- if we are going to have an instructor he must man because he holds different views? I never be qualified-to go into the country districts, heard such an expression fall from the lips of where the children are few and the schools any member of this House without its being widely scattered. To say that an instructor taken exception to; and, coming from the should co into those districts, a day's travel. to senior member for Wellington City. it makes teach four or tive children the right-about-face one exclaim, " What next ?" I say that, allow- -I do not believe the Colonial Treasurer has ing every latitude for the honourable gentle- the money to do it. man's convictions, he ought to respect the feel- An Hen. MEMBER .-- Let the teacher do it. ings of others who differ from him on this most Mr. HUTCHESON .- In . these particular important question. cases the teacher is a woman. Of course, we know the Boer women, either in their own coerce me. clothing or their husband's, took the trenches ; but there is no necessity for our women to matter at all ; it is a question of good taste. Here The time has is a question brought on the floor of the House attempt that sort of thing. arrived when we ought to deprecate this wild in a proper and constitutional way, and upon and altogether unwholesome spirit of militarism this question there will be differences of opinion. that has taken possession of us. for which there Respect, not insult, should fall to the lot of those is absolutely no need, and which can only have who differ from the honourable member. Pro- an evil and detrimental effect on the interests of the young generation. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Might I be allowed to say a few words ? The honourable member's attack seems to be pointed at myself. There are very few things in the country that I am not held responsible for. At all events, in re- trust that, as Britons, our sons, whenever our country or Empire is insulted, or whenever an attempt is made to take from us by cunning, stealth, and deceit a strategical position such as was sought in South Africa, will do as our sons to-day have done; and far be it from me to say that we shall ever lie down and allow contumely and insult to be heaped upon us, whilst we stand by calmly and take it, as the honourable member has told the house we should. There are gentlemen holding the same opinions tary training : to those who would sit quietly wished us to go in years gone by, and under which we should have become a second-rate or that, although I commend it. I say that there the youth of this colony. It was, of course, in The honourable gentleman is one of those who the assistance right through, and he now cannot Mr. HUTCHESON .- You need not seek to Mr. SEDDON .- There is no coercion in the 