referendum it need not be in the form of , They have not supported it for three years and then opposed it, like the Minister for Public a Bill. The honourable member who has in- troduced this measure is a conscientious Works. If a division is taken to-night I think it will be found that the leading members of believer in his doctrine, and I think we ought to congratulate him on the effort he has made. the Opposition will maintain the same position that they took up in 1894. I could not help I have derived no little protit in listening to him, and I do not think the time of Parliament smiling when I heard the Premier indorse the statement of the member for Auckland City, Mr. has been wasted in discussing this important. Napier, that at the beginning of a Parliament constitutional proposal. Mr PIRANI ( Palmerston). - I have heard the dominant party should elect the Executive. The honourable gentleman's position reminded over and over again the leader of the party of which the honourable member for Auckland me of the story of the person who went for a City. Mr. Napier, is such a distinguished ride on a tiger .-- member object to the citing of the opinions of leading political economists in this House on subjects that come before us, pointing out that in New Zealand we are leading the van in legislation, and making precedents of our own. and setting examples for older countries which they are only too proud to copy. Under fate would be. as in the old fable, that he these circumstances, I think it is just as well would come back inside, while there would still now and again to quote our own political be a smile on the face of the tiger. But I do economists in opposition to those who are quoted say it is a pity, and it is an instance of the from outside, and therefore the House will decadence of party government, that when a bear with me while I give them an extract from question like this is brought up year after recent opinions of a political economist whom. year by a consistent supporter of the Govern- I think. the member for Auckland City holds in ment --- and if the member for Waitaki had not the highest esteem. Referring to party govern- brought it up I am sure no member of the Op- Tout as it existed in New Zealand no later position would have troubled to do so-the Pre- than last October, this gentleman wrote, that mier cannot refrain from sneering at what he " the first thing that struck him during his pretends is going on in the Opposition party in first few weeks in Parliament was that, accord- connection with it. Sir. what has been going on ing to the ideas he had formed of parliamentary lately ? We have had the senior Government government, and according to what was laid Whip canvassing members of the Opposition down by constitutional writers, parliamentary against this measure. We have had Ministers soverminent did not exist in New Zealand." going to members of the Opposition party to That is an utterance from a speech made by get "pairs," and pairing supporters against the the member for Auckland, Mr. Napier, within measure who have never expressed an opinion the last six months, vet the honourable gentle- on the subject. They actually trapped mem- man to-night has given us a long dissertation bers into " pairs," to show a better result when t , prove the existence of genuine parliamentary the division comes. Lovernment in New Zealand. The only conclu- Sion I can come to is that the personality of trapped. the Premier is so strong that he has thrown a glamour over even such a strong political economist as the member for Auckland City, members are easily trapped. Unfortunately Mr. Navier, who when he is within the sphere for the result of the vote, that is so. Sir, I of influence of the people of Auckland - who are say it is a highly improper thing that on a pretty well able to judge what is right and question like this-on a private member's what is wrong in these constitutional matters- Bill, that the Premier not many years ago said was not a party question -- the Government can express his real convictions ; vet when the honourable member for Auckland City comes Whips, who are paid by the Ministers out of within the strong personality of the Premier, their own purses, should be sent round so that then all his convictions on the abuse of con- Ministers' own positions may be made more titutional government vanish, and he becomes secure in this House. Talk about prostituting a strong advocate of that which he formerly party government ! Would the gentleman whose opposed. But what has occurred this year on opinion I quoted just now on constitutional the part of the Government is only what I government as it exists in New Zealand say that that is a proper exercise of constitutional remember occurring in every Parliament since government? Would he say that that is a 1 591 in connection with the elective Executive. Mr. SEDDON. I can go back to 1884. proper method of carrying out party govern- ment in New Zealand ? If it is not so, I think Mr. PIRANI .--- I cannot go back to 1884. but it is time for those members who know what is in 1894 the Premier pretended to believe that going on behind the scenes in regard to this there was a movement by the Opposition to measure to let a little light in on it. entrap the unwary members of the Government 1 party. As to the Opposition, I say, unfortu- the whipping in favour of the Bill ? ately, a few members have been consistent opponents of this measure, and they have not been mentioned by the Opposition party this Tried in their votes on the elective Executive. There was an old lady of Riga Who went for a ride on a tiger ; They came back from the ride With the lady inside And a smile on the face of the tiger. -because if he went to a caucus to 11.30. elect a Ministry, I feel certain his An Hon. MEMBER. - They are so easily Mr. PIRANI. - Yes. unfortunately, some An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not tell us about Mr. PIRANI .- The subject has hardly ever 