I hope, however, the Premier will see his way : self upon the street. Why, not many weeks to accept the suggestion I have made with regard to appointments to the Conciliation ; been eleven years in one employment, and cer- Board. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City). . Sir, this morning, though we have had a simple amend- ment of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act placed before us. the discussion has been very wide, and the last speaker has taken us Home, and to America, and, indeed almost all round the world. I should not have spoken at all had it not been that I think it is necessary to go back to the question that is before the House, and to say one or two words with regard to questions that have been intro- duced by other speakers. The honourable member for Parnell first introduced the ques- tion of having men who represent the particular trade which has the dispute sitting in Court to deal with specific questions in different dis- tricts, and the same argument has been men- tioned and upheld by the member for Lyttelton. Now, Sir. I think that members who know any- thing about these labour-laws, who know any- thing about the relationship of employer and employé. will at once see that those gentlemen have not considered the question thoroughly and from all points of view. Of course, we must recognise the fact that if you have a person sitting in the Court of Arbitration who has followed a particular trade at the outset he must know more about that trade than a person who belongs to another trade or business ; but the same sort of argument applies to a Judge of the Supreme Court, and vet nobody https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 will say that a Judge of the Supreme Court cannot deal with any mercantile, trade, or other question that is brought before him, that he cannot consider the evidence presented, and that his judgment upon the question will not be fair to all the parties concerned. And so it is with regard to a tradesman. You may say that the example of a Judge does not apply, because a Judge has had a legal training, and that train- ing enables him to decide questions in a manner that will bring about the desired result. But, Sir. there is the training the tradesman has had. and the training of a working-man is quite sufficient to enable him, after hearing the evi- dence, to grasp the requirements of any trade that may be brought before him, and he will sufhciently understand the trade to make an award that shall be fair to both parties. And. Sir. while you have, as we have at the present time, a most excellent, learned, and fair Judge as President of the Arbitration Court I do not think that either party has anything to fear. But suppose that you go back and adopt the show stion made by those honourable gentle- men. what will happen ? What happens to-day to the worker who is president of a union, or who is secretary of a union, or who conducts proceed- ings for the workers in arbitration or conciliation cases ? A very few weeks after a person has been elected president or secretary of a union, or has conducted an arbitration case, there is no fault found with that man on that account, oh, no! but it is discovered that he is not suit- ago in one of the large cities a man who had tainly must have given satisfaction during the whole of that eleven years or otherwise he would not have been retained. though he was not asking for more wages so far as he himself was concerned, yet he became secretary of the union, and within a very few weeks of his becoming secretary for the union he was dis- missed. Why ? Not because he was secretary, such a thing could not happen, but because his work was now unsatisfactory, and his services were not required any longer ! And so to-day in all the large cities you have one man who in all probability is secretary to the Trades and Labour Council ; and as many local unions as possibly can secure this man's services. so that they may each give him a little remuneration and enable him to live in- dependently of any emplover, because private members of unions feel that if they accepted such positions, though their ability may be superior to the person holding that office, they would soon find themselves out of employment. And precisely the same thing happens in regard to the man who conducts arbitration cases. To-day, Sir, there are many men who do not belong to the trade which has a dispute, and vet, because they know a little of conducting arbitration cases, they could conduct, if they would accept them, two-thirds of the cases brought forward in their own town. simply for the reason that the representatives of the trade concerned, though they understand the dispute thoroughly and are qualified to conduct it. know that if they did so they might be made to suffer afterwards. If you say to-day that the Arbitration Court shall be made such that in each district you will have a new member ap- pointed by the trade that is concerned, you will find it is not the skilled tradesman -- not the intelligent tradesman- who would be likely to represent that trade well and bring in an award that would be suitable. That man would not accept the position ; it would be some third or fourth-rate worker. He would receive the posi- tion, because he could not be compelled to suffer to the same extent as the other would. I hope, Sir, the day will never come when the law will be so altered that you will have a different Court to deal with different cases in each dis- triet. At present you have one expert person from the trade-unions, and you have one gentle- man in whom the employers of the colony have confidence. These men, sitting with a Judge of the Supreme Court, hear the evidence brought forward by each side ; and the decisions of the past have shown that they can, and do, bring in awards that are equitable to all parties. Now, Sir, the question has been raised- it was men- tioned by the last speaker, the member for Lyttelton -- with regard to members of unions who are also members of Conciliation Boards becoming agitators. Sir, if such be the case it is most lamentable, and nobody, I am sure, would regret the fact more than the labour unions of the colony. But, Sir, who 