head of the Government. I neither desire nor | of the colony. As I have already said, Sir, wish for a more energetic or more capable leader than the Premier ; but I am sure other members must feel - as I have oftentimes felt -that the position of a member who desires to be loyal to his party, whatever it may be out- side the House, is within the House that of a mere parliamentary cypher-he has absolutely no personal power within Parliament. It is altogether impossible for a representative of the people to feel that dignity attach to the position which he knows should attach to it. I do not say that this Bill will remove all the evils under which we at present suffer, but I think, at any rate, that the party in power ought at least to have some control over the appointment of the gentlemen who occupy the Treasury benches. An Hon. MEMBER .- So they have. Mr. COLLINS. - The honourable member says, " So they have." Let him try to exercise that control. Let him even refuse to give im- plicit obedience to the party in power, and he will find that he can only do so by making his own position extremely unpleasant. A member his no right to be put in that position. Every representative is sent here to do his best in the interest of the people he represents and of the people of the colony as a whole, and I think he ought to be able to do that to the highest and the very best of his ability. Sir, it appears to me he will be free to do that if the principle underlying this Bill is given effect to. Now. Sir, I have listened very carefully-for I wanted to grasp any arguments of a forcible character that might be adduced against this Bill-and I have listened to every speech with a great deal of interest, but I must confess that up to the present time I have failed to discover a single valid argument against the principle underlying the Bill. Sir, we have been told of the splendid achievements of the Liberal party. Every member of the House is just as proud of those achievements as I am. We all recognise what, brilliant things have been achieved under the rule of the Liberal party. Sir, I do not believe it to be either desirable or possible to do away with legislation by party government, and I am sorry that some mem- bers, in advocating the claims of this Bill, both in the House and on the public platform, have apparently let it go forth that the object of the Bill is to destroy party government. You can never destroy party government. There will always be those who support the policy of the predominant party and those who oppose it. But when we are told of the brilliant achieve- ments that have resulted from party govern- ment in the past, I would remind honourable gentlemen that a party which relies for its pres- tige on what it has done, and what it has done only, is in a very dangerous position. If we are to rely simply for our popularity on what the Liberal party has achieved in the past, we are in a very precarious position. It is not what the Liberal party has done, but what the Liberal party is doing and is prepared to do in the future, which will measure the amount of I have listened attentively to discover some potent point of argument against the Bill. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) told us the proposal came from Switzer- land, and, quite dramatically, he brought the map with him and opened it out before the House, and said that in looking at the Continent of Europe he had actually failed to discern the existence of that diminutive country on the map. Sir, that may be so, and it may be a very easy way of turning the laugh against the prin- ciple which may be in force in that country. Sir, not only the honourable member but other honourable members have reminded us of the Swiss characteristics. It is a small country-a small country with a very mixed population. We have been told that French is spoken in the Swiss Parliament, and that German and Italian are also spoken there. Sir, that is simply indi- cative of the mixed character of the population -a population of a country which, as has been truly said, acts as a buffer between a number of armed camps. But, Sir, every reader of recent history, every student of political science, knows full well of the marvellous achieve- ments that have resulted amongst that heterogeneous community. Every one knows how, so far as the establishment of permanent peace and the maintenance of prosperity are concerned, that country has outdone and out- shone every one of the larger countries that surround it. Sir, if it has done this there is surely no reason why we should despise some of the proposals and principles adopted there. I venture to say that incongruous and hetero- geneous as the elements are of which Switzer- land is composed, they have learned in that country under the rules by which they are governed to live side by side in peace, and to maintain a general prosperity which no country by which it is surrounded can anything like parallel. I do not say that is a reason why you should adopt their constitutional methods, and I have not asked, nor do I expect, that we could put them into force. I do not think it would be a good thing with our homogeneous population-a people with one language and one sentiment, one desire and ambition-I do not think it would be a good thing for us to attempt to model our Constitution on the lines of the Swiss. But I do think it would be a good thing that a strong Liberal party, with strong Liberal leaders, should endeavour to remove some of the defects which are militating against the success of that party and the best interests of good government. Now, the Minister for Railways (Sir Joseph Ward), in the course of his address, told us that this system would mean the introduction of in- trigues of the very worst character. I am not prepared to go so far as that. I do not think it would mean anything of the kind; and, at any rate, it would be a wise party while the party is so strong to give an innovation of this kind a trial and see what it would lead to. Do you mean to tell me that because a great party itself is to have some control over the execu- tive officers that it must necessarily mean the introduction of intrigues of the very worst 