another place, and there was no machinery for removing the deadlock. This Bill now provides that if on its first passage here a measure is rejected in another Chamber, and then brought forward again and rejected a second time, then that measure is referred to the electorates and a vote is taken upon it, under just the same con- ditions as though a general election were being held. That is what this measure proposes, so far as Bills are concerned. But there are other questions outside the passing of Bills in connec- tion with which there has been agitation from time to time in the country, and there has been no opportunity of referring those questions to It would have been an advantage the people. years ago if we could have referred the question of old-age pensions to the people. I believe myself the verdict of the people upon that measure would have been such that it would have been upon the statute-book sooner than it was. Then, you have at the present time agitating the public mind the question of liquor being sold in the King-country. We have now a number of petitions laid upon the table of the House by those who claim that a large majority of the people of the country are against any liquor being sold in the King-country. Well, on the other hand, there are many who say that those petitions come only from a few of those people who are interested in promoting temperance or prohibition. While these people say it is true they are moving directly, but behind them they have the people of the colony. Very well, if you have the power pro- posed by this Bill, you can carry a resolution, the matter can then be referred to the people, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 and the people themselves can decide upon the question, or, at all events, they can give a guide to the Legislature. Then, there is another matter in regard to which a large number of petitions are coming in - Bible- reading in schools. A very large number of people consider that the want of religious teach- ing in our schools is against the best interests of the rising generation of this colony. Well, I am not going to express any opinion at all upon that. My convictions have been, and I have always adhered to them-and I shall adhero to them-in favour of undenominational public instruction being given in our schools. I have never altered from that, and as time 9.30. goes on I am more convinced than ever that we are on the right lines. But, Sir, under our present existing conditions, as you are aware, provision is made before and after school- hours for religious instruction being imparted- that is, if the clergymen will go there to do it. To-day very little is being done, I am sorry to say, in this colony in that respect, and blame is thrown on the Legislature which I think should properly fasten on the shoulders of those who fail in their duty in this respect. In regard to this question, there is no method, as far as I know, by which you can bring public opinion to bear, unless you bring down an amendment of the Education Act. Now, the moment you bring down an Education Bill on the floor of this House, or any measure touching the provisions of the Education Act, then, for various reasons, some logical and some otherwise, no measure can proceed very far. It is almost an impossibility to get any amendment of our present education laws through the Legislature. If this Bill was passed, Parliament could have this question decided by a resolution of the House, or both Houses, by referring to a referen- dum of the people. This simply provides the machinery. I cannot, of course, refer to past debates; but it has been urged, Sir, that there is a very large number of people in this colony who are in favour of federa- tion with the Commonwealth, notwithstanding the evidence and the report of the Royal Com- mission. I say, Sir, that there was an oppor- tunity of having a referendum practically through the census : but when it was pointed out to the Government that the taking of steps then would be setting aside the Royal Commission, or interfering with its functions, the Government at once saw the force of that, and nothing further was done. What I had in my mind is that the Referendum Bill, or an Act giving power for the reference of this question to the people, would meet the difficulty. There- fore, we wish to have the machinery for a refer- ence to the people on this head, and the machinery is provided here. Then, Sir, I am sure I shall have the support of the member for Auckland City, Mr. Fowlds, and the member for Christchurch City as well, because it will afford the means of testing public opinion upon this question of the single-tax. If we had the machinery, you could refer that question to the people. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. SEDDON .- I know some members are treating this matter with levity. I say myself that there is a great deal more in the preten- sions of those who are contending for this than many think, and in these days of progress it may not be so long as some people imagine before there will be a change in the incidence of our taxation. and when that comes about it will be in the direction, I think, indicated by the single taxers. Mr. MASSEY .- Are you in favour of it ? Mr. SEDDON .- 1 am always in favour of that which is practicable, and I do not think that it is practicable at the present time. At all events, what I do say is this : Though I stand on the floor of this House with a due sense of responsibility, I say there is too much paid by indirect taxation. Whether, Sir, we can economize and relieve in that direction is a matter which time will determine, but I do say that our impost through indirect taxation is very heavy at the present time. I cannot help speaking my honest convictions. Then, Sir, we have another matter which has agitated the public mind and comes very close home. Probably the honourable member for Waitaki, if he would include in the Elective Executive Bill the referendum clause, could get it through. He might get it through this House even without that; but how about another place ? An Hon. MEMBER .- It might be rejected there. 