Land for Settlements Act, say, within five years from date, the now existing value of the lands should be the basis upon which the price to be paid by the State should be determined. HONOURABLE GENTLEMEN OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,- The mail arrangements as between the colony, Australia, the Mother-country, and elsewhere are not at all on a satisfactory footing, and our commercial arrangements are not sufficiently promoted under existing conditions. My Ad- visers consider that the existing barriers should, in fairness to the colony, be removed, so that reasonable facilities should obtain for trade and commercial reciprocity. The necessity for the extension of the com- merce of the colony, and for the granting of facilities for the transmission of our products to other markets, still continues. With the object of improving matters, offers were called for from steamship-owners willing to carry our products at given freights and at regular in- tervals between New Zealand and South Africa. The offers received were unsatisfactory, and no further action was taken pending the meeting of Parliament, and authority being given to have complete arrangements made to meet this pressing necessity. Proposals respecting this question will be submitted to you in due http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero course. In respect to the Cook Group and other islands now within the extended boundaries of the colony, my Ministers are of opinion that no sudden change should be made in the laws affecting the same. and that for the present the Ordinances passed by the Cook Islands Par- liaments should be legalised and continue ap- plicable until other provision is made. Colonel Gudgeon has been asked to act as representa- tive for the colony in respect to the manage- ment and control of the Cook and other islands. Recent developments in other countries and in our own colony, in the formation of trusts or combinations with a view of fixing abnormal rates for the purchase and sale of products within the colony, are worthy of attention, and my Advisers are of opinion that the Legislature should, if the evil continues and grows, pass, as a precautionary measure, a law making it illegal for persons, corporations, or companies to enter into contracts or agreements fixing an abnormal price at which food-stuffs or coal within the colony should be sold. My Ministers desire to bring under your notice the increased prices payable for coal for State requirements. As a way of meeting this difficulty, and to insure a supply of coal for Go- vernment purposes at reasonable rates, it is essential that a State coal-mine be established. The great and growing demand for coal, and the inadequacy of the supply from the coal-mines on the west coast of the Middle Island, also render a State coal-mine advisable. The Referendum Bill, the Mortgages of Land Bill, and Bills amending and consolidating several laws relating to labour, working-hours in factories and workshops, and regulating the working-hours of bank clerks and clerks engaged in mercantile houses, and other measures affect- ing social matters, will in due course be sub- mitted. A measure having for its object an increase in the salaries of members of Parliament will be submitted for your consideration and early attention. The conflagrations that have taken place in the colony since last session, and the loss of life and property caused thereby, call for imme- diate consideration, and, with a view of better- ing the condition of the colony in this respect, my Advisers will bring before you remedial measures with the object of placing the fire- brigades, fire appliances, and water-supply in a better condition, and also of bringing under the control of the police the means of escape from fire in the case of persons living in hotels and lodginghouses, and, in respect to the larger hotels, making it necessary to have efficient nightwatchmen employed, whose sole duty it will be to patrol the buildings and give the alarm in case of fire. The Legislature having last session consoli- dated and amended the municipal laws of the colony, it is necessary to complete and perfect the laws relating to local self-government. With this object the County Councils Bill will be introduced at an early period, and, I hope, passed into law. A Bill amending the Chinese Immigration Act is necessary, more particularly as affecting those of the race that come to the colony as. members of ships' crews. A measure extending the power of the In- spector - General of Hospitals, and providing for the registration of hospital nurses, will be brought under your consideration. On the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York it was. 