certain type of vagrants, some people are very much afraid of this being made an instrument of oppression ; but, on the other hand, it is necessary that the public should be protected from the class that this clause is aimed at. think that a man who habitually consorts with known rogues and prostitutes ought to be dealt with, and this Bill provides for that class of off nce. I think the member for Riccarton was rather hard on the member for the Suburbs in saying that he referred to the police in derogatory terms. The member for the Suburbs criticized the Bill, and he pointed out at the same time that as a class the police were per- forming their duty in an excellent way, and he referred to the police of this town in very com- plimentary terms. All that he said in the other direction was that it would be dangerous to give some individuals of the Police Force the enlarged powers contained in this Bill. I do not think the enlarged powers in this Bill are dangerous powers, and I think, as a rule, the police can be trusted to carry them out in a Therefore I shall support prudent fashion. the Bill on the second reading, and I trust that when it goes into Committee the Minister of Justice will agree with the excellent suggestion by the member for Christchurch City in re- ference to dealing with habitual drunkards, and also with my suggestion that Magistrates should have the option of fining as well as of imprison- ing for obscene language. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .- The Bill before the House is one that I do not think ought to be adopted in its present form. I agree with those honourable members who say that some amend- ment of the Police Offences Act is necessary. I can see no objection to clause 2 of this Bill, which proposes to insert the word " or" in subsection (29) of section 3, because that cer- tainly enlarges the definition of the offence of using threatening, abusive, or insulting words, or behaviour in a public place, "or," as the amendment proposed to be made reads, " within the hearing of persons passing by." I can see no very strong objection to that, but I think, Sir, that this clause requires amend- ment in the direction of enlarging the detini- tion of " public place." It is very restrictive at the present time, and the object that influ- enced me in bringing in a Bill to amend this subsection last year was this: that a person was enabled, according to a decision of a Judge of the Supreme Court, to stand on a railway-platform and make use of the most threatening, abusive, and insulting words to another person with the intention of getting this other person to commit an assault, and using those words not only in the presence of men, but also of women and children ; and, although the Magistrate held that the words were used, -and the Justice convicted the per- son of using them, still, because they were used on a railway-platform the Judge of the Supreme Court reversed that decision, and decided that it was not a "public place" within the definition of "public place" as defined by and referred to in this section 3. Now, I do think that the honourable member should also amend section 3 with regard to the definition of "public place," and adopt the definition that is given in section 18. Part 11. of the Act, which refers to the use of indecent I language. The definition of " public place " there is considerably enlarged, and I think the Minister, if he will look into the matter carefully, will see it would be a wise alteration to make. I cannot agree with him that section 26 of the Act should be extended. In my view of the reading of that section, I think the police have ample powers at the present time. if not too great powers, with regard to arresting a person whom they may suspect of being a vagrant-a person without any lawful visiole means of support. This 3rd clause of the Bill extends that definition to persons who consort with this class of people. So, you see, you give the police the right to arrest persons and put them into gaol if they suspect that these persons are consorting with or are habi- tually seen in the company of reputed thieves or prostitutes, or persons without lawful visible means of support. In my view of legislation 1 cannot agree with the honourable member for Riccarton, or the mover of this measure, that section 26 of the Police Offences Act should be enlarged in the manner proposed in this Bill. Therefore I shall be found voting against the proposed alteration in the definition of the offence of vagrancy. With regard to the further amendment which I propose, and which I am glad to see so many honourable members agree to, and which I hope the Minister of Justice will adopt-that is, in section 24 of the Act. where a person is liable to imprisonment for any term not exceeding one year for making use of indecent or obscene language in a public place or within the view or hearing of any per- son passing thereby or residing in that place .. there the power is limited entirely to 12.0. imprisonment with hard labour. Now. many instances can be mentioned which I will not take up the time of the House by mentior- ing, because members can well understand that on the spur of the moment, under the influence of drink or passion, some one may make use of indecent or profane language which he the next moment would be very sorry for, and when he is brought up by the police and the charge is proved against him he cannot deny it, and the Magistrate has no option but to send the man to gaol with hard labour. Now, if the honour- able member would adopt the amendment 1 propose-give a Magistrate the option, in a case of that sort, of a substantial fine in lieu of imprisonment-an alteration would be mide which would enable a Magistrate to administer the Act in a way he is not able to do at the present time. The Hon. the Minister .must know that many Magistrates will not give effect to this section. They do not want to make a first offender a gaol-bird, and therefore ties let him off, to come up for sentence when called on or something of the sort. I think it would be much better to allow a Magistrate to fue & person, and administer the Act in a way we should like to see it administered. Those are the points I particularly wished to draw the 