clause 5 as being rather in the direction of mitigation than severity ; at any rate, if it is severity it is no new severity ; because if the honourable member will look at the Act, which he says is justice tempered with mercy-in the passing of which he told us he took an active part in 1881 - he will find that section 8 of that Act imposes very much the same restriction which this Bill proposes. The present Bill simply carries out the old restriction, and I think the provision is introduced here simply to show that in spite of the foregoing clauses it is not intended to prevent Chinamen going ashore in the execution of their duty. The Hon. Mr. STEVENS .- Which section are you referring to ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - A section in the Act of 1888. The Hon. Mr. STEVENS .- I referred to the Act of 1881. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- In that case I apologize to the honourable member. rather think he was representing the Govern- ment in this Chamber in 1888, so that if he was not a member of the other House he was probably taking an active part in passing the measure in this Chamber as a member of the (Government in that year. The Hon. Mr. STEVENS .- That is true ; but there were many things with which I did not altogether agree that I had to assist in passing. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at twenty-five minutes to five o'clock p.m. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 19th July, 1901. Libel Law-Land for Settlements Bill-Referendum Bill. Police Offences Bill -Native Affairs Com- mittee Petitions -- Land for Settlements Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past ten o'clock. PRAYERS. LIBEL LAW. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked per- mission to put a question without notice. Mr. SPEAKER .- The new order for regu- lating the course of business was distinctly to go only to the orders of the day. Had the honourable gentleman made the Government aware of the question, and was it one of urgency ? He did not like surprise questions. Had the Government been informed of this ? Mr. R. THOMPSON .-- Yes, the Government was aware that he was going to ask it as a matter of urgency. He would ask the Premier, If his attention had been called to a recent de- cision of the Appeal Court, in the King versus Mabin, which raised the question of whether a person could in New Zealand be indicted for ordinary defamatory libel. If so, did the Pre- mier propose to introduce any legislation deal- ing with such offences ? It was a matter of a very urgent nature, and he would contine his statement to reading the remarks of the Judge in reference to the case. Mr. Justice Williams said :- "The result was eminently unsatisfactory. The difficulty of proving actual knowledge of the falsity of the libel was obvious. A man who was not worth suing civilly would be at liberty to publish the vilest calumnies against men or women, and would go entirely unscathed unless it could be proved that he actually knew that his statements were false. Such a state of things," added his Honour, "does not, I be- lieve, exist in any civilised country. Nor. look- ing only at the interest of the public peace, is it desirable that it should continue to exist. " Mr. Justice Edwards regretted that the offence mentioned in section 5 of Lord Camp- bell's Act could be committed in this colony with impunity." He had nothing further to add, but merely I wished to ask if the Government's attention had been called to this recent decision. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked if this was not anticipating the questions on the Order Paper for Tuesday next. Mr. SPEAKER said that questions which had been given notice of should not be antici- pated ; but as the Premier had already risen to reply he could now proceed with answering the question. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member for Marsden had risen upon this sub- ject on the previous day, but had been requested to take his seat until the other business had been gone on with. The matter had been mentioned by the honourable member for Marsden to the Government before the notices of motion referred to had been given, so that it had not been brought forward with any desire to anticipate the honourable member for Ric- carton. The reply which would have been given on the previous day was to the effect that the Government looked upon the matter as being most serious, and considered there was necesi !! for immediate action in the way of passas legislation to meet such cases. A book or a letter containing gross libels might be published, and, in fact. one had been published already in respect to members of the House and to the proceedings of Parliament. A malicious and untrue statement had appeared in a book to the effect that the members had blackened eye and bleeding noses ; this had already appeared, and it might go further. He thought it was about time something was done, and that state- ments of the kind ought to be treated as criminal libels, neither more or less. Subsequently, Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccartoni asked leave to withdraw his question, of which he had given notice, with reference to the Livel Bill. There had evidently been an arrange- ment between the honourable member for Marsden and the Government that that honour- able gentleman should anticipate him by put- ting a question without notice on this matter. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) hoped honouradle 