ticular coal-seam was such that great expense would be involved by the bringing of water -- which was the only means of stopping the fire- to the place where the seam was burning. But he was informed there was a certain swamp in the locality, and if the water from this swamp could be used and taken to the place where the hre was, the land in that swamp, which was now valueless, might become useful, and if there was any chance of it paying at all this fire might be stopped in that way. If it was not worth their while for the value of the coal, they would en- deavour to stop the fire by taking there the water from the swamp in order that the land might be used for grazing purposes. Mr. R. MCKENZIE said the spot where this fire was was twenty-five miles from Westport, and the coal was of first-class standard quality. He did not know where the Minister got his in- formation from. Mr. McGOWAN could give the honourable gentleman a report, of as late a date as the 6th July, bearing out these statements. REORGANIZATION OF GEOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government. If they will take steps at an early date to reorganize the Geological Department, as, owing to the members of the staff having been taken away for other work, considerable expenditure is, it is alleged, being at present incurred without adequate return being made ? This was a matter of some importance. The position he understood to be this : There was a Geological Department, and at the head of it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 was, he thought, Sir James Hector. From the staff of that department, however, members had been at various times taken away for other work. For instance, Messrs. Park and Mckay had been taken away and put on other work. That left the department with a head This ofheer was paid a considerable only. salary-he thought some $700 or $800 a year - bat he had no effective working staff, and he was unable, therefore, to get any effective or good work done. In addition to that there was a very large collection of geological speci- men -. he understood, from various parts of New Zealand all lying waiting for identifica- tion, classification, and putting in order. That had not been done, and after a while the labels would come off these specimens, and there would be a good deal of confusion and loss. He thought, under these circumstances, it was a proper thing to ask the Government whether they intended at an early date to take steps to reorganize this department, and in asking the question he urged them, if they could possibly se their way, to give an affirmative and favour- able reply. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) could hardly understand the purport of the honour- able gentleman's question. He imagined some- body must have been interviewing him, because the honourable gentleman had made statements that were entirely new to him (Mr. McGowan). In reference to the large number of specimens, gentleman was entirely wrong, as these speci- mens were carefully arranged and sections sent Home for petrological examination and classifi- cation. With regard to the Geological staff, he might say that the New Zealand Institute Act, passed in 1867, provided that a fit and proper person should be appointed to super- intend and carry out the geological survey of the colony, and Sir James Hector was the per- son so appointed. But since the year 1893 Mr. Mckay had been performing the duties of Geo- logist to the Mines Department, under the direc- tion of the Minister of Mines, and ever since that date he had continuously carried out his duties as Geologist, both in the field and in the office, never having been taken away for other work. As a geologist he thought Mr. Mckay was par excellence. There was no geologist in the colony, or in the world, who was likely to do them more credit. With regard to any members of the staff having been taken away, the honourable mem- ber mentioned Mr. Park. He did not know that Mr. Park had had anything to do with the Geological Department ; he was a surveyor, and at one time was doing a considerable amount of work for the Mines Department ; but, so far as he (Mr. McGowan) knew, he never occupied a position as geologist. At the same time, while making this explanation to the House, if the House was prepared to back up his idea of how the Geological Department should be main- tained, he might say he thought that in this, as in some other respects, they had been losing sight of the importance of keeping the department thoroughly alive and up to its work. What he meant was that there should be officers qualify- ing. so that upon the death or removal of any good officer they should have some one able to take his place. This applied to Mr. Mckay, who was growing an old man, and, though they hoped to have him for many vears, in the course of time he must go, and when that hap- pened they had no one to put in his place. This he admitted ; but as to the statement that the department was being weakened by people being taken away from it, of that he had no know- ledge whatever. MAIN EAST ROAD. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister of Lands, If further provision will be made on this year's estimates for the improvement of the Main East Road leading into Invercargill ? Last voar the Minister of Lands was good enough to place a small sum on the estimates for work in connection with the Main East Road leading into Invercargill. The money which had been expended had only enabled a very small portion of this particular road to be repaired. As the Minister was aware, this was one of the main roads leading into Invercargill, and for the most part was used by settlers from the country districts. The road was in a very bad state indeed, and this had been especially the case during the winter. It was greatly in need of repairs for a very considerable distance, and, as he had said, the amount placed on the estimates last year had been wholly inadequate to carry 