New Zealand is £1,700 each. The Addington cars cost, I believe, £1,400 each. I am not in a position to say that these figures are correct-I give them for what they are worth ; but I have no doubt their accuracy can be tested by the Minister and by the department. Now, with regard to the American engines, it is a truism throughout the Australian Colonies and New Zealand that, although the American railway- engines work easily and freely when they are first placed on the line, yet they do not stand the running as the colonial-made engines do. Any man who works in one of the railway shops will tell you that after a year or two the American engines are constantly coming in for repairs, whereas it is a most unusual thing for the locally made engines to require repairs at all. although they may work more stiffly at first. Therefore that much is against the en- gines being imported. And now with regard to the 1,000 railway-wagons that are being im- ported by the Government. Honourable mem- bers will, of course, be aware that tenders were invited for the construction of 500 or 1,000 railway-wagons within the colony, and I be- lieve I am correct in saying that at least one tender was sent in by a South Island firm for the manufacture of these railway-wagons for about #126 cach. The tender was not ac- cepted, although that firm offered to construct the whole of the wagons that were asked for within thirty-four months; and I believe their proposal was to construct twenty by the end of nine months, and after another three months to turn out twenty-eight every month, thus com- pleting the whole 500 wagons in thirty-four months. Now, I do not know under what terms the English contractors are making these railway-wagons, neither do I know whether they are being made as the result of tenders or not, but I have been informed, and the Minister will be able to correct me if I am wrong, that these English wagons, by the time they arrive in this colony and are fitted up, will cost us over $150 each. That is the information which has reached me; and I got this, as I say, from the man in the street, for it was from no one connected with the Railway service. I give the honourable gentleman my absolute assurance to that efect. I say the cost was, at any rate, £120 to $130 for construction, in addition to which there is the cost of transit and erecting out here, bringing the cost of these wagons up to £150. I am quite aware the Government have let a contract in Invercargill for the manufacture of 200 of these wagons at $106 cach. but I think anybody who knows anything about their manufacture will know that the contractor will not make a very fat thing out of it. I do not blame the present Minister-I blame the department : and I say that at the time the necessity for further rolling-stock was evident to the department orders should have been given for the machinery that was neces- sary to extend our workshops in this colony, so that we should have had the plant and material for the manufacture of these railway-wagons and the railway-cars within New Zealand And before I close this subject I should like to add that I do not know why there should be this strong feeling on the part of the present Government in favour of the Americans. I do not know that the Americans have ever done anything that should cause us to feel particu- larly sweet regarding them. They have ex- cluded our wool-and, in fact, all our products- and yet we find the Government have entered into the service with the Oceanic Mail Com- pany which was referred to by the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs this evening, under which the vessels of this colony are being driven to work a line from Brisbane to Vancouver, while we are compelled to allow our 10.0. mails and cargo to go in American bottoms. And this is not the only instance, for, in connection with these railway-cars, why were tenders not asked in London or Canada for the manufacture of these cars? Why were tenders not asked amongst men of our own race - men who are under the same flag? What reason was there that we should go to an American company and give them £126,000 of New Zealand gold for the manufacture of cars that are to run upon our own lines ? There may be an answer to this question, and, if so, I hope the honourable gentleman will give it. Now, I should like to say a few words about the half-million loan, for which congratulation was tendered to the Government by the Hon. the Minister who sat down a few moments ago. I congratulate the Government upon a return to the self-reliant policy ; but I cannot congratu- late them upon fixing the price of their loan at 4 per cent. I certainly think that by floating the loan at so high as 4 per cent. the Govern- ment acted unwisely ; and it must be admitted at once that the interest they are giving to the money-lender in connection with that loan is far higher than they are allowing the working - classes for the moneys that are being placed in the Post-Office Savings-Bank. Why should there be this discrimination in the rate of interest that is being paid in connection with the Post-Office Savings-Bank, when the Government utilise the moneys paid into that institution for exactly the same purpose as they utilise the money lent by the financiers at 4 per cent. ? And I see the Government themselves point out in the Governor's Speech a recent rise in the rate of interest. What can be expected but that the rates of interest will rise when the Government put a half-million loan on the market at 4 per cent ? Surely the Government could not have been aware that at the very time they floated this loan at 4 per cent., when they got only a few shillings over par for the money, the New Zealand 4-per-cent. loans were worth €113 and $114 on the London money-market. And although the loan was for a short term-I admit it was only a three years loan at 4 per cent. -yet there can be no doubt whatever that, with so much money as was lying at the banks at the time uninvested, had the Government placed that loan at 34 per cent. it would have been taken up by banking and financial institu. tions, and the Government would not have been the means of themselves helping to raise the rate of interest. There is another 