obey the law. They do not wish to be con- victed of offences against the laws of the country, either with regard to the destruction member for Masterton to show one single of rabbits or anything else; but why should they be placed in this position that, through the action of one man, who may happen to be unfriendly-I do not say vindictive -- they are liable to be convicted, and are bound to be convicted if he goes into the witness-box and says, " In my opinion they have not done everything I think they should have done." Before I sit down I should like to say that I trust the Minister of Lands will not oppose this, or any measure of the kind. I believe it will remove a great amount of friction between the officers of his department and the settlers in some parts of the country. It seems to me so reasonable that I cannot understand why the Minister should do otherwise than support it. I think some years ago he was exactly of my opinion in regard to the necessity for altering the Rabbit Nuisance Act in the manner pro- posed, and I hope he has not changed his opinion simply because his position may be altered in this House. There is no reason why a man, whether a Minister or a member, should not adhere to his convictions if they are just and reasonable : hence I trust the Minister, instead of opposing the Bill as he did last session, will be found assisting to have it passed into law. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) .-- Mr. Speaker. I am just of the same opinion now about this Bill as I was last year, that is, I do not think it is required. At the time when this Act was passed the rabbits were overrunning the country, and it was necessary to have a strin- gent measure in order to be able to cope with https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the nuisance. We know that until the end of time you will find men who are negligent, and the man who is negligent in this matter of keeping down the rabbits is a menace to the whole district, and in fact to the whole colony. Now, with regard to a Magistrate not having the opportunity of deciding -- the Magistrate always decides on the evidence. If it is found the owner of the land has been neglectful then the Magistrate must convict, but he need not inflict a penalty of more than $1, and the head of the department will take very good care to inquire into all those convictions, and to see whether they are necessary or not, and if any Inspector or any agent should bring men into Court and get convictions that are unnecessary, that Inspector or agent will get a very short shrift from the department, and they know it. An Hon. MEMBER .- You have no power. Mr. DUNCAN .- I have power to dismiss any man in the department to-morrow. An Hon. MEMBER .- But not a Rabbit Board ? must have heard of it. He also lived in the Mr. DUNCAN .- Not a Rabbit Board ; but how many Rabbit Boards are there ? Where is there one ? An Hon. MEMBER .-- In Hawke's Bay. Mr. DUNCAN .- Well, I am not aware of it. I am of opinion that the law at the present time is working fairly well, and that is shown by the absence of petitions and complaints. That proves that it has been working satisfactorily during the last year at any rate, and that no one has been improperly convicted. In fact, I think I might challenge the honourable case, even of the worst kind, in which any man was convicted who was not really delinquent in the matter of the suppression of this nuisance. I have never yet known one who has been summoned and convicted and who has not neglected to keep the nuisance down. Never one ! I have seen a petition or two come into this House upon the subject, but when they have been investigated it has been shown on every occasion that the nuisance was prevalent on the man's property, and so the conviction was got. The day of malicious convictions I think is past. I am not enamoured very much myself of the Bill, but I would just point out this, that in all classes of the community there are always persons who are negligent. This is one of those cases in which a man if he is negligent creates a nuisance, if he is not made to obey the law. He could take a man over his run and show from his point of view that the rabbits are not there. This has been done time and again. A man may have rabbits plentifully on his land, but if he sends his shepherd ahead with a squad of dogs, he may take the most conscientious men in the district around with him and they would not see a rabbit, and, if he is summoned, they can go into the Court and say they did not see a rabbit at all. That is a case of what can be done, and it has been done. I think there is no occasion for this Bill ; but it should go to the Stock Committee, which should take the evidence of people who are acquainted with this sort of work, and let them pass their judg- ment upon it before it passes into law. There- fore I move, as an amendment, That the Bill be referred to the Stock Committee. And if they sanction this Bill I would be quite pre- pared to accept it. I will not move any amend- ment to the Bill beyond that. If the amend- ment is carried, and the Stock Committee approve of it, I will accept it ; but if the House rejects the amendment I will withdraw further opposition to the Bill. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- I desire to compliment the honourable member in charge of the Bill for the moderate manner in which he introduced this measure. The Minister of Lands says there is no feeling in regard to this clause in the country. Let me tell him that there is no clause in any Act on the statute- book on which there is as much feeling as there is on this one. I am continually moving among the settlers of the country, and know what I am talking about. The honourable gentleman country, and most of his life has been spent in a district where rabbits are a pest, and he must know that it has always been a grievance to the settlers that, rightly or wrongly, all an In- spector has to do is to go into the Court and say, " this man is not doing his work properly," and it mattered little whether it were true or not, judgment must be entered up against the man. That is a state of things that has never appealed to my sense of fairness. I was 