have managed to have some sort of continuity, and why they have managed to elect an Execu- tive which has contrived to work pretty well together. This Executive does not represent all shades of public opinion, as my honourable friend the member for Waimate promises his will do. One party, in one shape or another, has held the power during nearly the whole of the time this elective system has been in force, and that is why they have managed to get along. The honourable member for Waimate drew a picture of a most impressive character as to the brilliant changes that would result if Governments were once able to feel that they need not fear votes of no confidence: then there was to be no more corruption, lobbying, canvassing, or whipping. He stated that we should have men who would legislate for the good of the State simply. It would be a case of 'Then none were for the party, and all were for the State,' as Macaulay so eloquently writes in lines so much quoted by the opponents of party government : yet these lines were written by one of the staunchest supporters of party government who ever sat in Parlia- ment. I refer to Lord Macaulay. He wrote those verses comparatively carly in his life, and he remained for long after a staunch party min. But let us pass from Switzerland : let us look to a country the inhabitants of which speak our own language, are of the same blood, and of the same race-where they have a fixed Executive. Let us go to America. Under the Swiss system the House is elected, and then the House chooses the Executive. Under the American system the President is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 chosen by the direct vote of the people, and the American President is simply Governor and Premier rolled into one. He chooses his Executive, and he holds office for four years. What is the result ? Every evil of our party system, exaggerated and extended! I do not think the honourable gentleman wants to have here anything like the state of things we see in America. Although, perhaps, not to the same extent. that would be the result in this country of having a fixed Government on something like the American system, because the Swiss system clearly resembles the American system, inasmuch as it is simply a way of getting a fixed Executive for three years. The Swiss sys- tom is the simpler one. Instead of having the President elected by the vote of the people and choosing his Executive, as in America. you have the House of Parliament chosen by the people and the Executive elected by the Parliament. The difference is not great. In both cases you got a fixed Executive. What are the results in America ? The results are simply to consolidate ' who do not know how work here is done. To each party in the State: and you always will have parties in the State in any Anglo-Saxon country ; you will always have a party of resist- ance and a party of progress -- as long as you have the capitalistic system, and have wealth as it is, and the ownership of property, you ; moniously if it consists of men whose pri- must have two parties in the State. What ; ciples are antagonistic. For instance, faner would be the result of adopting this elective | system here? Simply we should have party I (Mr. Duthie) and myself being in the same Sir J. G. Ward in Parliament, it would be outside Parliament and in the country. You will have the ma- chine, the ring, the caucus, and the . boss,' instead of the Government party and the Government Whip; and I think our present system, with an Executive Government and a Government Whip and party caucuses in the House, is preferable to the domination of the ' boss,' the 'machine,' and the caucus out- side. What is the meaning of the desire of certain honourable gentlemen to be allowed to come here and, as they express it, vote as they please? Does it mean, as they individually please ? In most cases it means nothing of the kind. It means, simply as a certain block vote pleases - as certain rings and political associations and certain influences outside de- cide. I would sooner have our party domina- tion than see members dictated to by tele- grams from certain associations, or get their order from block votes from outside. 1 very much prefer the party vote, as it is at pre- sent worked, to that. I prefer the party Whip and organization inside to having memiers returned here who would be the slaves of block votes and the puppets of certain organ- izations. This is no fancy picture that I am drawing. I say you cannot abolish party, and then it is a choice between organization in Parliament and closer organization outside. Because, if we are to have a fixed Executive, think what an immense stake and a valuable prize there will be for the party organization to strive to secure at each general election. It means that at one blow it will get the rule of the colony for three years. It would return a majority to this House, elect an Executive. and thus rule New Zealand for three years without the possibility of removal. It would mean that there would be block votes, ring -. ' bosses,' and caucuses outside ; there would be electioneering and canvassing; and they would also put down their money. Look at America, and you will see that they have all that : and you would have it in New Zealand. I would sooner have our present system of party organization as it is carried out in Fine- land and in New Zealand, and not introduce into this country the 'machine' and the i corruption of America, from which we are now, fortunately, free. Now let us come to the working of the system in the House, and during the few minutes still remaining I will try to show how it is to work. First of all. there is 3 suggestion that the Government can be elected from both sides of the House. That is simply a fraudulent suggestion. It simply means 3 fraud upon the innocence of the people outside argue that it is possible for the Executive to te elected from both sides of the House is simply a fraud upon the people of New Zealand. must know perfectly well that it is absolutely ! impossible that any Executive can work hat- the honourable member for Wellington Cty 