the Old Country, which finally reached the [ a commercial traveller or a hawker without a Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, Secretary of State for the Colonies, and the result was that that impost has been dropped out from our law. A special Act was passed in this House in order to repeal the particular clause by which that fee was charged. Without saying more at this stage, I shall endeavour to get certain amendments inserted in the Bill, unless the honourable gentleman can see his way to accept them in advance, and especially one that the action of the Bill shall not apply to boroughs. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - I should like to point out to the honourable member in charge of the Bill some points which I think are worthy of his consideration. In the first place, an absolute change in our criminal law is proposed by clause 11 of the Bill. It is a clause which it is impossible to stigmatize in too strong terms. The clause reads as follows : - " Any constable may, without warrant, seize and detain any person not being a licensee under this Act who is found carrying on the business of hawker or commercial traveller, and detain him till the following day for the pur- pose of proceeding against him for such offence, unless the same can be sooner disposed of." Now, I ask honourable members whether a more ridiculous provision was ever introduced into any Bill ? I feel satisfied that there is not one single member of the House who would dare to vote for it. Just fancy ! We talk about the powers of the police ; we talk about the powers that we should give to constables ; but here https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 under this Bill we propose to allow a constable- and not only that, but a constable without a warrant -- on his own initiative and as he thinks fit. to arrest any person he considers is carrying on the business of a commercial traveller or a hawker without a license ; and if he likes he can deal with him on the day of arrest, or he can lock him up and hold him till the following day, and then deal with him as it suits him. Does the honourable member know that there is such a clause in the Bill ? I venture to say he has got a big contract to justify it. Is he aware that it proposes to extend the powers given to the police under every statute ever put on the statute-book of the colony? Does he know that he is placing in the power of the police something absolutely inimical to the in- terests of the citizens of this colony ? Where may it lead to? Suppose a policeman arrests a man who he believes to be a commercial traveller -and look at the definition of "commercial traveller " -- suppose he decides to arrest some man who he believes to be a commercial tra- veller, he does not require the warrant, he simply arrests him. He sees a man trying to sell some bootlaces, or to sell some moleskins to a sheep-farmer-although I shall show you that a traveller is not allowed to do so under the Act-he sees this man trying to sell moleskins to a sheep-farmer or to the men in his employ- ment, and forthwith locks him up for the night. No warrant is required- nothing at all ; he does it on his own initiative ; he believe him to be license. This will be a disgrace to the Legis- lature. I cannot understand how it was ever put into the Bill, and I cannot imagine that the honourable member will ever ask members to vote for it. Under such a clause no man would be safe. Honourable members will note that when the honourable member who intro- duced the Bill read its clauses he started at clause 1 and read them all up to clause 9, but he then skipped clause 11 and went on to No. 14, which he deemed the only important clause. I do not wonder he skipped clause 11. I do not know how he is going to justify the introduction of such a clause into any Bill. Supposing the Minister of Justice, in intro- ducing the amendment to the Police Offences Act. had proposed a clause that a policeman should be allowed to arrest a man without warrant for such an offence and put him in gaol and keep him there till the following day, not even allowing bail. Talk about the Czar of Russia! However, I believe the honourable gentleman skipped over that clause for the very good reason that he did not like to refer to it. I propose next to deal with clause 14. He says that clause 14 is introduced because these hawkers carry round with them in their vans spirituous liquors-that is, they carry on a sly- grog - selling trade, and make their caravans sly-grog shops. I should like to ask the honour- able gentleman who introduced the Bill, if this is so, why he has not made it an offence in the clause? The offence is not selling liquor ac- cording to the clause ; if honourable members read the clause they will see the injustice of it. Is a man going to be found guilty for having a bottle of whisky in his possession, or is the sale to be the offence ? Which is to be the offence? Supposing a man with a ha. king license is told by his doctor that he is seri- ously ill, and he had better, having a long journey to go, take a couple of bottles of whisky with him : if he is a pedlar or hawker under the Bill he has to be fined $20, and his license is forfeited ; he does not even have to sell it. Surely if this breach of the law goes on so broadly as the honourable gentleman says, the police in his district must be blind or deaf if they cannot find it out. If the thing is con- stantly occurring, why cannot the police catch the man and proceed against him ? Mr. HOUSTON .-- Why cannot they do it in the King-country ? Mr. WILFORD .- That is what I am ask- ing-why can they not ? But because the police in a district do not carry out the laws that are on the statute-book should you create a new offence ? Why suggest that a new offence should be created ? In clause 3 you say, " Every person who carries on business by the sale of goods hawked or carried about in any manner for sale shall be deemed to be a pedlar and hawker under this Act." There, or in your definition of "pedlar and hawker," you set out he has to be peddling or hawking " for sale": and, undoubtedly, if he peddles or hawks spirituous liquor for sale he can be proceeded against now without this 