honourable members have said that they believe in that portion of it relating to physical drill, tion ? but this Bill is to provide for compulsory military drill for all boys and girls over eight should not be armed ; but, providing we are years of age. Now I know that in nearly all armed, I believe the people of the colony are the schools in the colony physical drill is quito capable of defending themselves and their already not only regularly but very efficiently homes, and we ought not really to put into the taught ; and I do not know, if this Bill were heads of young children of such tender years passed into law to-morrow, how it is going to the wish to carry on this military spirit compel Boards of Education to do more than more than it is at present. Nothing ever oc- they are doing at the present time. Before you curred that has given greater proof of our can compel Education Boards to do more than ability to defend ourselves, and that we should do it if the necessity arose, than has been shown they are doing at present you would have to find something more than is provided for in during the last year or two by the way we have this Bill-you would have to find the ways and responded to the calls of our Mother-country ; means of giving effect to it. For our Volun- and, as has been stated by other members of the teers we provide a capitation allowance of House, although we have not been a military £2 10s., also capitation allowances for cadet colony, although we have not been ground down by military drill, compulsory or otherwise, yet, corps. Now, if this is to be of any use, we must do more than say the Education Boards when our boys were given the opportunity are to do a certain thing-we must also find alongside those who have had a life's training the means to enable it to be done ; and this Bill in military matters, they proved a credit to our does not do anything of the kind. Some mem- colony, and were able to do as well as any bers have congratulated the honourable mem- of their confrères from the Old Country, or ber for the Grey upon putting in clause 6. which from any part of the British Empire. I have provides that boys and girls may be exempted not the slightest doubt that such will always from the operation of the Act by exemption be the case whenever necessity arises. But, with regard to the education of our chil- certificates to be given at the written request of their parents. I suppose I may also repeat that dren, when they are at the ages of eight, nine, or ten, I say they have plenty to learn to congratulation, but I would congratulate him still more if he had refrained altogether from make them good citizens without having their bringing in such an unnecessary Bill. If there time and attention taken up with compulsory military drill. When they have left school, and had been any necessity for it I believe the Minis- ter of Defence would promptly enough have even sooner in the higher standards, they may join cadet corps connected with the schools, and brought in a Bill. But even he (the Minister), https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 become trained up to a point of efficiency, and although he was here for a short time this after- noon, showed that his interest began and ended afterwards, if they wish to carry on their mili- with his personal reply to the member for Wel- tary work, they can join the regular Volunteers. lington City, for he has not been present in the In most of our State schools at the present House since. But if this was a question that time the boys and girls are efficiently taught physical drill, and in many of the Board schools really required the attention of the colony-if it was a burning question-I have no doubt he they are taught military drill as well, and I am would have been here : at any rate it would have pleased also to say they reflect credit on the been the duty of the Minister of Defence to have colony, and compare favourably with the Volun- teer corps that are trained by military experts been present, and to have heard the arguments of members, and to have led and advised them upon outside the schools. In our secondary schools the subject. I think we are going altogether we have the same thing. I think the various too far in this matter. The Boer war has been colleges have cadet corps that are equal in pro- referred to, and the statement made that we do ticiency to any that can be produced either in this colony or in any other. That being so, I do not know when we may be called upon to de- fend ourselves. If the Boer war taught one not see the necessity for a Bill of this kind, and lesson to us and to the world, it is that people, I shall certainly vote against it. in the defence of their homes, do not require say but a few words on this Bill. Any legiti- that highly-trained and costly militarism that has been rampant throughout Europe and mate attempt to perfect the defences of the throughout the older countries of the world. colony would have my warmest sympathy, but I believe that if any nation in the world were to I do not see any necessity whatever, in the come in any way, or at any time, to attack existing circumstances of the country, for the this colony. if our sons were properly armed Bill now before the House. In the first place, with those 24,000 magazine rifles that the the title of the Bill is a misnomer. Section 1 Minister of Defence told us would be almost says : "The Short Title of this Act is . The immediately available - if these are put into the State - school Children Compulsory Drill Act, hands of as many men as there are rifles, the 1901.'" in the Act which makes it compulsory at all. people of the colony, young and old, as has been the case in South Africa, would defend The Bill is merely an academic declaration of their hearths and homes in such a way that the duty of Education Boards ; it is, in fact, a those who came to attack us would certainly weapon which is loaded with blank cartridge. regret it, and they would think more than once Now, I object to the Bill because it seems to before they attacked us again. me to be an unnecessary interference with local An Hon. MEMBER. - What about ammuni- Mr. GRAHAM .- Without ammunition we Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I desire to But, Sir, there is not a single syllable 