the Province of Otago, or for either or both of those purposes." These sections do not compel the Presbyterian Church of Otago and Southland to endow chairs in a secular institution ; still, under these two sections the Synod of the Presbyterian Church of Otago and Southland have endowed three purely secular chairs in the Otago University. Another chair and other teachers have been endowed in their own Theological College. That is the position, and it is unaffected by the legislation proceeding this afternoon. Re- garding the point raised by the honourable member for Auckland City. I quite understand that there are a number of these old trusts that may well be looked into, and, so far as the Presby terian Church of Otago and Southland is concerned, any inquiry the colony demands may be made as to how they are administering the trusts of these properties. It will be found on examination that this estate was bought by the Church itself, and is in a very different posi- tion indeed from any other endowments, except, perhaps, a somewhat similar endowment of the Church in Canterbury, only that in that case, 1 ` believe, a large portion of the endowments went in the form of cash, while the Scotchmen of Otago took it in the form of land. With regard to the peculiar wording of section 3 referred to, I would like to point out that the words " such property shall continue for all time to be held exclusively." does not prevent legislation being passed by this House at any time regarding the trust. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the object ? Mr. McNAB. - There is nothing in the mean- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ing of it beyond that the trust shall not be af- fected by the union. I, for one, have no objec- tion to the words " for all time " being oblite- rated, because they are entirely unnecessary, for the object intended in the clause does not prevent the House legislating hereafter. Then, with regard to the other words, "by or on behalf of the persons respectively now or for the time being entitled thereto in the Provin- cial District of Otago," that does not give any right to any person not now legally entitled : and, that being so, it does not and cannot in any way prejudice either the trustees of the present trust or any person who may seek to establish at any time hereafter the right of the cestui que trust or other persons interested. I have no objection to introduce words in Com- mittee to give that effect to the provision. Bill read a second time. FIJI. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) presented a copy of a speech delivered by His Excellency the Go- vernor of Fiji. He moved. That the paper do lie on the table, and be printed. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) under- stood the paper related to some Ordinance, and he wished to know what Ordinance it was. Mr. SEDDON said it was that extraordinary Ordinance honourable members had seen pub- lished, which imposed a penalty upon any per- Mr. Mc Nab matters. Captain RUSSELL said. No Ordinance he had not seen was extraordinary to him. Mr. SEDDON would read it :- " Any person who shall cause or attempt to cause any Fijian to be disaffected towards the Government, or who shall induce or attempt to induce any Fijian to take any action having for its object the subversion or alteration of the present form of government, shall be guilty of an offence under this Ordinance, and shall be liable on summary conviction to imprison- ment, with or without hard labour, for any term not exceeding six months." Captain RUSSELL noticed there was a ques- tion of conversation between some gentleman and His Excellency. Were they to understand that that was an official document, or a news- paper report ? Mr. SEDDON said that was a report of the proceedings of the Executive Council. Captain RUSSELL said it appeared to be an extract from the Pacific Herald. Mr. SEDDON said it was from the Fiji Times. The Ordinance was from the Gazette. Captain RUSSELL thought they ought to have the official documents; because, if New Zealand went on the principle of interfering in the affairs of every Crown colony throughout the world they would have a task before them which would puzzle even his inexhaustible friend the Premier. Mr. SEDDON said they had a copy of the Gazette itself, and they must take the report for what it was worth-as it appeared in the paper. He might say that not only New Zealand but the Commonwealth was interested in this matter, because if one Fijian could not con- verse with another on the question of self- government. federation with the Common- wealth. or federation with New Zealand-if you could not converse with a Fijian on either of those three subjects without being liable to imprisonment for six months-and this Par- liament having said by resolution New Zealand was prepared to federate, or, if federation was not advisable, self-government should be given to Fiji -- that was a matter in which New Zea- land was interested. This, of course, meant a change in the form of government, and any person saying a word in Fiji with a view of supporting what had been done by the New Zealand Legislature was liable to imprisonment for six months. Mr. ATKINSON .- It is about as good as the clause against canvassing in your Electoral Act. Mr. SEDDON said it seemed to him that those people who were always preaching so much about maintaining the law and about morality were the very first ones to break the law if there was some means of evading it. The very class the honourable member referred to now did more in the way of evading the law, or breaking the law, than any others in the colony. They were always railing at other people in connec- tion with the liquor traffic : but if there was a chance for them to evade the law they always took advantage of it. Any person conversing 