I feel assured that the decorations and the fes- : proving themselves more than equal to any class tivities here were quite equal to anything that ! of colonists that has been planted in any part of our visitors have witnessed in any other part of i the world. Now, Sir, while we may not be pre- His Majesty's dominions. It is true that the I trust we shall always continue to live on the visit was made at a most unfortunate time, in most friendly terms with our cousins across the the dead of our winter; but, notwithstanding that, I think the illuminations in the City of sea, and that in matters of commerce and in the Wellington, and also in Auckland, have been of such a character as to reflect the greatest credit there is to be any rivalry at all, it will be a rivalry of the most friendly description. Sir, on the people of this country. We may say, in the language of Shakespeare,- war in South Africa, and, Sir, I am exceed- Now is the winter of our discontent Made glorious summer by the Duke of York. Fitting allusion is also made in the Address not merely the continuance of that war, I to the birth of the Australian Commonwealth. In common, I believe, with nearly the whole of deeply regret that such a war was ever com- menced. I deplore, Sir, the destruction of life the members of this House, I am pleased that the ghost of federation has been effectually laid, and, I hope, laid for a considerable number of great theatre. I regret that wiser counsels years, by the report of the Commission that has have not prevailed in the past. I consider been investigating this matter. Having spent & and under no ordinary provocation, should considerable number of years in some of the Australian Colonies myself, I think I am in a ever be forced at the point of the bayonet. position to form a fairly correct view as to the advisability or otherwise of joining those colonies all the destruction of life and property, all the and becoming a portion of that Commonwealth. fearful calamities that have overtaken thousands But I have never from the first entertained the slightest doubt that a more inadvisable step than to link our destinies with those of the have been avoided. But, while I speak in that Colonies of Australia ; to sink our individuality and to sacrifice our autonomy as a self-govern- ing colony, free and independent, would have been one of the greatest mistakes that could possibly have been made by this country. We the innocent and unoffending are not them- will, no doubt, be able to receive tourists from the Australian Colonies from time to time, and I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 trust that the friendship that now exists between that are giving a crimson tinge to modern history escape unscathed-I must admit that I New Zealand and the Australian Colonies will long continue. We have already had, again feel exceedingly pleased at what our boys have and again, visitors from those colonies, men of achieved over there: at the valour, courage, and readiness they have displayed, the assist- erudition, statesmen and others, who have come here for the purpose not merely of viewing our ance they have given to the British arms, and colony, but also of seeing and studying our : the way they have maintained the best tradi- tions of the Empire. If I am sorry for anything methods. Some of them have not been slow to more than another it is that we are not able to copy our legislation and to adopt systems that welcome every one of them back to the colony We had the courage to introduce. Most of our again. Leaving that subject and dealing with important legislation, although regarded by another that has been touched upon in the many as dangerously experimental, has turned Address -- that of the coal-mines-I may say I out of the greatest value to ourselves, and our am exceedingly pleased that the Government Australian friends are now realising the advan- are seriously contemplating at last the experi- tages of these reforms. They are free and at ment of working a mine by the State. Of liberty to make any use they may think fit of that I have been an advocate for many years. the example that we are setting here in the I have failed to understand, Sir, where the matter of new legislation; and I am pleased, State is such a huge consumer, why it should for one, to see that they are honouring us by not undertake the production of the article on adopting some of the measures that have been which it has to spend so much money. By passed into law by the party now in power. But there is one thing, Sir, that they cannot opening a State mine and facilitating the trans- port and distribution of coal, Ministers, I say, take away from us. They cannot carry away will be doing an excellent work not merely for our splendid climate or our productive soil. the people who depend so much upon coal for New Zealand is naturally favoured. She their comfort, especially during the cold winter largely owes her prosperity to the fact that months, but for our artisans and manufacturers, she comprises nearly every climate, that she who have to rely very largely on fuel at a reason- possesses a soil unsurpassed in fertility, re able cost to enable them to carry on their sources adapted to a strong and vigorous popu- manufactures and compete with manufacturers lation, and that her adopted sons and daughters abroad. I say the Government will be doing a belong to an adventurous portion of the Anglo- noble work if they endeavour to reduce the Saxon race, who, by their love of freedom, their price of this article, because it is a commodity of courage, their industry, and their education are pared to federate with the Australian Colonies, treatment of political and social questions, if reference has been made in the Address to the ingly pleased to see in that reference the word " regret." I join in that regret ; but I regret and property enacted on the stage of that that political reforms, under no circumstances I believe that if we had only had wiser men at the head of affairs in another part of the world of unfortunate families, all this widespread dis- tribution of desolation, death, and sorrow, would way, and while I sav it is perplexing that, under an all-wise Providence those who set the light to the fuse that involved so huge a disaster on selves participants- while it seems strange that the colossal authors of those gigantic struggles 