anything else was the declaration of the Minis- ter in charge of the department that he would allow no political interference with the ad- ministration of the department as long as he thought he was right. And the Premier applauded him in that like the rest of us ; and I say there are occasions when men can rise above political considerations - when men should rise above party and appreciate a frank declaration like that, no matter by whom it is made. It seems to me that the Premier thinks he is effective when he raises the bogey of the Opposition, and he seems to think it settles an argument against him-so far as his supporters are concerned - if he says it emanates from the Opposition. But it is strange how some things come home to roost. In 1898 the Police Com- mission used almost the same words which the Premier has uttered to-day. How did the Pre- mier deal with it? I will read a paragraph from the Police Commission's report : - " It is of the highest importance, in order to secure efficiency and proper discipline, that this feeling that outside influence is necessary for advancement should cease to exist, and that men should realise that promotion depends on their efficiency, and the good opinion of their own officers, and it should be regarded as the duty of all prominent men, politicians espe- cially, to abstain from using their influence on behalf of members of the Force, and not to encourage them to break one of the Police Regulations, and so expose them to punish- ment ; but, so long as the internal affairs of the Force are under the personal control of a Minister, it is probable the influence referred to will be brought to bear upon him." In the House that year the ex-member for Invercargill, Mr. J. W. Kelly, moved a motion which included these words : - " That the question be amended by the inser- tion of the following words after the word ' That,' in line 1 : ' as a result of the report of the Royal Commission on the Police Force, it is desirable that immediate provision should be made,-(1) For the removal of the Police Force from political control, as the Commissioners re- port that the Police Commissioner should have absolute authority in regard to appointments, transfers, promotions, and dismissals.' " How did the Premier treat that motion ? Did the Premier face a division on it? No. The Pemier is always bold when he has got a majority with him, but on that occasion he ran away, because the majority was against him, and got one of his supporters to move the ad. journment of the debate on that question, and from that time to this the House has not had a division on the main question. And I say this : that I believe a very large majority of the mem bers of this House, including the Premier him- self, if put to the test on this question of political control of the Police Force, would declare just as strongly against it as the Police Commission did. Mr. SEDDON. - No : the Minister must have control-he must have the responsibility. Mr. PIRANI. - We are getting revelations to- day, and I do not regret the tabling of the | Tunbridge, Mr. Fisher said that that gentleman Mr. Pirani amendment of the member for . Wellington City (Mr Fisher), because it has resulted in obtaining from the Premier some admissions that are instructive to those opposed to party government. The year before last we are told we had a deputation of Wellington members- there was only one city member in it-asking the Government to remove an officer of the Police Force from Wellington. Mr. SEDDON .- It was to stop him being removed. Mr. PIRANI .- It was to have Chief Detective McGrath removed. Mr. SEDDON. - No, no. The Wellington deputation asked that Mr. Wright be kept here. It was at that time surmised that Mr. MeGrath would have to go, and the southern deputation asked that he be kept here. Mr. PIRANI. - The Wellington deputation. knowing that if Mr. Wright was to be kept here Mr. McGrath would have to go, recommended the Premier not to have Mr. Wright shifted: and the Dunedin deputation of Government supporters mind you, we do not notice the Opposition moving in the matter - I say a southern deputation of Government supporters waited on the Premier for the purpose of counteracting the efforts of the Wellington deputation and trying to keep Chief Detective McGrath here. The Premier countenanced that sort of thing; and if there has been auy subsequent development. he did not tell us about it. He did not tell us about the demita- tion which waited upon the Premier this ses- sion, which consisted of the member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher), the member for Wel- lington Suburbs (Mr. Wilford), the memier for Parnell (Mr. Lawry), and another member whose name I forget. Mr. FISHER .- Mr. Witheford. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes; who waited upon the Premier in reference to this very matter. Mr. SEDDON .- Who told you ? Mr. PIRANI. - The member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has just confirmed it by giving Mr. Witheford's name as the fourth party to the deputation ; and let the Premier rest at that. These moves are emanating from the Gover- ment party, not from the wicked Opposition members. This is allowed to continue by the Premier, who makes no effort to remove the control of the Police Force of the colony from that political influence which he says is mimi- cal to it. Mr. SEDDON .- I will see as many depu- tations as like to come along. Mr. PIRANI .- I would not mind it a bit if the Premier took no notice of them : but the Premier has given way by keeping Mr. Wright here, and keeping up a state of friction such as we were told of by the Minister in charge of the de- partment. No one knows better than the Minis- ter in charge that this must be detrimental to the best interests of the department, because it causes those on whose behalf influence has been used to think that they have only to bring more influence to bear to get the Minister eventu- ally to give way. In regard to Commissioner 