Mr. ELL .- I do not ask the Government to do anything unreasonable, and I am not sug- gesting that they should give employment to the very numerous applications that they receive. Forms of application are required to be filled for the Postal and Telegraph service. There are also printed forms for the Railway service, which require the applicant to get testimonials from two well-known persons as to character, a certi- ficate of educational attainments, and one from the last employer. That is accepted as the applicant's passport, and I think that such ap- plicants should take priority, except in the case of the helpmeet of a widow - the daughter or son who assists a widowed mother. In cases like that I do not think there is any reason why an exception should not be made, and no member would say the Government were doing wrong in making such exceptions ; but in all other cases applicants should be taken from the list according to their positions. I will tell the honourable members my experience of this matter. The Minister gave me an opportunity of nominating two. I telegraphed to Mr. Ronayne asking him for the names of the first two applicants on the list. That was on a Saturday. I waited till three o'clock on the Monday for an answer, but never got it. I then reminded the Manager of my first tele- gram, and within two hours I got the two names and sent them on to the Minister. 1 got another nomination about eight or nine months ago, and I took a similar course. I have been in the House for a year and seven months, and in that time have had three opportunities of nominating five applicants. I have been told by the honourable gentleman that he does not discriminate in these matters of nomination, but that members are allowed the opportunities of nominating whether they are Government supporters or Oppositionists. But what I say is, that if we are allowed to go outside the list of applicants, and if parents have to go to members to get them to open the door of the public ser- vice for their children, we are going in the direc- tion of demoralising our electors. If any elector comes to me, and I nominate his son or daughter for a position in the public service, I do not get a political vote but a personal vote, which is wrong. In South Australia it is provided that all applications shall go through a public service bureau ; in New South Wales it is the same ; and Mr. Barton, Federal Prime Minister, in introducing a similar measure, has stated that he did not wish that either Ministers or mem- bers should have the power of making nomina- tions to the public service. That is the feeling in the minds of the people here, who wish the same course to be taken. I do not think it is right to go outside the list of applicants in filling any appointments in the public service. Another matter I wish to speak upon is the question of our public debt. I only wish to point out that, according to our Year book, one- third of our ordinary and territorial revenue is taken every year for interest on our public debt. It seems to me, Sir, we have arrived at a time when it should be our duty, as the repre- sentatives of the people, to see if we cannot devise some means to check this growth of interest, which is becoming a permanent burden on the taxpayers of the country. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at twenty minutes to twelve o'clock p.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 5th July, 1901. Checking Railway Luggage-Grand Hotel Fire, Auck- land-Shops and Offices Bill-Checking Passen- Sers' Luggage. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. CHECKING RAILWAY LUGGAGE. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK asked the Go- vernment, If the present system of checking luggage could be so extended as to enable pas- sengers travelling on the Bluff to Lyttelton Railway to check their luggage through to Wellington ? He knew he was asking the Rail- way Department to do something that would involve negotiations between themselves and the shipping companies, but there should be no difficulty, he thought, in the matter. It was a change that would be a great convenience to the general public. Any person coming from, say, Dunedin to Wellington had now to go, on the arrival of the train at Christchurch, to see that his luggage was taken from the guard's van and sent on to another " intermediate " van for Lyttelton. Just the other week. when he was going to Napier, he checked his luggage, and the result was very satisfactory. When he arrived at Napier he handed his luggage-ticket to a friend to present at the railway-station, and the next he saw of it was when it was in his bedroom at his hotel. If the honourable gentle- man could see his way to comply with the re- quest, it would give general satisfaction to the travelling public. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER quite ad- mitted that the system of checking passengers' luggage was not what it should be, and checking it, as suggested by the honourable gentleman, would, no doubt, be of great advantage to the public. The public, however, had not reached that stage when a system of check would be of much use to them. A check system had actually been in operation in New Zealand for nearly two years, and so far had not been taken advantage of to any extent, although, as a matter of fact, all the machinery was provided for checking between all stations. The existing regulations provided that passengers by steamer could have their luggage checked and sent right to steamer's side on advising the railway officers to whom the luggage was handed that it was for steamer. Special labels had been provided for use in such cases, and the railway officer entered thereon the name of steamer and the number of the passenger's berth, if furnished with the necessary particulars ; and on the pas- 