man who moved the second reading of the Bill has quoted various writers or authorities on the subject of party government-writers and au- thorities who expressed disapproval of that system. He did not, however, I think, give us the names of any of those writers or authorities whom he professed to quote. The only authori- ties which he did quote, I understand, are the Otago Daily Times and the Dunedin Evening Star, and if he has no higher authority on his side than those two eminent journals, I do not think his case is well supported by authorities. On the other hand, Sir, the number of practical politicians and of writers of authority on the subject who approve of the system of party government, and who say that it is the sys. tem which is best suited for the needs of an Anglo-Saxon community is very considerable. I need hardly mention the name of Edmund Burke. If you wish to have an authority of late years I can give you the name of Professor Ransome, of Oxford. I could give you the name of Earl Russell, the name of Professsor Sheldon Amos, of Professor Dicey, and the names of a very considerable number of well-known leading men, whose testimony is nearly all in the same direction. The honourable gentleman who moved the second reading of the Bill said that "A party man cannot approve of anything his opponents do." Well, I do not think, Sir, that that is correct. It is not so in the British Parliament, where this system exists. The Opposition, as I understand it, in the British Parliament does not consider itself bound to oppose everything that is brought forward by the Government ; nor does the Government consider itself bound to discountenance or oppose everything which is brought forward by a member of the Opposition. The fact of the matter is that nature demands that there should be two parties. Nature has made men either Liberals or Conservatives, broadly speak- ing. That is to say, she has made one set of men who argue in favour of going backward, as contradistinct from those who are always arguing that we should take a forward step. There is one set of men always who are content to leave things as they are, and the other class is the class which believes in taking a forward step, believes-to use some words which were used by the honourable gentleman who moved the Bill-that "we should go onwards and upwards." However, this is a proposal to go " backwards and downwards." This is not the kind of proposal which those who are in favour of real reforms can support. There are, I ob- serve, a number of members in the House who call themselves Liberals who are supporting this Bill. They do it with a certain amount of laughter in their voices, and they are ready to have jokes at the expense of any one who is against their Bill, or who argues against it. Those honourable members, I have no doubt, are very conscientious. I have no doubt that they consider they are doing perfectly right : but I can assure them that they are utterly and entirely mistaken. I say it is a grave error for any Liberals to support this Bill. Of that | Mr. Barclay there cannot be the shadow of a doubt. The reason is as plain as possible, for, as a matter of fact, this Bill is a Conservative device to put a clog on the wheels of progress. If there be an elective Executive it is hoped by the Conserva- tive party that they will manage to get one or two members elected to that Executive. And there is very little doubt they would suc- ceed in doing so. Now, it is notoriously very much easier to stop progress than it is to, using a slang term, "get a move on " ; it is very much harder to get an advance made than it is to put a stop to progress. Now, the result will be this : that if you get one or two of a Conserva- tive character in a Cabinet, otherwise a pro- gressive or Liberal Cabinet, then you will find it will add a very considerable check to the for- ward movement, and will put a stop to pro- gressive measures. On the other hand, if you have a Conservative Cabinet and get one or two Liberal and advanced members in it, you will not be able to get them to move one peg in advance. Now, those are the two alternatives. As a matter of fact, this is a device, and if it is carried out the result will be to put the greatest check upon progress and upon ad- vanced measures that they have ever received in this country or in any other country. Of that there can be no doubt whatever. No great measure ever has been carried, no great work has ever been done, except by a united party working together with a solid object in view, all the members of which were to a certain extent under discipline. You cannot have great work done by a heterogeneous, chaotic mass. You cannot get anything good done when you have a House with every man doing what is best of worst in his own judgment. It is impossible. You cannot effect anything worth doing unless you have a party ; and the proposal in this Bul. if carried out, would tend greatly to reduce legislation to a dead-letter. It would put a step to progress, and, so far as I can see, there would be no beneficial effects whatever of any kind. Now, I am not one of those who could ever be accused of arguing in favour of institutions simply because they are old, but there can be no doubt that party government is an institution venerable from age, and that it has been prac- tically the salvation of Britain. It was due to party government that the last shred of authority was taken from the hands of the Crown, after seven centuries of struggle, and vested in Parliament. An Hon. MEMBER .- There was no party government then at all Mr. BARCLAY. - It was through party government that the last shred of authority was taken from the Crown and vested in Parliament, and, through Parliament, in the people. In England now the position is this : that practically the people of England govern the country, for the people of England ehet Parliament, and the party in power practically appoints the Cabinet. An Hon. MEMBER .- Nonsense. Mr. BARCLAY .- They do. Cabinet cannot hold its office for one day unless it has the con- fidence of the party that put it in power; and. 