convenience to the people of Kaikoura, and he did not think any increased expenditure would be incurred. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said the Postmaster at Kaikoura reported that a delivery within a mile from his office would be useless, as the public took advantage of the counter delivery after the arrival of mails in the evening, and all the business people rented private boxes. The number of letters to be delivered daily by letter-carriers would, the Postmaster was sure, not exceed half a dozen. To make an effective delivery the radius would require to be extended four miles and a carrier with a horse provided. The amount of corre- spondence at present would not warrant this expenditure. LEVIN POST-OFFICE. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) asked the Post- master-Cieneral, What steps are being taken towards the erection of a post-office building at Levin ? He would point out that hitherto there had been a great diversity of opinion as to where the post-office should be erected, but he under- stood that those differences had now been over- come. That being so, he hoped the Hon. the Postmaster-General would have the building erected as soon as possible, and in such a posi- tion as to be most convenient for the majority of the inhabitants of that increasing and pro- sperous township. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster - General) said the delay in arriving at a settlement was entirely due to the interference of the resi- dents, who had been agitating first for one https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 site and then another, thereby preventing the work being put in hand. The site now recom- mended by the residents was the one known as " Hamilton's," the property of the Wellington and Manawatu Railway Company. He would add that the amount asked for the land, $580, was excessive, and that he had within the last few days given instructions that one of the department's Inspectors was to visit the locality to again report upon the available sites. When that report came to hand he would settle the matter finally himself. HOMES FOR INCURABLES. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Gio- vernment, What steps, if any, have been taken to establish homes for incurables ? He sincerely hoped that the Government would be prepared to do something in the matter. Not only had they incurables in the hospitals - they had twenty-five in the Christchurch Hospital alone -- but also in the Old Men's Home at Ash- burton, and in the asylums. It seemed to him that it was the duty of the country to provide i some more humane system of caring for the incurables than that at present in force. They badly wanted more homes, somewhere in the country, with cheerful and bright surroundings. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said recently he had given instructions that a cir- cular was to be sent to all hospitals and Chari- table Aid Boards, with the view of ascertaining how many incurables there were in the colony, : Bunnythorpe Station was three miles and and how many of them suffered from consump- tion. All the bodies had not yet replied, but he was in a position to say that, roughly, there were 599 incurables, of whom 122 were suffering from consumption. He thought some provision should be made to deal with those unfortunate cases. The Chief Medical Officer was of the opinion that it would probably be best to esta- blish special wards in the grounds of some of the hospitals of the colony, with the view of allowing such cases to be dealt with there. There were, undoubtedly, many sad cases of suffering in their midst. and it was the duty of the State to take the sufferers in hand and make them as happy and comfortable as possible. He thought he might say that something would be done in this direction as soon as possible. The Health Department was attending to the matter. He recognised that they should make suitable pro- vision, if necessary, in both islands to meet sad cases of the kind. CONSUMPTION OF FUEL BY LOCO- MOTIVES. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) asked the Minister for Railways, What is the comparison in consumption of fuel between the " Baldwin" engines and those made in England and the colony ? He recognised that there might be difficulties in the way of replying to the ques- tion, but as it was one of considerable im- portance, there being a large number of Baldwin engines on the railways of the colony. he hoped that the question was justified. Ir the London Times of a recent date reports on this subject would be found from Egypt, Burmah, and other places, specially dealing with the fuel-consumption of those engines. and which characterized them as most es- travagant in consumption. He also noticed i: stated in the New Zealand Times lately that 3 Commission of the Midland Railway of Eng- land had stated that 20 per cent. more fuel was consumed by them than by those of Enghh make. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the matter was a very important one, and be could tell the honourable member that the Locomotive Department had been instructed to have exhaustive trials made to ascert un the comparative consumption of fuel between the Baldwin, Colonial, and English locomotives. As soon as he got that information he would be glad to give full publicity to it. FLAG-STATION AT KELVIN GROVE. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will have a flag-station erected at Kelvin Grove, between Bunnythorpe and Terrace End? He would point out that the place of the proposed flag-station was the junction of four main roads. There was a school within four miles of it with an average attendance of ninety, a public hall was about to be erected, and settlement had largely in- creased in that locality during the last few years. The nearest station to the prop od site was a mile and a half distant, whilst the 