ferior mutton and selling it as New Zealand mutton. However, I have just arrived from Auckland, and I will not detain the House longer, except to express the very great pleasure it has always been to me to meet this House. I hope we shall direct our best energies in order to get industries started and avenues of labour opened up in different parts of this country, and that we shall be able to do away entirely with this craze that exists of sending our people to South Africa. I hope we shall give them no consideration whatever to go to any part of the world except this magnificent Colony of New Zealand, and I trust that, instead of sending our young men away, we will make such an attractive programme of land-settlement and railway-construction as will draw people of the right class from all parts of the world to New Zealand. Mr. J. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir, I have a few words I would like to say in connection with the matter contained in His Excellency's Speech ; but, before addressing myself to the Speech, I would like to say that, having learned that it is the intention of the Government to call for a division at the close of the debate, and that the resolution before the House is that a respectful address be presented to His Excellency in connection with the Speech from the Throne, I feel it my duty, however I may differ from the details of the Speech, to vote for the adoption of that motion. The Pre- mier is exceedingly adept at digging pitfalls for the feet of the unwary. He is a Master of Arts in putting people in false positions; but for my part I have not the slightest hesitation in voting as my judgment directs, without regard to the left-handed significance that it may be made to bear afterwards to the constituency. I was somewhat amused to hear the interesting discourse of Artemus on Sir Joseph Ward. His pretty little reference to the latest baby was quite characteristic, and the glowing eulogy of the member for Hawke's Bay as "a thing of beauty and a joy for ever " was quite overpower- ing. However, we can pardon the honourable gentleman, as he has been travelling recently, and has not long arrived in the House. But he struck the same keynote as almost every other member in the House in this address, or any other address of any importance for about the last two years. The burden of his song also was, "What a splendid advertisement New Zealand will get from the Royal visit." Truly, Napoleon Buonaparte knew his England when he said it was a nation of shopkeepers. Adver- tisement. advertisement, advertisement - even the death of Her Majesty was not too sacred for the advertising instinct ; the death of our sons in South Africa -- what a glorious advertisement for New Zealand ! The Premier set the keynote in the sending away of the troops-a splendid advertisement ; the return of the troops-an advertisement for New Zealand ; the accession of His Majesty King Edward VII .- a glorious advertisement for New Zealand; the Impe- rial troops - a glorious advertisement for occasion I, who have served in American ships New Zealand. From the instinct of the ad- and sailed under the American navigation-laws. vertising shopkeeper there is no subject sacred. and therefore have had experience of what I Now as to the Address. The mover of the Address, it appeared to me, was considerably puzzled to discover in the Speech how much he could approve of, and was somewhat anxious to avoid subjects he could not approve of, in marked contrast to the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), who said candidly, " What I am going to speak of to-night are sub- jects in connection with the administration and legislation of the Government that I do not approve of ; those I do not refer to it may be taken I generally approve of." The one spoke of those things he could approve of, while the other said that what he spoke of on this occa- sion would be those measures he could not approve of. Now, in the speech of the seconder of the Address, the honourable member for the Suburbs, we have two matters principally dealt with : One was the important question of the Fr'isco mail-service, and the other his pet theme, the Petone Workshops. In connection with the mail-service the honourable gentle- man made a most creditable exposition of the present position of affairs. The only thing I had to find fault with was that it might have come with a better grace from others who feel the position as strongly and as keenly as he, and of whom it could not have been said that they were actuated at all by self-interest. But what is the position in connection with the mail- services? Let me refer briefly to the utter- ances of the Premier on the 1st September, 1899, when the question of ocean mail-services was under discussion. The honourable mem- ber for Dunedin City had moved a certain resolution limiting the payment of subsidy for carrying ocean mails to vessels registered in a British or colonial register. That was taken by the Premier-as, indeed, it was meant-as a direct blow to the subsidising of the Spreckels steamers for the carriage of the San Francisco mails. But, not to be beaten, he attempted to scare the House by the bogie of international complication, more hinted at than expressed, and to the effect on New Zealand of the passage of the Hanna-Payne Shipping Act by the United States Congress. He said, ---- "I do not wish to do or say anything un- pleasant, but I want to show you the serious- ness of the situation if what the honourable member for Dunedin City proposed had been carried. At the present time what is known as the Payne Bill is before the Congress of America, and, as you know, they are contractors for the San Francisco service. If you passed such a motion as was proposed by the honourable member it would materially prejudice the position of this colony with America. It would prejudice the colony particularly in respect to the San Francisco service." Well, we have paid the subsidy. We have had the service, and from the accounts, even of those who wish to see it a successful and permanent service, it has been a dismal failure. It is not the question of the service at all ; it is the question of the principle involved. On that 