<!-- PageNumber="1901.7" --> connection with the examinations, and dealing The Hon. Mr. JONES. - On the whole, I with the matter generally, our object should be think this Bill is worthy of our approval. If there happen to be any small defects in the to produce good intelligent nurses-that is, we want them to be effectually trained to attend measure they can be disposed of in Committee ; the sick, to have some general knowledge of but the remark made by the Hon. Mr. Kelly sanitary matters and the practical work which with reference to lady doctors, I think, ought good nursing involves : but we do not want to not to go unnoticed. I understood the honour- give them too technical a training. Any one who able gentleman to say that we did not want knows anything about a hospital must know women doctors, and he implied that they were that it is very hard work, and requires young good nurses spoilt and bad doctors. Well, we persons of strong physique to stand the arduous have not many lady doctors in the colony. I Labour and the scenes they have to go through ; only know of three, all of whom, I think, are and therefore it is absolutely necessary that ornaments to the profession, and that is ad- physical fitness should be insisted on as one of mitted by gentlemen qualified to judge. One of these ladies is Miss Siedeberg ; another is the most essential qualifications. The Hon. Mr. KERR .- I thoroughly approve Miss Platts, now practising in Wellington ; of the Bill, and think it is a very useful measure. another is a lady whose name I have for- Will the Government at all times see that in gotten, but who is practising at Waimate, in small public hospitals the matrons are certifi- Canterbury. These ladies are ornaments to the profession ; they are admitted to be so by the cated nurses, otherwise they may be disqualified. Then, in regard to the lectures, will the Govern- medical fraternity, and I think we ought not to allow them to be discredited by prejudice. ment see that there is a lecturer or qualified medical man to give the lectures? If not, they The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- The honourable gentleman, I think, misunderstood me. I did will be disqualified on account of not receiving not apply any remarks which reflected in any the lectures. I merely call the attention of the Minister to these points. It would be a pity if way on women doctors, who, I think, in regard to a certain class of work, are entirely bene- a girl, after training to be a competent nurse, should find at the end of her three years that ficial and useful ; but I was talking about the she is disqualified from either of these reasons. nurses. I expressed a desire that good nurses The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- There are many should not be spoiled by having to pass an un- due examination in theoretical knowledge when hospitals in the colony in outlying districts, and the nurses in those institutions have not their real practical work was nursing. If, how- the same chance of passing their examinations. ever, they chose to go in for the profession in They have a great variety of cases to attend to, reality, and to pass the necessary examinations, I would certainly be delighted, and I would be and yet at the same time, although they may bu qualified in every shape and form to dis- the last man to say anything against them charge their arduous duties, they have not the having the fullest opportunity. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I would like to say, opportunity of passing the necessary examina- by way of explanation, that I quite misunder- tion as nurses. I hope, therefore, that some provision will be made to meet the case of stood the honourable gentleman, who is very nurses in outlying districts, who in some cases hard to hear sometimes by members sitting on have under their care more patients than the this side of the Council, speaking, as he does, nurses in the larger hospitals. Sometimes facing the other way, and with his back towards there are only one or two nurses to a hospi- us. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am very tal. I have known hospitals where female pleased to hear that the Council thinks this nurses are employed, and these girls, though they have been there for vears, have not had is a very useful measure. The suggestions that the opportunity of attending the lectures and have been made will be duly considered by me, and, if possible, adopted before it goes through rawing the examinations. They are practically wasting their time, because they are not able Committee. Bill read the second time. to qualify as professional nurses, and some pro- vision ought to be made to meet their case. The Council adjourned at four o'clock p.m. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- There are two subclauses in the Bill which require some explanation. Subclause (1) of clause 4 says that # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. every person who holds a certificate of three years' consecutive training is entitled to regis- tration on payment of a fee of 10s., without any examination ; while subclause (3) of clause 4 First Readings-Imported Railway Passenger - car- says that every person who has had three years' training, with systematic instruction in theoretical and practical nursing, is entitled to registration on payment of a fee of $1. I should like an explanation as to why there should be this difference in the fees to be paid. Surely three years of the same training in a hospital-consecutively or not-should enable a uurs to qualify on the same terms, and so the 1 Tuesday, 9th July, 1901. riages-Land for Settlements Acts - Rimutaka Railway-Vessels chartered by Government- I andless Natives in South Island - Mortgages- State Fire Insurance Bill - Assassination of King Humbert - Death of Queen Victoria - Address in Reply-Tasman River -- System of Payment to Co- operative Workmen - Fish - hateneries - Masterton - Waipukurau Loop - line of Rail- Way-Appointment of Boiler Inspectors - Local Option Poll in King.country-Old-age Pensions- Surveyor-General-Portfolios and Departments 