Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold). Those members will agree with me in saying that there are still numbers of cases of men who are working far more than eight hours a day, and who. not being organized. are not able to bring themselves under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act. With regard to what was said by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), I think that he will admit that the clause in the Bill that brings the Government departments under the provisions of the measure is one that is desirable in connection with the Bill. As to what he said about fixing a legal rate of pay, I may put it to him that it is not necessary that a legal rate of pax should be fixed. This Bill ; goes on the assumption that men are paid a like manner, be revoked as to all or any of reasonable rate for their work, and then if they ; the districts specified therein, whereupon, and are required to work overtime they have the right. on the basis of the wages they receive, to get rate and a quarter for overtime work. Sir, I shall not keep the House longer, as I wish to get the Bill passed. In Committee I shall be prepared to accept reasonable amendments, so 1 that we may get the Eight Hours Bill on the statute-book. The House divided. AYES, 25. Allen, E. G. Palmer Graham Guinness Arnold Seddon Steward Bollard Hall-Jones Buddo Tanner Hutcheson Ward. Carroll Laurenson Colvin McGowan Duncan MeLachlan Tellers. Ell Collins Millar Russell, G. W. Fowlds Mills https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 NORS, 17. Stevens Atkinson Lang Carneross Lawry Symes Thomson, J. W. Flatman Massey Hall Tellers. Monk Field Rhodes Hardy Russell, W. R. Fraser, A. L. D. Herries PAIRS. For. Against. Hanan Houston Parata Hoke Mackenzie, T. O'Meara Lethbridge. Napier. Majority for, 8. Bill read a second time. The House adjourned at five minutes past twelve a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 19th July, 1901. First Readings - Young Persons Protection Bill - ('vanide Process Extension Bill-Public Health Bill-Chinese Immigrants Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. Referendum Bill, Police Offences Bill. YOUNG PERSONS PROTECTION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3. - " (1.) This Act shall have opera- tion only within such districts (being in every case counties, cities, or boroughs) as the Go- vernor, by Order in Council gazetted, declares to be subject to this Act. "(2.) Such order in Council may be made from time to time, and may relate to one or more districts, as the Governor in Council thinks fit. "(3.) Any such Order in Council may, in until a fresh Order in Council under the last preceding subsection hereof is gazetted, this Act shall cease to have operation within the districts specified in the revoking Order in Council." The Hon. Mr. McLEAN moved, That this clause be struck out. The Committee divided. AYES, 9. Feldwick Pinkerton Kelly, W. Jennings Shrimski McLean Johnston Ormond Walker, L. NOES, 17. Swanson Arkwright Kerr Barnicoat Pitt Tomoana Bolt Scotland Twomey Harris Smith, A. L. Walker, W. C. Smith, W. C. Jenkinson Williams. Jones Stevens Majority against, 8. Clause retained. Clause 5 .- " Where any Protection Officer finds any young person of either sex habitually loitering in the streets or out-of-the-way places at untimely hours (meaning thereby between nine o'clock at night and five o'clock in the morning), and has reason to believe that such young person is there without proper control, or for immoral purposes, the following provi- sions shall apply :- " (1.) The Protection Officer may forthwith question the young person as to his name, abode, parents or guardians, and his reason for being abroad. " (2.) If the answers are satisfactory, the Protection Officer may, in his discre- tion, either warn the young person to go home or take him to the door of his abode and there leave him, or take him inside and hand him over to the person in charge thereof, report- ing verbally to such person what has occurred. "(3.) If the answers are not satisfactory, or if the young person has been previously dealt with under the last preceding subsection, the Protection Officer shall forthwith take such young person to a shelter. 