analogy whatever between money and land. One is a limited commodity, and unless your large area of land is divided you lessen your population by compelling them to seek else- where for a home ; the other does not affect the population. So there is no analogy be- tween the two. With respect to Native lands, I have Native lands in my district, and. not- withstanding the statement of the honourable member for Napier, it behoves the Government to be extremely careful in dealing with Native lands. One chief in the district is desirous of disposing of his property ; several whi e sharks are anxious to get at this unfortunate chief, to get it at their own price. I took time by the forelock, and wrote to the Native Minister, telling him what I knew in connec- tion with this chief's desire to dispose of his land. Everyone who knows the nature of the Native knows that if a price is offered, and he is hard up, he will not stick at a pound or two. I think the Government is justified in interfering in the disposal of Native lands : but they should go further : either take it them- selves in trust for the Natives-in the same way as the West Coast reserves - and cut it up and lease it and pay the Natives, or pay the Natives a fair price for it and invest the money. I think that would be a good plan. I do not know much about the land north of Auckland ; but about the southern portion of Hawke's Bay and the Wellington Pro- vince, if the Government would do that, they would do good to the Natives and add to the prosperity of the colony. I have nothing fur- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ther to say. I do not think there is the slightest doubt about the Pill passing. I do not suppose there will be a division. Mr. SEDDON .- I think there will. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Mr. O'MEARA .- I do not think so ; I think it will be carried on the voices. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. I have been charged with saying that the Premier kept these lands locked up for the sake of getting $250 a year. I wished to direct attention to the Assets Board, for the public have the impression that they have no desire to realise on the asset estates. This is the language I used :- " Is it this $250 a year that is placed to his credit for doing nothing? Can it be that he has a mercenary object ? I do not think so." That is taken from my Hansard proof, as taken down by the reporter. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - The length of the debate on the third reading and the amount of ground covered makes it almost necessary that members should speak in con- nection with it, otherwise it was not my in- tention to have done so. A great deal has been said during the course of this debate in con- nection with the freehold tenure, and it was stated that last night the Premier said he was not prepared to grant the freehold tenure to those who are holding leases in perpetuity under the Land for Settlements Act. I understand that the honourable gentleman confined his statement entirely to the leaseholders under the Land for Settlements Act, but that he is not VOL. CXVI .- 42. prepared to take up the same position-or that he has not expressed any opinion on the point- regarding all the other leaseholders throughout the colony. Now, let me remind honourable members that the land-for-settlements lease- holders are a very small portion indeed of the leaseholders throughout the colony, and that, therefore, when the Premier expressed that opinion he is leaving himself a very large mar- gin as regards the other lands held under lease in perpetuity, and which are outside the Land for Settlements Act. He holds himself free to give the frechold to leaseholders not under the Land for Settlements Act. A very large part of the lands of the colony is still sold on free- hold granted to purchasers by the Government of the day. Therefore the Premier weakens his argument in favour of the leasing system by tho fact that his own Government is at the present time-and has been throughout its whole exist- ence-parting with large areas of land for free- hold and for cash. Mr. SEDDON .- NO. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I will give you the figures. During the financial year just closed they received €78,000 for cash sales, and during the previous year they received only $73,000. I am quite aware of one explanation that may be given - namely, that a large amount of this money is in connection with the conversion into frechold of lands that are held under the de- ferred-payment system ; but that only applies to a small portion of the total amount. I venture to say that, if the Government followed out logi- cally the principles laid down by the Premier in connection with the maintaining of the leasing system, the proper course to pursue is to restrict, as far as possible, lands being sold for cash to the cases where selectors are completing trans- actions under the deferred-payment system. An Hon. MEMBER .- Town lands. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I do not see why town lands should not be leased as well as any other. In fact, I am inclined to think that it is more necessary in that case. Take large towns like Palmerston North, which has pro- gressed so much in thirty years, and is bound to grow into a great city in the future: the natural thing is that the Crown should retain the freehold, and have a system like the Glasgow leases or periodical revaluation. I understand that the Commonwealth Government are not going to sell an inch of the capital city : the land is to be leased. There can be no doubt if that is done it will be a source of great and increasing wealth. I think that is a perfectly sound position. I wish to refer to a remark made by the member for Masterton with refer ence to the revaluation of the leases in per- petuity. The honourable gentleman knows that I have always advocated the revaluation clause. I still advocate it, and I intend to keep on advocating it until it is given effect to. I have never proposed that the State should break the contract with those who have that land. I am in favour of a revaluation clause being passed which shall only apply to future transactions, so that those taking up land under the re- valuation system will understand exactly where 