with which companies have been formed, carried on their operations, and been put in liquidation. The disasters which have been caused by speculation, and the recklessness which has characterized the public's mining investments during the last year or two, are very great indeed, and there are numbers of people whom I am sure will feel very keenly the results of their indiscretion. There are always men in the world who, with regard to companies of whatever kind, or anything else, will be found to take part in these matters without any pay so long as they can get pick- ings ; and that has been the case in reference to the formation of the companies here- com- panies that very properly are designated " wild- cat " companies, where there was never any intention of getting gold from the soil, but from o'clock a.m. the pockets of the public. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I desire to say that I have listened with much interest to the remarks made by honourable members on this Empowering Bill, Hospital Nurses Registration Bill, and especially with regard to the point raised by the Hon. Colonel Pitt-that this Bill does not cover the ground indicated in the Governor's Speech. That point I will specially bring under the notice of my colleague who is responsible for the Bill, and see if it cannot be remedied. I trust that the Bill will be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee; and if it does not cover all the ground that should be covered. I hope it will be made to cover it. Bill read the second time. ARBOR DAY. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, by per- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 mission of the Council, I wish to move, without notice, that, to-morrow being a very important day, and a day which should, in inv opinion, be observed throughout the whole House a return (in continuation of H .- 29, 1899. colony, so as to impress upon the rising genera- tion of the country the great desirability of tree-planting, forest-conservation, and so forth, the Council at its rising should adjourn to Thursday, the 18th instant. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I have no objection to that, Sir. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at four o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 16th July, 1901. First Readings-Third Readings-Rating on Unim- proved Value- -- Ministerial Travelling Allow- ances and Expenses-Land for Settlements Act -Oats for South Africa -1 and - sales-Visit of Imperial Troops-Order of Business-Ashburton County Council Empowering Bill - Mr. Vaile's Railway Stage System - Leave of Absence -Fiji - Farmers' Union -- Government Whip Heddon Bush Estate-Volunteer Ammun tion-Lincoln Agricultural College - - Ministers' Travelling-ex- penses - Alleged Misconduct of Volunteers at Woo Iville - Returned Troopers - Local Bodies' Loans - State Note Issue Bluechiffs Estate- Volunteer Uniforms - Licensing Act - Mango- nul - Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act -Appeal from Land and Income Assessment - Local Boards for Government Advances - Rodney Electorate-Opium Importations-Com- mandant of the Forces-Wairarapa Land for Settlement - Eight Hours Bill - Waimatuku Railway Wants - Mount Cook Hermitage - Glenavy, Morven, Willowbridge, and Borton's Railway-sheds-State Sanatorium for Consump- tives -- New Railway-station at Kaiapoi-Railway Officers' Classification- Registration of Deben- tures-Railway-station at Belfast - Appointments to Railway Service-Dunedin Railway-station- Auckland Railway-station-Dental In-pection of School - children - Manukau Harbour - North Island Main Trunk Railway-Classification at Asylums-Truancy from Schools-North Auck- land Railway Extension-Hurunui River Bridge - Waiau River Bridge - - Marine Charts Purchase by Government of Historical Relies, &c .- South Island Maoris - Police Offences Bill - Public Health Bill - Accidents Compensation Bill - Chinese Immigrants Bill -Referendum Bill- Exportation of Arms Bill-District Courts Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past ten PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Inspectors of Schools Bill, Lyttelton Borough Bill. THIRD READINGS. Cyanide Process Extension Bill, Accidents Compensation Bill. RATING ON UNIMPROVED VALUES. On the motion of Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the number of polls taken to date under the Rating on Unimproved Value Act, and the number of votes cast for and .ainst in each case. MINISTERIAL TRAVELLING-ALLOW- ANCES AND EXPENSES. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this and a similar return ordered last session) show- ing, for the financial year ended 31st March, 1901,-(1) The amounts drawn by each member of the Executive for travelling-allowances ; and (2) the amounts charged by voucher for actual travelling-expenses of each member of the Exe- cutive, showing separately the amounts in each case for allowances and expenses incurred in connection with matters outside the colony, and in it with other than ordinary matters. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS ACT. On the motion of Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The number of estates acquired to date under the Land for Settlements Act ; (2) the amount paid for each estate ; (3) the area of each estate; (4) the capital and unimproved value of each estate as shown by the Government Valuation Depart- ment ; and (5) the total amount of land-tax paid. OATS FOR SOUTH AFRICA. On the motion of Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The number of Imperial orders received and executed in New Zealand for oats for South Africa ; (2) by whom were the orders executed ; (3) the total quantity 