wool is so lamentably low in price, and I confi- dently recommend it to the attention of the Minister for Agriculture. In conclusion, Sir, I wish to repeat that this question of markets is the most important for the Government at the present time. It is a truism, which cannot be contradicted, that the cities cannot live and prosper unless the country folk prosper, and the country folk cannot prosper unless they get a fair price for their products; and if this matter receives the proper attention of the Government I am certain the time is not far distant when this colony, with its fertility and climate, and all its natural advantages and progressive people, will soon outstrip all other colonies in prosperity, and become the brightest spot in the King's dominions. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir. I think honourable members will agree with me in saying that the debate so far has been very singular in one respect, inasmuch as the only 'member who has so far spoken on the other side is the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, and who formed a portion of the old Opposition party. It is in that respect a record, I think, in connection with a debate on important proposals such as are con- tained in the Address from the Throne. I take it that in a case like this, if there are other honourable members on that side of the House who are desirous of criticizing any faults in the actions or policy of the Government, they would have taken the opportunity to at least put their views on record, so that Ministers might have had the chance of replying to them. An Hon. MEMBER .- We may do it yet. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, I am only pointing out that, so far, only one member of the late Opposition has spoken, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell. I think I am right in deducing from such a position either one of two things: that the honourable members do not want to criticize the adminis- tration of the Government, or that our acts have been so faultless that there is nothing for them to say against us. Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am very glad, from the .chorus of "Hear, hears," to find that my natural assumption that that is the true view of it is correct, and is assented to by honourable members opposite. If, however, as they have all hung back, they should now criticize any of my departments, they cannot blame me for not replying to them. I propose to-night, in the first instance, to deal with what I might call one of the business or trading concerns of the in order that some of the misrepresenta- tions-some of the very incorrect statements made by honourable members, particularly the honourable member for Riccarton-so far as rail- ways are concerned may be removed, and so that honourable members should have an opportu- nity at least of knowing the official position from the responsible administrator of that parti- cular department. Honourable gentlemen will agree with me that, if a large estate such as the railways, representing the greatest State asset in VOL. CXVI .- 9. if its affairs were such, even in regard to the pur- chasing or manufacture of rolling-stock, as was indicated by the honourable member for Riccar- ton, they should at once be seen into, and there naturally would be proper grounds for complaint, not only from members of the House but from the people of the country, and certainly from the working-classes in the colony. I shall, I hope, before I conclude, be able to show the utter fal- lacy and complete inaccuracy of any such ideas. Although the honourable member for Riccarton was good enough to state that he did not get his information from any one in the department, there was a good deal of information furnished to him which must have come from some very imperfect source in the department itself ; and although he assures us it finally reached him . from " the man in the street," nevertheless, as he occupies a responsible position as a member of Parliament, it is desirable that some of these misrepresentations should be dealt with by my- self on this occasion, if only to dispel the delusions of "the man in the street." In the first instance, I shall endeavour to make it clear to the House what has been the position of the Railway service during the last four or five years. I intend to refer to the folly in this respect which he said should not be continued, and by the time I have concluded he will agree with me-or. at all events, the people of the country will agree with me-that not only has no folly been continued, but that if the honourable member, or any other honourable member had been in charge of the railways of this country, and they were making the splendid forward progress they have been doing during the period stated, he could not have taken any other course. And it is questionable, if. he had taken any other course, whether he would not have brought about disaster to many of the important industries in the colony itself. Before going into details, let me first of all state that the honourable member for Riccarton said that there were 123 cars imported from America and 1.000 wagons ordered from England ; and he went on to state that it was computed that they would have involved a cost of $400,000, on which about one-third would represent wages had that work been carried out in the country. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I said I did not know the number of locomotives, but that, including locomotives, the cost would be nearly $400,000. Sir J. G. WARD .- I do not think that is what the honourable member said, but I will deal with the locomotives later. I will deal with the whole of the matters referred to by the honourable member. Now let the House judge of the reliability of the honourable mem- ber's statements relative to the American cars. He said there were 123 cars ordered from America. Well, there were only sixty-three cars ordered from America ; consequently there is a big difference there, as honourable members will see, of, roughly speaking, about $96,000 in the value alone, to say nothing of the inaccuracy of the figures, which reached him through "the man in the street," as to the number ordered. The information furnished 