wishes now to acquire the freehold there are from three to five at least who prefer the lease in perpetuity, with its reasonable and wise provisions. The lease in perpetuity has en- abled hundreds of poor men to make homes for themselves in this colony, when they had not the ghost of a show before it came into operation. In olden times men struggled and strove for two or three years, and sometimes longer, to acquire sufficient means to purchase a small piece of land, and when they came to take it up they had to work another three or four years to save money with which to fence it and turn it to account. And now what do we find ? They come before the Land Board, deposit their half-year's rent, go to the ballot, and prac- tically secure part of a fertile meadow for a homestead ; or they go in for another class of country, rough bush land, and hew out homes for themselves and families in the back blocks. in what had been a primitive wilderness. And therefore I say these provisions made by the Government are those which are approved of by the country, which is shown by the great number of applications which are put in. And it does not matter a rap what my honourable friend the member for the Bay of Plenty will say to the contrary, the facts are indisputable. Sir, I have always been told that the proof of the pudding is in the eating, and what is the result of this land-for-settlements policy, I ask ? Go where you will, take any district you like, name any estates which have been purchased by the Government up to the present time, and you will find there on them a lot of thriving settlers, and I believe that with one exception- a very small place, and that is in my own district - there are none other of these resumed estates but what you may call an unqualified success. And if that is the case, knowing it to be so. why should we not, each and all of us, join together and pass a law in such a way that we know it will prove beneficial, and encourage those who have to live on the sections and make their living out of this land. None of us wish to rack-rent them ; but I have heard it said on the other side that the Government have paid in some cases too much for the land; in other cases that we wish to con- fiscate other people's property ; whereas it is the naked truth that every one of these estates has been offered-well, I might qualify that by saying with one or two exceptions-to the Go- vernment ; and in the case of those that have been bought the Government have had to pay the fair and full value for what they have ac- quired. It is well understood that if you take New Zealand as a whole there is not a very large area, and it is quite time that some of these large estates which cannot be profitably worked by the owners themselves should be used for closer settlement. I might use a good many more arguments in favour of the Bill, but it is now at its third reading, and there- fore we can be perfectly satisfied of what the final result will be: but before I sit down I wish to reply to a few remarks which fell from the honourable member for Settlers Office. Now, Sir, I have heard from some members casually, at other times in per- sonal interviews, that there is some dissatisfac- tion with regard to the administration of that office ; but such dissatisfaction is not, I think, genuine, it seems to me one-sided, with this exception : that in some cases the valuers who have gone to value the holdings of applicants who wished to borrow from the office have not given them what they deemed a fair estimate of the value of their lands and improvements. Well, Sir, that may be, or it may not be ; but let us look at the true position for a moment. When first the advances-to-settlers policy was initiated in this House it was agreed upon by both sides of the House that the cardinal prin- ciple must be the safety of the State first ; and those who want to borrow from the Advances to Settlers Office should not forget to bear in mind that there is a limit to the advances that can be made by the Board. The Board is limited to advancing more than 50 per cent. on improvements, or three-fifths on freeholds. With these limitations in regard to what can be borrowed on the capital value, applicants who have been used to borrow as much as three- fifths and four-fifths of the value of their pro- perty, and in some cases more than its value, and had to pay a very heavy interest for their loan, if they had not to pay a rack-rent rate of interest, are naturally disappointed. But it is impossible for the Board, who 9.0. are acting under and within the four corners of the statute, to do more than the statute provides. At the same time, there may be reasonable grievances now and again with some valuer who may not take the same rosy view that the settler does. We know that the man who has lived on a certain place for many years often becomes attached to it. He takes a very different view from that of a stranger. Accordingly, when applying for a loan he makes a statement putting a value upon his property which to others may seem fictitious. That is not so in all cases, but there are very many such instances. Then, when the replies come from the office, if not satisfactory the applicants feel aggrieved. In many cases the first thing the applicant does is to rush to a member with his grievance. The member listens to him, but he hears only one side of the question. The member cannot possibly go into details of valuation of properties; it is simply impossible for him to do so. Therefore I would ask honourable members to be very careful when receiving these statements. So long as I preside over the department I shall at all times be very pleased to give all the information that I possibly can to refute misstatements that may be made. In two or three cases I have had in- dependent valuations made, and I can assure honourable gentlemen that these valuations have generally borne out those of the depart- ment. When one remembers that the Advances to Settlers Office is now doing a business of something like $500,000 per annum, we can reasonably expect that there will be some cases of valuers not taking as rosy a view of things as 