nary provision for an increased duty on boots of 5 per cent. I say that in consequence of the pro- tection granted at that time-2} per cent. and other advantages-under what was called the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the boot trade is languishing in this colony. I am inclined to agree with the member for Auckland City, Mr. Fowlds, that it would be far better to send to America, or Great Britain, or somewhere else, and get our boots, and let these people cultivate the waste lands in Auckland which are now waiting labourers to till them. In His Excel- lency's Speech I noticed gladly that the Govern- ment have not only made an attempt, but they have proceeded a considerable distance in the direction of forming relationships with out- side markets for our products. New Zea- land has got enormous capabilities and great potentialities of production, and certain classes of our produce cannot be produced to the same extent and quality in other parts of the world. For instance, there are our great dairy products. Leaving aside wool and mutton, there is no doubt that the butter and cheese and dairy products of the colony are of the utmost importance-in fact, of al- most more importance than any other products we have. You can exploit the goldfields, and, in fact, I think I heard the Premier say years ago that the goldfields on the West Coast were nearly worked out then. At any rate, they are not now making any very great development. But look at the butter production of Taranaki, and, in fact, of the whole of the North Island. There is the district, for instance, around Strat- ford, and the land through which it is proposed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to take a branch railway, which line, I believe, will run past the property of the honourable member representing the district. That line will enormously enhance the value of the land through which it passes. The result will be that in a short time the export of butter from that district will be very largely increased-in fact, it is impossible to fix a limit for the in- crease of our dairy industry. The honourable member for Riccarton made an onslaught on the Government in connection with the rail. way rolling- stock. That honourable gentle- man lives in Christchurch, although he re- presents a suburban district which has, I understand, a few onion- and potato-growers in it, but more lunatics, and he complains of the deficiency in our rolling-stock. Whether the fault lies with the Railway Commissioners, or with the late Minister for Railways, Mr. Cad- man, I do not know ; but it may have been in consequence of the House not supplying the necessary funds for the purpose of obtaining the rolling-stock. I have, however, to give another reason for the deficiency in our rolling-stock, and that is the extraordinary development in the agricultural industry in consequence of the land-for-settlements policy in Canterbury and elsewhere. Members who represent cities like Wellington, such as where the produce can be taken about almost in wheelbarrows, know no necessity for an increase in the rolling-stock. But if you travel from the Bluff right on to Hurunui, and along any of the branch lines, Mr. McLachlan you will find that months after the harvest has been threshed out it is stacked under tarpaulins for the want of trucks. When the farmers saw a heavy harvest approaching, the only consolation was that the Government had recently ordered some hundred and odd trucks which were likely to be available to con- vey their produce to market. The circum- stances attending ordinary agricultural farming are very different now from the time when I started farming. At that time there were very few threshing-machines. They were not capable of putting through the same quantity of stuff as they are now. Our roads were bad, and only one- half the stuff was threshed in the time, and the quantity of produce was only a fraction of what it is now ; consequently, there was no big rush to get the stuff to market. But in a short time these machines came in, and they thresh the whole of the grain in a very short time, and it is stored down at Lyttelton. That is the reason why the farmer wants to see trucks provided ; and I yield to no man in the desire to see the manufactures of this colony fully employed, especially when required to manufacture what is required by the Government for railways or other public works. Now I am going to refer to the honourable member for Riccarton again. I am certain he was zealous in his remarks last night, because no one could think for a moment that he was not sincere in what he said. Honourable members who were here a few years ago will remember that no one championed the acquisition of land more than the honourable member for Riccarton. I have the advantage of being a member of the Land Board, and I know what people apply for, and they apply for land in quarter-acre sections just as often as they do for the larger areas. A quarter-acre sec- tion is as much as a working-man can manage if he is to do justice to himself. My honour- able friend was a small farmer himself at one time, and I believe he made a big hit in growing some early potatoes ; but, Sir, in his desire to find employment for the great mass of struggling humanity he would like to abolish all labour- saving machines and employ only manual labour in the production of root-crops. Now, around the City of Christchurch the Govern- ment have in their wisdom acquired several estates, and I think up till now they do not yield 4 per cent., and some of them did not pay 2 per cent. Over and above that, I contend that the Government acted in an immoral manner in buying sections with their cheap money, and cutting them up. In doing this they are competing with the private owners who have to pay land-tax upon their properties. There is not plenty of land in places where the population is congested, such as Wel- lington and Dunedin; but round about the suburbs of Christchurch, where there are any number of paddocks of land ready to be cut up when the people are ready to take it up, I do not think it is necessary. If you put people on five-acre sections, why, you will have to get aerial railways to carry them in to their work. People who live in cities must live close ; you cannot expect men to live in the heart of 