of instances, it would be impracticable. If the | for the people who had no capital, yet is now Right Hon. the Premier had his will to compel being perverted and distorted into granting the owner of the estate to subdivide his land at people areas of land at the expense of the State the present time, what would be the result on amounting in value to close upon $5,000. the land being subdivided? Now, clause 8B infinitely more reasonable than that which the says : " Every applicant who obtains an allot- Government, led by the Right Hon. the ment under this Act shall reside continu- Premier, has been administering. My honour- ously thereon." Well, then, there would be very many cases of men with children of whom able friend the member for Pahiatua yesterday the eldest might be fourteen or fifteen years of talked of the ownership of twelve hundred acres of land as a heinous offence. age, while three or four of them would be under that age, and yet under the contemplated pro- visions of this Bill every child would be obliged to go into continuous residence upon that pro- man did not say so? If he thinks it a desirable perty and could not transfer it. Fancy a child condition of things perhaps he will allow me to of a year old in compulsory and separate resi- withdraw my statement. dence. Surely nothing could be more absurd than that. And yet. because the parents object zation of land, of one capitalist coming over and to that, the Right Hon. the Premier says the acquiring thirteen sections, which were occupied by thirteen holders. father is a public enemy -a public enemy, merely because he endeavours to retain for his children that which he has come by honestly. that altogether. Let us examine the position : At the outside you are asked to reserve for each child 500 acres, which we may take at an average value able member approve of 1,509 acres being given to one individual ? of $5, or perhaps $4, an acre. That is to say, each child would get two thousand pounds' worth of land. Now, let us see what has happened lately? What is the meaning of the Right land, the rental being 6s. 2d. an acre. Hon. the Premier having deposed the Minister of Lands from the administration of the Land no water on the land. for Settlements Act? The Minister of Lands, though it is set out in the Act that he shall man says that there was no water on the land. If what the honourable gentleman savs is cor- administer the Act, is allowed to have nothing rect --- I incline to the belief that it is incorrect to do with it. Probably the Right Hon. the -. it shows how monstrous the administration Premier thinks the Minister of Lands would not, of the Right Hon. the Premier is, in putting in connection with it, exercise that political men upon land -- poor people upon land where patronage that the Premier himself can and does, and that it is which has led to the deposi- there is no single drop of water, so that they and their stock will be starved. But I feel sure tion of the proper Minister from the adminis- the honourable member is wrong. He will find tration of the Act. But what has actualle hap- no large blocks on the Hatuma Estate where pened in a late subdivision of an estate? I there is not any water to be got. However, find that in the Hatuma Estate, in one instance, that is the position : 1,500 acres given to an out- a selector has been allowed to acquire 4,654 sider, and 500 acres refused to the son of the pounds' worth of the estate. Under my pro- soil. As to the principle of the land-for-settle- posal each child would get only two thousand ments scheme. I have said on every occasion, pounds' worth of land, or two thousand five as strongly as I can, and I say it now, that I hundred pounds' worth at the very outside, think the system of the compulsory acquisi- practically one - half only of that given to a tion of land is put into operation in only too stranger under the present law. As I have said, many instances for political reasons, and not in the Hatuma Estate I find that one tenant in the interest of settlement. has received 4.654 pounds' worth of the estate. that compulsory expropriation contains the That. surely, is distinctly in advance of any- most dangerous principle that has ever been thing I have proposed. I proposed that of first- laid down : and though many persons believe class land each child should be allowed to re- the compulsory acquisition of land will only ceive five hundred acres. Five hundred acres apply to the large holdings, I tell them that, so at $5 would be two thousand five hundred sure as the sun shines to-morrow, when the pounds' worth of land for each child, as against large holdings are consumed, the appetite the Premier's 4,654 pounds' worth. which one created by eating will be sure to crave for the selector has been allowed to take up on the medium-sized properties, and they will be swal- Hatuma Estate. The Premier, no doubt, will lowed next, and that when the medium-sized say that is only a particular case. Is it a par- properties are all gone the smaller properties ticular case? I find another tenant on the will be eaten up also. And why? Because Hatuma Estate received 3.097 pounds' worth the honourable gentlemen on the Ministerial of land : vastly in excess, you will see, of what benches are land-nationalisers. They are like I proposed under my scheme. And so I might the honourable member for Masterton, who go all through the system of land for settle- says he will never be satisfied until the State is ments, which in its inception was based on the the sole landlord in New Zealand. The sole theory that there was to be small settlements Well, I maintain the scheme I proposed was Mr. O'MEARA .- I did not say so. Captain RUSSELL .- The honourable gentle- Mr. O'MEARA .- I spoke about the monopoli- Captain RUSSELL .- And you disapproved of Mr. O'MEARA .--- Undoubtedly. Captain RUSSELL .-- Then, does the honour- Mr. O'MEARA. . That is second-class land. Captain RUSSELL .- No; this is first-class Mr. HALL .-- The reason was that there was Captain RUSSELL. . The honourable gentle- I maintain 