carried was 6,243,593, being an increase of | in the colony for the workshops, and we could 1,804,206 passengers carried during the latter period. The increase on tonnage carried for the same period was 960,760, or almost a million tons. The increase in live-stock carried was 473,800, the increase in season tickets was 39,852, and the increase in the number of parcels was 151,786. Now, Sir, I have referred to these in- creases in order to show honourable members who have been talking of what ought to have been done beforehand, that, even if the whole of the workshops in New Zealand could have been concentrated in one place, and even if we had had the money given us by the House two years ago to do what was required, we could not have got ready the necessary rolling-stock within the time to have enabled us to overcome the in- creased railway traffic in the colony. And do honourable members mean to tell me that under these circumstances the Government were not only not justified, but that they were not obliged to go outside for a portion of the material with which to cope with that in- creased traffic ? Do they mean to tell me that the Government were not just as anxious as any honourable member to keep the whole of the money in the colony? I saw, after taking charge of the railways and going carefully into matters, that we must go for a bold and forward policy or there would be a mess. I felt that we should continue to reduce our rates, and that by doing so a great expansion of trade would result. My colleagues agreed with me, and we saw that our plain duty was not to allow the commerce of the colony to be placed at a serious disadvan- tage for want of rolling-stock, for want of engine- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 power, and for want of the necessary vehicles to carry the produce that was brought to us for transport, and also to accommodate the travel- ling public, who relied upon us for meeting their wants. We put into the workshops as much work as it was possible for them to do, and we ordered a reasonable number of wagons and cars from outside. Now, Sir, I want to give one more tell-tale regarding the statement that he made about the workshops and the number of men, to show that we have not been asleep or that there was any want of forethought or watchfulness on the part of the Administration in this particular matter. In the railway work- shops, on the 31st December, 1894, before they came over to the Government, the total number of permanent men from one end of the colony to the other was 739, and of casuals there were seventeen, making the full total of 756. On the 25th May of this year the total number was 1,631, which is more than twice the number of men employed in the workshops now that were there before the workshops came over to the Go- vernment. That is another nut I offer those honourable members to crack-those who would suggest that we are not anxious to do all the time. The successful tenderer made especial work in the railway workshops that it is possible for the workshops to do. What is more, I will tell honourable members this : that even if it had been possible to extend the work- ' roughly well built, and are the easiest running 8.30. shops and to get the extra machinery required, we could not within the time have procured the additional number of qualified men . running. not have got even a portion of the additional hands for the increased work, unless we had drawn them away from private workshops, which were also being worked as the result largely of the mining developments, to the utmost. It was surely not in the interests of the colony that we were to dislocate other imporant in- dustries that were all doing our colony good, and were employing a large number of our workmen. An Hon. MEMBER .- You did it in some cases. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes. and necessarily so, that will ever be the case under certain con- ditions. Now, Sir, I wish to refer to the state- ment made by the honourable member for Riccarton to the effect that these new cars were exceedingly unsatisfactory in many ways. The honourable gentleman said they carried less people, that they cost $300 more, and generally he condemned them from beginning to end. Now, I desire to inform the House that they hold thirty people. That is the number of people each car is intended to hold, which is the same number as the new colonial cage-cars hold. They each hold thirty people. I will read to honourable members a memorandum by the General Manager of Railways and the Locomotive Superintendent respecting the cars :- " Memorandum for the Hon. the Minister for Railways. " In compliance with your request, we have the honour to furnish, for your information, the following report on the recently imported American passenger-carriages :- " These carriages were specially imported for express services; the reduction of passenger- fares having resulted in such a marked increase in the number of passengers carried, the existing car stock was needed for ordinary and local services, and was altogether inadequate for combined express and ordinary train services. "It was quite impracticable to build the carriages in the colony, or to obtain them from Great Britain, within a reasonable time. "A railway officer was sent to America, where he invited tenders for the supply of carriages, early delivery being an imperative condition. "The lowest tender was accepted, and the contract let to a first-class car-building com- pany. "The American Car and Foundry Company, to whom the work was intrusted, is one of the best firms in the United States, doing a large business in first-class rolling-stock for American and foreign railways. "The designs and specifications were pre- pared in the colony, and the conditions under which tenders were invited stipulated for first- class work, and delivery in the shortest possible efforts to meet these conditions, and our work was given precedence. "The carriages are very satisfactory, tho- in the colony, their increased length and weight adding materially to their steadiness and easy 