would be in a position to make a recommenda- tion. REGISTRATION OF LAND TRANSFERS. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Govern- ment, Whether the fee of £1 is still exacted for the registration of land transfers ; and, if so, whether they have obtained advice respecting the legality of this charge? He had put a similar question to the Minister of Lands that day twelve months ago. He asked the Minister then whether he was aware that the fee of 5s. previously charged for the registration of trans- fers had been increased to £1 1s., and, if so, would he endeavour to reduce or extinguish it. The Minister on that occasion agreed that the charges on account of land transfer might very fairly be made more reasonable. He stated that under subsection (2) of section 81 of the Land Act of 1892 the department apparently had no option but to make this charge; that 5s. of the amount charged was paid to the Land Registrar, and 16s. to the Public Account. He promised then that he would look into the matter and see if it was not possible to reduce the charge to .5s., the amount previously charged. The sub- section referred to said,- "There shall be paid for every such license, or every instrument, or for any transfer thereof respectively, a fee of twenty-one shillings for the lease, and registration thereof." He thought, from the language of the clause, it was perfectly evident that this fee of £1 1s. was not simply for the registration, but was intended to cover the cost of a docu- ment. The opinion that he then expressed was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 indorsed by gentlemen connected with the legal profession who happened to be in the House at the time. He would like to know whether the Minister had made inquiry, and whether he could see his way to discontinue this fee. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the fee of £1 1s. was paid for the registration of the transfer. Of this, 16s. was paid to the land revenue and 5s. to the Land Transfer Office. The matter had been under consideration, but so far nothing definite had been done. There was no doubt as to the legality of the charge. The matter, however, was one that required further consideration. Mr. HOGG pointed out that there was no document connected with the transfer beyond the memorandum of transfer, and it already had been paid for. LIABILITY FOR WORKMEN'S WAGES. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Government, If it is intended toamend the Min- ing Act so that in the event of a gold-dredging company going into liquidation the directors of such company shall be personally responsible for the payment of any workman's wages that may be due up to the time of liquidation ? A case had been brought under his notice lately where a dredging company had gone into liquidation, and the contractors for the dredge had a lien over the dredge and all the plant at I tunity of purchasing within a short time two Mr. Hall-Jones ! was that the men who were engaged working on the dredge were not paid, and there were no funds to pay them with. He asked the question with the object of fixing the responsibility of paying the wages on those who employed the men. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said that security was given under the Mining Act, and also under the Workmen's Lien Act, by which wages took precedence over all other claims ; and he thought it would be a very dan- gerous procedure to adopt at the present time the honourable member's proposal to make the directors of a company liable for wages. For instance, the director of a company might be out of the colony, and during his absence the company might go into liquidation, and in that case it would be a most unfair principle to introduce to make a man liable for that over which he had no control; whereas, under the law as it at present stands, a dredge or a mine and the machinery are the first charge for the \---------- payment of labour-a workmen's lien having precedence. He did not think it would be wise to introduce legislation in the direction sug- gested by the honourable member. ## RAILWAY THROUGH PAHIATUA ELEC- TORATE. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Govern- ment, If they will defer making inquiry as to the cost of a railway through the Pahiatua electorate until such time as proposals are submitted offering to construct an electric tramway, which will not run parallel to the present railway-line ? There was a syndicate at Pahiatua which desired to construct a line through the district. He understood there was another syndicate in Masterton which desired to open up the Pahiatua electorate by means of a narrow-gauge railway. In putting the question his object was to ask the Minister to defer making any pledge until proposals were put before him respecting the making of this light railway. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) was pleased to hear of the great interest that was being evinced in the opening-up of the Pahiatua district. It reflected great credit on the settlers, and also on the members who represented the constituencies in the neighbour- hood. In reply to the honourable member, he had to say he would certainly obtain all possible information before making any promise in the matter. WORKMEN'S HOMES AT KHANDALLAH OR CROFTON. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Government, Whether they propose pur- chasing property at Khandallah or Crofton for subdivision into workmen's homes? He asked this question last session, though not in the same form, and received an answer with which he was not satisfied, and he now wanted to know if the Government still intended to daliy with the matter. The value of land was going up, and, unless the Government took the oppor- 