Well, when the people have thought a sub- ject out, when it has been explained to them by public men, when from all the platforms in the country and all the printing-presses they have been enlightened on the subject of the proposed legislation, then it may be right that the people should be called into our councils. But I maintain that to say the representatives elected of the country, and the Legislative Council, who through nomination by the Minis- ters now claim to be elected by the country, are to be overridden completely in their de- cisions, and a vote is to be taken by persons who have never considered the subject to be submitted to them, is a reversal of the whole principles of representative government. Up to this time it has been held-it has been the practice in the Mother-land and in all her colonies for the people, being electors, to select their representatives, on the same principle that the shareholders of a joint-stock company elect their directors to control their business. So have the people of all English colonies and the Mother-land elected their representatives to manage their political business, reserving to themselves the right on all occasions to refuse to approve the conduct of their elected, and on the first available opportunity to turn them out of office for having mismanaged the business intrusted to them. Is all this to be swept aside? Are we to say that the people, who know less of the subject than their representatives until the matter has been explained to them, and before they have even had time to study it - that the electors are to say what is the best form of a Bill on a question on which they have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 not had the opportunity of forming an opinion ? I hope the House will not consent to such a thing being done. The Premier quotes Switzer- land. The fashion is to quote every other Con. stitution except the British as one from which we may take a lesson. I venture to believe that almost invariably, when a question is referred to the referendum in Switzerland, a Conservative vote is taken. Therefore I may be told, as I do not believe in extreme ad- vanced legislation, that I ought to vote for any proposal which has a Conservative ten- dency. I do not think that follows at all ; I do not think we ought to take up that posi- tion. I invite honourable members to consider the extreme difference between the conditions of New Zealand and those of Switzerland. What is our population ? Nothing but a fortuitous or concatenation of atoms, as the honourable mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) called us the other night. Here we are a people at the end of the world-a people who have scarcely lived together long enough to have a right to claim a national feeling. It is true such feel- ing is growing, but at this time I maintain there is not that strong national feeling which is one of the main strengths of a nation. Take Switzerland as an illustration. There is a country almost unexampled in the history of the world, surrounded on all sides by peoples against whom they might be compelled to struggle at any moment for national existence, Captain Russell universal military service, to personal taxation, and to all sorts of laws which this country would never submit itself to for one single instant. You have a people in Switzerland whose fathers and ancestors have always lived in Switzerland, inhabiting & mountainous country, and that particular love of country which comes from living in a mountainous country. All men there are liable to compul- sory military service. Not only is every man liable, but he undergoes compulsory military training ; and organization and sacrifice does not stop there. Every horse is registered, is liable to compulsory military service, and is periodically called upon to train. Every dray belonging to the farming class is registered, and is liable to be taken for the service of the country. Not only that, but everybody in the country is taxed. Not only is property taxed, but every man and every woman is taxed, the man on account of his manhood and on account of his ability to earn money, so that he is taxed in proportion to the average earnings of the trade in which he works. So it is with the women. They also are liable to taxation according to their occu- pations, and their . earnings are supposed to average a certain value. And not only that, but no man or woman is allowed to leave his or her canton without a certificate of character from the Mayor; and therefore you will see, as I say, that they are a homo- geneous people in Switzerland, liable to all sorts of taxation, and liable to military service under a condition of things to which we are not subject here, and the consequence is that these people take a practical and most careful in- terest in every form of government. There is no single thing which takes place in the Swiss Republic which is not carefully canvassed by every man and woman in Switzerland, because they know that under their system of govern- ment the men are liable at any moment to be brought under a system of universal military service under arms against an enemy of their country. and that their Government is liable to impose the taxation upon the people individu- ally unless they themselves take care to main- tain that no extravagance of any sort prevails. Here in New Zealand the great bulk of the people unquestionably are absolutely indifferent to the forms of taxation, they are absolutely indifferent to the system of government, they are absolutely indifferent to almost everything connected with the Government. And why ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Just try them with the referendum and you will see. Captain RUSSELL .- We shall come to that presently. I have been watching them for forty years, but I maintain that, in my opinion, the people of this country so far have not yet manifested any very keen interest in the government of their country. Then, again, the Premier illustrated his argument by telling us something about the possibility of having taken the referendum with regard to the federation of New Zealand with the Australian Colonies, and I understood him to say that, in his opinion, it would have been a good thing ; and 