ranks once more. With respect to the seconder of the Address, he certainly spoke in a very able way, but I think we got a little too much from him on shipping matters. If he had devoted himself to matters affecting the colony's interests, and given shipping its proper propor- tion in his speech, I think he would have more decidedly distinguished himself. In the Address which was delivered by His Excellency I notice reference has been made to the death of the Queen. Her death was deplored by all her sub- jects, irrespective of colour, race, or creed, for she was undoubtedly a good woman, whose qua- lities were appreciated by her subjects all through the length and breadth of the Em- pire. Great rejoicings took place on the ac- cession of King Edward VII., and he will no doubt follow in the footsteps of his revered mother. We also had demonstrations to wel- come the Duke and Duchess of York to our colony ; but, in my opinion, the great celebra- tion that is unique in the history of celebra- tions was that which took place at Rotorua, given principally by the Natives of this colony. I do not suppose we shall ever see its like again. There, Sir, we saw the Natives dressed in modern dress, with belltopper and frock coat, by the side of the Native dressed as he appeared in former times-the modern civilisation side by side with the primitive Native-and I predict that in twenty years the Native race, judging by the evidence which we saw there, will become assimilated with ourselves, and will lose their identity altogether. Looking at these events, and the preparations made by the Government, and the money spent on the ceremonies and illuminations, et cetera, I think, from a com- mercial point of view, the money expended will prove the best advertisement that the colony could possibly get, and I am very pleased to see that the Government carried out the duties appertaining to those events exceedingly well. The whole ceremony passed off without any un- pleasantness, and very satisfactorily indeed. There was probably a little friction with the officials, but as far as the general public are con- cerned I have reason to think that, from Auck- land to Dunedin, every person in the colony was satisfied with the arrangements and with the treatment they received. In this Address I regret to state that there is only one meagre reference to the farming industry of this colony. It reads as follows :- " The roading and settlement of the people on the lands of the colony is of paramount im- portance. My Ministers are giving this matter every attention. Proposals furthering this object will be placed before you. The energy of our sturdy settlers has in no small degree contributed to the largely increased exports of last year, which formed a record, and the trade returns warrant me in believing that our pro- sperity is based on a solid foundation, which I hope will be lasting and for the good of the people." That is well. It reads very nicely in print ; but every year we have these statements iterated and reiterated, but unfortunately that attention is not given to the back blocks of New Mr. O'Meara Zealand that they deserve. In respect to the proposed operation of the Land Act, I would ask the Minister to consider the various clauses contained in that Act, which require much alteration. In Part III,. clause 137, we have occupation with right of purchase, lease in per- petuity, and purchase for cash. Now, the lease in perpetuity has no doubt answered its pur- pose, but it is surprising how its intention can be evaded by a settler who is desirous of so doing. The Act says that the lessee shall reside on the land for ten years, after which residence he can sell the product of that land to whomsoever be likes. For instance, supposing I have a lease in perpetuity of 100 acres : there are two others. one on cach side of me, who also hold leases of 100 acres each. We have resided on that land for ten years. There is nothing to prevent my neighbours removing their buildings and grant- ing to me, at a fixed sum, the right of grazing on their leaseholds. They let me the lease and the Government cannot interfere. I think that should be prevented, and the Government should see that a clause is inserted in the lease to prevent selling the grass to any one who holds a lease in perpetuity without the consent of the Government. Another question is that in respect to the surrender of leases. We find that when any settler becomes dissatisfied with the rent he is paying he may apply to the Land Board to surrender his holding, and at times he is allowed to surrender it and it is again offered. If there is no other applicant. he is allowed to retake possession at a rent fixed by the Board. But he may take it up either as a lease in perpetuity or may purchase it for cash. What is the result ? I have in my district-a closely settled one too. which is nearly all held under the lease in perpetuity-and in the midst of this land are freehold sections. The result is that the free- holder, owing to having the money to pay for his land, can do just as he likes. He can leave it and go to any part of the world ; but the un- fortunate lessee has to reside on his land, and unless he does this he is threatened with for- feiture or cancellation of his lease. The fact of having freehold and leasehold land contiguous causes dissatisfaction. City members have re- ferred to the matter of the rebate to Crown tenants. It was a very clumsy Bill, because in my district there are many tenants who could afford to pay more rent than they are paying at the present time-their land is worth more. But there are others who are paying excessive rentals, and it was the duty of the Government to step in and relieve these men. The Act makes it discretionary on two offcers of the Crown to remit the rent where they think the case deserving. An Hon. MEMBER .- It makes it imperative on them. Mr. O'MEARA .- I was instrumental in get- ting the clause inserted, and I think I ought to know all about it. You are wrong. With respect to our commerce, mention has been made in the House to-night that the Govern- ment should acquire a line of steamers 60 as to take our produce to the markets which, no 