key to the advancement and prosperity of the for settlement system has been virtually laid aside, and that the anger and dissatisfaction of the people at finding their sons leaving the lands and the Crown lands that are available Province of Canterbury where their homes are, and being compelled to go to the North Island in order to obtain homes for them- selves while the Government have this Land the North Island, year after year, leaving the for Settlements Act upon the statute-book is ground uncultivated. With such a Minister of Lands as we have, who has proclaimed his in- such that the Premier is likely to hear from these people. and hear from them in a way that tention of booming the land-settlement policy. he is not likely to be very much pleased with. My own opinion is that the land for settlements settlers to the North Island while he is in policy is the key to the whole political situation office. It grieves me very much to hear so so far as New Zealand is concerned, and if this much about the earth-hunger, and about the Government propose to continue their inaction young men from the South Island being unable of the last year or two in virtually ignoring the to get land, which we are told prevents them earth-hunger of the people, and buying a paltry from getting married and settling down. This thirty-nine thousand pounds' worth of land in state of things need not exist when we have so the colony-leaving out, as I have said, the much available land up North. We hear about Hatuma Estate-then there will be no question young men tumbling over each other at the ballot-box in their eagerness to get land; but as to what will happen ; and that is : that the people will demand that the Lands Department we do not hear of Ministers tumbling over of this colony shall be administered with greater each other in their endeavours to open up energy, and a more honest determination to the. northern lands of the colony, which settle people on the land. As I have said, I do would provide plenty of land for these young not blame the Minister of Lands, because he men. There is any amount of room in the King-country, and in the North Island can only cut up and administer the estates as Crown lands, for ten times the population they are handed over to him by the Premier, of New Zealand. Why should we devote who is the Minister for purchasing the land. blame the Premier. so much attention to buying estates, and Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. disputing over the price to be paid for Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Yes, I do. I blame them, and the terms, and so forth, while the Premier, and I say that if, instead of the the same money, instead of being spent in Premier devoting so much of his attention to the purchase of estates, would do so much careering through Australia and to other matters towards the breaking-up of the land in the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 which are not incidental to the politics or wel- North Island and preparing it for settlement ? fare of this colony, he will devote himself to those Another point I should like to refer to-I think great departments of the public service which I have mentioned it before - that is, in con- are in his hands, with the view of promoting nection with the Contingent men that come the welfare of the people. there would be less back from south Africa. Supposing we were cause for dissatisfaction than there has been in to put them to work surveying a proper system the past. So far as the Bill is concerned, it of railway lines- I do not pretend to give an makes no change in the policy : it is a policy expert opinion in the presence of Sir Joseph, which I have always supported. I only ask but I say that every possible avenue of labour that the policy should be administered in the should be opened up. And I would suggest a spirit in which it was created by this Parlia- decided reform in connection with the railway- lines: I say we should depart from the old ment. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I wish system that has in most countries been adopted, to draw attention to a point that is generally of surveying a single line and afterwards having overlooked in the House when dealing with the to buy up villages and valuable estates in order land for settlements question - namely, that the to duplicate the line or have deviations. In a tide of settlement has yet to roll over our new country like this we should lay out dupli- northern lands. The extent of land that is cate lines of railway ; lay out stations where available for settlement in the northern part of settlements are to be, arrange for drainage the North Island almost does away with the and water-supply, so that the new townships necessity for discussing how to deal with the may be laid out on the most scientific prin- purchase of lands for settlement in the South ciples; we should make provision for alter- Island. Every part of the colony must have its nate lines of railway, and we should enable the day ; the South Island has had its dav in people on the ground to have the use of the regard to settlement of Crown and Native lands. surveyed portions of the lines till they are All we hear of the earth-hunger in the South wanted for railroad purposes. The cost to the Island need no longer be heard if the young Government would be a mere nothing in com- men would go to the North and see the lands parison to its value. What I am trying to for set lement that are there. It is right that draw the attention of honourable members to is we should give every facility the Government the need of more speedy surveys and plans of require to enable them to purchase any new northern areas of settlement. I have no necessary lands for close settlement, whether feeling other than respect for the Minister of in the North or in the South. But I think the Lands; he has gone personally through the colony, and what is best calculated to advance the interests of the colony, is to settle the Maori in the North Island. I see no reason why this bugbear of the Maori land policy should be allowed for ever to keep back the prosperity of there should be no difficulty in attracting 