part of my very life when I say that I believe, from the bottom of my heart, that in this matter England has erred. It is, of course, a matter of no moment what I may think on this matter. But the condemnation of the war we heard this evening seemed so strange, coming from the mouth of the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay). It seems to me so bold of him, and, of course, I could not help agreeing with very much of what he said. But it is not yet the time to discuss the details, the merits, and demerits of the war, though I sincerely believe there will come a time in the not distant future when we shall look back to this affair of South Africa as regretfully and as remorsefully as we have done over the American War of Indepen- dence and the crime of the Crimea. Sir, for nearly two years now, since that fatal afternoon in September, 1899, when we launched so enthusiastically into the great sea of Imperial conquest, we have been living in a state of false, enervating excitement, and we have become surfeited with Jingoism, militarism, Imperialism-call it what you may; and now to me the most gratifying thing in our public life is that all the pomp and panoply is passing away, and that we are coming back as a country to our reason, coming back to sane and rational citizenship, to interest our- selves in the affairs of our colony, in the inte- rests of our people. We shall look back upon this period as a hideous dream, and we shall regret, I hope not in vain, that we did not pause a little before we went to the extreme we have done. Sir, I will not prolong my remarks any further except to say I have resolved and do https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 fully intend that, as far as my services can assist in the perfecting and passing of legislation that I believe to be for the good of the people, those services shall be cheerfully rendered. I intend throughout this session to seek no advantage from a party point of view, neither to impede nor impair the process of legislation. but to aid and assist in its prosecution in every way. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Mr. Speaker, I shall not only be consulting my own feelings, but, I am quite sure, consulting the feelings of the House, if I refrain from making any lengthy reply to the speeches that have been made on the motion which I had the honour to move a few evenings ago. Just one or two remarks are all that will be necessary from me. Captain Russell, and one or two members of his party who followed in a similar strain, appeared to think that I ought, in moving the motion, to have expressed myself in stronger terms. Their remarks seemed to suggest regret that my speech was not a speech of a somewhat more vehement character. Now, Sir, when I was asked to move that Address, and consented to do so, it struck me how very little there was in the Address to call for anything like heated criticism or debate, and as I looked over the details of the Address, and saw that in re- gard to every item that was proposed I would be bound to admit at once that I was in agreement, I felt that anything like a heated speech would be altogether out of Mr. Hutcheson cating my words, and I left the debating of the questions themselves until those ques- tions are in detail before the House. It may be deemed inconsistent for one who has moved the Address in Reply to state that to my mind it has always proved a waste of time to engage in a debate of this kind, and in moving the Address I wished to avoid arousing anything like a lengthy or acrimonious discussion. But, of course, it is impossible to please everybody, and I certainly should never try. The honour- able member for Hawke's Bay, in a speech which has already been referred to as a speech characteristic of the honourable gentleman. drew our attention to the fact that he had resigned his position as leader of the Opposi- tion. Indeed, Sir, he told us that at a meeting held on the morning of the day on which he spoke it had been decided that they should dis- band as an organized Opposition. He went on to point out that, under the altered circum- stances of the case, it would be necessary for every member of the House to deal with the measures as they came before the House in the fullest and freest criticism. It struck me while the honourable gentleman was speaking that his remarks were almost identical with re- marks I myself had made a few weeks ago when addressing my constituents. I then said,- "The Government majority was so over- whelmingly large as to induce one to believe that party government was abolished, for, prac- tically speaking, there was now no organized Opposition. The very security of the Liberal party and Government, however. depended on the proposed legislation being submitted to the fullest and the fairest criticism." Those are almost the identical terms used by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, leav- ing out, of course, the words " Liberal party " and " Liberal Government." The honourable gentleman told us they had reduced the erst- while Opposition to a position of equality- there was now absolute equality amongst them. I am not quite sure whether that equality is a desirable thing in the House. I am by no means certain that it will lead to a better class of debate than we have had in the past. That remains to be seen. I am afraid it will not enliven the proceedings of the House, and it struck me we might almost express the posi- tion in the words- # Equality, where are the charms Politicians have seen in thy face; Better speak 'midst continued alarms Than debate in this dead-level place. Sir, it does appear to me that the position suggested by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay is simply that of reducing, not to a position of equality, but to a dead-level -- a very dead level. It will be futile to attempt to criticize the numerous speeches that have been delivered. Indeed, Sir, I can in the main congratulate the members who have spoken on being in such close agreement with the proposed legislation which is foreshadowed in the Address from the Throne. In only one or two instances has there been cause for regret in the course of 