surety the mind of the constituencies as re- corded at the ballot-box. My opinion is that one reform we should look for is something in the way of a modified Hare system, as far as the election of members is concerned. The longer I live, and the more 1 observe politics, the more satisfied I am that the localism en- gendered by the small constituencies we repre- sent now is-I will not say fatal, but tends to our taking a limited and circumscribed view regarding large questions ; and I believe if Par- liament were elected in large constituencies of from four to seven members the effect would be that we should get more fully at the minds of the people than we do now by the single-elec- torate system. This, however, is by the way. I shall vote for the second reading of the Bill, and in Committee endeavour to give effect to the suggestions I have made by preventing the referendum being taken at so early a period as the Bill provides, and by trying to find some plan by which it shall only be taken on matters of much greater importance than is necessarily provided under the Bill. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .-- I agree with the last speaker in reference to the amendments that may be required in Com- mittee ; but it seems to me the question of whether or not the Bill should pass its second reading is one on which there can hardly be a division. It is generally conceded not only in English-speaking countries, but foreign writers on the same subject have pointed out the desir- ability of referring matters of great importance to the whole people of a particular colony the legislation may be deemed to affect. It seems to me a poor policy and a poor compliment to pay to the people of a country if their represen- tatives are afraid to refer to them great ques- tions which agitate the public mind, and which may have to be dealt with from time to time. " It is said "-I quote now from Hansari- " that about fifteen years ago, after the century opened, it came to be a generally recognised principle that to the people of the United States belonged a direct voice in deciding what their government should be. The Constitution of New York about 1820 became notably unsatis- factory. Governor Clinton, in a message to the Legislature, recommended-first, that the ques- tion of calling a Convention should be submitted to the people and decided by them by a majority vote at the polls of electors; and, second, that, if a Convention should in this way be called, the doing thereof should again be referred to the people for their confirmation or rejection. A Bill was passed by the Legislature according to the Governor's recommendations; the people voted 'Convention ' or ' No Convention,' with a large majority in the affirmative ; and a subse- quent Act ordering the election of delegates stated that it should be the duty of the said Convention to submit their proposed amend- ments to the decision of the citizens of the State entitled to vote under this Act, together or in distinct propositions, as might appear most expedient." In an article on federation written by George Le Rord, as applied to Belgium, he puts the matter shortly and succinctly, saying,- "The referendum has become an issue in the communal politics of Belgium, and here, as there (in America), a devotion to the institution as a means of political reform is developing which may lead to more important results than any which have yet been attained." And Sir Francis Adams, who was the late British Minister at Berne, says, in his work on the Swiss Confederation,- "That the referendum has struck root and expanded wherever it has been introduced, and no serious politician of either party would now think of attempting its abolition." Most of the great writers on this subject who have gone exhaustively into the questions quote the different decisions and methods which have been in vogue in America in dealing with this question ; but there is a difficulty no doubt, as has been voiced by the honourable member for Taieri, in reference to the class of voting-paper which would be put before the people, but that is a detail which can be discussed when the pro- visions of the Bill are gone into in Committee; and therefore we should, upon the second reading of the Bill, speak generally as to the proper pur- port or otherwise of the measure, rather than deal with any small matters which are simply Committee objections. We had from the mem- ber for the Taieri a kind of "pat on the back " to the member for Masterton, on his conversion from being an opponent of the, Referendum Bill to being one of its supporters. I was surprised. so I turned up Hansard for 1893 and 1895. and, instead of finding that in 1893 and 1895 the member for Masterton opposed the Bill. I find he voted for the Bill on both occasions. There were altogether in 1893 twenty in favour and thirty-three against the second reading. and I find fourth on the list the member for Masterton ; so that I can hardly see where the remarks of the member for Taieri came in when he said that the member for Masterton had been converted. Again, in 1895, on the ques- tion that the Bill be read a second time, I find there were twenty-eight for and fourteen against, and amongst the " Ayes " the member for Mas- terton. Amongst the "Noes " we find the mem- ber for Geraldine (Mr. Flatman), Mr. Buddo, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Duncan, Mr. McGowan, Mr. R. Mckenzie, and last, but not least, Mr. E. M. Smith, who is not with us to-night. I feel that it will be a subject for congratulation when we see that some of the gentlemen who voted or paired on that occasion against the Bill have now come to their senses, and, now that it has been introduced by the Government they will. no doubt, be staunch supporters of the Bill, and though they may probably express their opinions after having looked up Hansard to see how they voted, we shall now find them, on the second reading of the Bill, in the "Aye " lobby. I do not think, therefore, the remarks of the honourable member for the Taieri were called for, and no doubt they were provoked by the honourable member for Masterton himself being in a quandary as to how he voted before. 