an old-age pension. I should like the member for Motueka to make that remark to Inspector Pender personally. I am inclined to think that the response would not be very much to Mr. Mckenzie's advantage. I am able to answer him adequately in parliamentary language. " Charge 12 .- ' Neglect of duty in not for- warding brief in the Buck arson case to the Inspector at once, thereby causing delay in Court the following morning, and making false statements in connection therewith.' There is a conflict of evidence as to the time when these papers were placed in the Inspector's box. Weighing the evidence given at the inquiry, and checking it by the reports made shortly after the occurrence, there is a doubt in my mind as to whether the Inspector may not have been mistaken as to the papers not being in his box when he left the office." This last charge shows that Chief Detective McGrath was constantly being charged with neglect of duty. There may not be much in this last charge ; but one thing at least is clear - namely, that Mr. Commissioner Poynton wished to let Chief Detective McGrath down as lightly as he could. There are reprimands throughout the report, light though they be, and light though they may be made to appear on Chief Detective MeGrath's sheet. I say that on such findings as these, and being convicted of insolence towards his superior officer, Mr. Inspector Pender, Chief Detec- tive McGrath, in the interests of the ser- vice, should have been removed or dismissed. Now. Sir, I dwell for a moment on the new system introduced into this country by Mr. / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Commissioner Tunbridge -- the spy system. This gentleman pimp, in addition to perambu- lating the streets after dark with Mr. Com- missioner Tunbridge, gathers information for the Commissioner in various other ways, and if the Premier does not know who this gentleman pimp is I say it is his bounden duty to find him out. It is known to every one in this city who the gentleman pimp is. I use the phrase " gen- tleman pimp " to differentiate the pimp who is ! cision they must have "reasonable ground " clothed as a blackguard and the pimp who is clothed as a gentleman. I say that the methods introduced by Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge happened at seven o'clock in the morning. into this country have caused a reign of terror. No man feels safe. It is so different to our old colonial ways, our freedom, and our confidence in each other. Adopting the methods of T. E. Taylor, Armishaw, and Checketts, he sends round plain-clothes detectives to the hotels of the colony. I have travelled through the colony -perhaps not so much recently as Mr. Com- missioner Tunbridge -but wherever I go I find complaints from the leading hotelkeepers as to the ways of the constables of the Tunbridge type. I was at Grevmouth a short time ago, and was asked by Mr. Revington, who keeps a first-class hotel there, to make representations to this House as to the conduct of the constables of that district, because, he said, if the repre- sentations were made by Mr. Guinness they would say that Mr. Guinness took only a locally coloured view of what took place. He thought with the deliberate intention of tempting the the representation would come better from a member who was not the local member, and he asked me particularly to bring this matter be- fore the House to show the sort of police tyranny that was exercised in that town. I can speak of the tyranny exercised in other towns of the colony, and especially in the City of Wellington. In Mr. Revington's case two gentlemen were sitting in the hotel just after eleven o'clock. They had had their glass, and were conversing on ordinary subjects, when a constable walked in and ordered them out of the house. One was a Justice of the Peace-nothing in that, of course - and the other was a merchant of the place. And this is what may happen under the system of tyranny introduced by Mr. Com- missioner Tunbridge. As to the plain-clothes trick, the law is well laid down in England. The system in Wellington, as I say, is nothing short of absolute tyranny; but the law on the subject is clearly laid down in Duncan versus Dowding, Law Reports, 1897, Queen's Bench Division, page 575. "There must be reason- able grounds for catering." A plain-clothes constable dare not enter a hotel or public- house unless he has "reasonable grounds for entering." If a plain-clothes constable does enter a hotel without reasonable cause, the hotelkeeper-and I wish I were a hotelkeeper for a moment for the purpose- is entitled to precipitate the departure of that plain- clothes constable by a firm but gentle shove from behind. What happened in the Smith case - the Cricketers' Arms case. Two plain-clothes men climbed over a fence to get into the house at about seven in the morning. They found a boarder on the premises. An information was laid, and was, of course, promptly dismissed, because there was " no rea- sonable ground " for entering. Then, there was the case of the Post Office Hotel, certainly one of the most respectably conducted houses in the city. In that case the plain-clothes men jumped in over the back of the man who was washing out to see if there was any one in the bar. As I have said, under the English de- for entering the premises. They must believe that there are people there drinking. This Is it reasonable to suppose that there would be people in the bar drinking at that hour of the morning, especially at the Post Office Hotel? But these men had the temerity to go in. If I had been there they would have gone out in a hurry. But upon this subject we have a valu- able opinion from a colonial Judge. Judge Kettle, in the Kreissig case, reported in the Wanganni herald of the 28th April, 1900, said this : - " Mr. Kettle, after giving judgment, referred to and condemned the methods of the police in securing convictions by inducing people to break the law. The Police Force Act, he said, laid down that constables were appointed for the detection and prevention of crime, and they took an oath to do all they could to ' pre- vent' crime. The two constables, by the wish of their superior officer, went to the restaurant 