and it came with an ill grace from a man of such limited qualifications as Mr. Commis- sioner Tunbridge to endeavour by such means to move a man of such high standing. Mr. Inspector Pender can look back with pride upon a long and honourable career. He has performed more noble service to this colony than Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge would be capable of doing if he lived here for fifty years. Mr. Inspector Pender has passed through what it is usual to call the heat and burden of the day, and if there were any desire on the part of any person-a Minister of the Crown or any other person-to remove Mr. Pender from his position, that ought to be done in a manly, straightforward, and honourable way. But what have been the means adopted by Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge to secure Inspector Pender's removal? First of all, then, he sets & certain class of officers of the Force, who are his willing and pliant tools, to spy on the other half of the Force-to spy on the men who are loyal, and have for years and years displayed their loyalty, to their old commander and officer, Inspector Pender. The first attempt of this kind was made through the instrumentality of Mr. Sub - Inspector Mitchell, a man well fitted to do such dirty work ; a man who was advanced in the Force by Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge so that he should be better able to annoy and harass In- spector Pender. The insolence of Sub-Inspector Mitchell became intolerable. He had to be re- moved to Auckland. Another method adopted by Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge to injure the Police Force of this colony is this : Not satis- fied with instructing the officers of the Police Force-not the men, but the officers-to spy upon each other, he himself walks through the streets in plain clothes watching every move- ment of the men. I will give you a sample of this kind of supervision. Sergeant Griffiths, one of the oldest and most respected sergeants in this colony, was reported by the Commis- sioner for being " seen speaking to a constable and smiling." He was reprimanded and re- moved from Wellington. Sergeant Griffiths told me the whole of the petty story. Again, a con- stable named Surgenor was reprimanded and received orders to remove to Auckland for being seen speaking to a bookmaker in Willis Street -so it was alleged by the Commissioner. Now, it happened that I passed along Willis Street on that very evening. I saw Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge at the time when this constable was said to have been seen speaking to a bookmaker, and, having seen and heard what took place, I am in a position to detail the circumstances to the House. Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge was walking ahead of the constable, and the gentle- man pimp, who is always in his company at night --- An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is he ? Mr. FISHER .- I will tell you presently who he is. The gentleman pimp was walking be- hind. This is their method of trapping their man. The constable was therefore sandwiched between them. Just as I passed I heard the bookmaker say to the constable, " What is the row?" There were three or four men in the middle of the street talking loudly, and the constable said, "I do not know," and walked on. That is precisely all that took place. Next day Mr. Tunbridge sent instructions to the head office at the police-station to the effect that Constable Surgenor was to be reprimanded and to be removed to Auckland for this offence of having spoken to a bookmaker in the street. Constable Surgenor at once saw a person in au- thority, and when it was found that the charge was utterly unfounded and that there was aino- lutely nothing in it, everything was withdrawn -the reprimand was withdrawn, and the re- moval was withdrawn. Then, because Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge became the idol of the prohibition party, he began to believe that he was in reality the Governor of the country- a petty despot he truly is. He believed himself to be possessed of powers co-equal with those of the Premier. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Premier brought him out. Mr. FISHER .- If the Premier did bring him out, and, of course, he did, it is an act he ought to be sorry for. Mr. Commissioner Tun- bridge is a man dressed in a little brief autho- rity. He believes to this day that, through the power he acquired through the setting-up of the Taylor Royal Commission, the mantle of authority has fallen from the Premier's shoulders to his, and that he is now a great power in the land. When he failed in removing Inspector Pender by such unworthy means-and may he ever fail-then he attacks the young officers under Inspector Pender. Clearly he thinks that by removing the men who are loval to Inspector Pender he will weaken Inspector Pender's position in the Force, and that by that means he will ultimately get rid of him. It is the underhand, the undermining trick. It is a long-thought-out plan, but it will never succeed in the case of Mr. Inspector Pender. The Minister of Justice, who is also Minister in charge of the police. Says that one of these officers who is about to be removed-Acting-Detective Nixon -- is to be so removed because cases of crime have - cently gone undetected in the City of Welling- ton. If that is so, why blame Acting-Detective Nixon ? Let us put the logical position : Why blame Acting-Detective Nixon, who is a rising young officer, who has advanced rapidly, and is a credit to the detective branch of the Police Force of this colony. "Crime is undetected." says the Minister of Justice. Then, I ask him logically, what is Chief Detective MeGrath doing? Should not the allegation, if there be any force in it, lie not against Acting-Detective Nixon, but against Chief Detective MeGrath. and if blame is to be laid at the right door, if the right horse is to be saddled. why remove Acting- Detective Nixon, whose sheet is a clean sheet He has been noted for commendation by every officer under whom he has served-even by Me. Commissioner Tunbridge himself. Why shotde he be removed from Wellington ? while. in the case of Chief Detective McGrath, there are two. if not three, black marks on his sheet. 