properties in the areas he had named, it would not be in their power to purchase them at no distant date. There was an excellent oppor- tunity at present to purchase properties in Crof- ton and Khandallah at prices that would be ad- vantageous both to the Government and to the people who would be settled on the land. The City of Wellington was congested. No land for workmen's homes was available in Wellington. He understood an offer had been made by a syndicate, and also by an owner, at Khandallah and Crofton of land that was easy of access, and that could be protitably acquired by the Govern- ment at the present time. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said there was an offer of about forty acres of land pre- sently before the Land Purchase Board, situ- ated near Khandallah, which would be inspected shortly. If the land was suitable, and within reasonable walking-distance of the factories at Kaiwarra and Ngahauranga, a recommendation would be made by the Land Purchase Board to the Government. The train services on the Manawatu Railway-line were so timed as to be quite unsuitable for workmen engaged in Wel- lington. At the present time, therefore, unless the train service was altered, it would be of little use to purchase land there for workmen's homes. I: was a matter, however, that might be reme- died, and perhaps the Wellington and Mana- watu Railway Company would see its way to run a train for workmen. At any rate, the question had not been lost sight of by the de- partment, and, although no steps had been taken in the matter up to the present time, the officers of the department had not lost sight of it. Mr. WILFORD said the answer of the honourable gentleman would be a capital one if the settlers travelled into Wellington by the Manawatu train, but, as a matter of fact, they would come down the hill and get the train at Kaiwarra. ## GORGE BRIDGE. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Lands, What steps he has taken in connec- tion with the re-erection of the Gorge Bridge ? Last session he understood the Minister of Lands was going to take steps to carry out the recommendations of the Commission. Nothing had been done, however, but he sincerely trusted that the question, which was really one of colo- nial importance, would now be taken in hand and settled without delay. If the reply of the Minister was not favourable, he would have to bring the matter before the House again, and he certainly thought the Government should construct the bridge as a colonial work. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said a Commissioner was appointed in May, 1900, to hoid an inquiry as to the apportionment of the cost of reconstructing the bridge, and on his re- port being received a Proclamation was issued in October. 1900, authorising the Manchester Road Board to construct the bridge, and to collect a portion of the cost from ten adjoining local bodies. A sum of $1,500 was also promised by the Government; but the Manchester Road Board had made no move to commence the work, and nearly all the local bodies objected to contribute. It had been decided, therefore, that as soon as the plans of a suitable structure could be prepared Government should call for tenders, and do the work at the cost and ex- pense of the local bodies, as provided by sub- section (10) of section 114 of "The Public Works Act, 1894." The local bodies all shirked the responsibility of attending to the bridge, and, evidently, if it was to be constructed at all, the Government must take it in hand and do the work, and collect the money as, best they could. He might say that, with the ex- ception of the honourable member, no one had sent him any communication from either side of the bridge during the last twelve months. # MORNING SITTINGS. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) moved, That until further ordered this session, on two of the days set apart for Government business only, this House do meet for the despatch of business at half-past ten a.m. ; that on the first day for morning sittings only orders of the day shall be taken : and, further, that on those days no business shall be taken after half past ten p.m., at which hour the House shall adjourn. Any Standing Orders that may prevent this being given effect to to be suspended during the time such order is in force. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) thought the House was entitled to some explanation with regard to this motion, and he was sorry the Minister for Railways had not seen fit to give it. The posi- tion appeared to him to be this : that the House at present met at half-past two p.m., and what was proposed was that on two morn- ings in each week the House should meet at half-past ten a.m. He supposed that on such mornings the House would adjourn at one p.m. for lunch: so that the effect would be that the members would be working two hours and a half more in the early part of the day than they were doing at present. He did not object to that under certain circum- stances. Then, they came to the other part of the proposal-that no business should be taken after half-past ten p.m. Did that mean no new business ? If it did, then he ventured to say that what was proposed was worse than the pre- sent system. Sir J. G. WARD. - " At which hour the House shall adjourn." Mr. MASSEY would like the motion to be clearly stated. If it meant the House would rise at half-past ten p.m .- which was, he thought, what was proposed-it was worthy of a fair trial. If it meant that sometimes a number of Bills would be put into Committee, and that they would have to be taken through before the House adjourned -and that was continually being done at present-he would vote against it. Sir J. G. WARD said the Government, in attempting day sittings as against night sit- tings, were doing what they believed many members desired. The proposal in the resolu- tion-he was sorry there was any doubt in the member for Franklin's mind about it-was 