as far as is possible by tarpaulins. That sort of protection is unsatisfactory. If there is 'bad weather the sacks get damaged, and there might be heavy claims on the department. I there. fore urge the honourable gentleman to come down to the House with proposals for a suffi- cient vote to enable the present shed accommo- dation to be enlarged, because I can assure him that the plethora of grain is not an abnormal circumstance, but that he will have to look for years to come to a very large grain freight in the districts I speak of. It is only right that, as it is a paying trade for the railway, proper facilities should be provided for those who wish to forward their grain. Sir, I thank honourable members for the patient hearing they have given to me. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- Mr. Speaker, I think I can safely say without fear of contra- diction that the position at the present moment in this Parliament-or any other Parliament in a self-governing colony - is absolutely un- paralleled. Sir, what has brought it to this condition ? It is not for me to say, because The re- the responsibility is not mine. sponsibility rests upon the gentlemen who are sitting opposite. I would like, Sir, before going further into the situation, to compliment the mover and seconder of the Address in Reply upon the speeches delivered. They were temperate in tone, the matter was excellent, and, in respect to the speech from the mover, its effects told in so striking a manner upon the member for Hawke's Bay that that honourable gentleman, in his opening re- marks, for once, I think, forgot the position https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 he held, and forgot that kindly and gentle- manly behaviour that usually characterizes him in debate in this House. Sir, I think the remarks of the honourable gentleman were to this effect: "The honourable member who proposed the Address was a roaring lion last session, but since then the lion-tamer has been at work, and we find the member for Christchurch City this session is as gentle," not as the cooing dove, but, I think he said, "a sucking dove." He went further. If he had stopped at that I would have had no reason to complain. I do object, however, to the last quotation of the honourable gentle- man. Sir, it is quite true the lion-tamer has been at work; but it has not been the leader of the House, it has not been the member for Westland. The lion tamer has \- been the people of this country. Sir, the people of this country have had good reason in the past to remember what happened to them during the time those members on the Opposition benches were in power. those mom- bers who again sought to come into power. We know what they did, and what they would do again if they had the opportunity. Sir, I do not need to repeat the story. I would like to efface it from the history of our country -how this fair land, with its great natural advantages, and peopled by a people unequalled within the British Empire, had been brought to the state-approaching ruin and disaster- in which our party found it ten years ago. I deserves better treatment at the hands of It was a country that was in the mire. Its people had practically been deprived of their rights ; and shelter-sheds, and poverty, and all the evils of the old land were in our midst. People were rushing away from the country, driven from it by the bad management and the effeteness of those who were ruling in those days. Sir, it is well that we should occasionally remind the people of this country of the "wretched past." It is the same country, and the same people. We do not say that the great change for the better has come about on account of the work of this Parliament. All we did was to say, "Give the country and its people an opportunity. Let there be freedom, let there be the opportunity, and the result will be to the advantage of the people of the country." And, Sir, this opportunity has been given. The laws of our colony are now being copied by other countries, as well as by the British Empire and her colonies ; and it may be said, Sir, that after that has been done the reason why the people refuse to trust the members on the Opposition benches is because "the lion-tamer has been at work." Sir, there can be only one answer to it-the people are the best judges. In the general election before last, who was the roaring lion upon the platforms, telling the people of the country that they were going back with a dead certainty, that Seddonism and Liberalism would be things of the past, that they alone would show the country how unsafe it was to trust them ? And I would like to know who, after that election, were the sucking doves. Then, Sir, might I remind my honour- able friends opposite of the last election, and the last Parliament. Who was it then that boasted ? Who was it then we found was the roaring lion ? The member for Hawke's Bay ; and with him, Sir-I do not apply it offensively -were the tigers, and the leopards, and other animals of that class, but of a lower order. Sir, we heard the roaring of the lion. We heard, Sir, from the tigers and the leopards what the result would be and what would take place. We heard it, Sir, during the election. During the election, Sir, the lions jumped through their rings, the leopards followed them, and the tigers, Sir, bounded from one side of the cage to the other. But when the elections were over where were the lions, the tigers, and the leopards ? The people said, "The leopards can- not change their spots." Sir, they are there still, but the whip hangs over them. They are lying there, crouching and ready at any time for a fatal spring to the Treasury benches. But, Sir, the crack of the whip has sounded- the whip of public opinion -and they are as mild. politically, as any ruffians that we read of who ever scuttled a ship or cut a throat. But all this is unparliamentary. There is something I have read about the scuttling of a ship, and doing something else. Sir, I was very much amused, as well as pained, when I heard the member for Hawke's Bay read- ing his own political burial service. I, Sir, felt a better fate should have been his. He 