Bill, as I said before, has been before a Select Committee, which took evidence and reported in favour of the Bill with certain amendments. These amendments last year were incorporated in the Bill, endeavouring to tone down and soften down any part of the machinery of the Bill which unnecessarily would be likely to brand these young people prematurely with anything they could be saved from. That machinery still exists in the Bill that we have now before the Council, and I therefore ask the Council to pass it as they passed it before, and to hope that the other Chamber will have time to consider it and pass it into law. I feel quite certain the Bill is one which, if not as flagrantly wanted as a few years ago, still is one we ought to carry, because there is a good deal of juvenile laxity as regards discipline and attachment to home. The Bill lays a cer- tain amount of responsibility on the parents, for if the parents do not do their duty to their children they have to face the consequences, because not only will the child be brought up before the Magistrate, but the parents. I cannot in any way admit the charge that was made against the Bill last year and previously-that it was a Bill likely to create a criminal class, and that we were endeavouring to put a brand of infamy on any of our children. Its object is to prevent any of our children from reaching such lengths of depravity that they might come to belong to a criminal or vicious class. The Bill, I feel quite certain, if properly handled and if its administration is put into proper hands, will prevent our children from ever falling into such ways as would lead them into trouble. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .-- Sir, I do not think there are many who hold different opinions about the protection of young children from getting into ways of error, but the question is, What process shall we take for that purpose ? Is the Bill wanted, or is it not likely to create another large staff of people without being, in one's opinion, necessary ? Or is it a Bill just to be put on the statute-book and no more notice .taken of it, as was the case with the Inebriates' Homes Bill, which was passed years ago-a much more important Bill than this-and no further notice was taken of it, and nothing was done towards putting it into force ? Then, Sir, we have back in this Bill the " discreet woman.' Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .-- Where is she ? The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- She is back here again, clothed and in her right mind ; you will find her in clause 4. Then, there is another thing in regard to this Bill : If it is a good Bill, why should it not apply all over the colony ? Why is it a permissive Bill, and why should it only apply to certain districts? Now, with regard to the Bill, the great objection one had to it before is still there. I would ask any one, supposing a child is taken home-a young girl or boy-to his or her people by a policeman or a "discreet woman," how will that child be looked upon in the future? Will it not be re- garded as one of the criminal classes ? To my mind, that would be the case, notwithstanding what the honourable gentleman said-that the Bill would not create a criminal class. There is a feasible way of dealing with this matter. I was a member of the Committee. I do not wish to refer to the evidence, because members usually wish to quote only portions of the evi- dence, reading them their own way, leaving out certain bits as it suits them. We had a great deal of evidence before the Committee in con- nection with the Act-which did good work while it was in force, namely, the Contagious Diseases Act and I venture to say that if this Act were brought into force again it would clear the streets much better and more effectually We have taken pre- than this class of Bill. cautions against certain diseases throughout the colony, but we have diseases here affecting the stamina of the young people of New Zealand, and which will continue to affect it, running rampant, and no steps are taken to preven: that. In my opinion, it would be better if the Government had simply brought in a Bill cf three clauses, saying that the Contagious Dis- eases Act should be brought into force through out New Zealand ; that would be a benefit to the population of the colony, and we should be able to bring up a stalwart and well - grown people, instead of having their health sapped as at present, and the result descending for genera- You have only to look at the cases tions. in the Court to see how it is circulated. If there were any chance of carrying it I would propose an amendment to the Bill, to the effect that the Contagious Diseases Act be brought into force. 1 do not think that the young people of New Zealand are so bad as people imagine them to be. 1 am quite satisfied that in New Zealand we have a well-behaved class of young people. Of course, I do not mean to say that we have none of the criminal classes among them, and that they are all well-be- haved-there is nothing like that in any country ; but I say, if you compare them with any other colony or any other place, they will compare most favourably in every way with any country in the world. With this class of Bill, providing for all these billets for people. we shall have in New Zealand, I think, a billet for every second person in it before we are much older. I believe in giving a great deal of en- couragement to those homes that are esta- blished now. We should endeavour to help them in their good work, because they are doing a great deal of good work ; and wher. you come to put this Bill into force you will be taking away from the good work they are now doing. It would be more in our in- terests to encourage this voluntary work that to pass a law like this, which will never be pus into force. I do not care to take up the time of the Council any further in debating the Bill; it has been debated every year, and I do not know that any good will be done by debating it. If there is a majority to pass it, we had better get it over and out of the road, though I should like to see it thrown out altogether. I shall vote against it. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I shall support this Bill, as I supported it when it came before 