and organizations which have expressed that opinion. Now, the Premier said, in the course of his speech, that this Bill, if given effect to, would undo what the people had done at the last election. There I entirely differ from him, and there can be no doubt that if the elec- tive Executive were brought in to-morrow the Right Hon. the Premier would remain where he is. I think there can be no doubt that everybody who knows the skill and adroit- ness of the Premier would say that he would appoint the Ministry, even if you had an elective Executive. I am prepared to admit that such is the Right Hon. the Premier's strength in this House that my opinion is that he would pass round the ticket of the Ministry that was to be elected, and there can be little doubt that in the House, as at present constituted, even if the Ministry was not composed of all those gentlemen who now occupy the benches, at any rate those elected would be the ones that the right honourable gentleman favoured. Now, Sir, what I object to in connection with the honourable gentleman's speech, and in con- nection with a great many other of his speeches, is that whenever he has an argument that he finds it difficult to get over he endeavours to find out some unworthy motive to attribute to those who are against him. In the course of his speech to-night he asked the ques- tion, Is it a means of forcing reconstruction of the Government ? And he hinted that there were on his own side of the House a num- ber of members dissatisfied that they were not in the Ministry, and they thought this might be the means of their getting in. I venture to say that suggestions of that kind are not worthy of the leader of this House. ] venture to say that in considering a question like this - one of the most important that can be submitted to this House -- it ought to be quite possible to consider the question upon its merits-judging by argument, precedent, and historical illustration - without endeavour- ing to raise a personal and entirely false issue by suggesting that every man, or even any number of men, supporting the Elective Fixe- cutive Bill are doing so because they think it will provide the means of their getting into the Government. I venture to say there are a number of members of this House who have not the slightest idea of entering the Cabinet-who have not the slightest hope or expectation of being asked - and who will, from conscientious motives, cast their votes upon this occasion, as they have done in the past, for the principle of the elective Executive, because they believe that under the present system the strongest possible Government is not of necessity placed upon those benches, and because they believe that by the elective Executive we shall get rid of some of the greater evils of the party system without losing any of its benefits. I am one of those who recognise -- as the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) said this evening-that there is something in the constitution of man which leads one party of men to be more progressive than others. There are the more progressive, who are Liberals, and there are those who are Mr. G. W. Russell more careful to conserve existing interests, and who are called Conservatives; and I suppose there will always be these two classes in a Le- gislature where political opinions are active- in fact, the more active they are the more sharply it is probable, will be the lines of demarcation between the parties. But, while saying that. I am also of opinion that under the principles that govern this Bill we should obtain purer legislation and secure more independence on the part of members of this House ; further, that. instead of the members of this House being compelled to go cap in hand to Ministers and ask for things that are their right as member of this House, or as representing their con- stituents, they would feel they met Minister, on a plane of equality as servants of the people : whilst the Government of the day would be in a position to assert their independence, and say, " No, we are not going to give you this particular road or bridge; it is not needed We do not need to purchase your vote." I believe that the effect would be actually to strengthen the hands of the Government, and it would result in economy, instead of, as the Premier said to-night, in there being reckless- ness in expenditure. Now. there was som? twaddle spoken by the Premier when he said that under one of the clauses of this Bill there would be the possibility of the representative cf He said that under the Crown being insulted. section 4 the approval of the Governor had to i+ asked before the Ministry could be sworn it. and that if the Governor refused to accept th nominations of Ministers by the House ther would be trouble, as the Governor's actions could be canvassed on the floor of this House. But, Sir, I would ask, is the Governor Di bound to accept the nomination of the Premier as to who his Ministers shall be ? Has not the Governor the same right now to refuse to acop any Minister whom the Premier may nominate ! And is it not far less likely that the Governor would object to accept the nomination of Par- liament deliberately given than that he would assert the same right regarding a Minister nominated at the behest of a Premier? Again, the Premier said that under this B :!! there would be a constant state of political turmoil, because any twenty - five member could raise the question of the fitness of any particular Minister. But, Sir, is it not the fact that one man can do that now ? I think it is not more than two years ago that from th- other side of the House a motion was mad which questioned, I think, the position of tax Minister of Marine in connection with what ? known as the " Marine scandal." That metdr. was the act of one person, not twenty-five. I: appears to me that under this Bill, which te. quires that before the position of a Minister can be attacked there must be twenty . av. members to sign the paper demanding a poi di to his fitness, you have a still greater t'ha rantee for the security of tenure of Minister in their positions than you have at present The Premier also remarked that there would . under this Bill a want of cohesion in the Ministry. Sir, are the present Ministry el. 