in regard to sanitation. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .-- I regret, Sir, that a suggestion I made when the Public Health Bill was before the Council last year, and which suggestion met with general accept- ance at the hands of members, was not adopted in the regulations issued under the hand of the Governor in Council. My suggestion was that clean white paper should be used as wrappers by those who sell goods to the public. At present butchers and others frequently wrap up meat and other articles in dirty newspaper and dirty wrappers. There is no necessity at all for that, as clean white paper can be obtained at almost as reasonable a rate as old newspapers, which, in my opinion, contain a large amount of impurity, owing to the ink with which they are printed. I trust that the honourable gentleman may impress upon the Government the advisability of a regulation being brought into force. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I would like to point out to the Minister that a drafts- man's error has crept into clause 2. It says that the Governor may prohibit the importation of any material into New Zealand, and also that he may stipulate any conditions under which it may come in. There seems to me to be a contradiction there. Bill read the second time. CHINESE IMMIGRANTS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This Bill has been found necessary by reason of the fact that ships may come to our shores with Chinese crews, and under the present law it is not very https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 clear as to the responsibility upon the master in the event of any of the crew deserting and leaving the ship and going ashore. Therefore it is advisable that the law should be made per- fectly clear, and it will be seen by the Bill that the master is to muster his crew in the presence of an officer of the Customs when he arrives in port, and before any of the crew land in New Zealand, and " give to such officer a list signed by the master containing the names and number of such members of the crew as are Chinese : and immediately prior to the departure of the same ship, and before receiving her clearance, the master shall again in the presence of an officer of Customs muster the crew, and satisfy such officer that all the Chinese comprised in the said list are then on board and will leave New Zealand with the ship, or, if not then on board, have not landed in New Zealand." If there is any difference in the crew -- if any of them have left the ship and have got ashore-then the penalty is to be enforced against the master, and the penalty is to be increased from £20 to $50. At the same time, by clause 5 it shall be lawful for any Chinese member of a crew as aforesaid from time to time to go ashore in the performance of his duties. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. STEVENS .- At first sight it might appear that there is nothing of any con- siderable importance in this Bill beyond the provisions that at present exist in regard to Chinese immigrants. If the Chinese Immi- grants Act of 1881 is a sound measure, and it is generally accepted and believed to be such, there is no question that the mustering of a Chinese crew by the master of a ship is cer- tainly necessary to give full effect to the Act ; but at the same time, Sir, I wish to point out before I conclude that there is a very important difference between the action of this Bill and the 1881 law in one particular. The Act 'of 1881 distinctly contemplated that there should be a Chinese crew or a partial Chinese crew. The principle of the Act was that if Chinese were introduced, not being members of the crew, a sort of import duty should be paid upon them, as is well known to honourable members. By the second paragraph of the 5th clause of the Act of 1881 it was provided that the sum of £10 was not to be pavable by or in respect of any Chinese who is one of the crew of any vessel unless he lands with the intention of remaining in the colony. If he landed in an improper manner contrary to the Act he would be liable to penalties. I see no objection to the provision that on the departure of the ship the Chinese crew shall be mustered in order that the Customs shall be satisfied that none of them have been permitted to evade the Act with the view of remaining in the colony. But this Bill says something more than that. It says by the 5th clause that. " Subject to the pro- visions of this Act, it shall be lawful for any Chinese member of the crew as aforesaid from time to time to go ashore in the performance of his duties in connection with the ship." I But he can go ashore for no other purpose. apprehend that under the 1881 Act a Chinese member of a crew was absolutely free if he got leave from his commanding officer to go ashore like any one else, but, by implication, this clause will prevent any Chinese sailor going ashore unless he goes under orders to do something in connection with his ship. I scarcely think that is a right thing. It seems to me that an innocent individual who has no intention of evading the Act of 1881, or to do any thing that is improper in any respect, is absolutely prevented from going ashore unless he goes on duty. I almost regard it as a slip in the drafting of the Bill. It must be a kind of accident in the preparing of the Bill, for it seems scarcely possible that any one can approve of so arbitrary a provision as is contained in this clause. I am almost inclined to hope that I have been mistaken in my interpretation of the clause. As one who was in the House of Representatives in 1881, when the original Act was passed, and having heard it referred to and discussed on many sub- sequent occasions, I am perfectly certain that such a provision as this was never the inten- tion of the Legislature, neither then nor, I think, since. I mention this circumstance to bring it before the notice of the Hon. the Minister as an interference with the proper and reasonable rights of a harmless individual who comes to these shores in the discharge of his duty. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I read 