I wish also to say a few words in connection with the new clause of the Bill moved by Captain Russell, because it is the same amend- ment that was moved by him in 1894. In 1894 I voted against it ; but the other evening, in Committee, I voted for it, and I will briefly state my reasons. In the first place, when the Land for Settlements Bill was brought down in 1894 we had to exercise the utmost care that the new principle that was being started should receive every possible chance. If honourable members were to look back to 1894 they would see how very simple were its provisions ; and the Bill, which was then a very simple one, has now grown into a large and complicated measure. I voted as I did in 1894 because we then thought that the new principle ought to be given every opportunity of being carried out. But, as time has gone on, experience has shown that various amendments have been wanted, and one amendment that was shown to be wanted is in subsection (3) of section 12 of the Act of 1900. Provision is there made by which if there are two or more owners in partnership they are allowed to rank as individual owners, and to retain each the prescribed minimum as defined in the interpretation clause of the Act of 1894. That was not in as the Act was passed in 1894, but the point I make is that the Land for Settle- ments Act has gone through a process of evolu- tion, and that as it has evolved into the large and complicated measure which we have now on the statute-book it has been found that some of our fears in 1894 proved groundless, and, on the other hand, that changes have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 developed which have rendered other pro- visions necessary, and that these have been given effect to in the more elaborate and complicated legislation of last year. Now, I say this: that experience has shown us that, so far as the compulsory clauses of the Act are concerned. Captain Russell's amend- ment could be inserted in the Bill without any material principle of the Bill being affected, without any injustice being done to the colony, or without any chance of the land-for-settlements policy being delayed. Therefore I voted for it, because I hold if it is right that partners, who are unlimited in number-according to sub- clause (3) of section 12 there might be seven or ten acting as working partners on a farm- should be entitled each to hold a thousand acres of first-class land, then it is certainly not unjust or unfair to the country that if a man has his own son or daughter living with him on the property, they should be entitled to hold, say, half the amount which partners may hold, because Captain Russell's proposal was that only five hundred acres of first-class land each should be retained by the members of a family, whereas each of the partners in a firm can retain a thousand acres of first-class land. I say, therefore, without any hesitation, speak- ing myself as the father of a large family, that I think we ought to deal more fairly with the family side of our legislation ; and I think that the proposal made by the honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay was not an unjust one, colony at present that we should take away from the children of a man the right to share in the family home, particularly as we only a year or two ago passed a Family Homes Pro- tection Act to protect the homes of the people. Of course, it has been said that land is different from other forms of wealth ; but, as I said when the Bill was going through Committee, if instead of a man having his money invested in land he had it invested in a brewery, or a news- paper, or any other kind of business, would it be considered fair and just that he. having his family working in the business with him, should be told he was only entitled to retain one part of that business, and that the rest of it was to be divided around in the shape of shares amongst persons who became share- holders in a joint-stock company? That ap- pears to me to be a fair illustration of the matter. I should like to say, with regard to what has been said about the freehold tenure, that I believe the lease in perpetuity is really another form of the freehold tenure. It is for What better is a freehold than 999 years. that ? In fact, from the point of view that I take as a Liberal it is worse than the freehold. However, I do not wish to elaborate on that point, as I have previously expressed my opinion on it. But if the Government wish to prevent the aggregation of lands in large estates I see no reason whatever why an agrarian law should not be passed for the purpose of limit- ing the area that may be held by each person ; and if when land is cut up and sold as freehold on a Crown grant, we provide that that land should be occupied by a person, and that for all time there should be one person resident on that section, I see no reason why the aggrega- tion of large estates should not be prevented in that way, and each section remain intact as it was when it was sold. I have never flinched in my support of the land-for-settlements policy, which I believe is certainly calculated to pro- moto the prosperity of this colony as a whole. I should like to say one or two words regarding the double ballot that is being introduced into the Bill. I have grave doubts whether that will be a success in the form it has been passed. I think, as the Bill provides that there shall be two ballots, it will be almost impossible for a selector to get the particular section of land he desires. I do not think that people will send in applications in globo for one out of twenty or thirty sections that may be open. I think where a man is going to make a home for himself he likes to go over the particular block he has taken a fancy to ; then he puts in his application, and he does so after thinking out in his own mind where he will build his house, and where he will place his steading on his farm ; and it will not suit to provide that he shall simply send in an application and take any particular section that may be allotted to him. However, that will be a matter that will be tested by experience as time goes on. I will refer back for one moment to the clause pro- posed by Captain Russell to say that that clause would only affect the compulsory purchase where 