After the police had done their duty it would be for the Defence Department to deal with the members of the Volunteer Force who committed this misconduct and dismiss them from the Force. In the meantime, this was purely a police question. The police had made certain inquiries, and the evidence was quite complete as to the assault and as to the taking-away of goods, only there was no identification of the particular parties. That was all there was in it. If the girl had identi- fied any particular man there would have been a good case, and .the only reason that there had not been an information laid was that the identification was not complete. But as to the facts of what transpired, they were pretty clear. He regretted very much what had occurred. If the men could be identified, of course, the investigation would be before the Magistrate. The Police Commissioner's report said that there was not sutheient identification to war- rant further action, but there was very little denial as to there having been misbehaviour. Captain RUSSELL said, As a very frequent traveller on that railway-line, he desired to bear testimony to the excellent manner in which the refreshment-rooms were conducted. RETURNED TROOPERS. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Minister of Defence, What steps he intends to take to provide employment for returned troopers who, through injury, are unable to perform the same class of labour as they were formerly engaged in ? A large number of our young men had returned home wounded. He knew three or four who were incapacitated from following the calling which they followed before they went to South Africa. Many of the re- turned troopers were able to go back to their old calling, but some who had returned injured were unable to do so. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said, By Ministerial instructions a number of applicants had been referred to Officers Commanding Dis- tricts, who had been ordered to obtain from employers of labour lists of vacancies for which such applicants might be eligible. Twenty-two appoint ments of non-commissioned officers and men had already been made to Government departments. In the case of young men who had left Government departments, instructions had been given that they were to be taken on in their old departments. With respect to artillery-men, and members of the Torpedo Corps, instructions had been given that prefer- ence was to be given to them, and in the case of returned troopers, all things being equal, they were to have preference. The Government intended as far as they could to give them em- ployment. He could not do any more than that. It had been suggested that they might be given grants of land. or given preference in the balloting for land. but as a very large number of them were single young men they probably would not care to go on the land. He could only give a general assurance that as far as the Government could they would assist in getting them back into their employment. LOCAL BODIES' LOANS. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Go- vernment, If they will this session introduce an amending Bill so as to enable local bodies to borrow moneys, under the Loans to Local Bodies Act, for the purpose of paying off exist- ing loans as they fall due ? He would like to know whether the Premier was going to intro- duce a Bill in the direction indicated in this question, because the local bodies would derive no benefit at all from the Act as it at present stood. The Act only permitted them to borrow money for new works ; and as the cities and boroughs had completed most of their works, they could not get any benefit from the Act in any way. If the Government permitted them, when a loan matured, to borrow money in order to pay it off that would be a great benefit to the local bodies and to the ratepayers-in fact. to a very large majority of the people of the colony. He was quite aware that the Treasury would say that this was a very big order, and likewise that it would require safeguards, but he thought the honourable gentleman would be able to insert safeguards in the Bill suggested. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer, said that Parliament passed the Local Authorities Loans Conversion Act, and that seemed so far to have been a dead-letter. It was all a question of Es. d. If Parliament passed an Act and took over the loans of local bodies-because that is practically what it amounts to-and made them a State loan, that, of course, was a matter for Parliament. But at the present time they were putting the colony into debt to the extent of about a million a year for develop- ing the colony, and about half a million for land for settlements; and if they went on at the rate of two millions and a half, well, that would be a big order, and it was a question as to what effect it might have outside the colony. It was a great pity that the local bodies had to pay such a high rate of interest on their loans, but the honourable member must not forget that those who held the debentures of the local bodies' loans, and were getting their 5, 6, and 7 per cent., would not part with them, and you could not make them part with them. Some very large loans might mature, and they would have to be in a position to deal with them. The matter wanted very careful consideration, but he would like to see the local bodies get their money at the lowest possible rate. They could not get it, because if it was known that a loan was falling due and they had to reborrow, they had to pay any rate of interest that was de- manded. STATE NOTE-ISSUE. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government. Whether they propose, during this session, to take any steps towards realising the hope expressed by the Premier, as reported in Hansard for 1900, Vol. cxiv., pp. 445. et cetera. in the following words : "I am looking forward, and that before very long, to using State paper for paying State claims with." He asked this question for the purpose of raising the question of State notes. As he understood the matter, 