instance followed the trade. We have always shown that we were capable of protecting our own ; but the cause of the Empire's growth bas been the indomitable pluck of the emigrants who went out from the shores of the United Kingdom to found new nations. If you look at the component parts of the British Empire, is this fact not self-evident? Look at Canada. Was Canada made by war? Look at Aus- tralasia. Was Australasia made by war? I say it is by work and industry that nations live : and, as one who has taken an active interest for some years past in the defence movement, and devoted a considerable part of my time to military work, I say that there is a limit beyond which we ought not to go, and it is unwise and impolitic to teach our little children. as this Bill virtually provides, that we ought to live by war and fighting. Sir, if it had not been for war, especially the wars of Mr. Pitt. the British Empire would have been able to do far greater work than it is capable of doing at the present time. During the Napo- leonic wars the national debt was run up by hundreds of millions, wars that it is now proved did not ultimately make for the consolidation of the Empire. Again, how did the Crimean War help the Empire? What would have been the case had England not had a national debt, which has been exclusively created by war ? We would not have had the spectacle of four or five millions of British people without proper homes. We would not have had the squalor and misery that so disgrace the Home-country. I think it is General Booth, of the Salvation Army, who https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 says that there are three millions of people in England who scarcely know, from day to day. where their breakfast will come from. If we had had less war, or more prudent counsellors http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero and diplomatists in the past to avoid war where unnecessary. the British Empire would have been in a much stronger position than it is to-day. We have gone far enough here with the military spirit. I fully approve of the South African War and what we did to help the Mother- country. and I concurred in the proposals of the Defence Committee for strengthening our defences ; but, after the exhaustive attention given to the matter last session by the Secret Defence Committee it seems to me to be some- what of au anomaly that before that report has been properly carried out, or even before a pro- per beginning has been made to carry out the recommendations of that report, we should find ourselves now tinkering with an alleged State- school Compulsory Drill Bill, which, as I say, is not compulsory at all. I trust that as the Bill could not possibly go through in its present form the House will reject it as being unneces- sary, and calculated to be more mischievous than beneficial in its effects. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) .- We have had a very interesting lecture from the senior mem- ber for Auckland City ; it covered a great deal of ground. but did not give much information. He spoke about Canada. Does the honourable gentleman not know that Canada was won to the British Empire by force of arms? Had it not been for Pitt sending out military chiefs with strong forces Canada would have been lost to the Empire, because at that time the position of Canada was very like that of South Africa at the present time. We should not have had Canada now as part of the British Empire only for the masterful policy of Pitt. The honour- able gentleman read the whole of the Bill with the exception of clause 6, which provides that if parents or guardians object, children are not compelled to learn either physical or military drill. Surely that is quite a sufficient safe- guard. It is one of the best things that could happen to our children that they should be taught physical and military drill-the girls physical, and the boys both physical and mili- tary. When the minds of our youths are im- pressionable it is the time to teach them what they should learn ; then they will never forget. Whoever became an effective Volunteer who did not drill as a boy ? Even in the early days of the war in New Zealand it was the boys from the public schools who were the most efficient soldiers: they showed to most ad- vantage, and those who entered the colonial forces at the age of thirty or upwards were never able to learn their drill thoroughly. It is absolutely essential that it should be inculcated into our youths while they are im- pressionable : therefore I think it is in the true interests of the colony, isolated as we are, that our children should learn military discip- line. Our girls should learn physical drill, and our boys both. There is no more manly exercise than military exercise : it is as good if not better than football, which is as nearly an approach to battle as anything I know of. Any one who would discourage military drill is working against the true interests not only of the youths of the colony, but of the British Empire. We should be prepared for any case of emergency, and in the event of any foreign enemy invading this country efficient and well-disciplined Volun- teers would give a good account of themselves. Again, I would ask. Who can so efficiently till up the ranks of our Volunteers and veterans as our boys drilled in the schools ? Therefore, in the true interests of the country, let our lads receive a military training. I am in sympathy with the Bill. But if clause 6 were not in the Bill, if it were really compulsory. I should vote against it, because the time has not arrived for compulsory measures, nor do I believe that time will ever come in New Zealand, because our boys are only too anxious to become offi- cient. It would not be proper to interfere with parents and guardians, who have a perfect right to control their children. I am in hearty sym- pathy with the principle of the Bill, and trust it will become law. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- I shall sup- port the Bill. I shall do so, although I am as much opposed to militarism as any one, because the Bill is not permissive, as the present Act is, but is mandatory. It is because it compels the Boards of Education to see that physical drill is taught in the schools. The honourable mem- ber for Ashley said the most important thing we had to teach our children was the three Rs. In this I differ from him. I believe every think- 