the debate. It is not for me to attempt to step in between the member for Riccarton and the has every right to entertain the opinions he leader of the House, the Premier, with regard did this afternoon ; but, I would ask him, Is to their differences. The honourable member for Riccarton expressed himself fearlessly and forcibly, as he always does, and expected, of course, a reply from the leader of the House. We all have to take it in our turn ; but there is one little item which I think every member in the House regretted, and I cannot allow it to pass without expressing my personal regret. That is, that the Government Whip uninten- tionally forgot, I think, that he was debating They probably would never hear anything about on the floor of this House, and ventured, in the course of his remarks, to drag before this House some ancient history of an essentially private character. and which has no bearing on the matters before the House, or on the speech made by the member for Riccarton. It had no bearing on the conduct of the Premier of the colony, or on the honourable member's remarks regarding it, and it ought never to have been introduced ; and it could only have been intro- duced with the idea of disparaging and be- mirching the character of the honourable member for Riccarton. Mr. STEVENS. - I rise to- a point of order. It has been stated by the honourable gentleman that what I said was of an essentially private character. My information was derived from the public press of the colony. Mr. COLLINS .- Well, Sir, it may have been from the public press of the colony of years ago. I certainly knew nothing about it, and, at any rate, it was a matter having absolutely no bear- ing on the debate. My observations clearly show that it would have been a very good thing if honourable members had followed the example I set them generally in proposing the resolution. It would at least have left the debate free from anything like acrimony, or anything like strong Duncan personal ill-feeling when the debate was over. I might just say that I regret also that the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Bar- clay) this afternoon should have seen fit to make remarks which I think were most injudicious. While no doubt entitled to express his own views, and while giving him credit for sincerity and courage in making the references he did, still I do think it is one's duty to resent such remarks as were made this afternoon in regard to the conduct of the British authorities in connection with the operations in South Africa. The honourable member said that the tide of opinion was rising-that opinions were changing with regard to the conduct of affairs in South Africa. Now, Sir, there are many of us who lament and who regret exceedingly that that wretched war in South Africa should have been so terribly prolonged : but, Sir, I am under the impression that the prolongation of that war is very largely the result of indiscreet utterances similar to those we listened to this afternoon, and, though he has a perfect right to express his own feelings, I would tell him. without fear of contradiction, that such utterances are indiscreet. I do not regard him as a pro-Boer. I accepted his explanation to us twelve months ago that he was not a pro-Boer. I do not believe that he ever was pro-Boer. I admit at once that he it not unwise, while our sons and brothers are fighting the battles of the Empire, and shedding their blood in South Africa-is it wise to prolong that wretched struggle by creating an impression among the Boers that the tide of opinion is rising, and that public opinion was changing in their favour. I do not for a moment imagine that the speech of the honourable gentleman will have that effect. it, but it is unwise all the same. It is speeches of that character which undoubtedly have led to the prolongation of the struggle in South Africa. Such utterances are calculated to en- courage the feeling on the part of the Boers that there is a growing change of feeling in their favour, and that there is a rising tide of senti- ment favourable to them, and to lead to further prolongation of this wretched and now useless struggle on their part. Sir, I do not know that there is any need for me to say more. The debate has finished, and I congratulate honour- able members generally on the way they have conducted the debate ; and if I have ventured to express dissent from one or two things that have been said, I hope honourable members will take it in good part, and accept my remarks as the expression of my honest conviction. The House divided. AYES, 32. Mills Allen, E. G. Fowlds Arnold O'Meara Gilfedder Seddon Barclay Graham Steward Bennet Hall Buddo Tanner Herries Thomson, J. W. Carneross Hutcheson Lang Carroll Ward Witheford. Laurenson Lethbridge Tellers. ElI Field Massey Collins Flatman McGowan Hornsby. NOES, 4. Tellers. Fisher Palmer Parata. Stevens. Majority for, 28. Motion agreed to. The House adjourned at five minutes to two o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 9th July, 1901. Sessional Committees -- Tobacco-smoking by Youths - Imperial Honours - Defence Department- Death of Queen Victoria-Assassination of King Humbert-Hospital Nurses Registration Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. 