the men about the station for a week or ten days doing nothing. Then, we come to the agricultural industry, and we find that indus- try, combined with the pastoral industry, re- presenting an export value of $10,017.421, so that the export value of those industries, which are affected by this Bill-and which it would prove disastrous to if passed into law- amounts to ten thirteenths of the total export value of the products of this colony. The re- marks which I have made in connection with this Bill, and the remarks which have been made by a large number of members represent- ing country constituencies, have been made in a perfectly friendly manner. If I thought the provisions of this Bill were going to benefit the industries of the colony I should be the last to oppose the Bill: but I believe honestly if the Bill passed in its present form it would be disastrous, and I hope the honourable member will accede to the suggestions which have been thrown out to him to withdraw the measure, and introduce a measure simply dealing with the eight-hours question. As an old colonist, I venture to say that since I arrived in the colony by common consent eight hours a day has been looked upon as a day's work. It would be im- possible to apply these provisions to farming operations generally. Take, for example, the largest agricultural farm carried on in Canter- bury-that of Mr. John Grigg. of Longbeach. At h .rvest-time any one visiting that farm may see twenty-five or more men working harvesting- machines from early dawn to late in the even- ing. It would be disastrous if the work of those https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 machines was suspended in order that the men might have a holiday. The grain has to be harvested when opportunity offers, so that the farmer max get some return for the year's work. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I think it would have been better if the second reading of this Bill had been taken pro forma, and the Bill sent to the Labour Bills Committee. That would probably have obviated the necessity of a great deal of adverse criticism. I do not quite understand the advice tendered to the honour- able member for Riccarton by the honourable member for Ashley. He suggested that it would have been better had the honourable gentleman simply remained satisfied with bringing in a Bill affirming the eight-hours principle. Then the honourable gentleman immediately pro- ceeded to tell us that even in country districts the eight-hours principle was generally assented to. Now. it is undoubtedly true that, generally speaking, throughout the country the eight- hours principle is assented to in the abstract. I most sincerely congratulate the honourable gentleman who has brought this Bill forward in an honest attempt to reduce this principle to a concrete and practical form ; but at the same time I see difficulties in the way of accepting the Bill as it now stands. I shall heartily vote for the second reading, and shall help to amend the Bill in Committee so as to make it a truly workable and practical measure. I feel sure that many of the criticisms which have been raised to-night as Committee objections, and Mr. Meredith has been drafted, have underlying them a strong dislike to the principle of the Bill itself. Now. as a city member, I naturally cannot claim to represent country pursuits as well as honourable gentlemen who represent country constituencies. but at the same time I can see from what has been said to-night that it would be very difficult indeed to apply a principle of this kind to such industries as dairy-farming, shearing, harvesting. grass-seeding, or almost any of the agricultural and pastoral pursuits. I can see there is a dis- tinct difference between those pursuits and the manufacturing pursuits-the mercantile, manu- facturing, mining, milling, and other pursuits- so that I think the honourable gentleman might have overcome this difficulty had he allowed himself to be guided by the expressed opinion given by this House in the year 1896, when the Premier's Bill was before the House. It has been suggested, Sir, that the difficulty might be overcome by appending a schedule to the Bill enumerating the trades which should be brought Personally, I have a under its operations. strong dislike to Bills with schedules, and 1 have a distinct recollection that that was tried with regard to several labour measures a few years ago, and almost invariably those Bills were defeated through what was commonly asserted to be the sting in the tail. But the difficulty could have been overcome had the honourable gentleman drafted in his Bill an interpretation clause on similar lines to that contained in the Premier's Bill of 1896. Under that Bill "employer " and "worker " were defined. That Bill, I might say, brought under its operations Government employes :- " Employer" included " Government Printer, the officer in charge of each Government railway workshop and repairing-shed, and any person employing any person for hire, reward. or maintenance to perform any kind of labour in or about any mine, or in any factory re- gistered under 'The Factories Act. 1894.'" Then, it goes on to define " Worker " : -- "' Worker' means any person of any age or of either sex employed as aforesaid to perform any species of skilled or unskilled manual labour for any employer, or in or about any gold-mining claim, or any coal-mine, or any factory registered under . The Factories Act. 1894."" Now, why should not some such interpreta- tion be drafted in this Bill? I believe it would take away every objection raised by the country members. Sir, I know there is still a good deal of latent feeling with regard to the imposition of further labour-laws. And I know, further, that we may take the social body itself 11.0. as the counterpart of the individual body as an organism, and I know that that organism can only stand a certain amount of food of a particular class, and it must have time for the digestion and assimilation of that food : and there is no use cramming the social stomach with an unlimited supply of food of this character. I feel, however, that this is so just a proposal, and since the general prire ple of this Bill is assented to all over the colony. 