any right or title to prefer a claim for compen- sation is absent from the colony, or is not known. or has no known agent in the colony, such Judge shall direct such claim to be heard by a Compensation Court under this Act, and shall appoint an assessor to act in such Court on behalf of such person." I think, myself, that the application must of course be in writing, accompanied by an offer of the amount of compensation. An HON. MEMBER .- In writing? Mr. SEDDON .-- I do not think that is a point we have to deal with. I think, looking at it carefully, it means that it shall not be necessary in making the application that the Minister shall give notice of the compensation he is prepared to pay. I think, myself, that that is really what section 40 is, in addition to what I have stated, intended to effect. If it is to go to arbitration, as the law stands now, one side is to be forced to disclose its hand, while the other side is open to take what advantage they can from that, and the result is generally that they put a larger amount down as the price than the Government are prepared to give, and leave the Court practically to decide between these two amounts. But if it is taken compul- sorily it comes to the Court without being loaded in the way I have pointed out. I be- lieve that is what is covered by this. At all events. I leave that to the Attorney - General of the House. Then, clause 6 is as follows : -- " In order to prevent any evasion or avoid- ance of the provisions of the principal Act as to the right of the owner to select and retain any limited part of any estate intended to be ac- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 quired under that section, it is hereby declared that the area of the whole estate shall be com- puted as at the commencement of the negotia- tions for the purchase under the said Act, and no subsequent disposition of the estate, or any part thereof, shall operate to defeat the power ot the Governor to acquire the land under that Act." I do not wish to name the parties, but there are cases which have come under my notice in which with the view apparently of asking for time some very nice letters have come to hand, saying the matter requires careful considera- tion, that they want to communicate with some one, and asking that it may be allowed to stand over for a time, and that the offer made will receive careful consideration, and so forth. And then, Sir, after giving that latitude, and after treating them with every courtesy, the next letter comes, saving, " I am not now the owner of the land for which the offer has been made, and what is left does not exceed the amount I am allowed to retain by the law." Then we consult the records, and find that a transfer has been made to the wife in some cases, and in other cases to the children. At all events, I think, once the notice has been served of the intention of the Government it should remain in that position. If you do not do that, then this may happen : Say there is an estate of 4,000 acres, 1,000 acres of which is to be re- tained, the person to whom the offer was made Mr. Seddon transfer to four sons, and then --- Mr. MCLACHLAN .- And why not ? Captain RUSSELL .- Hear, hear. Mr. SEDDON .- Why did he not do it before the Government notified him of their intention ? Mr. MONK .- He may have intended to do it before he died, by will. Mr. SEDDON .- Instead of doing it when he died we have estates virtually controlled by the dead man's hands-estates which the testator says shall not be cut up, and that even the sons and the grandchildren shall not have any say whatever in. However, that is by the way. The fact is, at all events, that by not doing that you may have this situation : that there is a certain amount of land that can be and has been transferred which renders the whole of the remaining estate unsuitable for close settie- ment ; and that you would require to stop. In the case of a large estate the trans- ference of a certain section may practically block the whole of the other portion. Then. of course, it is a question whether that state of things shall continue. I can name several places where the land has been in other ways dealt with. The owner asks for at offer, and sometimes you offer the price of the Land Purchase Board, or a few shillings les, than you are actually prepared to give. The offer of the Government is then taken to a private individual and used as a means of selling the land : " Well, the Government have offered me so-much."-although the Government may not have offered so-much,-" you give me los. more and you can have it." I have had cases before me in which it has appeared that the purchasing party then goes to the Government and says, " You can have this, but I shall want a nice little sum in advance of what I gave." I am simply going by the book ; I have case. to support every statement I make. Then, if that is the case, I say it is better that the State should allow the original offer to re- main, and let the Court-the proper tribunal -decide as to what is the value of the estate. A party may say this : "Well. it will 3.0. cost you, if you go on with the cus. under the compulsory clauses of the Act, €1.000 or £1,500 in law expenses. You give that to me and we will be satisfied." Now, the originsi owner would be wise in some cases if he did the same. There is very little difference from the amount the Government offered, but the other party gives something more and takes the cheque. I do not think that is a proper state of things. I think the Land Purchase Officers -- and they are very careful ; if they err at al. they err on the side of care-having once de- cided that the land is suitable and is wanted for close settlement, the position of that land should remain unchanged until the matter is finally settled. I do not want to do any in- justice, and it may be contended that the officers can err on the side of care. I pro- bably ought to have said that the offers in some cases are too liberal, because when the estate has been submitted to public com- 