granted it. Instead of that, however, we have | is needed. Now, Sir, we have been told had money sent out of the colony for goods that could have been manufactured here. However, there is no use fighting over that question or arguing about it ; but certainly we should not be spending money out of the colony for goods upon the manufacture of which we could very well employ our own people. With regard to State coal-mines, I am very glad indeed that the Government have at last decided to give effect to what I believe has been the mind of the House for a good many years past-namely, that the Executive should esta- blish a State coal-mine for the supply of coal to the community. With regard to local govern- ment in counties, it is proposed to wipe out all the smaller ones. That will not answer. The more nearly the people are placed in touch with their local government, and the more power that is placed in their hands to govern themselves, the better it will be for the people. You teach them thereby to take a warm interest in local affairs, and you teach them to exercise that local control which you cannot expect to have in unwieldy districts. It may be all right to abolish the small boroughs which surround the large cities ; and I believe this would be entirely desirable, because you will then have local interests fostered, and it will facilitate the administration of affairs. But I do not think it at all desirable to wipe out the Road Boards in order to concentrate the power in the hands of larger bodies. In England, as we know, they have, as the unit of local government, parish Councils, and every village of three hundred inhabitants can have its own Council-a form https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of government which has been handed down from the old Anglo-Saxon times. And it is curious to see that the Legislature of the Old Country have renewed this old custom on their statute-book : that where there is a parish meeting of less than three hundred inhabitants they can go there and record their votes by a show of hands, and make their by-laws in that way. In fact, they are exercising the same privilege that their fore- fathers had in Kent long before William the Conqueror landed, when they were accustomed . to meet on Penneden Hill, in Kent, and deter- mine their laws by a show of hands. That is now practised in the parish Councils of the Old Country. We want in New Zealand the Town Boards Act put into operation again. There are many small districts which would be far better managed in that way than by thrusting them into a corner of a large county. We have the case given to us by, I think, the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), where he stated that in a district in which he was interested there were a number of houses - a village- and the majority of the members of the County Council had never seen the district. There was a case in point, show- ing the foolishness of giving a County Council power to govern a district that should be go- verned by a small local authority. Therefore I hope that provision will be made that, where people desire it, they shall be able to establish a township form of government wherever it to-night that everything is done that should be done and that the people desire, and that the Executive of this House are giving effect to the mind of the House and of the country, and that it is not wise to go too far, and that it is desirable to put down a good heavy foot on the brake so as there should not be a reaction. And it was given as an instance that the country electors had already taken fright, and that unless there was some care exercised there might be trouble between town and country. I do not wish that. I quite agree with the Premier that the town and country representatives should work together heartily and sympathetically for the good of the whole community. But is it in the interests of the country that we should continue to collect over two millions of money through the Customs to carry on the government of the country? Do the country people desire that ? I do not think they do. Do the country people desire that their food and articles of clothing, which can- not possibly be manufactuted in this country, should continue to be charged a 25-per-cent. ad valorem duty ? Do they desire that when we could augment our revenue by reducing the income-tax exemption from #300 to $200 the present high exemption should be re- tained ? The income-tax exemption is so high in this country that, according to the Commissioner of Taxes, we are losing a consider- able amount of revenue from it, and it seems to me to be more statesmanlike on the part of the Executive that they should reduce this ex- emption, and the land- and income-tax exemp- tion -- if not to dispose of the latter exemption altogether-and use the amount of revenue from these sources in taking off the duty from the commodities of life. By so doing the country people would be much better off ; and the smaller settlers particularly, that some of the country representatives in this House fear may be injured, would not be injured, I venture to say, at all. An increase of 3d. in the pound to a man who is rated on £10 an acre would not be felt at all ; whereas a man with a family would gain distinctly by such a policy. We are taxing the small farmer more by the present system than if we reduced the land-tax ex- emption from £500 to $150 and took the duties off the necessaries of life. I will take the average invoice rate of these articles that I think should be admitted free of duty alto- gether. We still pay 25 per cent. on raisins and the same on sultanas, 60 per cent. on currants, 50 per cent. of figs, 100 per cent. on dates, and 50 per cent. on preserved ginger. Now, these fruits are needed by the community, and it seems to me we should not tax these articles as a source of revenue. Then, with re- gard to cotton piece-goods - pure cotton goods- there is a duty of from 10 to 20 per cent. It is the poorer people who use these cotton goods. The richer class use woollen goods, or mixtures of wool and cotton, and, of course, we must keep a duty on these goods in order to protect our woollen industries. Then. there are cotton counterpanes, handkerchiefs, et cetera; every 