tion whether it is necessary that this measure should be placed on the statute-book. Another point is in regard to funds. It is said that the Boards have not the funds; but the Educa- tion Act provides for it, and this Bill is to be read as part of the Education Act. Then, if the Legislature passes this Bill and puts it upon the statute-book, it simply means that if the money is not at the disposal of the Education Boards to carry out the objects of the measure, it will be the duty of this Parliament to provide the necessary funds for that purpose. I think it is not right for members of Education Boards to get up in this House and say that they have not the means to carry out this measure if it is placed on the statute-book, because when the measure does get through, the Parliament or the country must find the means to carry out the provisions of the Act, the same as they find the money to carry out the provisions for teaching the three Rs. Provision is made here for regulations to be made by the Educa- tion Boards. The member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) said he was opposed to the Bill because it contained the principle of taking away the powers of local authorities. Well, under the original Education Act the Governor in Council has power to make regulations with regard to educational matters, but my measure goes further than that: it provides that the Education Boards can make these regulations, subject to the approval of the Governor in Council. I take it that these regulations will provide for where there are schools of at least ten or twenty pupils over a certain age, and that in those cases instruction shall be im- / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788238 parted. Of course, the measure, as I brought it in last session, only provided that military and physical drill should be taught to boys; but, & majority of this House having decided that girls should also be taught, I take it that it Was my duty to accept the decision of the majority of the members of this House, and bring a Bill down giving effect to the wish of the majority of the House, leaving it to the House to agree to that amendment. I am not in favour of the principle that girls should be taught military and physical drill ; but I do say that boys, at any rate, should be taught military drill. It is good for their health, it is good for their discipline, it is good for them in every shape and form to learn obedience to orders ; and, as I have said, it is good for their health. I say it is as necessary to train and drill a boy in physical and military drill in our public schools as it is to teach him the three Rs. I will not detain the House any further ; I hope the measure will pass its second reading, and in Committee I shall be quite prepared to accept any reasonable amendments that will bring the measure more into harmony with the wishes of the majority of the House. The House divided. AYES, 35. Fowlds Allen, E. G. Collins Arnold Fraser, W. Colvin Bennet Heke Duncan Herries Buddo Flatman Hornsby McLachlan Steward Houston Monk Symes Palmer Thompson, R. Lang Lawry Parata Wilford Russell, G. W. Witheford. Massey McGowan Russell, W. R. Teiiers. McGuire Guinness Seddon Mackenzie, T. Stevens Laurenson. NOES, 18. Pirani Atkinson Hutcheson Bollard Lethbridge Tanner Meredith Thomson, J. W. Carneross Ell Millar Teliers. Hall Graham Morrison Hardy Napier. O'Meara Hogg PAIR. For. Against. Fraser, A. L. D. Field. Majority for, 17. Bill read a second time. EIGHT HOURS BILL. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, in moving the second reading of this Bill I shall not detain the House at any great length. The history of this Bill is that last year it was in- troduced and the date was fixed for the second reading ; but, unfortunately, the same evening that this Bill was to come on for its second reading the member for Wairau, Mr. Mills, had a Mortgages Bill which was not acceptable to the House. The result was that at the time of the adjournment the House was counted out, and the Eight Hours Bill went down accord- ingly. I noticed, Sir, that on the following day after the House was counted out on the Mort- gages Bill -which involved the setting-aside for last year of the Eight Hours Bill - the Premier gave notice of a Bill that was entitled "The Limitation of Workers' Hours Bill." That Bill, unfortunately, was not laid before Parliament during last session, so that I am in the dark as to what the provisions of that Bill were pro- posed to be. I notice, however, that during the recess a deputation of the Canterbury Trades Council waited upon the Right Hon. the Premier during one of his visits to Christchurch, and he then pledged himself to introduce an Eight Hours Bill during the present session. In looking through the Bills that were foreshadowed in the Speech from the Throne no reference was made to the Eight Hours Bill. I therefore gave notice of this Bill in the ordinary course. At the same time I have no desire to forestall any legislation which the Government may propose to bring down upon this very important question. I admit that the responsibility of so important a matter should rest upon the shoulders of the Adminis- tration, and I am prepared that this Bill shall be referred to the Labour Bills Committee, and shall be allowed to be laid aside for the purpose of facilitating any measure which the Government may bring down to deal with the eight-hours question. Or I am prepared that this Bill shall be-if it is desired to so use it-absorbed into any measure that the 