want to improve their holdings ; men who have plenty of security --- but because they happen to be poor men they cannot get a loan. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is all nonsense. Mr. HORNSBY .- It is not nonsense. I have the proof, and I can produce it. I am not talk- ing at large, but from the book, and if I am challenged to do it I shall produce documents to show that Lam stating what is absolutely cor- rect. The debate on this amending Bill has led to a very profitable discussion so far as this House is concerned. We now know the minds of the members on some of the most important questions of the day. We know what those members are prepared to do in regard to the furthering of the disposal by the Crown of lands that they may obtain, and I say that I wish to join with other members in resisting, at any rate, to the utmost this clause. I shall with- hold any further criticism of the Bill until it comes into Committee, and there I hope to see some very important amendments made in the various clauses; but, above all, I say distinctly this : that I hope every member who desires the betterment of the people of this colony, and especially the young men of this colony-who desire to see families growing up in this colony on these areas of land which are to be settled --- I hope they will join with me and others in resisting to the utmost the passing of this ob- noxious clause which I have referred to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I am, owing to a severe cold, labouring, as honourable mem- bers well know, under a disability in reply- ing to what has been said during this debate. I do not understand why. when dealing with amendments such as are contained in this Bill -- which are purely of a technical character --- we should have had the whole general policy of land for settlement traversed. Captain RUSSELL .- You did not give us time to look at it. Mr. SEDDON .- Nothing of the kind. Mem- bers are not speaking to the House, but they are speaking to their constituents. First, we had the leader of the Opposition. That honour- able member, it is well known, has been at all times an opponent of the land-for-settlement policy. He is to-day as bitterly opposed to it as he was the first time the Bill was sub- mitted to the House, but public opinion has to some extent had its influence, and the honour- able gentleman has, perforce, to bow to the in- domitable will of the people. And he tells us, as one reason why we should not proceed further, that there is some poor unfortunate widow from whom the Government, in their hard-hearted- ness, had taken land. The honourable member did not say that she was a widow with a small family, or that she was a widow with a grown- up family : neither did he lead us to believe that she had means. He said she was a widow who desired to reside on the land, and that the Government under this legislation ejected her. It is better in a case of this kind that I should meet the statement directly, so that members may understand that there is no hardship at all. Captain RUSSELL .- Can you deny my ac- curacy ? Mr. SEDDON .- You know that you can make a statement that may be correct, so far as it goes, but you may keep back certain facts which would put a very different complexion on the matter; and that is what the honour. able member did-he kept back facts within his own knowledge. The honourable member did not tell us-what he must have known-that it was the trustees who came to the Government and asked the Government to purchase the The offer came from them; they estate. offered the estate at $4 10s. per acre. We had to get the estate reported upon by our own officers. That takes a little time. We practically offered $4 an acre. Then, when it came to a question of going before the Court they said, "Things are changed; we do not now want to sell, we want to buy." The land was wanted, and it is now wanted, in that locality. The land was suitable, and we therefore decided to go on with it. Captain RUSSELL .- How long afterwards ? Mr. SEDDON .- I well tell the honourable member. I wish to place it on record. The following is from the Land Purchase Officer, giving an explanation of the transaction :- "Mr. Sidney Johnston, as trustee in the estate of the late Colonel Herrick, offered to sell to the Government the above property of 8.200 acres at the price of $4 10s. per acre. The Land Purchase Board recommended the acquisition of the property at $3 17s. 6d. This offer was made and declined. Mr. Johnston was asked if #4 would be accepted. He replied that #4 10s. was the price they would accept. After an interval of three or four months, he wrote withdrawing the property. But a fow days before the Government had decided to take the land compulsorily. The requisition and claim have both been served, and the sitting of the Compensation Court is fixed for the end of September .- JAMES MCKERROW." I say if a land-purchase transaction was to be treated in a different way from what we have treated this where would we find ourselves? 1 myself saw the trustee, and he told me he ought to have taken action sooner ; but he did nothing of the kind until we had decided to take over the property. And if you are going to allow withdrawal after an offer has been made, then where will you get to? I treated the matter in all fairness. We did not ask for the land in the first instance. The land was thrown at us, and we said we would take it under the law. We have kept within the law, and the law must take its course. The only difference between us was as to the value. The owners wanted €4 10s. an acre, which was ICs. an acre, or $4,000, more than the land was re- ported to be worth. If we had given 94 10s. there would never have been another word said about it in this House ; but as the law stands the price had to be adjusted by the proper officers. Now I come to another speech. I have been rather double-banked. I have two Russells to reply to-Captain Russell, the member for Hawke's Bay, and Mr. Russell, the member for Riccarton-as both of them have, I think, attacked the Government somewhat severely 