thing, Sir, which I think this House would do well to seriously consider. I refer to the Public Revenues Act which was passed at the close of last session, a measure which most materially affects the rights and liberties of members of this House. Sir, under that Act this Legislature has handed over powers to the Premier and to the Government which have never been asked for and have never been given within any constitutionally governed country in the world. Talk about the "Divine right of kings." What is the position now? Notwith- standing the fact that the salary of His Excel- lency the Governor, and of the Ministers, and of the Judges, and of the Auditor-General, and of members of Parliament, and of you, Sir, as Speaker, and of the Chairman of Committees are fixed by law, the power of raising those salaries-though, I admit, not of reducing them -rests solely in the hands of one man, and that man, Sir, is the Premier. And I say it is not fair that you, Sir, occupying the high and distinguished position which you do, should have to feel at the end of this session that you receive through the gift of the Premier, who, as representing the Crown, has the sole right of initiative in this matter, any increase of the salary that comes to you by the law of this land. Neither do I think the members of this House desire such a thing as that their hono- raria should be increased by any other means than a statute embodying that increase. The Government have virtually recognised that position in the Address, where they say they propose to bring in a Bill this year to deal with the honorarium. Then, I say, if the raising of the honorarium of the members of this House last year was the prime object in introducing the Public Revenues Bill, let the Government be willing, at the beginning of this session, to http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero sweep away that clause which enables a vote of the House to override the statute law, and thus bring back this House to its responsible position as guardian of the public purse. There is one matter in connection with this which I feel bound to refer to, and that is the very large number of honourable members who this year have been upon Royal Commissions. I do not know, Sir, what the exact number of members so employed is, but I feel bound to point out what, in my opinion, is an important constitu- tional matter in connection with the position of these honourable members. By the Disqualifi- cation Act no member of Parliament can receive more than $1 per day for serving on a Royal Commission. Now, Sir, let me point out that the clause in the Public Revenues Bill referred to overrides that clause in the Disqualification Act, and that if the clause in the Public Revenues Act to which I have directed attention is to continue, there is nothing whatever to prevent any Go- vernment purchasing political support in this House by handing over Royal Commissioner- ships to a number of members of this House, and then paying them such an amount as they choose afterwards, and so introduce a system of spoils that I think we in this colony would be exceedingly sorry to see. I simply point this matter out as one of the possibilities of the Mr. G. W. Russell situation. Now, Sir, I would like, in concluding the few remarks that I have to place before the House, to say that, in my opinion, some of the things that will require to be watched by this House are the departures which the Govern- ment from time to time are making from constitutionalism and from democratic prin- ciples. The first of these to which I would refer is the very large number of Royal Commissions which I have mentioned just They are all set out in the Speech now. from the Throne-the Royal Commission on coal-mines, the Royal Commission on rivers, the Royal Commission on federation, the Royal Com- mission on the Midland Railway, and, finally, the Royal Commission on school - teachers' salaries. In addition to these there was one other Royal Commission : I refer to the appoint- ment of a gentleman of the name of Holmes, who, I believe, is a resident of Wellington, and who was appointed a Royal Commissioner in connection with the Royal visit. I saw by re- ference in one of the papers that this gentleman actually received the same salary as a Cabinet Minister-namely, $100 per month-during the time he was occupied in that position. Mr. TANNER .- Hear, hear. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Well, my honour- able friend the member for Avon says " Hear, hear." I sincerely hope that his " Hear, hear," does not indicate a departure from the prin- ciples of democracy in thinking that that was a proper payment. Mr. TANNER .- It was ironical. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am very pleased to hear the honourable member say so. Well, let me point out that the number of the members of the Ministry was increased last year in order that Ministers might be able, by dividing the portfolios over the new members, to undertake and do more thoroughly the work of the coun- try. And yet this year stands absolutely unpre- cedented, I believe, in regard to the number of Royal Commissions that have been set up ; and what for ? Why, the whole of these gentlemen who have been touring the colony have been going about to provide Ministers with a policy. Have they a policy regarding school-teachers' salaries ? They had a Bill last year, and we know what became of it. You, Sir, pointed out, I think, when the title was being put, that the only thing that remained of the Government Bill was a part of the title; and those gentlemen since then appointed a body of Commissioners -a number of them members of the House-scouring the colony from end to end for the purpose of obtaining a policy regarding teachers' salaries. The Coal Commission has found them a policy regarding a State coal-mine ; the Midland Railway Com- mission, apparently, has settled a difficulty that the Government did not possess financial ability sufficient to undertake and settle for themselves. The Federation Commission have gone on an extensive tour throughout the Australian Colo- nies, and have reported exactly what everybody knew they would report - against federation ; because there was not a single member of the Commission-at least, I am not aware of one- 