events that have occurred lately have done more than anything else that has occurred during the last twenty years to bring this colony into prominence. These events are the war in South Africa and the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. Sir, the fact of three thousand men volunteering their services for South Africa has been a surprise to the world, and the noble manner in which they acquitted themselves has brought this colony very prominently not only before the Old Country but also before every civilised nation. The visit of their Royal Highnesses will also be a very great factor in this country's future prosperity. I understand that what impressed their Royal Highnesses more than anything else was the great loyalty and demonstrations of affection that was shown by the Native race of this colony. I believe that the visit of these illustrious personages will promote an enormous increase in our tourist trathe. It will encourage the class of wealthy people we want to come here and spend their money, and recommend the beauties of our country to their friends. The Press representatives that accompanied the Royal party were gentlemen of great commer- cial influence. I am perfectly certain, after the very admirable manner in which the Govern- ment gave them facilities to see for themselves the advantages of the colony, and the informa- tion supplied to them, that it will have the effect of inducing them, when they reach Home, to write and speak very favourably towards this country. Sir, the Speech from the Throne refers to the extension of commerce. Well, this country, we must all admit, is largely https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 a producing one, and it is of the most vital importance to its prosperity that new markets should be provided for the surplus produce of the land. The Government has very wisely appointed a Commerce Commis- sioner, whose duty it will be to seek out those markets. In the Agricultural Department that was instituted by Sir John Mckenzie there are many very great changes for the better. The condition of our agriculturists in many ways has been improved. Looking at the dairying industry, what do we find ? We find that since the Dairying Industry Act came into force our exports of butter have increased by more than half a million, and if we take the export of butter and cheese together for the year ending 31st March last we find that it amounts to over a million of money. That is going on, and it will go on increasing, and it is just pos- sible it will become the greatest item of export from this colony in the near future. Now, as to the question of vessels being provided for taking our produce away to new markets: I do not know that I could support the Govern- ment in a proposal to purchase vessels to take produce to South Africa ; but I say that, if necessary, the Government should subsidise vessels handsomely. If you look at the posi- tion of the trade to South Africa you will find there is very little back cargo, and if you were to purchase vessels you would have to go into a general shipping trade and go to the Old Country, so as to bring back imports and make the venture pay. Well, I do not think the Government would care about doing that. or about entering into competition with so many powerful shipping companies. But I do say, without fear of contradiction, that it is the duty of this colony to subsidise vessels, if necessary. in order to get our produce away to profitable markets, either in South Africa or anywhere else, and the Government is evidently fully alive to this matter. There is another thing I would ask them to take up, and that is the condition of the frozen-meat trade. Now, there 4.30. is a screw loose with regard to this business somewhere. We find that English and Scotch mutton is being sold wholesale in the Old Country at from 5s. 4d. to 5s. 8d. per 8 lb .. while the best New Zealand mutton is sold at from 2s. 8d. to 2s. 10d. Now, where does the difference come in? It is a fact that our mutton is often sold for home-bred, and therefore that is proof that it is as good as the home-bred article. Now, here is a question that I think the (io- vernment should take up, and it is a big question, for there are powerful combinations at Home that will have to be fought, and it can only be done by erecting cool-stores in the old Country, and possibly by opening retail shops. If such a scheme would be too large to be undertaken by this colony alone it might very well co-operate with some of the State Govern- ments in Australia. There is another thing with regard to this question of frozen meat, which is a very important one to producers. I think that all meat exported should be subject to a system of Government grading. Fortu- nately, at present shippers and those who have control of the trade are very careful not to export anything but the very best of carea-( .. Well, now, there is a certain class of sheep - old ewes-that are very properly not accepted for exportation ; but, if there was a system of Government grading, there is no reason why that class of sheep should not be sent Home and sold under their proper grading. That would mean that there would be two classes, and that the inferior mutton could be sent Home and sold at a reduced rate as second grade, but still at a price that would leave a fair margin of profit to the producer. Then, with regard to the proposal to open a State coal-mine : Of course, we all admit that it is a very healthy sign of the prosperity of a country when there is a great demand for coal. The difficulty in coping with the demand, especially for the railways or for other State purposes, is a ques- tion that the Government might fairly take up. I do not think that any good would be done by purchasing mines that are already in full opera- tion, because that would not relieve the pres- sure ; but if the Government opens up a new mine, then there would be an advantage, and the pressure of demand would be relieved, and the Government would be perfectly independent of outside mines for the requirements of the State. The demand for coal has been very great, and it has been partly on account of the great impetus that has taken place in the dredging industry in the South, and also in the carriage of timber and stock, and in various 