the Throne. I am sure, Sir, we have every con- { for our dairy produce or 2d. a bushel more for fidence that her successor will, as far as pos- our grain which we export there than if we sible, endeavour to carry out the good government were not federated with them ? Most certainly of the nation over which he rules ; and it must not. have been exceedingly gratifying to the people of the colony to have a visit from the Duke the way. and Duchess of Cornwall and York. There are many people, Sir, who are under the impres- upon political economy, John Stuart Mill, I believe, has informed us that it is the consumer sion that the expenditure of the country on account of that visit has been too great. They who pays the duty, and not the producer. say the money should have been expended on making roads, and on other local works. Roads can be made, and the local requirements Mill is wrong, and the honourable member is right. Let me say this : In favourable seasons can be carried out; but at the same time the great point, to my mind, is that we should they will not require our products, but will be keep ourselves as closely in touch with the competitors with us in other parts of the world outer world as possible, and as favourably in similar products to those which we export ;. as possible ; and if we cannot join hand-in- and when they have unfavourable seasons- hand with our fellow-countrymen across the when they have droughts-they will then require our products ; and if they are going to impose seus for the purpose of maintaining the duties on our produce for the purpose of doing Empire, and showing that we are in every an injustice to their own people, I would be respect true and loyal British subjects, then I exceedingly sorry for them. Why, what would fear we would require to federate with Aus- our position be if we federated with Australia ? tralia. But, as we stand, I consider that the We would have a one-seventh voice in the expenditure in the matter of the cost of the Commonwealth Parliament. Assuming, for ex- Roval visit to this colony is-if it were for no ample, that there were seven States, and forty- other purpose than the mere purpose of adver- tising this country among the other countries nine representatives, we would have one-seventh of the voice, and we are so far distant from of the world money well and profitably ex- pended. There is no question, to my mind, the mainland of Australia that, to my mind, there could not be that community of interest Sir, that so long as we hold the pessimistic idea which should exist in a Commonwealth. No, of keeping ourselves isolated, and refusing to Sir, I am pleased indeed to know that there expend any money except such as is to be ex- pended about our immediate homes, and on our is no intention on the part of this colony to federate. The one strong argument used by immediate public works, we shall not succeed. Who was it made such large sums of money ? those strong Federationists was that we should Who was it became millionaires ? And why did , federate if only for the purpose of defence. Why, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Holloway and Eno make such large fortunes ? Sir, the argument cannot possibly hold water, Was it not because they expended millions of inasmuch as if we wish to defend ourselves money per annum in their advertising ; and if we shall be very well able to defend our shores they had not expended this money they would with the army of Volunteers we are likely to. not have become known. I say it is essential have for the future, and we are already federated that we should advertise ourselves as well and not only with Australia but with the Empire favourably as possible, consistently, of course, in the matter of our defence, and what we re- quire to do is to contribute our fair and proper with a reasonable expenditure. Now, Sir, we have just had placed before us the report of the share, as I hope this colony will do, towards the Roval Commission which was set up for the ; maintenance and increasing cost of the British purpose of ascertaining whether or not this , fleet in the Southern Hemisphere. Yes, the colony should federate with the Commonwealth | defence we require is to have the high roads of of Australia, and I, as a New-Zealander, am i the sea kept open, so that the produce of this. pleased to know that that report has been un- { country can be sent to the markets of the world favourable to our associating ourselves or to : without any interference from any foreign navy ; our federating with the Commonwealth. While and so long as we look upon that as being one in Australia I had the opportunity of con- of the most important features, and one of the versing with a number of leading public men ! strongest connecting-links between the Mother- there, and I was not at all astonished to find : country and Australia and New Zealand, we that they were feverishly anxious to know why will be doing that which is just and most neces- New Zealand did not federate. Why, Sir, I sary for our own benefit and for that of the consider that if New Zealand were to federate with Australia we would be doing ourselves . posed Federation; because Australia has only at present federated by name-they have not a very great injury. Not that the people of Australia are not of the same kith and kin .vet adjusted the financial basis upon which as ourselves, but the very situation of their Had we federated at the time Federation oc- country and the climatic differences are so curred, we would have been asked to do -what, great that I am sure New Zealand would have everything to lose and nothing to gain. ; Sir? Why, to open our mouths and shut our For this reason : If we were to federate, could , eyes and see what they would give us. Yes, it be supposed for one moment that the people of Australia would give us 3d. per pound more | toms duties and our post and telegraph revenue Mr. MASSEY .- There would be no duties in Mr. STEVENS .- Well, the highest authority Mr. MASSEY .- No; not always. Mr. STEVENS .- Well, then, John Stuart Empire. Why, Sir, at present it is only a pro- the several separate States shall be placed. that is what would have happened. Our Cus- 