since even the member for Ashley has declared that the country districts assent to the general principle of the eight-hours day- Mr. MEREDITH .- It has been' so since the foundation of the colony. Mr. COLLINS .- Exactly so ; and, the prin- ciple of this eight-hours working-day having been so generally recognised, this Bill would simply mean that such employers as have de- layed to come up to the general standard, as recognised by the honourable and intelligent workers of the colony. would be brought under the operation of the Act. It would affect no intelligent or honest employer of labour, and that appears to be a strong reason why the honourable gentleman should give his hearty assent to the Bill. The Bill contains so much that is good, and its principle is recognised to be so sound, and it may be so readily put into working shape in Committee, that I think it would be almost puerile to raise any further objection against the Bill. I shall give my vote very heartily for the second reading, and I hope to see it so amended in Committee as to Icome a part of the labour-laws of the colony, which have already worked to the marvellous benefit of the people of this country. I am not going to indulge in any fulsome or high-falutin' language about this colony having led the world in regard to labour-laws; but in this respect we are behind other countries, and I would like to see it well abreast of, at any rate, the more intelligent labour - laws of other English-speaking countries. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) .- In rising to support https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 this measure, I have to compliment the honour- able gentleman on his pluck in bringing forward a Bill of this kind to place on the statute-book of the colony. Like honourable gentlemen who have spoken before me, I think this is a measure that the Government ought to have taken in hand. It is a measure which suits the part of the country that I come from, though we have heard a great deal to-night about the back blocks and the trouble that the settlers in those districts have to put up with. I have been in the back blocks, and have been engaged in mustering sheep and all kinds of work in the back country, and I feel sure that nobody who has had to put up with the sufferings that are endured in the coal-mines and gold-mines of my district, where men go into the bowels of the earth to do their work, will fail to sympathize with this measure. It is dangerous work, for these men have to put up with the fumes arising from dynamite and powder in trying to get out the coal. The coal-miner has to under- take all this; and I say, with the honourable member for the Grey, that the eight hours ought to be from bank to bank for coal- and gold-miners. Those miners who go in for this hazardous and dangerous work have to work eight hours, and they get only half an hour off to take their food, and perhaps they have to go four or five miles to get to their homes. The time has come when we should fix eight hours as quite long enough for such undertakings. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do they not get paid for what they turn out ? Mr. COLVIN .- Yes; but the miner has to work in the mine, according to the Arbitration Act, eight hours, and the miners are paid at so much per day filling coal. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is where the miner has to cut. Mr. COLVIN .- No; I know better from local experience than the honourable member for Bruce, Mr. Allen. I know men working in the mines, particularly with the iron-men, who fill the coal into trucks, and it is the hardest work on God's earth to fill coal into trucks underground. Do you know, Sir, there are only about forty miners at Denniston getting coal at the point of the pick, out of about three hundred working in and about the mine. I want to see justice done to the men in the back blocks ; and while I would do all I can to improve their condition, I say that we must have fair-play for our own men ; and if the honourable gentleman who introduced the Bill would withdraw it and allow the Government to bring down a more completely drawn mea- sure, I am sure that such a course would be acceptable. A schedule should be put in the Bill to show the industries to which the Bill is intended to apply. There would then be no mistake as to its intentions and scope. I also wish to say that in 1898 gold to the value of a million sterling was obtained in this colony, and in 1899 the amount got had in- creased to over a million and a half sterling. The amount is increasing yearly, and the men who are working hard in that occupa- tion surely have a right to be considered. Clause 6, I wish to point out, would affect a large number of wharf-labourers in the district I represent. A steamer may be expected at. say, two o'clock in the afternoon, and if there is a head-wind she may not come in until four o'clock. Until the vessel arrives the men are kept hanging about. After five o'clock the men are paid at overtime rates-pay and a half after five o'clock, and double pay after midnight. According to clause 6, these men would have to work for forty-eight hours before they would be paid for overtime. I hope and trust, Sir, the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill will withdraw it, and that the Government will undertake to bring down a measure that will suit all parties concerned. If the Bill goes to a vote on the second reading I will support it, and I trust it will be carried, and that after the principle has been affirmed the Government will take it up. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) .- Sir, there is a remarkable feature in the arguments of honourable members who have spoken in sup- port of this Bill. That remarkable feature is this : they ask other members to agree to the second reading, and say that it will be so amended in Committee that it will not be injurious to any class of the community. Well. as a country member, I object to such a course being taken by this House. I understand that any member voting for the second reading of a Bill confirms the principle of the measure, and as a country member I could not support any measure that I felt contained a provision 