it would either have been dismissed or the fine would have been smaller. Nothing of this kind could happen under the Bill before the House. The case is to be heard from beginning to end before any verdict is given. That, undoubt- edly, is the right course to take. If this Bill passes, the verdict will be in accordance with the whole of the evidence. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine). -- I wish to com- pliment the honourable member who has intro- duced this Bill, because I consider it is far more liberal than the present Act, inasmuch as it governs the fine according to the area held by the offender. At the same time I think the honourable gentleman might accept the sugges- tion of the Minister of Lands and refer the Bill to the Stock Committee. An Hon. MEMBER. -. He will never see it again. Mr. FLATMAN .- I am given to understand that the Hon. Major Steward, who suggested that the Bill should go to the Stock Committee, is a member of that Committee, and he has explained that the Bill was late last session, otherwise it would have been reported to the House. But it is early this session, and I have no doubt that the honourable gentlemen who compose the Agricultural Committee will take every precaution to see that the Bill is con- sidered and reported to the House again at an early date. In any case, if the honour- able gentleman does not accept the suggestion, I will vote for the second reading of the Bill, because I think it is in the right direction. But, while speaking on this question, I would like to suggest that the Magistrate adjudicating in all cases of this kind should be a Stipendiary Magistrate. There might be Justices of the Peace who sit upon the bench, and who may, in some way or another, be interested with the offender; and, whether their judgment is correct or not, it might be inferred that it was biassed. I would like to see the honourable gentleman, when his Bill is in Committee, agree to amend it in the direction of providing that a Stipen- diary Magistrate only shall be the adjudicating Magistrate in these cases. I shall support the second reading of the Bill, and I trust there will be no great opposition to it. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka). - Sir, like the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, I shall support this Bill-not that I have any fault to find with the Inspectors, because I have never had the slightest trouble with them dur- ing all the time the Act has been in operation ; but I have been asked by my electors to secure some amendment of the original Act. It is admitted by one and all that the Act is un- English in the extreme, and if any proof is required it has been furnished by the honour- able member for Clutha in the case mentioned, where the Magistrate convicted before hearing evidence for the defence, but agreed to reduce the tine if defendant could prove that he was doing all he could to keep the pest down ; which he did, and the fine was reduced. This clearly proves that the Magistrate considered he had no option in the matter. 1 do not think the law is Mr. J. W. Thomson it matters little what both sides say, because the Magistrate is bound to fine. He may fine more or less, according to circumstances, but fine he must. The Minister of Lands last session made some very strong remarks as regards farmers giving evidence. I am not going to repeat that, and I have no doubt the Minister has reached a different frame of mind now. I hope he will support the Bill ; and I trust the honourable member in charge of the Bill will insist on a division being taken, for if sent to the Stock Committee he will have seen the last of it. as was the case last session. Now there is not the same necessity for it, and I think the interests of the people should be consulted, and the Go- vernment should give way. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice). - 1 just wish to say a word or two, Sir, in order that the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill may have an opportunity of meeting the arguments of the Hon. Minister of Lands. None of the previous speakers have met the arguments of the Minister when he objected to the Bill. In order to gauge the Bill and its effect just now, we must remember that the present Rabbit Act was the result of the pre- vious Act not being stringent enough. It was found that the destruction of rabbits was not effective under the previous Act, and the result was that it was found necessary to introduce a Bill which was more severe. I admit, myself, that the present law is too severe, and it is pos- sible that the time has now arrived when it might be made a little easier. Let us look at the position : Under the law in regard to the rabbit question, the decision does not rest on the amount of evidence to be brought forward by the Inspector and by the settler. An Inspector might have seen rabbits, and per- haps might have somebody with him to give evidence that he had seen rabbits, on a certain farm. I do not say the farmer is likely to do it. but I can very well understand that at a certain period of the day they do not fly round the open country, and any settler might take any person over his farm and he would not see a rabbit there, and this man would be able to truthfully swear that he had been over the settler's land and had not seen a single rabbit. Now, if it was a question of evidence whether there had been rabbits on the farm, the Magis- trate would be bound to give his decision in favour of the evidence of the greater number. who had seen no rabbits. It is only in order that there should be some attempt made by those gentlemen who understand this question thoroughly to meet the difficulty the Minister of Lands referred to that I mention this matter. There is a difficulty there, although I think it would be easy for the Stock Committee to suggest such an alteration in the present law as would remove the very har b measures that appear to obtain under the Rabbit Nuisance Act at the present time: be- cause, in addition to being harsh, I think they are somewhat unreasonable, and it should not be in the power of any one man to fine a settler $20 or $5 or whatever amount he thinks tit. 