though members may not themselves actually elect the members of the Cabinet, the Cabinet cannot exist without the approval of the party. Now, there is another point of extreme import- ance. It is of the essence of successful par- liamentary government that you should retain at all times and every instant of time your control over the Ministry in power. Now, what does this Bill propose to do ? This Bill propose- to hand over the absolute power to Two parties each putting forward the best the Ministry for three years-for twelve months undoubtedly. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. BARCLAY ... I ask honourable members is always fair in Anglo - Saxon assemblies - - to read the Bill. What else does it mean ? It proposes to do that undoubtedly. As matters stand at present. there is no instant when the House is sitting that the Ministry in power can call itself absolutely and entirely safe. A motion may be moved at any minute which would have the result of ousting a Ministry from the Government benches and putting others in their place. And I say this control over the Ministry is a feature of parlia- mentary government that ought on no account to be given up by a Parliament which is desirous of controlling the destinies of the country, and of shaping the measures which we shall fall to the condition of places like are to go on its statute-book. The system of party government, as I say, has practically taken from the Crown its last shred of antho- rity and vested it in Parliament. Had it not been for party government that could not have been done. Party government was not a scheme drawn up on paper and introduced into Parlia- ment by way of a Constitution like a Bill ; it was a thing that grew ; it was found to be an absolute and actual necessity ; it was found the country could not be governed in any other wav: it was a thing that developed by the necessities and needs of Parliament and the country. It is all very well to talk as if you could get rid of party government ; as a matter of fact. it is very doubtful if you could get rid of it if you tried. The honourable member introducing the Bill referred to the fact that the gentlemen of the Opposition had lately an- nounced that they had not a leader. I did not understand that the gentlemen who sit on the Opposition benches announced that they them- selves had ceased to be in opposition ; I under- stood that they merely announced that they had not at present an official leader. The gentlemen on the Opposition benches are as much in opposition now as they were before : there is not the shadow of a doubt about that, and if they made an announcement of the sort they did it with the object of getting some members to range themselves on their side who would not otherwise have done so. And I venture to say it will not be long before there is opposition ; and there are parties-men in this House, and certainly in the country -- who will carry out the system of party government on somewhat similar lines to what has been usually carried out. and on lines which are inevitable amongst Anglo-Saxon communities. The tendency of the Anglo-Saxon is to fight, and you will find it is impossible after a little while to carry on government without a fight and struggle of some kind. And it is well it should be so, because it is difficult to imagine any system better than the system of party government. In the first place, you have two parties struggling to produce the very best laws they can for the people ; each putting forward their programme to the people ; each struggling how best to satisfy the people whom they represent, and to whom they look to send them to Parliament. kind of laws they can think of ; each party criticizing with fairness - and criticism, Sir. criticizing as severely as possible the laws put forward by the others. I say it is difficult to imagine a system better adapted for producing laws of the very highest cha- racter and approaching the highest perfection. Certainly not a system of elective Exe- 8.30. cutive, where each Minister is nothing more than a sort of head of a department, and where laws are brought down almost anyhow, it does not matter very much whether they are passed or how they are passed. The result will be slipshod, careless legislation. The result will be a lazy, inert House. The result will be that Switzerland, a nation of which it has been said that it exists mainly on toys and tourists, and which cannot be considered as one of the lead- ing nations of the world. An Hon. MEMBER .-- It never was. Mr. BARCLAY .- Very well. it will not help us very much to follow a nation such as that, and that is the only nation that can be quoted as having adopted such a measure as this. I do not intend to detain the House any further, Sir. I sincerely trust the Bill will not pass, and I shall vote against its second reading. Mr. WITHEFORD ( Auckland Clty) .- What. ever our own private opinion may be, Sir, we have all to bear in mind one thing-that there is always a tide in the affairs of a country, just as there is a tide in the affairs of men, which, if taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. And at this critical period in the history of New Zea- land I do not think it is in the interests of the Parliament or of the people of New Zealand to bring about anything in the shape of a crisis, because that is what I believe it will mean if we pass a Bill of this nature. It would unsettle the minds of every one, and there would be no continuity either in regard to policy or politics in this colony at all. Personally, if I may be allowed to express an opinion. I should have been very pleased indeed, during the time I have been in Parliament, to have seen, in addi- tion to the present heads of the Government, Captain Russell or Mr. Massey on the benches, or Mr. Horries, or Mr. Allen, being a combina- tion of the talent which exists in this House, without any regard to the one side or the other ; but, under the circumstances, that evi- dently has been an impossibility. And though I personally would have been very pleased to see Major Steward in the Ministry, or any other private member, at the same time we have to bear in mind that the guiding spirit of the New 