I do not think his speech was appreciated by | has been in office. I say the time when the either side of the House. A great deal of it may have been very well and cleverly put together from his point of view, but I do not think it reflected much credit on him to deliver such a speech. He spoke lightly of the Pre- mier, and was not satisfied until he brought in the subject of Court dress. Why, Sir, if any honourable gentleman goes to Christchurch he will see the honourable member for Riccarton dressed spruce and tine in the best suit of clothes and the most glossy silk hat he can possibly procure ; and, if it is correct for the honourable gentleman to dress as he likes, is it not also right that the Premier should put on Court dress if he is by elevation qualified to do so ? For my part, I think the honourable member for Riccarton made a mistake, and also that it is good for him and his associates that he is not permitted to put on Court dress, for I fear if once he put it on he would not take it off night or day : he would be so proud of himself in it. I hope, Sir, that we all come here this session to do the work of the year, and not to quarrel and wrangle amongst ourselves. Our friends on the other side of the House have already ad- mitted their willingness to assist us in passing legislation in the interests of the colony ; and what more can we ask of them ? I am also very pleased to find that the returns from the rail- ways have been so favourable during the past year. I feel bound, however, to say that many of our railway servants who are holding respon- sible positions in the service are altogether over- worked. Many Stationmasters, I am informed, have to go back at night to work at their books https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 because they have not time in the day to attend to them. I think that these men should not be expected to do that, and that we should not ask them to do more than a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. I trust, if what I have said is found to be correct, they will be relieved in some way or other. I feel convinced that there are men at our large railway-stations who are altogether overworked. I maintain that it is not in the interests of the travelling public that these men should be overworked, and so ren- dered less fit to do their duty. If that is allowed the travelling public may suffer in some way, which we do not care to contemplate. Therefore I hope the matter will be remedied at an early date. It has been said by honourable members who have preceded me that our rolling-stock should be all manufactured in the colony. Well, I believe that too. But where is the fault ? The fault all came from that sleepy set of people the Conservatives, when they were in power. I can assure the House I am right when I say the Railway Department did not begin soon enough to manufacture rolling-stock, and therefore its requirements could not be overtaken in a few years. That is why we have had to send out- side the colony for so much rolling-stock : the simple reason is that those in power did not begin soon enough to manufacture it in the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Premier has been in office for ten years. Mr. FLATMAN .- Never mind how long he Mr. Flatman Commissioners were in office, with the Con- servatives in power, was the time when they ought to have commenced the manufacture of rolling-stock. At that time there was hardly any spare rolling-stock on hand, and any one with foresight ought to have seen that a block was bound to come upon us sooner or later. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Commissioners went out in 1895. Mr. FLATMAN .- It does not matter when they went out. I say they did not begin manu- facturing soon enough, and if the honourable member tries to convince me they did, then he has a big task before him. Mr. MASSEY .- Why, the Government sold a lot of rolling-stock that had been manufac- tured by the Commissioners. Mr. FLATMAN .- Only a few old trucks that would not carry more than about 4 tons. They would have been useless by this and not fit for our railways. The Government made a very good bargain in getting rid of them. Mr. SEDDON .- And they replaced them with new stock. Mr. FLATMAN .- And, as the Premier says, they were replaced by new stock. There is one thing I am very pleased to see in the Speech from the Throne, and that is the proposed amendment of the Rating on Unimproved Values Act. I take it for granted that that amendment will make it compulsory to rate on unimproved values for all purposes, and if the amendment is not in that direction I will make one to move a further amendment, and do my best to get it through all stages. I am sure it will be satisfactory to the whole colony to know that we shall then have a system which, we are led to believe, will be equal and fair to all concerned for rating purposes. I also agree with the mover of the Address that something must be done to assist the producers in getting their products to market ; and some- thing must be done so that the farmers can ascertain the state of the market and what is on the market-whether there is an excess or other- wise of frozen meat and lamb either in London or on the water. At present farmers have not all the information that they desire which would assist them to come to a decision as to what stock they should freeze or should hold. There are leaflets, it is true, that are circulated, but they only show what number of sheep and lambs are killed. What is wanted is to know the number of frozen carcases which are on the manifest of every ship that leaves the colony. These numbers are telegraphed Home to those in the trade, and they know the amount afloat and in store ; but at the present time the farmers here cannot get that information, and if they had the information they would be far better able to judge of what the price was likely to be. I may here say that I have to thank the Hon. the Premier for conceding a request which I mado to him during the recess, and that was that the Agent-General should telegraph the price of frozen mutton and other products as well as butter and cheese. That has been done, and I am sure the farm- 