satisfied he would have seen that it was an absolute necessity that something should be done to provide better accommodation for these departments at Kurow, as there was absolutely not room to conduct the business there at pre- sent. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he should be very glad to visit this locality with the honourable gentleman at the earliest opportunity, as he looked forward with a great deal of pleasure to going through that part of the country, as he had promised the honourable gentleman, by-and-by. He was advised at pre- sent that the existing accommodation was con- sidered to be ample to meet the present require- ments of the district, the number of trains per day in and out being one only ; but he dared say that after the honourable gentleman and himself had gone through the district, there would, as the result of increased traffic, be a greater necessity for increasing the number of trains. Major STEWARD said it was not a matter of the number of trains at all; but as the whole of the postal business for the Upper Waitaki had to be done at Kurow, and there were scores and scores of people who could not get into the place to transact their postal busi- ness or when they went for their letters, and as there was only one train a day, the necessity for enlarged accommodation was all the greater. Sir J. G. WARD said he should be very glad to look into the matter with the honourable gentleman when there. WILLOWBRIDGE AND UXBRIDGE RAIL- WAY-STATIONS. Major STEWARD ( Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, Whether, in view of the large amount of business at the Willowbridge Siding, on the main south line, and at the Ux- bridge Station, on the Oamaru-Kurow Branch, he will make arrangements to station a resident railway-officer at each of those places? This was a question of a similar nature to the last. There was no person in charge of the Willow- bridge Siding, or at the Uxbridge Station, with which Georgetown was in communication. There was a very large grain traffic at these stations, and it was absolutely necessary that there should be some officer in charge. He had been very urgently requested to bring the matter under the notice of the Minister, and he might say that he thought it would be quite possible to arrange for one of the platelayers to live at each of these points and to take charge of matters there. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the report upon this matter was as follows : - " The traffic at Willowbridge and Uxbridge is insufficient to warrant the department in- curring the expenses necessary to make pro- vision for resident railway-officers. A man is placed in charge of Willowbridge temporarily during the grain-season, and this is considered to fully meet present requirements." When he and the honourable member went to Georgetown he should be very glad to attend to this matter also. Major Steward WELLINGTON-NEW PLYMOUTH RAILWAY. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will have provision made on this year's estimates so that steep grades be reduced and deviations made, where necessary, on the railway line between Palmer, ton and Hawera, thus shortening materialis the time now taken by trains, and enabling travellers north of Wanganui to make the journey in one day from New Plymouth, Strat- ford, Eltham, and Hawera to Wellington on the Government line, and rice versò ? This was a most important question, and a lot of work had been done in connection with it by Mr. Rex- nolds, engineer. A survey had been made by this gentleman some years ago, and it was well known that the grades were very steep, and that it was absolutely necessary, if we were to accele. rate the speed to enable the public to travel more expeditiously than at present, that these grades should be reduced and deviations made where necessary. Now that they had a Minister for Railways who was up to date, he hoped that gentleman would see his way to have this work done, because it was a very important work. as the Hon. the Minister must know. having travelled occasionally on that line himself. He honestly believed it was in consequence of the grades being so steep that railway communica- tion between Stratford and Auckland had been delayed four years ago. If these grades bad been reduced at that time he believed railway communication would have been established with Auckland years ago. However, it was never too late to do something in this matter. and he hoped the honourable gentleman would see his way to carry out the report of the en- gineer at as early a date as possible. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said the matter referred to by the honourable gentleman was a very important one. Per- haps he should clear the ground before refer- ring to the larger issue by stating that the matter of running a daily train between New -- Plymouth and Wellington was brought up last session, and he then indicated that be would be very happy to have this done i there would be a daily steam service between Onehunga and New Plymouth. Although this had not been done, vet he could tell the honour- able member that he thought now that, in the interests of the settlers along the line, and the importance of the connections both at the Wellington end and at the New Plymouth and. and the growing trathe that was taking place there, the time had arrived when they ought to have a train running from New Plymouth to Wellington every day, and he proposed to commence a daily train service to Now Piv- mouth in the summer months. It was n : desirable to commence the service in the win ter. When the daily train was running thronet permanently, he would suggest to those anxious to see this service made a success that they should make representations to the people of Auckland and the people of Wellington to give them a nightly steam service between the two places. If that was done it would 