very many complaints about it, and I think there has been a good deal of reason in the complaints. In the immediate neighbourhood of Christchurch an estate was offered to the Government at $60 an acre fronting the Ferry Road. The Land Purchase Board would not accept the offer, but some time afterwards they purchased an estate that did not front a main thoroughfare at all -- an estate that lay a quar- ter of a mile back-and paid $65 an acre for :t, while there was a marked depression run- ning across the land which has had to be illed up, and in addition to which a culvert nas had to be formed there, occasioning some extra expense in the matter of roading. Now, that land was cut up into acre and half-acre and quarter-acre sections. The large sections went off readily, and the Minister was asked to join some of the quarter-acre sections and to make them acre or half-acre sections. If they had been acre lots they would have been taken up readily enough, but the quarter-acre sections hung fire. And so it will be with regard to the last estate which has been purchased at the foot of Colombo Street, about two miles from the centre of the city. There in the imme- diate neighbourhood of where the land is being cut up into quarter-acre sections, within half a mile of it, they are selling two- and three-acre blocks at $75 an acre, and these are being taken up by persons in Christchurch with the inten- tion of building homes upon them. If we had these other sections a little larger they would not have the difficulty that has been pointed out by the honourable member for Avon, in whose district several of these estates have been acquired. Now with regard to this estate which the Government refused at $60 an acre. A man who possessed means bought it and sold the large house that was on it and two acres of land for $800, and is now selling some quarter- acre sections on the Ferry Road at $80 the quarter-acre. The Government, having refused to take this estate at $60 an acre, went back from the main road and bought a fifty-acre block at 665 an acre, which had only one old building and a small old-fashioned four- There is another roomed cottage on it. matter I would like to bring under the notice of the Right Hon. the Premier, and that is the claims of labourers in the country districts. No provision so far has been made for these labourers in the way of enabling them to acquire two or three acres of land, the cultivation of which would enable them to tide over the diffi- culty they have to contend with in not having regular employment ; and when they do have employment they only get 5s., 5s. 6d., or 6s. a day. There are plenty of villages in the South Island, where the land has all been disposed of and settled on, where they have to pay high rents. I mention one place about five miles and a half from Christchurch, and I got these cases from the men who are renting the land from the farmers in the neighbourhood : Ten acres at $3 10s an acre ; 5 acres at $4 ; 15 at #4 : 15 at $4; 2 at $4 10s .; 5 at $4 : 15 at $3 10s ; 1 acre at $4. These lands were taken up by these resident labourers for the purpose Mr. Ell of growing onions and potatoes and different root-crops, to help them to keep a decent home. helping them to provide for their families and to make up for the small earnings they get on account of bad weather and broken time amongst the farmers. It occurs to me that these men have a distinct claim upon the Government in respect to getting land at a reasonable rent. In the immediate neighbour- hood where these men pay these very high rents the farmers are holding the land at $1 15s., £1 17s., and ₺2 per acre; and my late col- league Mr. Lewis brought under the notice of the Land Purchase Board a farm of about sixty acres, which I was brought up on about twenty. five years ago, and which was owned by my father. There were no buildings upon it, and it was offered to the Government at $40 an acre. but they refused it. It has since been sold at $46 an acre. There was no doubt the land was absolutely wanted by a number of working- men in the district, who were only earning s. s day when they work, and pay as much as an acre for small blocks of land on which to grow crops so as to eke out a livelihood. I would ask the Right Hon. the Premier to take a note of this fact, and to see if they cannot in the future provide perhaps & hundred or a hundred and fifty acres of land in the different agricultural centres, 50 that these men may be able to get the land at a more reasonable rental, and not at $5 an acre, that distance from Christchurch- about five miles and a half. I quite aeree with the remarks made by my colleague Mr. Collins with regard to the high rents paid by working-men. To my knowledge, in the immediate neighbourhood where I live. about a mile and a half from Christchurch. small cot- tages of four rooms and a small scullery, situated on sections of an eighth of an acre, and some of them smaller than that, are let at 9s. 6d. and 10s., and some at 11s. Now, that is far too much for a man to pay out of his earnings whet. perhaps, he is only receiving 6s. or 6s. 6d. a day. And it is undoubtedly the duty of the com- munity to see that the people who are working for the community are provided with homes at It is a hardship to a more reasonable rent. these men, and a considerable hardship upon a young family -and it is frequently the case the: these men have large families, which shond have, perhaps, five or six rooms to live in that they should have to live in four small rooms. which is not conducive either to their health or comfort. And in this matter, if the kwal authorities are not in a position to take it y. the Government should consider the advisaiais of assisting the people to get homes, so tesi they may rid themselves of this very basis charge upon their small incomes. I shall sap port very cordially the second reading of the Bil With respect to the high land-values referti to by the honourable member for Waibeme. we cannot possibly expect that the land-vamos in this country are not going to rise when we are lowering the rate of interest. It is very evident if you lower the rate of interest vot simply raise the value of land. With the re 