I may say the Bill provides that the Council may lease the land for a term of years not ex- cecding fourteen years, subject to such terms and conditions as the Council may think fit. Power is also given to the Corporation to agree in such lease to grant renewals from time to time for a period not exceeding fourteen years for each renewal, but at a rent to be fixed by valuation or by arbitration. The powers re- ferred to are such as are given, in respect to some of their reserves, to Councils under the Municipal Corporations Act of 1900. Sir, I do not know that there is any contentious matter in the proposed Bill. As I have pointed out before, the land is now lying useless, and the Council is unable to make use of it so as to obtain some rent or profit from it. I hope there will be no obstruction placed in the way of the Bill. It is a simple measure which does not alter or extend the law in respect to present municipal powers now obtaining in any way. It simply enables the Council to take alternative action in the direction of leasing the land now locked up, lying idle, and secure a revenue to supple- ment borough funds. Sir, it is with pleasure and confidence that I move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read a second time. CYCLE BOARDS BILL. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- Mr. Speaker, it is not my intention to detain the House with any lengthy explanation of this Bill. I. intro- duced it into the House last session, so late in the session that it never had an opportunity of Leing read a second time. Numerous petitions, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 signed by thousands of cyclists and others in different parts of the colony, were sent in asking the Government to take it up as a Government Bill. To this the Government assented, and had it introduced into another place, but owing to the nearness of the end of the session the Bill was there laid aside. I have taken the earliest opportunity of bringing it before the House this session. I feel certain no serious objection will be raised by any member to the provisions of the Bill. It is of a permissive character : it can only be brought into operation on a requisition signed by a large number of the cyclists in any particular district. The purpose of the Bill is to enable cyclists to tax themselves for the purpose of making and maintaining ( cle-tracks. In clause 4 of the Bill it will be seen that, after a petition is well advertised and presented to the Governor asking for the adop- tion of the Act in any eyele district, another petition, signed by half the number on the first petition, may be presented to the Governor against the Bill being made operative in their district, then it shall not come into operation. This clause will leave it entirely to the will of the large majority of the cyclists in any district whether the Bill becomes operative or not. Clauses 5 to 26 are merely machinery clauses for the purpose of electing Cycle Boards and for the proper conduct of the affairs of the Boards. Clause 27 provides that a registration fre of 5s. or less be paid by all the owners of cycles within the district where the Act has been adopted, and the money thus raised will go toward the making and maintenance of cycle-tracks, with the consent of the local authorities, so that any work that is done by a Cycle Board in this direction must be in full harmony and co-operation with the local authority having control in that district. Clauses 40 and 41 deal with the rule of the road, and that is a subject that has never been very definitely fixed by legislation in this or any other country. The First Schedule of the Bill divides the colony into Cycle Board districts, and these necessarily must be somewhat extensive, because the whole idea of the present Bill is to provide cycle- tracks in country districts, so that the people can get about and view the beauties of our wonderful country on the wheel. The ad- vantages that may be expected to flow from the adoption of this measure are very numerous indeed. It will provide, in the first place, decent tracks, which will be available for the settlers in the country districts as footpaths in the winter-time, when the roads are so bad as to be almost impassable. The bulk of the cyclists are living in the towns and cities, where roads are fairly good, and the money they will con- tribute will mostly be spent in providing cycle- I believe that tracks in the outlying districts. the adoption of this Bill, and the operation of the Boards, will be the beginning of better roads throughout the country. The movement, wherever it has been adopted, has always tended in that direction. The advice offered by a body that takes a special interest in the maintenance of good roads will be of great value to the local authorities; and I am satisfied that when once this Bill is in operation a few years, and the tracks are made throughout the country, we shall wonder that we have been able to live so long without a measure of this kind. Simi- lar provisions to those contained in the Bill have been in operation in a good many of the States of America, and also on the Continent of Europe. In Great Britain the strength of the cyclist movement has been so great that they have been largely instrumental in securing that all the roads throughout the country are put in a condition that renders them fit for cycling on, and I believe the tendency will be to get the same conditions in this country as time goes on. I might say that cyclists in all parts of the colony have sent in requisitions and petitions to the Government in favour of this Bill, and I have heard of no opposition on the part of any, nor have I heard of any serious objections raised to the provisions of the Bill as it has been drafted. I might say the Bill itself has received very great attention from cyclists, and those capable of drafting Bills, in different parts of New Zealand ; and from all parts of Australia requests have been sent over to have copies of this Bill supplied : and I have no doubt if it is adopted by this House it will very soon be adopted by some of the neighbour- ing colonies. I want simply, in moving the second reading of the Bill, to impress on the House that, being of a permissive nature, it can only be brought into operation in a district 