the Hon. Major Steward an opponent of the Government ? Sir, he has never been an op- ponent of the Government. This statement has been deliberately made to throw dust in the eyes of the people. It has been made over and over again, deliberately, and those who have made it know perfectly well there is not an atom of truth in it. The Conservative Press of the colony have all along fought tooth- and-nail against this change. The Hon. Captain Russell, until recently the leader of the Opposition, has fought persistently and con- sistently against this measure. Mr. E. G. ALLEN .- The Dunedin papers have supported it. Mr. ELL .- The Dunedin Star and the Lyttel- ton l'oms have supported it, but the Christ- church Press is against it and has been against it for a number of years, and so have the leaders To of the Conservative party in this country. continue Sir Joseph Ward's speech,- "The only country that had adopted that system was Switzerland, a country which no one desired to emulate. How many people had even heard of Switzerland having done a single thing to bring it into prominence ?" And yet we know that there has been more attention paid by writers on social and economic questions to that little country than to any other country in the world. It is regarded as one of the most remarkable countries, and it has afforded the world many good examples as far as labour and social legislation is concerned. Then, mark this in the speech of Sir Joseph Ward : " One might have occasionally to vote against a thing one did not like." It is to get https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 rid of this, of members being constrained to vote for things that they do not believe in, that we want to change the system. The Premier recognised it in 1897, and in 1899 Sir Joseph Ward recognised it, and stated that there were evils in our present system. Now, an honour- able member in another place, who has always been regarded as a strong, and staid, and faith- ful supporter and follower of the Government, made this statement in that Chamber :- " Let not the Government come down to us and say, ' You must accept the Hon. Mr. Smith, or the Hon. Mr. Anybody else who wishes to occupy the position, as has been done in another place under a system of party government.' That, I think, has too many imperfections about it to warrant us in copying it." Those are the opinions of the Hon. George Jones in the Legislative Council, and there has been no more consistent supporter of the Liberal Government in New Zealand than the Hon. Mr. Jones's paper. And yet they say that this proposal emanated from the enemies of the Government on those benches. A conspiracy of silence ? No, Sir, there is no conspiracy of silence at all. We have not had an opportunity to speak. The opponents of the measure were so ready to rush at the vile thing. and so pent up were their feelings. Evidently they have been working at high pressure against the Bill for several days, and every effort has been made to defeat it. The efforts made indicate that they are in their death struggle so far as this measure is concerned. Why all this whipping ? Because they see themselves that we are within measurable distance of getting what we have been wanting for years and years. How is it that this question is not to be referred to the people? Because they know perfectly well-those who are against it-that after the years and years it has been before the coun- try in every electorate, and written upon by correspondents in every paper in the colony, and spoken on upon every platform, that the people are ripe for the question to be submitted to them. It has been stated that honourable gentlemen who are opposed to it are not prepared to submit it to the referendum-that they are not prepared to let the people express their opinion upon it. Mr. SEDDON .- That is not in the Bill. Mr. ELL. - But the Premier has been assured by the honourable member in charge of the Bill that he has an amendment on a Supplementary Order Paper providing for that. Then, with regard to the autocracy of the Premier : under the present system of govern- ment every Premier must be an autocrat ; it is inherent in the system. The honourable member for Waitaki has no personal feeling in bringing forward this measure - the Premier must be assured of that fact. The member for Waitaki simply desires to get rid of the evils of It has been said that the present system. unity of the Cabinet is necessary in order to carry on legislation. Why, only last session the Minister of Mines went into the opposite lobby to the Premier on the question of miners' rights, and the Premier was defeated. And did the House consider that because the Minister of Mines differed with the Premier that he was not fit to hold a position in the Cabinet ? Cer- tainly not. Then, the Minister of Mines said he did not agree with the Minister for Railways with respect to part of his railway policy-he thought it would be far better to reduce the freight on the carriage of goods than to reduce the passenger-fares. There must be some give and take, and there will be give and take under the elective Executive. Therefore that objection falls to the ground. Who demanded the elec- tive Executive ? I say it has been demanded by the people over and over again. Then, as to the Premier being the judge as to whether this is a Liberal measure or not, I think it will be admitted that Sir Charles Kingston, of South Australia, is one of the most democratic and one of the most Radical members of any Govern- ment that we have had in the Australasian Colonies. That gentleman proposed 1.0. this as a policy measure, and strongly supported the writings of his colleague Sir Arthur Cockburn-who was then Dr. Cockburn -- in the Review of Reviews for 1895, where Dr. Cockburn wrote against the evils of party government. The Premier must admit that Sir Charles Kingston is as good a democrat as he is, and that he is quite as capable. He has had many years' experience in office. Dr. Cockburn has also had many years of office, and in his writings he called attention to the fact that there were many evils inherent in the 