There was no real reason why those yards should not be shifted round to the company's own property, and the whole of the stock should go into their own works vid the Hutt Park Company's railway, worked in conjunction with the Government. This would divert the whole of the stock and traffic, and would do away with the necessity of driving this stock through the populous parts of that growing suburb. The residents of his constituency also desired to know when the Government would com- mence the straightening of the Hutt Railway- line. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said in reply that drawings had been prepared, and that when funds were available the work would he gone on with. If the House gave authority for the necessary buildings and station at Petone he would be delighted to have them erected as soon as possible. The importance of the other question he recognised ; but, as the honourable member would see, it was a very large work, and would require consideration in connection with the whole of the railway policy. It was far too important for any individual Minister to make a promise to the honourable member upon, be- cause it was one of those questions that must be taken into consideration by the Cabinet as a whole in connection with the allocations of moneys for general railway expenditure. He agreed that the Borough of Petone was fully up to date, and it would not be its worthy member's fault if it were allowed to remain in the background. # MILK-VANS. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will cause a special https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 an to be attached to the north train arriving at Dunedin at 1.10 p.m. for the purpose of conveying milk to the various creameries and cheese-factories situated between Hampden and Dunedin, so as to obviate the present system of carrying milk in the same vans with rabbits and sundry goods ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said a return of the traffic carried by this train was being obtained, and the necessity of allocating a special van to the train would be considered as soon as the return was to hand. He would tell the honourable gentleman that if it was warranted he should be very glad to favourably consider it. # MISS ANNETT. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, Whether their attention has been called to the serious loss sustained by Miss Annett, teacher, Otago, through the dastardly actions of some miscreant, and also to the Otago Education Board's resolution in that connec- tion-namely, "That Miss Annett be reasonably compensated for the loss she has sustained "; and, if so, will they favourably consider the propriety of placing the sum of $70 on the esti- mates for that purpose? This question was one, he ventured to think, that would certainly command the sympathy of the Ministry and House. It was the case of a young lady teacher in Otago who had suffered very bad treatment. This young person was a teacher of ability and promise, and enjoyed an irreproachable cha- racter. She was appointed to a school at Rongi- hera. There was in that district a family of bigots of evil reputation, and they resolved that this girl should be driven from the neigh- bourhood, because it had been discovered that she was a Roman Catholic. The teacher was subjected to odious indignities that could not be mentioned in that Chamber. With commendable courage she had endured them until her home and school were set on fire, and her property, including an organ and several valuable articles which she possessed, was destroyed. The police were able to pretty nearly trace the crime to the person whom the whole neighbourhood felt persuaded had carried out the villainous work, but were not successful in sheeting it home; but no doubt existed in the minds of the people there, nor in the minds of the police, as to who had committed the dastardly act. The point was that these people had succeeded in subjecting that respectable young woman to these indignities and loss, and had carried out their threat to drive her from her home and her school-because she had to search for another school, and he doubted whether the school she now had was as good as the one in question-and she was out of employ- ment for some time, and suffered considerable loss. The Education Board, not having power to compensate her, passed a resolution asking that the Minister place a sum of $70 on the estimates to compensate her for pecuniary loss, and he hoped that the Minister would grant that. He would like to emphasize the point that in a free colony like New Zealand it should be possible for a young woman to follow the occupation of a teacher without annoyance. It should be our boast that women and children should be able to go unmolested anywhere. But in this case the teacher remains uncompen- sated ; the rascals are not punished, but were satisfied with the result they had attained. He thought that this was a case where compensa- tion should be granted, and he urged the Go- vernment to grant the only reparation now within their power. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said this matter did not come within the province of the department to deal with. It was a matter of administration by the Board, and had only been brought under the notice of the department by statements that had ap- peared in the Press and the question placed on the Order Paper. He was sure that every member of the House would regret that any- thing should occur of the nature indicated by the honourable member for Waihemo. It seemed to him, however, that it was a matter more to be dealt with by petition than for a sum to be placed on the estimates without the Government or the House having the facts before them. Of course, he had no reason to doubt the statements made by the honourable member, but the proper course was to lay the matter before the House by petition. The matter would then be inquired into, and after 