1" --> to this American company poking its nose into New Zealand in the way it has done. Honour- able members can ascertain, by referring to the files, that as far back as the 30th September, 1899, Mr. J. D. Spreckels wrote a letter to the Premier of the colony suggesting a twenty-one days' service between this colony and the Mother-country, and he set out, as an argument in favour of this service, the necessity for quickening the speed of the service. It must be admitted that efficient and rapid com- munication is the basis of industrial life. Mr. .J. D. Spreckels suggested that a contract should be entered into between the Oceanic Company and this colony by which a faster service could be obtained, and in the letter, which honourable members will see reprinted in the correspondence referring to the matter in the Appendices to the Journals, Mr. Spreckels said, "We must have a contract," and he in that letter proposed that the Government of the colony should subsidise his company by voting for it the sum of $30,000. Honourable members will remember that the next thing that was done by the Government was to communicate with Australia, to see whether or not Australia would come into this proposal, and whether it would be prepared to vote some portion of the £30,000 which Mr. Spreckels suggested should be allocated by the Government of this colony or the neigh- bouring colonies as a subsidy to his service. The Premier of New South Wales refused to be drawn or to agree to any deman'd until he knew the details of the arrangement ; and the result was, through the foresight of the honourable gentleman who occupies a place on the Ministerial benches, no contract was en- tered into with the Oceanic Company, but the arrangement which was made with it was merely a temporary one. I think it will be found before long-and, in fact, it will be ad- mitted now, and the statement will be borne out by the Press of the colony-that the time has arrived when some radical change should be made in the arrangement which has been come to between the Government and the Oceanic Company. We have shut out our own Union Steamship Company. I prophecy that Parliament will find, probably before many months are past, that there will be such an outcry at the ridiculous way in which these mails are being delivered -or not delivered- and at the delay which has occurred on many occasions, that there will be an abso- lute concensus of opinion against any further subsidising of this Oceanic Company. The first alternative course is to enter into some contractual relationship with the Common- wealth for the carriage of our mails via Aus- tralia to America and England and the Continent of Europe. The chief obstacle in the way of this arrangement is the cost of transhipment. The alternative proposal is the subsidising of a Vancouver service. It is admitted-and one has only to look up the quantity of mail-matter carried to ascertain the facts- that a great quantity of mails which leave England now go via Suez. It will be admitted also, that a number of people in the Old Country are looking askance at this San Francisco ser- vice; and I feel sure the Government of the country will have to tackle this question be- fore long, and will have to see how the anomaly which at present exists can be done away with. Sir, you will remember that a great deal of feeling was exhibited, and rightly so, against the terms that this country had practically to come to under this contract with the. American company. You will remember, Sir, that it was then pointed out that under the Hanna-Payne Act, under which special grants by Congress are made by way of subsidy to mail - steamers, Messrs. Spreckels and Company and the Oceanic Company put before the Government the fact that they could not absolutely count on an ap- propriation, and that therefore before they could enter into any contract they would have to find out how they stood with the United States Government. In the American Act under which the subsidy is granted a special provision provides that no foreign ships-and foreign ships include British ships-are to be allowed to enter into any arrangement or con- tract for the carriage of the mails with the American company. The result is that the Oceanic Company has to itself the full and absolute monopoly for the carriage of these mails. Now, Sir, how has the company carried out the arrangement so far, and what has been the result of that arrangement ? There have been repeated breakdowns, and there has been no due observance of the sailing dates, and no provision for the employing of vessels to substitute other vessels that were not fit or ready to carry the mails as provided for by the time-table or the schedule of date of sailing of the Oceanic Company itself. The " Sonoma," which was supposed to have left Sydney on the 4th May, stayed in port for nine days to effect repairs. Those repairs were not effected, and the "Sonoma" went to sea without being re- paired, and, after going back to San Francisco, was laid up there, and the " Mariposa " took her place at a later date. These are facts and figures which can be seen by any one who takes the trouble to look up the tables. I have only got to quote two or three more instances to show how necessary it is that this service should be looked into. The "Sonoma," due at Auck- land on the 19th November, was one day late ; the " Mariposa," due on the 10th December, was two days late ; the "Sierra," due on the 31st December, was four days late; and the "Sonoma," which was due on the 15th April, was three days late. Again, take the due dates of arrival in London. The " Sierra" was once five days late and once four days late, the " Alameda " was three days late, the " Ven- tura " was five days late, and the "Sonoma" was twelve days late by the time - table. It is plain that this is not a satisfactory service. It was an experiment last session, which has turned out badly. I sincerely hope that the indication given in His Excellency's Speech will be given effect to, and the Government will undertake this matter, and effectually grapple with what is at present a disjointed service. I congratulate the Postmaster - General on the 