reigns in the Executive in America, and how free enough to have any independent policy of the Governments are rendered unfit to perform their proper functions by reason of the condi- their own, are free enough to be very poor, be- tions of their existence. He quotes a leading cause very unmanageable, servants. Once in- stalled, their hold upon their offices does not article from a New York newspaper to the depend upon the will of Congress." following effect : - "We have been told, upon what we deem good authority, that no such thing as a com- party system - and my honourable friend the member for Auckland City, Mr. Fowlds, suggests bined unitary, deliberative Administration ex- ists ; that the President's brave willingness to we ought to prove this-I assume it, but I can take all responsibility has quite neutralised the prove it also if time will permit-has conferred idea of a joint responsibility ; and that orders of benefits upon the people of Great Britain which the highest importance are issued, and move- under the non-party system it were hopeless to ments commanded, which Cabinet officers learn expect, it is upon the people who desire the change that the onus is thrown of proving to us of as other people do, or, what is worse, which that it is desirable we should discard a perfectly the Cabinet officers disapprove and protest against. Each Cabinet officer, again, controls useful instrument of government, and one which has been tried and not found wanting. A re- his own department pretty much as he pleases, without consultation with the President or cent writer, speaking of the results of American with his coadjutors, and often in the face of legislative efforts, and illustrating the defective determinations which have been reached by the and incoherent character of much of the legis- lation of the American Parliament through the others." And he further says,- absence of a homogeneous body of leaders. says " It is this constant possibility of party diver- this :- sity between the Executive and Congress which so much complicates our system of party legislation agreed upon, there can be little government. The history of Administrations coherency about the debates. There is no one policy to be attacked or defended, but only a is not necessarily the history of parties. A strong party Administration by which the score or two of separate Bills. To attend to energy of the State is concentrated in the such discussions is uninteresting; to be in- hands of a single well-recognised political structed by them is impossible." organization, which is by reason of its power saddled with all responsibility, may sometimes used to-night that each member of the House would under the elective Executive be capable be possible, but it must often be impossible. We are thus shut out, in part, from real party of voting according to his individual opinion government such as we desire, and such as it upon each measure that was brought before is unquestionably desirable to set up in a the House, and consequently that greater per- political system such as ours." sonal independence would result, and members The honourable member said, in introducing would not be driven to vote for measures of the principles of which they disapproved, in defer- the Bill, and I think he was also supported by the honourable member for Riccarton, that ence to the exigencies of party, and that our there would be greater independence in Parlia- legislation would be better. That is what the ment if the proposed change were introduced. writer says, speaking of the American Legis- Now. Sir, the system of electing Executive offi- lature- a Legislature in which the Executive is cers for a fixed period has absolutely deprived appointed for a fixed term. the House of Representatives of the United States of all legitimate control over the public thing. The point I seek to make is this : that departments. There is less independent power in the individual representatives in the United the Executive is appointed for a fixed period, States than there is here. The authority I have and you propose by this Bill to elect the Execu- tive for a fixed period, and therefore 1 am seek- just quoted states upon this point. -- " At the same time, it is quite evident that the ing to show that under an Executive appointed means which Congress has of controlling the for a fixed period there is no greater independ- departments and of exercising the searching ence in the members of the Legislature than oversight at which it aims are limited and de- there is in our House, and that the results of Congress stands almost helplessly the labours of that Parliament are incomparably fective. outside of the departments. Even the special, inferior to the results we can show in this coun- irksome, ungracious investigations which it from try. With regard to personal independence in time to time institutes in its spasmodic en- an assemblage of eighty members, I think any deavours to dispel or confirm suspicions of mal- one who states that each member should be in feasance or of wanton corruption do not afford a position to assert his own independence on it more than a glimpse of the inside of a small every proposal cannot have reflected on the impossibility of accomplishing any political province of federal administration. Hostile or designing officials can always hold it at arm's reforms at all under such a state of things. From our own experience, even in the smallest length by dexterous evasions and concealments. local bodies, we know that no reform can be It can violently disturb, but it cannot often fathom, the waters of the sea in which the accomplished unless the presiding officer of that body has a party of supporters who are bigger fish of the Civil Service swim and feed. determined to stick to him in a certain course Its drag-net stirs without cleansing the bottom. The Secretaries [of Statel, though not Now, Sir, I maintain that, seeing that the "Since there is little coherency about the That disposes of the argument that has been An Hon. MEMBER .- That is not elective. Mr. NAPIER .- It is practically the same 