Executive, administering the Labour Depart- ment, and dealing with labour legislation ; and fancy the honourable member for Hawke's Bay and the Minister of Lands acting together in the administration of the land-laws, and legislating for land reform. I need not mul- tiply instances ; but fancy the Premier and the honourable member for Wellington City (Sir R. Stout) being in the same Government, and that Government having to bring forward a Bill dealing with the liquor question. The thing is preposterous. You must have an Executive the members of which are fairly well in touch with one another on the ques- tions of the day. Now for this ridiculous proposal - that of the honourable member for Waimate. The honourable gentleman does not adopt the fixed Executive system of Swit- zerland, which, with all its faults, has some logic about it. He actually proposes that, instead of removing the Executive by open voting, you may remove it by secret votes which will take away individual Ministers one by one, and, when you have taken away four Ministers, all must resign. Let us have the removal of the Executive under our present system ; and, for Heaven's sake, do not let us have the work done silently, secretly, and surreptitiously. Fancy the position of a Minister sitting here who is liable to be removed silently, secretly, and surreptitiously by a ballot if he displeases members of this House ! A Minister has every day to refuse requests of supporters on his own side. Why is he able to do that ? Because his colleagues stand by him and prevent his being jumped upon and bullied for not granting un- reasonable demands. There is no use talking https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 about independence in such a position as is in- dicated in this Bill. I would not occupy that position for a day. I say that a Minister would be a slave of the House, and independence would be an empty name. Our present system is far preferable to the unmanly and un-English pro- posal under which a Minister may be removed by secret intrigue and the ballot. The proposal is one of the worst which, I think, have ever been introduced in a Bill in this House." Now, Sir, I take that extract from a speech which was delivered in 1894. An Hon. MEMBER .- A good extract too. Sir J. G. WARD. - It is a good extract of very good matter, and some honourable members apparently do not like it. An Hon. MEMBER. - Whose speech is it ? Sir J. G. WARD .-- It is the speech of the former Minister of Education, the Hon. Mr. Reeves. It is a very good speech, delivered by a very able man, whose opinion upon the matters referred to there would be thought a very great deal of by a large number of people outside this ! House, who are now being asked to accept the opinions of some honourable members about ; and may it ever continue to be-unconquerable the elective Executive system. I think the ! honourable member for Riccarton and others will find that at more than one election for : Christchurch Mr. Reeves stood in defence of the party system. That he was eloquent in its ! advocacy of it can be judged from the remarks : Great Britain. As against the advantages I have just quoted ; and many thousands of : and results of the party system, what is [ people in Christchurch gave him their confi- dence, and he was therefore supported by a large majority when advocating the party system. Mr. ELL .- So had I. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes. But when you stood originally, and he was advocating the party system, you had not a shadow of a chance of getting in. I am glad to see you here ; but now, because some of the recent leaders of public opinion have not been "sound on the goose " as far as the party system is concerned, there may have been some lapses ; but when the masses of the people come to see for them- selves what they have already gained and what is implied by the loss of power which they possess under the party system, when they can have advanced measures considered and dis- cussed fully and freely, and when they have a majority in the House in favour of such measures-they know they can rely upon a united Cabinet, because under the elective Executive system a united Cabinet could not exist long they will realise that under the existing system the masses of the people possess a very great deal more power than they possibly could ever hope to possess under the elective Executive system. Now, one word about the history of our own country. What has been the experience of the British Em- pire during the last hundred years? It is our proud boast that no ordinary combination of Continental countries can do anything to bring serious disaster to Great Britain. Under what system of government has Great Bri- 9.0. tain developed into the great Empire she is now -with those wonderful resources and that enormous power which is the admira- tion of the whole world, and even of her op- ponents ? Why, is it not the fact that under the party system, when the party in power was negligent, when they were indifferent to the needs of the country in the matter of defence, in the matter of strengthening the navy, or in respect to the foreign policy, the party who were not in power, who were vigi- lant and alive to the requirements of the . country, criticized and condemned the actions of the party in power. They directed the attention of the masses of the people to these questions, and finally turned the Ministry out, with the result that when they in their turn came into office they went one step better, until indifference or inattention or slackness was apparent, and then the vigilance and criti- cism of their opponents aroused public opinion. and out they went also; and by that party system we were ultimately able to build up an Empire which no other country, or combina- tion of countries, is able to seriously injure or effectually assail. The position of Britain is --- at the present time, and that result is due to the operation of the party system. What has Switzerland done during the same period ? Let the supporters of the Swiss system show us. I say in no respect can they compare with 