any other measure I ever remember to have passed this Legislature, and I only regret that the author of that Bill is not in a condition of health to be fighting in the same direction along with us in this Parliament. I am pleased, Sir, that he also has received recognition at the hands of the Crown for the veoman service he has done, as an ex-Minister of this colony-I refer to my old friend Sir John McKenzie. But, Sir, I must express my disappointment with the administration of the land-for-settlements policy during the past year. It does seem to me that we have come to a dead stop with regard to the acquisition of land for settlements -not because there is not plenty of land that could be found, and obtained at suitable prices, while there are hundreds and thousands of men ready to take up that land ; but, either because the Government have been too busy in connection with other matters that have been pressing upon their attention, or be- cause they have lost their enthusiasm in so good a cause. Sir, I do hope the Minister of Lands will press this matter forward, and that during the next few months we shall hear of further blocks of land being acquired in the South Island and opened up for settlement. An honourable member from the North-Mr. Fowlds-this afternoon said he could not see why there should be any unsatisfied earth-hunger, or why there should be a scarcity of land, seeing the large amount of land the Government could throw open, if they chose, in the North Island. Well, Sir, I agree with the honourable gentle- man that the Government should open land in the North Island ; but he will allow me, as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 & South Island member, to say that that could be done, and at the same time land should also be opened in the South Island ; for it is not expedient that we should have to send our settlers and settlers' sons from the neighbour- hood where they themselves can, if the Govern- ment so choose, be well established, to take up land in the North Island. There are plenty of people in the North Island to take up land there; we have plenty of people also in the South Island to take up our land ; and I ask that we should join forces, and not set ourselves one against the other, and im- press upon the Government that land must be opened up for settlement in both Islands, and opened up without delay. The honourable ' member for Wairarapa complained of the ad- ministration of the Advances to Settlers De- partment. I do not know that he blamed the Minister-I do not think he did-but he said that there was somebody to blame. Well, Sir, I do not care who is to blame, but there is no doubt that there is blame attachable to some- body. I can bear out the honourable member's statement, and I can give another instance of the same kind. In a settlement in the neigh- bourhood of Waimate there was a settler who had had the misfortune to have his land flooded for two years in succession. And herein let me say that he had a grievance against the Govern- ment, because the Government ought to have assisted in deepening the drain to prevent a recurrence of the flooding. However, he had his land flooded, and his crop was largely destroyed. He also had the misfortune to have his wife under the doctor's hands for It is therefore quite easy many months. to understand that that man fell into arrears with his rent. Now, he had put substantial improvements upon his property in the way of fencing, erecting a house, and other build- ings, and he asked me for advice as to what he was to do, as the Land Board threatened to turn him out because he was not able to pay his rent. I said, "Why, you have plenty of property ; why not apply to the Advances to Settlers Department ? You can get an ad- vance and pay your arrears of rent, and have a little over to carry you on until your next crop comes in." Well, he made his applica- tion, but he did not get his money. I wrote on his behalf to the Board, and I interviewed the Board, and I got an officer of the Lands Depart- ment to go with me and inquire into thecircum- That officer reported that, in his stances. opinion, the improvements were worth double the amount that the man had applied for. He applied again, and he was again refused, and he had to give up his holding. Sir J. G. WARD .- Was the rent paid ? Major STEWARD .- His rent was not paid ; but if the advance had been made he would have been able to pay his rent ; and it was claimed that the money could not be advanced because the rent was in arrear for more than six months. Well, here is the injustice of the position : A man who has had no trouble, such as this man had, and who is able to pay his rent regularly, is able to go to the Advances to Settlers Department, and, having proper secu- rity, is able to get an advance ; but the other man, who really wants it, and who has been in trouble, and who is able to offer as good security, is debarred by the law from getting an advance. I say that the law which provides that should certainly be amended. Sir, there seems to me to be a want of sympathy, if not on the part of the Minister, yet on the part of the officers of his department, with the settlers. I do not ask that the settlers should get anything that is unfair, but I do ask that they should be at least as liberally and as well treated as they would be treated by a private landlord, and that is not the case now. I could point to instance after instance, where, if any private landlord had been asked for certain accommodation, the applicant could have got it ; but when the tenants of the Crown go to the Government officers they find them perfectly adamant, and they cannot get reasonable accommodation. These are facts into which I wish the Minister would himself personally inquire, and he would find that a remedy is wanted, and that remedy ought to be applied at once, or he will find that the popularity which the Government have deservedly gained in the administration of the Land for Settlements and Advances to Settlers Departments will be speedily lost. Then, the honourable member for Wai- \- 9.0. rarapa pointed out another grievance- that votes are passed by this House session after session but are not expended, and the 