to go, under present circumstances, to the Supreme Court, however good their cause of action might be. The re-establishment of the District Court would not necessarily involve any increased expenditure. The gentleman who might be appointed to act in the capacity of District Court Judge at Auckland could also be made the Stipendiary Magistrate for the hearing of civil causes. During many years that had been the practice in Auckland. An action could be initiated in the District Court and tried before a jury - which would be a great advantage where there were contested issues of fact-and completed to its final stages within seventeen or eighteen days. In the Supreme Court several months had frequently to elapse before a case could be tried. He trusted, there- fore, that the honourable gentleman would see his way to favourably consider the proposal. It would be unnecessary to incur the expense of an extra judicial officer. He would also point out that it would be an advantage to Hamilton, Thames, Whangarei, and other centres of large districts in the Auckland Province to be in a position to have juries to try the smaller class of civil causes. The District Judge would visit those districts. The expense of bringing an action in the Supreme Court where the parties resided in the northern portion of Auckland was at present enormous. Witnesses had to be brought to the City of Auckland at great ex- pense, and the cost of litigation was in this way so increased that, as he had already said, law as administered in the Supreme Court was at the present time a luxury that only the rich could afford. He thought he had given sufficient https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 reasons to show that the question was worthy of favourable consideration by the Government. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said he appreciated the arguments of the honourable gentleman in support of his request, and he re- cognised that it was the duty of the Government to give serious consideration to the public re- quirements with the view to making the fees for justice nominal. He was, however, hardly ready to admit that the establishment of another Court in Auckland was an urgent necessity. The information of the department was that there were already two Courts there-the Supreme Court and the Magistrate's Court -- and there was no reason to suppose that the volume of business transacted was too great for those Courts to cope with. There were no District Courts at Wellington, Christ- church, or Dunedin, the sittings at those places having been discontinued because the small amount of work they did did not war- rant the expense of keeping them up. The sittings at Auckland were discontinued for a similar reason. For some reason or another very few civil cases were taken into the District Courts. The average was less than a hundred cases per annum for the whole colony. He would make mquiries and see if District Court sittings could be established with advantage to the public. While having a due regard to economy in the administration of public affairs, the Government were anxious to study Mr. Napier the matter careful consideration. Mr. NAPIER would point out that juries could not be got in the Magistrate's Court, and he would ask the honourable gentleman to remember that when giving consideration to the matter. That was one of the differences between the District Court and the Magistrate's Court. SOUTHLAND POLICE DISTRICT. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minis- ter of Justice, If he will have Southland con- stituted a separate police district, with inde- pendent control at Invercargill? In speaking on this question he would point out that at one time Southland was a separate police district under the control of an Inspector, resident and acting at Invercargill. Some years ago, how- ever, the Government then in power, under the pretext that drastic retrenchment was also- lutely necessary in connection with some of the State services of the colony, decided to remove the Inspector from Invercargill, placing the whole Police service of the extensive districts of Southland and Otago under one Inspector. stationed in Dunedin. The Government's blundering action in this matter was strongty condemned at the time by the people of Southland, and subsequent events proved that it was an ill-advised and a retrograde stop. being in every sense inimical to both the Police service and the public interests in Southiand. Even assuming such a blundering policy was absolutely necessary from the standpoint of re- trenchment, was it not true that the conditions then existing had greatly changed, not only as regards the improved financial condition of the country, but also in respect to the development and expansion of State business and its re- quirements? Was there any reason why the policy of the Police service of fifteen years ago should remain unaltered and apply to the pre- sent day with its increased volume of busines ? Was no regard to be paid to altered circum- stances and new conditions, such as exten-ive settlement, increased population, the sprache- up of new townships, et cetera ? or was the de- partment to act like some of the departments and display mental stagnation in regard to its administration ? Was it going to pursue an unprogressive and conservative policy. by clinging tenaciously to old ways, old methods and ideas of official administration - a policy which had the effect of blocking in many respects all reforms and all suggestions for im- provement under the mistaken or false idea of economy ? They knew that many official- would not take a step forward until they were actually compelled to do so. The only object many of them had in view in the working of their de- partments was to keep expenses down at al hazards, without having an enlightened regard to promoting progress or the carrying-out of reforms in connection with their othcial ba-i- ness. Now, while it was true that the detective sergeant and other members of the Southland Police Force were very active, able, and experi- enced men, yet their usefulness and efficiency 