the presence of each other, and could discover no damage whatever ; that you afterwards sold the meat as undamaged at the full market price for sound meat, and your buyer is satisfied that the meat was sound. If a person guilty of such action is permitted to escape, then all I can say is the sooner those interested in the handling of our frozen meat abandons the pre- sent system the better." He replied, declining to pay the amount, and said :- " Your favour of yesterday's date is duly to hand, and I note what you say about the ' Rakaia ' damages survey. It is possible that the allowances granted by my representative were greater than should have been ; but at the same time there is nothing to prove that he exceeded his duty, and therefore I cannot see that I should be expected to pay a loss which, I take it, you only surmise. As regards the sur- veys at which you were present, I have always been given to understand that you were quite satisfied with the settlements. It is now im- possible for me to take any proceedings against Mr. - , as when this matter was settled it was agreed that no further action should be taken by either party." On the 25th December this letter was sent :- " I am duly in receipt of yours. Crystallizing the first portion of your letter, you in effect say that my estimate of damage ex 'Rakaia' is merely surmise, and repudiating responsibility. If my estimate is only surmise, what can be said in favour on the estimates of damage you arrive at ? I examined every carcase that formed the basis of your representative's assessment; and, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 in addition to that, I had out-in the face of great opposition-every sheep in the parcel, which is a very different thing from an assess- ment on a little lot, which lot may or may not be a fair representation of the bulk at all. Indeed, in the case under consideration, the small lot your representative assessed from were not with the bulk at all, and were not in such good condition as the bulk parcel which I in- sisted on having out; but even on the 10-per- cent. lot which he inspected there was no justification for the large proportion of 30 to 35 per cent. he set down as damaged. I may say that as soon as I examined the sheep, and discovered the excessive assessment, I reported the fact to you, to which you replied offering to pay any excess, and describing your own un- fortunate experience with your assessor in the case of beef. Had you doubted my judgment . you should have gone down to the docks while the parcel was still in the stores-as you did in the other case-and so learn for yourself which statement was correct, your servant's or my own. This you did not do; and now, I sup- pose, it cannot be done, as the sheep will pro- bably be distributed. Personally, I cannot allow the matter to remain as you purpose leaving it. I therefore intend to place the case before my solicitors for advice. Of course, what is of most importance is whether a system is to continue which permits such practices to occur -a system under which thousands of pounds Mr. T. Mackenzie damaged claims on meat which is really sound, and which is afterwards sold to retailers and to the public as sound, and at sound-value prices. I am aware that some insurance associations are content to permit things to continue as they are. They are satisfied with what they are making out of the shippers, and they do not hesitate to say that if present rates do not pay claims they will increase rates until they do. The reform I wish to see effected is a reasonable adjustment of claims based on honest lines, so that insurance rates may be reduced to the New Zealand farmers and shippers, and pro- tection given to honest traders here. Alluding again to the facts of the case under considera- tion, I can only say that if your assessor is the duly qualified man you say he is in your letter, and that if he awarded 60 per cent. of damage on meat-as you say he did-where no damage was found to exist when the meat was examined by you and your representative, and if you-as you did-afterwards sold the meat as sound, at full market-price for sound meat, then I say, most emphatically, that a much stronger term than the word 'blunder' must be applied to the transaction ; and it appears to me to be a most singular and irregular thing for you, when determining your assistant's appointment, to have become a party to a proceeding which would preclude you from following up the case by the only honourable course open under the circumstances, and the course people expect you to take whose interests you profess to pro- tect." I then received a cheque from him for the amount. He was unable, he said, to proceed further with his late employé, because he had employed four or five men to examine the meat in dispute, and they declared that it was damaged, and his late employé was contem- plating a cross-action. The effect of that en- counter was practically to materially stop the claims for many months. The following week claims that had been made on Mr. Galloway, the Christchurch Meat Company's representative, were abandoned. The total claim made upon my company on my sales for the succeeding five months was £1 13s. 1d., and from other outside companies £18; whereas the claims I had paid to one Smithfield company alone during the previous four or five months had been as high as $885. Now, Sir, I want to come to the question of grading of meat. Last year, when the Bill was introduced by the Minister of Lands dealing with the grading of meat, I joined in the discussion, and I pointed out that, owing to faulty grading in the past, the whole of the output from one provincial district had been much depreciated, because care was not taken to see that the grading was what it ought to have been. Notably was that the case in Otago, where I venture to say that some of the very best meat in the world is reared ; and yet we know that the bulk of our sheep now goes to Canterbury, and is shipped Home as Canterbury meat; whereas Otago ought to have got the credit of the excellent quality of our export, and not Canterbury. 