these vessels to do a serious and uncalled for injustice to some of our best and most fre- quented ports ; and they absolutely refused to do as was usually done -trust the local pilots, who were men of the highest qualifications, as well as possessing the fullest local knowledge. Mr. SEDDON did not desire to say more than this: that, so far as the commodore of the "Ophir" was concerned, he was unduly anxious. But he also knew that when the Imperial troopship "Britannic " came to opposite the Bluff she transhipped a thousand Imperial troops there, and the Admiralty allowed the tranship- ment to take place. But when the Government asked the Admiralty to allow the "Tagus " to tranship our troopers at the very place where the Imperial troops were transhipped they would not allow it. He could not see how the honourable member was going to meet that point : a bigger boat was allowed to go there and tranship the whole of the Imperial troops -one thousand men-but the " Tagus," with six hundred men, was not allowed to tranship her men. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said he rose to make a personal explanation. The honour- able gentleman who had the honour to repre- sent Hawke's Bay had made an allusion to him (Mr. Laurenson), when speaking about the amount of water required underneath a vessel, which he would reply to. All that he wished to draw honourable gentlemen's attention 3.30. to was this: that they in Lyttelton were very much astonished at the action of the master of the steamer in which their Royal Highnesses came to the colony, an ordinary trading-steamer, in refusing to go alongside the wharf at Lytteiton. Why, a few years ago the admiral of the Australasian squadron, Admiral Bridge, came into the same place, and brought his whole fleet with him. They knew quite well the rules defining the depth of water that required to be underneath a ship's bottom with- out being informed by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. That honourable gentleman had been pleased to say that he (Mr. Laurenson) knew as little about these matters as he knew about politics. To that he would merely an- swer that he was thoroughly well acquainted with the politics that he professed, and that he acted up to his professions; but, as for the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, he neither believed in the little polities that he professed, nor vet did he try to act up to them. Subsequently. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he had just re- ceived the following telegram, which he would road to the House : -- " Your common - sense badly wanted here. "Tagus' at Heads, and men can be sent Inver- cargill six hours and carry out programme fixed to-morrow if they go by steamer. Cannot leave .. R. MENAB." here until to-morrow night. They would not allow the "Tagus " to go; that was the trouble, and that was why. of course, the Government had to make these arrangements. The High Commissioners of the Admiralty, like the commodore of the "Ophir." were obstinate ; and the latter gentleman was Sır J. G. Ward more obstinate than he (Mr. Seddon) was ever accused of being, and that was worse than a mule. PROCLAMATION OF THE KING. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Premier, Why the Proclamation of His Majesty the King published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the 4th February was substituted for that published on 28th January, and why the name of the Premier is inserted as attesting the Pro- clamation when he was not present on the occasion of the Proclamation being publicly made? When the Proclamation of the accession of the King took place on 28th January a Gazette Extraordinary was issued giving a Proclamation undersigned by attesting witnesses. On the 4th February another Gazette Extraordinary was issued with a Proclamation substituted for the first Proclamation. Now. as far as he could read them they were both identical as far as the body of the Proclamation was concerned, and it seemed to him an extraordinary thing that one Proclamation should be withdrawn and another substituted when the matter in both was iden- tical, the only difference being in the attesting witnesses-namely, that in the second Prochain- ation the Premier appeared as an attesting witness, whereas in the first Proclamation his name was absent. Mr. SEDDON said it appeared in the body of both Proclamations. Mr. HERRIES said, Yes, that was so ; but. as the Premier was away from the colony at the time, why should he appear as an attesting witness to the second Proclamation, and why was the second one substituted for the first ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said that, as he was the Minister who issued the second Proclamation, perhaps it was just as well that he should reply to this ques- tion, and he was sure, when the honourable member heard the explanation, he would un- derstand there was good reason for it. It would be understood that in a matter such as this they had no immediate precedent to guide them, and what purported to be a Proclamation in the Gazette of the 28th January was not a Proclamation, only the bare form proclaimed from the steps of the vestibule in front of this House. That was one reason for the alteration. But it wanted something more than that, and the honourable member, seeing the Gazette Proclamation of the 4th February, would see there was a heading which was in the proper form, as he was advised by the Law Adviser. in which it should be put in the Gazette. The heading was : .- " Wellington, Monday. 4th February, 1901. " The following Proclamation was publicly made on the twenty-eighth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and one, in the front of Parliament House, Wellington, in the presence of His Excellency the Governor and a large con- course of citizens. " Now, that was necessary in order to make the notification correct, and hence he had given authority for a reprint to be made. Then, in 