expecting the honourable member for Masterton ! to have told the House that this measure of his was not a new one. In fact, it is not ; and what he is endeavouring to do just now is to re-enact what was the law in 1881. In 1881 an Act was passed through this House to deal with the rabbit question. It was the first Bill put upon the statute-book which gave the General Government of this colony power to administer that Act. Formerly it was adminis- tered by elective Boards. In that Act you will find no such provision as is to be found in sec- tions 9 and 10 of the Act of 1882. But I know why the Act of 1881 was altered. It was be- cause the gentleman in charge of the Rabbit Department at the time urged upon the Go- vernment the fact that he had found great difficulty in obtaining convictions, and unless he got this arbitrary power conferred upon him he could not administer the Act properly. The House listened to the arguments, and passed the Act of 1882, but ever since they passed it there has been a great deal of feeling on the subject, and, as far as I can, I will do my best to stop it by repealing these obnoxious clauses. The Hon. the Minister said that there is nothing to prevent a settler getting his neighbours or other people to go over his land, and then to come to the Court and declare they saw no rabbits on the property. That, however, does not prevent the Inspector bringing a reliable witness to support his testimony. Surely we can trust our Magistrates. They have discern- ment enough to weigh the evidence, and will give credence to the one side or the other according to the nature of the evidence that is brought before them. I think it is not right to say that a man may go into Court, and that simply on his inse dirit a settler must be fined. I have known the case of a man who occupied an area of land adjoining a large area of Crown land which was swarming with rabbits. The man cleared his land over and over again ; but it was like pouring water through a sieve, for as soon as he had cleared his land from rabbits it was overrun again, and he could not possibly keep it clear. Was that man to be punished ? Sir, I quite agree with the Minister that, taking it on the whole, from the creation of the department to the present day, the Inspectors and the agents, as a rule, have en- deavoured to do their duty impartially. There have been cases cited to me I do not know with what truth-where injustice was alleged to have occurred. I say, Sir, it should not be possible for that injustice to take place, and I am confident that, with the knowledge Magis- trates now have of the requirements of the case, they will see that justice is done, that the object of the department is upheld, and that people will not be allowed to hoodwink them and keep rabbits on their land when they ought to destroy them. I will support the Bill, but I say it is simply re-enacting the Act of 1881, which, to my mind, was a better Act than that of 1882. Major STEWARD) (Waitaki) .- Sir, circum- stances alter cases, and I strongly suspect that the position which the honourable gentleman who is now Minister for Agriculture occupies necessarily influences his opinion with regard to the proposals of this Blll. I think he is speak- ing rather from the point of view of the de- partment over which he presides than from the point of view he would take were he himself a private member. Sir, I recollect full well when the honourable gentleman was with me at pub lic meetings at Kurow, where strong complaint was made of the working of the Act which the honourable member for Masterton is now seek- ing to amend, and, unless I am mistaken. the honourable gentleman, when a private member. held somewhat different views in regard to the drastic provisions of the law to those which he now entertains. He may perhaps reply that he has now better information on the subject, owing to the position he holds ; but I would like to say that circumstances have altered ir another respect, namely : in that whereas, when the House passed the drastic legislation we ant now seeking to modify, the rabbit nuisance wa. a very formidable matter in many districts ir. \--- Canterbury, it is a matter of fact that in most of those districts it has now ceased to be at all a formidable matter. As an instance. I may say that it has practically almost dis- appeared in the Kurow district, and, in so far as that part of the country is concerned, at any rate, there is not now justification, whatever there may have been in 1882, for the extra- ordinary departure from the ordinary process of law which is taken in the Rabbit Act. The ordinary process of law is that the Magistrate or the presiding Judge decides upon the evidence brought before him, to the best of his ability. according to the weight of that evidence. Now, we have in this case the extraordinary provision that, no matter what evidence is ad- duced before the Magistrate, he must put it all on one side if it is contrary to the opinion ex- pressed by one witness-namely, the Inspector. Surely the Magistrate can be trusted to judge of the value of the evidence brought before him, and it is resented by the settlers as an extraordi- nary departure from the usual process of law. that they should be put in the position that any evidence they can themselves give or pro- duce weighs not as a grain of sand against an expression of opinion on the part of one officer of the department. I think the honourable gentleman who brought forward this measure has shown that there is strong necessity for the amendment he proposes. The Minister for Agriculture has certainly, in my opinion, not advanced arguments to the contrary, or suff- cient grounds to justify the House in maintain- ing the arbitrary provisions of the Act of 1892. The honourable gentleman said that if this Bill ivere referred to the Stock Committee, and that Committee approved of it, he would be willing to accept it. I would point out that it was re- ferred to the Committee last session, and received its approval in so far as the proposal now before us is concerned. It is true the Bill was not re- ported to the House, but the reason for that was that it was sought, at my instance, to incor- porate certain other matters in the Bill which there was not time thoroughly to thresh out. For that reason the Bill of my honourable 