apply any fixed rules as to the hours of | fixed rule in regard to the hours of labour for labour in the occupation of farming, and in a lesser degree the same remark applies to domestic life. In cities different conditions prevail. There the industries do not, speaking generally, depend, as in the case of a farming industry, on the seasons and weather. The labourers in cities work under roofs, and eight hours a day can always be worked. Then, the labourer can go home, the day's work being done ; but in country districts it is quite different. A farmer knows that his success in life depends largely upon his taking advantage of the seasons and weather. In addition to that, in almost every branch of country work and life there are seasons when the work is hard and continuous, and others when it is intermittent and slack. Take the dairying industry. We all know that in that the work is very much harder in the summer months than in the winter months. In the summer months the hours of labour are long, in the winter they are short. There is no pro- vision made in this Bill to say that the eight- hours day shall be the legal time for the year through, but only eight hours every day for the whole year. A labourer must not work more than forty-eight hours a week, whether it is the busy season or not .. On a dairy farm, although it may be necessary, in order that the farm should succeed. that the labourers should work sixty hours a week for some weeks in the sum- mer - in the winter season they may not need to work more than twenty-four hours per week -there is no provision made where- by the average of eight hours a day all through https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the year should be allowed. If so, there might be said to be some justice in the Bill ; for I am one of those who believe in a fair day's work-and a fair day's work is eight hours. Then, take the sheep-farming industry, we are just coming on the lambing-time, and it may be one man's duty to put in his whole day going through the ewes. He starts at daylight in the morning, and he finishes at nightfall in the evening. If that man were restricted to eight hours, the farmers would have to employ two men for the work, and, probably he could not afford to pay two men to do that work. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- You can pay over- time under clause 6. Mr. FIELD .- Why should I pay that man for overtime, when in a month or two the man may be doing only his four hours a day ? That is the position. The Bill is altogether de- fective, and it seems to me altogether unneces- sarv. I would instance harvesting and other farm labour, but it is useless to take up the time of the House multiplying instances, though it is not too much to say that yon could cite dozens of instances where the Bill would be utterly unworkable, and, in fact, damaging to the farming interests. I do not want to waste time, as the Bill has been al- ready fully discussed, and other members have Bills waiting to come on ; but I cannot allow it to go to its second reading without regis- tering my protest against it. Similarly, in domestic life there seems to be no reason for a domestic servants. I do not know that there is any great complaint from the domestic servant class, or any demand for such a measure as this. I have never heard of any. My experi- ence is that the domestic servants throughout the colony get very fair treatment indeed. 1 know the maids in my own house get more than one half-day per week, and they can get off practically any evening they like. That may not be the case in every house, and if the ser- vants are unjustly treated, then, it seems to me, you can pass legislation dealing with that phase of the question, and I should not object to it. Now, it is well known that in cases of sick- ness of children it is very necessary sometimes that the nursemaid should have to sit up at night, as it may not be necessary or convenient for or within the means of the householder to employ a trained nurse. The ordinary nurse- maid may have to get up over and over again at night to attend to the children, and if the employer allowed that he would have to pay overtime under this Bill, or else run the risk of breaking the law. The Bill, it seems to me, would lead to all sorts of unnecessary complica- tions, and I shall have to vote against it. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston North) .- I do not think it is right for any one who has strong feelings on the eight-hours question to give a silent vote upon it. I think, so far as the Eight Hours Bill before us is concerned, the object aimed at could be very much better attained by a suggestion I made the other evening in regard to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. As the honourable member for Otaki has just said, it is impossible to apply an Eight Hours Act to some occupations in the drastic way pro- posed in this Bill, and there will undoubtedly have to be, for some considerable time, a give and take in regard to the hours of labour. I think that give and take could be very much better applied under the Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act by some simpler mode of reference to that Act, or to the Board constituted under that Act, than the cumbrous system in force at present, because it would be a ridiculous thing almost if the question were referred to the Conciliation Board, with all the time and expense that would be incurred, and then, as a matter of course, afterwards to the Arbitra- tion Court. I think, if the powers of the Arbi- tration Court could be used without great expense, when a certain number of employés or employers in an occupation or trade in any part of a district desired the question of the hours of labour to be referred to the Court in the same way as the whole question of employ- ment is referred, we would get that give and take which must be applied necessarily to the farming community. Of course, we know that even in the dairying industry, with its very long hours of labour, there is no necessity for continual work. If a certain number of hours were fixed for the forenoon and a certain num- ber in the afternoon, it would be very much better than to fix an eight-hours day, to start at a given hour and to finish not later than a certain hour in the afternoon. 