HEDDON BUSH ESTATE. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Go- vernment, If they will take steps to acquire Heddon Bush Estate, in Southland, for purposes of closer settlement? In connection with the request that the Government should acquire this estate, a numerously signed petition from settlers was presented some time ago. He might state that Heddon Bush Estate was in a rich agricultural district, some twelve or four- teen miles from the railway, and that it was eminently adapted for close settlement. There was a dearth of land in that locality, and the settlers there and in the surrounding districts had urged on the Land Purchase Board the advisability of the acquisition of this property. He understood the estate had been inspected and valued by the valuators of the Land Pur- chase Department, and that a favourable report had been sent in ; but, seeing that the owner of the land was not willing at the present juncture to dispose of his property, there was a difficulty in acquiring it, and consequently it would be necessary, under the circumstances, for the Go- vernment to put into operation the compulsory clauses of the Act. He hoped the Government would take into consideration the suitability of this estate for closer settlement, the scarcity of land in that district, and the request of the people there and in the surrounding districts, so as to enable the young men who were grow- ing up to take up farms in the locality, rather than go to other parts of the colony or to emi- grate elsewhere. He hoped that in the interests of the community an endeavour would be made https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to come to some arrangement regarding this valuable estate, and to acquire it for the pur- poses of closer settlement for the benefit of the people of the district. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Ringway Estate, of 2,300 acres, at Otautau, and the Glenham Estate, of 11,500 acres, near Wynd- ham, had recently been acquired by the Go- Vernment and were now under survey, and he thought they might say that was a very fair allotment for that particular part of the colony. That was not saying that he should refuse any fair offers that came along where acceptance was, under the circumstances, in the best interests of the colony. The Heddon Bush Estate was level agricultural land, intersected by the main road between Otautau and Winton, the homestead being about twelve or thirteen miles from each township and railway-station. The owner, Mr. Tennant, although not offering the estate, which contained about eleven thou- sand acres, informed Mr. McKerrow when he inspected it in December last that he might retain the homestead and two thousand acres and part with the other nine thousand acres, one half of which had been ploughed, the other half still in the snow tussock, and much in need of draining. With judicious draining and liming the place would do well for dairy farms. It was clear, therefore, that the report was not of a very favourable character. Mr. GILFEDDER said that only applied to part. Mr. SEDDON replied that he supposed the owner would keep the best and sell the Govern- ment the worst. VOLUNTEERS' AMMUNITION. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, Whether he will increase the annual allowance of ball-cartridge distributed free to each adult Volunteer ? Mr. SEDDON ( Minister of Defence) said the Commandant's report for 1900 recommended two hundred rounds per man should be issued, which represented an increase of fifty rounds per man on the present allowance -- one hundred and fifty rounds to be expended and used as at present and fifty rounds to be expended in field-firing. LINCOLN AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked . the Pre- mier. If it is the intention of the Government to introduce this session a measure dealing with the question of enlarging the scope of the operations of the Agricultural College, Lincoln, so as to provide that a larger number of the boys of the colony might participate in the benefits of the scientific and practical training given in that institution, and so give effect to the promise of the Premier made in a speech delivered at the opening of the Agricultural Show, Christchurch, on Thursday, 30th May last ? He had much pleasure in bringing this question under the notice of the Premier, as one of colonial importance. During the Agri- cultural Show in Canterbury he had intro- duced the Premier to the late manager of the Agricultural College at Lincoln, and had also brought under the Premier's notice a very large number of the exhibits of the agricultural products of that institution. The honourable gentleman had an opportunity of seeing the variety and the excellence in quality of the various exhibits. The College had been in existence for a number of years. It was richly endowed by the Provincial Council of Canterbury, and had a site of about a thousand acres, most of which was first-class agricultural land. The buildings were of a permanent character, but he regretted to say that up to date the number of boarders in the institution receiving instruction totalled only about forty. In his opinion, and in the opinion of a large number of settlers in Canterbury, as well as in the opinion of others to whom he had spoken on the matter, the institution should be made capable of giving an education in scien- tific and practical agricultural and pastoral pursuits to two or three hundreds. The prim- ary schools of New Zealand awarded some three hundred and fifty scholarships to boys and girls, and those scholarships given to boys should be made to work into the Lincoln College. The Premier might not be in posses- sion of a copy of the Lytteiton 'Tones in which a report appeared of the speech he made in opening the show. The honourable gentleman had then said,- "He would like to touch on the exhibits sent into the show from Lincoln College. He was 