to be trusted, according to the law as it stands, | the present moment. But, Sir, be that as it to express an opinion in the same way as i may, there is this fact that I wish the country those who are not members of this House. I | to understand, and that I wish the Government think, Sir, it would be well if the Government took into consideration the necessity of altering the Act in the direction of at least allowing members of this Chamber, and members of the Legislature of New Zealand, to be as free from stigma as are their brethren who are not mem- bers of Parliament. Now, with respect to the question of the oats contract, where it has been stated that 1s. 3d. per bushel was given to farmers for oats, and that the contract price was Is. 9d. Why, Sir, the honourable gentle- man who made that statement had quite for- gotten to arm himself with all the facts and details in connection with it. He has only stated one side of the case. Let us assume, for example, that 1s. 3d. was given for oats one hundred miles from the port of shipment. They would have to be delivered probably f.o.b. at 1s. 2d .- the honourable member did not say whether it was 1s. 3d. at the barn, or where it was ; but my impression is clearly this : that the 1s. 3d. did not include wharfage, or carriage, or storage, or railage. An Hon. MEMBER .- It did not include re- bagging. Mr. STEVENS .-- And it did not include re- bagging and so forth; so that when a bald statement of that kind is made in this House, and it goes forth to the country, the people at once say, "I read it in Hansard that such-and- such a state of affairs occurred, and that the Government are to blame." I am quite sure https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that the honourable member who made this statement made it in all good faith, with the idea of giving the very best possible information that he could to the people of this country. Sir, when information is proffered in that way it should be accurate, and it should give the fullest possible details, so that there may be no misapprehension and no injustice done to honourable gentlemen who desire to supply their constituents, or the people of this colony, with information which they believe to be valuable to them. There is another question which has been touched upon in the Speech from the Throne, and that is the question of the Natives. It is very gratifying indeed for us to know that the Maori people in this country are increasing in numbers. It was extremely gratifying to me to see the mag- nificent gathering of that noble race at Rotorua on the occasion of the Royal visit. There is nothing which cheered the hearts of the Na tives, I think, more than to know that their efforts there to please were so highly appre- ciated not only by their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, but by the public generally. But let me say that, after all the legislation we have passed during many years, I fear we have not yet gone suffi- ciently far in the right direction. I hope that such a state of things as now exist will be materially altered. I speak with some diffidence in this matter, because I know I have been twitted with being a Maori doctor and Native land-shark in years past, though not perhaps at more particularly to understand, and that is that there are families of half-caste children who are good desirable settlers, there are Natives them- selves who would make good desirable settlers, and who wish to establish their own 5.0. individual homes on their own particu- lar properties, but are not given the facilities to enable them to do so. I know of a dozen instances, and more, where the Natives have said, "This is our land, we wish to have it cut off, erect our houses, our fencing, fell our bush, make our improvements, and become Euro- peans. Will the Government enable us to do this ? Will the Advances to Settlers Board ad- vance us the required sum as they would to Europeans ? " Now, in no instance have I known that to be done ; and therefore, if these people are to go on year after year without being able to make their homes, how can it be wondered at that they are dissatisfied-that many of them are dissatisfied ? Now, I en- tirely agree with the great wish on the part of the Government to do all they consider neces- sary for the advancement and future welfare of the Natives, and that desire, I am sure, is as sincere on the part of the Native Minister and the Premier as one could wish for. But what is lacking, in my opinion, is the practical way to enable the Natives to achieve that which they de- sire and should be assisted to attain ; and there- fore I am as sure as possible that unless some- thing be done in this direction there will be a continuation of that which has been a very great injustice-not intentionally but unwittingly, no doubt-to a number of Natives who are as good settlers as it is possible to find in the country. And, now that the Natives are on the increase, nothing would tend more to the prosperity of this country, or to the future prosperity of the North Island especially, than permitting these Natives to settle on their land and have the same facilities for financing as the Europeans. Wherever the security is perfectly good, if the Government enabled that to be done it would be a step in the right direction, and would enable the people who inherit the soil to remain on the soil and become cultivators and producers. Now, Sir, it is not my intention to occupy the time of the House longer than to say, with respect to those: honourable gentlemen who sit on the Opposition benches, that I am not here for the purpose of offering them advice; I am not here for the purpose of taking exception to what they deem to be right ; but I do think you may turn up the history of any Parliament in the world and not find so many honour- able gentlemen, - said to represent constituen- cies,-that have sat so silently and so long, thereby earning the title cast on the supporters of the present Government by a former pro- minent member of this House when he spoke of them as " dumb dogs." Where are the " dumb dogs " now ? Is that the way those honourable gentlemen expect to get the very best of legisla- tion ? Why do they not in the usual way stand forward and say, "Few we be, but strong we 