Minister would distinctly say so, as there was a to amend the law as to the inspection of pigs good deal of dissatisfaction existing, and allega- before being killed for food, so as to provide that tions were made by this unfortunate man him- all such pigs shall be brought to some special self. He would wait with anxiety the reply of place for inspection before being slaughtered ? the Minister. The question was not exactly in the form in Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that which, perhaps, it might best be. The diffi- culty arose under the Slaughtering and Inspec- this man was not really the contractor, but ap- parently one of the party, and he never had re- tion Act of last year. Under that Act a certain ceived any money whatever, because the man number of pigs were allowed to be killed on Peterson signed the agreement, and Kelly had farms and sent into towns. signed so that Peterson should be the man seem to be any way of getting the pork in- who carried out the work and was paid the spected, and difficulties arose in consequence. money. There was no evidence to show that A good deal of pork apparently came into town the Government, or Lands or Roads Depart- and was sold in the various shops, and that ment, was in any way responsible for Mr. Kelly's pork was never inspected. He would suggest unfortunate suicide. He had been employed at that an amendment should be made to the various times by Government. At the time of Public Health Act, to compel storekeepers, his death he had a contract, but there was no grocers, bacon-curers, and others in the city . receiving dead carcases of pigs from the coun- dispute about it, and the last payment, amount- ing to $24 13s. 6d., in respect to it was handed try for human consumption, to make it com- to him on 14th June, for work done up to 31st pulsory for all such persons to notify the meat May. Steps are now being taken to measure Inspector, or the Inspector of foods for the city, so that the meat would be properly inspected up the balance of the work on this contract and before being cut up for consumption. to pay what is owing to his personal representa- tives. He was interested in a co-operative was recognised that action should be taken for metalling contract on the Makuri-Pongaroa Road in December and January last, with a the inspection of the carcases of pigs intended for human consumption, because pigs were just man named C. Peterson, who was head man, as liable to disease as most other animals. and there was a dispute about that contract. It was for metalling 25 chains of road at 3s. 9d. The question was under consideration, and it per cubic vard, and the contract distinctly pro- was considered necessary that some amendment vided that the metal was to be measured when of the Act should be made. His opinion was that the time had come when the towns should spread on the road. The amount of the con- tract was $77 6s. 10d., and men were provided adopt the system prevailing in older countries -- by Government to trim up the road and spread that was, to establish a market, and there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the metal : but as some parts of the road were should be proper Inspectors there to inspect soft and in holes these were filled with metal. the carcases. At Home forty years ago-before and the contractors were paid for 42} yards at he left the Old Country -the pork-market was a very important institution, and before the 3s. Od., or $7 19s. 5d., for that purpose, although the overseer thought there would have been carcases were offered for sale the Inspector in- only 10 or 12 yards required. The contractors spected the animal. If there was anything wrong with the animal the policeman took the were also paid $15 11s. 4d. for repairs on other owner in charge, and the carcase was destroyed. parts of the road, or a total sum of $100 17s. The owner was fined pretty heavily. Certain 7d., less cost of explosives, €4 1s. 10d. The butchers generally contracted to kill the pigs, money was paid to Petersen, the head man, and and they guaranteed to see that they were fit nothing whatever is known as to the share for food. Very few carcases were required to he gave to Kelly. Kelly complained that the be destroyed, because the animals had been metal was measured on the road and not in the previously inspected. If there were proper drays, but as this was contrary to the contract, and as it would appear that the contractors had markets here in the large centres the carcases of pigs would be properly inspected, and there been fully paid, Kelly's claim for extra payment would be nothing to find fault with. could not be entertained. It was probable that the contract turned out very badly for them, for it seems that they lost ten-twelfths of their time by bad weather, and as Kelly's plant was mortgaged to a Mr. Graham, who seized it, and, and Survey Department has obtained a report as it appears that Kelly's workmen were un- on the practicability of a road or track between paid. his mind may have been deranged by his Eketahuna and Shannon? This road was a troubles. very important one, and the settlers on both Mr. O'MEARA said it was a pity that that sides of the dividing range had been agitating explanation did not come out previous to this for it for several years. He understood that man's death. If it had, he might have been in quite recently one of the surveyors of the Lands a position to contradict it. Of course, it was and Survey Department had been endeavouring utterly impossible to do anything in the matter to find a practicable route, and it was rumoured now. he had been successful in discovering a fairly INSPECTION OF PIGS. good track. He (Mr. Hogg) would like to get Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the some information on the subject. It was very important that a road should be made over the Government, Whether they will bring in a Bill There did not Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said it EKETAHUNA-SHANNON ROAD. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the 4.30. Minister of Lands, Whether the Lands 