considerable sum of money. The population of power : but what is wanted by the local bodies in my district is an assurance as to the future. That is one point. Then, there is another point in regard to the bodies who are to take part in the representation of the country districts. At the present time, as a matter of procedure, there is no such thing as the County of Oroua-the Counties Act is not in force in that district. There is one Road Board -- the Manchester Road District, with a valuation of $930,654; whereas the Pohangina County has only a valuation of $397.194. Then, there is the Manawatu Road District, with a valuation of $631,234: the Fitzherbert Road District, with a valuation of $325,024; and the Halcombe Town District, with a valuation of $21.426: or a total of $1,908,338. So that as against the representation given to Pohangina there is a valuation of nearly two millions as against a valuation of $397,194 for the latter. I do not think it would in any way affect this measure detrimentally it, instead of including the County of Oroua, the measure named the Manchester Road District, the Manawatu Road District, and the Fitzherbert Road District. In other respects there is no objection to the mea- sure ; indeed, it is likely to popularise the Board and give country districts a share in the work of local government. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). In answer to the member for Palmerston, I can assure him that the Wellington Harbour Board have no intention whatever of rating these districts which will have representation in the way prescribed in the Bill. The Wellington Harbour Board is in a really good financial position. It would require another Act to be passed before any rating could take place. With regard to what the honourable member said as to the change in the bodies to be represented, I might state that, roughly speaking, the West Coast has 28,831 inhabitants; Manawatu County, 2.954; Foxton, 1,212; Oroua County. 6,756: Feilding Borough, 2.298; Palmerston North Borough, 6,514 ; Horowhenua County, 4,661 : Pohangina County, 1,534; Kiwitea County. 2.842. I think there is something in hat the honourable member has said, but as this Bill is simply drawn upon a population basis I trust the honourable member will see his way not to make any opposition to the Bill in its present form. Bill read a second time. WOODVILLE COUNTY BILL. Mr. O'MEARA ( Pahiatua) .- I hope honour- able members will unanimously agree to the second reading of this Bill. The present seat of administration is sixty miles from Woodville. The promoters of this Bill have gone through the whole district ; they have convened public meetings, addressed the people interested, and the suggestions made by the promoters have been universally approved of. The Bill will merge four local bodies which are in existence at the present time - that is, the Kumeroa, Maungaatua, Woodville, and Maharahara Road Boards. This Bill will reduce the cost of ad- ministration, and the settlers will be saved a the new county will be, roughly speaking, about four thousand ; the area will be 110,000 acres ; and the capital value of the land is $570,000, the unimproved value £230.000. and the rate- payers number approximately about 560. The whole of this county is closely settled, and, as I have stated, the settlers have universally de- manded the measure. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Mr G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .-- There is one point which I wish to draw attention to in connection with this Bill, and it is this : at the present time there is before the House a Bill introduced by the Government dealing with the whole matter of county government. Now, it appears to me a rather extraordinary thing that at this juncture, the Government having introduced such a Bill, they do not indicate to the House what lead they propose to give with regard to the further splitting-up of counties. I think the House is entitled to have from the Government a statement as to what position they intend to take up in connection with the further splitting-up of local bodies, in view of their own Bill now before Parliament, and which is to be referred to a Committee of the House. Mr. TANNER (Avon). -- I have no wish whatever to oppose the progress of this Bill, but I would emphasize the remarks which have just been made by the last speaker. For years past we have been promised a reform in our system of local government, in order to place matters in a more satisfactory position than they are in at the present time. In the Coun- ties Act of 1886 the most elaborate provisions were introduced for the purpose of encouraging the union and fusion of counties, but nothing whatever has been done under all the machinery there provided. On the contrary, the whole current has gone in a totally opposite direction, and session after session we pass Bills splitting up existing counties into such small local go- verning areas as to excite ridicule when one contemplates the result It is very little use asking the Government to give the House a lead in this matter. The Government have affected for years past an anxiety to rearrange our local-governing bodies and areas on a more simple, effective, and intelligible basis : and five years ago, in a speech in this House, the Pre- mier indicated roughly the leading points of the policy to be pursued for the purpose. But no- thing followed. and the subdivision of existing counties into a multitude of smaller ones has steadily progressed, and all the time 3.0. the Government has sat indifferently looking on while Bill after Bill for this purpose has been passed through the House. Last ses- sion this House, without a word of demur -- in- deed, without a single inquiry -- assented to the formation of two new counties, Masterton and Castlepoint, and the latter when the census was taken three months ago had a population of 4: 0 persons. How can the farce of local govern- ment go further than that? It is not to be assumed that in a population of 430 persons there can be room for any selection of men capable of forming a decent County Coun- 