earned reputation and professional character. We want to prevent anything of that sort taking place. We want the public to be assured that when a hospital nurse goes out with a badge on her arm she is there as a certificated minis- ter of health, and able to deal in a manner such as ought to be desired with all cases of disease As regards those who are at and sickness. present qualified, I trust the Council will see that in every shape and form the Bill protects them, and gives them the status they now hold and the status they ought to have. As regards the future, I do not think that the require- ments asked are too much-that they should have three years' training as nurses in a hospital, and that during that time they should have sys- tematic instruction in theoretical and practical nursing by a medical officer and by the matron of the hospital. I know that even in some of the London hospitals training very often con- nects itself almost more with household drud- gery than with necessary scientific teaching in the theoretical and practical branches of the art of nursing; but at the same time our modern hospitals in the colony are being so transformed into the higher type of hospital that there need be no difficulty whatever in any one going to the best of them passing out as a nurse within the three years mentioned by the Act. I trust the Council will recognise that the intention of the Act is a good one, and that the clauses con- tained in it will operate towards carrying out that intention. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- Sir, I have much pleasure in supporting the second read- ing of this Bill, because I think it is a very good Bill. It would be great satisfaction to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 persons who have sickness in their houses to be able to engage a young woman who had a proper training in nursing. I trust that the old school of nurses-the Sairey Gamps and Betsy Prigs -are extinct. It is a source of congratulation to see the number of young women-many of them highly educated and belonging to respectable families -who devote themselves to nursing-in carrying out, I may say, practical Christianity. This, I believe, will be a highly commendable life for them : and I say this with all respect and with no wish to cast any reflections on convents : With such a career before them there is no necessity what- ever for young women to separate themselves from the world, or to immure themselves, how- ever good their intentions may be, and however valuable their services may be within the walls of a convent or a convent-school. I hope the Bill will become law. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I want to direct the Minister's attention to a defect, I think, in the Bill, in subsection (4) of clause 4. It appears to me the Bill is going to act in the way of placing restrictions on colonially trained nurses as compared with nurses coming to New Zealand, somewhat, I am sorry to say, in the same way as all colonially trained persons are restricted in New Zealand. In most services they are handicapped in entering into compe- tition with those who come from other coun- tries. I want to correct this and put all on Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker an equal footing. If honourable members will notice clause 4, they will see there is little restriction put upon persons becoming regi- tered if they come from any other place but New Zealand, compared with what there is on those trained in New Zealand. Subsection 14) says,- " Every person is entitled to registration. on payment of a fee of one pound, who holds a certificate from the medical officer or authori- ties of any hospital out of New Zealand recog. nised by the Minister under any regulations under this Act." I concede that the hospital being recognised by the Minister is a certain safeguard ; but I can imagine a case where a nurse comes from outside New Zealand and asks to be registered. She may have been trained in some hospital not on a level with our hospitals, which have been rightly referred to by the Minister as being thoroughly up to date. This nurse may have been trained in some small hospital, may not have passed any examination or attended any lectures ; but she may be in a position to bring influence to bear on the Minister so that he will recognise that hospital for the purpose of registering that person as a nurse. I do not think that should be permitted. I think an amendment should be allowed, or if the restric- tion on strangers were a little closer it would be all the better for our colonially trained nurses. If we are going to recognise hospitals out of New Zealand a gazetted list should be made of such hospitals, and then we should know that those hospitals are hospitals in the ordinary sense of the word, and not, perhaps, some small hospital in an obscure digging township, and that a nurse should have such a hospital recog. nised simply for the purpose of her own case. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I think it could be arrived at in this way : by putting in the words " public hospital "-eliminate all private hospitals, and make it " public." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- That could be done in the interpretation clause. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I am glad to see the Bill introduced, because I think it neces- sary that nurses in hospitals should be placed on a proper footing; but I do not think the Bill goes far enough. It only deals with nurses that apply for registration. There should he some general system in regard to the initiatory steps of training a nurse. At the present time it is left to every hospital to make its own reva- lations, and those regulations are in mary instances very defective. There ought to be some system of examination in the very initis. tory steps with regard to an education standard and physical fitness, as intelligence is very neces- sary to good nursing ; and, owing to the arduous nature of the work, physical fitness is absolutely indispensable. There is nothing in the Bill dealing with that, that I can see. But this is the very starting-point of being a good nurse. In regard to nurses, what we require is som: technical knowledge. We do not want nurses to have the technical qualification of doctor. and if the examination is made too technical I fear we shall spoil them as nurses. I think. a 