hood of Christchurch. We have several main what has been said against this Bill, I can see roads converging towards Christchurch-such no objection to it. In the first place, the Bill is as the New Brighton, Sumner, Lincoln, Papa- permissive. Provision is made in the Bill that nui, Riccarton, and Avonside Roads leaving if a petition is got up asking the Governor to out the subsidiary and by-roads. Here are six put the Bill into operation a counter-petition roads, and if on ten miles of each of these cycle- may be sent in, and I presume the majority tracks were formed that would be sixty miles. will carry the day. Now, I think one of the To lay off a mile of track would cost $1 a chain : strongest points in favour of this Bill is this : that would be $80 a mile; and to lay off, as I that there has been no objection from the sav, all these six roads in the neighbourhood of cyclists themselves in the scattered districts to Christchurch for ten miles each, at the rate of the Bill. I have not heard of any. The pro- 580 a mile, would amount to $4,800 to com- moters of this Bill are treating the people with mence with. Take the Provincial District of every courtesy in the matter, inasmuch as they Canterbury as a whole, which, under the pro- have circulated the Bill with information re- visions of the Bill, might be declared a cycle garding cycling broadcast throughout the colony, and I have not heard of any meeting being held district. From Christchurch to Hurunui is a distance of seventy miles, and from Christ- by cyclists in the scattered districts opposing church to Waitaki is a distance of 150 miles the Bill, on the ground that it is only going to -that is 220 miles of main arterial road. provide cycle-tracks for the towns. Now, Sir, Therefore, multiply that by ten, for the subsidiary and by-roads, and that will make 2,200 miles of road. I believe I am under- estimating rather than , overestimating the mileage of roads. Multiply that distance by the local bodies to give them anything. There £80 and we have an expenditure of £176,000, is no compulsion to force the local bodies to a large sum. The evelists living at Waitaki, or at Waikakahi, at Takatu, or at the Hurunui, see any reason for objecting to the people taxing who use their cycles as a means of going to their work, would be called upon to pay an annually recurring fee of 5s., while in all proba- bility during their natural life they would never have a chance of having a cycle-track made in have listened to some of these so-called argu- their own locality. That seems to me to be fatal to the Bill, and shows the provisions of with one or two of them. In the first place, the Bill are inequitable. When I received the Bill, after reading it through, I wrote to a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 number of persons in my electorate and asked their opinion on the Bill, and they one and all said the Bill would be of no use to them, and they did not want it. A carpenter, for might perhaps ride on a road where there was instance, who has to go, say, six or ten miles to his work, of what use would the tracks be brought against the policy of this measure ? to him ? or sawmilling-hands, having to travel He says he is not aware of any agitation in over some of the badly formed roads in favour of it. All I can say is this : the honour- different parts of their district,-of what use to such persons would be the cycle tracks in or perhaps he confines his reading to one or the neighbourhood of the large cities? I raise these objections to the Bill, and, when the honourable gentleman replies to the criticisms which are kindly made by the members of the House on the provisions of the Bill, if he inti- mates that he is willing to modify the Bill so as to apply it to districts, say, within a radius of at taxing individuals who are not able to bear it. ten miles from each centre, or to make the cycle districts co-terminus with the districts provision should be embodied in a Bill in order under each local body, I shall have no objection to the Bill. But I would remind the honourable gentleman that there is not such a craze for which they could contribute 5s. a year each to cycling now as there was five or six years ago. make a cycle-track from Wellington to the Many young men are abandoning the cycle and Hutt. That was unanimously agreed to by going back to the horse, and, then, the motor- almost all the eyelists of Wellington. I may We car is going to take the place of the cycle. say that I was really agitating in that matter have a dozen of these in Canterbury at the pre- not so much with a desire of helping cyclists int time, and I believe they are going to take alone, but with the idea of giving some outlet the place of the cycle in the future. However, from the City of Wellington to those who might be that as it may, I am prepared to assist the honourable gentleman if he will undertake to whether the member for Eden, Mr. Bollard, amend the Bill in the direction I have indicated. rides a cycle or not, but I should fancy he does what is it that the cyclists propose to do? To tax themselves in order that they may make tracks in the colony for the purpose of enabling them to run their bicycles. They do not ask make the tracks, and I cannot for the life of me themselves. I intend to support the Bill, and 1 really cannot see what objection there can be to it. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- I ments against the Bill, and I propose to deal the speech of the member for Ashley was a mere beating of the air. He told us what grand roads they have in Canterbury, he told us the number of evelists in Christchurch, and he told us the story of a working-man who not a cycle-track. But what objection has he able member cannot have read the newspapers, two periodicals which do not go in for any kind of sport. Consequently, when a Bill is brought in dealing with cycling he is absolutely at sea on the subject. The honourable member for Riccarton spoke with a great deal of heat, and he seemed to think that this Bill is aimed Last session I proposed that some that the cyclists of Wellington City and suburbs could be put into a sound legal position by wish to take a day's holiday. I do not know 