sideration. He had told the House and the ; That was the direction in which his own con- country that, as far as the Government could, they would utilise our own officers, and he intended to maintain that attitude, and he might say the Government had now under con- sideration regulations for instruction to officers. He would lay them before the House very shortly. They would commence with class in- struction in Wellington, and bring up the officers of the Volunteer corps, and let them go through a proper course of training. The cost to the colony would not be very great. He thought thev ought to have efficient officers, who were essential to the well-being of the Volunteer Force. INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION ACT. Mr. PIRANI ( Palmerston) asked the Premier, Whether he does not consider it advisable to recommend the Governor to constitute more than one industrial district in the Wellington Provincial District under the Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act of last year ? He might point out to the Premier that under the present circumstances the whole Wellington Provincial District and the Hawke's Bay Pro- vincial District were one industrial district, with the result that when disputes occurred, all of which practically emanated from Wel- lington, the large district mentioned was drawn into it. He thought, as the circumstances of the different portions of the district were so varied, and the district was so large, that there ought to be some more convenient method by which employers and employés in country dis- triets could have their cases investigated in their localities, and dealt with in regard to the special circumstances governing their own cases. He did not know what procedure was adopted for dividing the districts, but he noticed that the power was simply in the hands of the Governor : and it seemed to him much fairer if the districts would be divided on petition by a majority of employers or employés, or both combined. He would like to ask the Premier to take the matter into consideration and see if some more convenient provision could not be made than that which existed at present. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was a great deal to be said in favour of the honour- able member's contention, because the condi- tions and circumstances did vary within a very short distance, in that, in fixing the wages or legs of those employed in various industries, the house-rent and cost of living in Wellington was great compared with other districts outside Wellington. That appeared on the surface. When the circumstances varied it did appear that the districts should be more numerous. On the other hand, there was a very strong argument used in favour of having the colony made one district, and abolishing the other dis- triets altogether. He did not favour that him- self. His own view of the matter would be in favour of reducing the size of the districts and taking into consideration the altered conditions in the various districts, so that there would be something like uniformity and equal conditions. I petitions were sent to the House from the VOL. CXVI .- 26. victions took him, but he would not like off- hand to say anything definite. He would take the question into consideration, and communi- cate the result to the honourable member later on. RETURNED TROOPERS' CERTIFICATES OF DISCHARGE. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked the 3.0. Minister of Defence, If the certifi- cates of discharge now being issued to re- turned troopers are the only ones they will receive; and, if so, whether he will recall those that have been issued, and issue others in which the men shall at least be given the credit of having been discharged with good character? Some of the troopers had waited on him and asked him to bring this matter before the Government. They repre- sented to him that if they at any time went back to South Africa with a bare certificate of discharge, they had nothing to show what their character had been during their time of service. If they were able to produce such documents they might be able to secure good positions. He would like the Government to consider the matter of giving a medal- bar to each soldier whose conduct had been good throughout the period he had been absent from the colony. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the discharges that had been issued were only tem- porary, as the Government were not in a posi- tion in many cases to give certificates of character, for the reason that while a large number of the troopers had returned to the colony the officers had remained in South Africa. Now, however, it was possible to give the certificates, and they would be issued. With respect to the issue of medal-bars to each soldier who was entitled to one, he had to say it was a matter that was now being dealt with by the department. REV. JOSEPH BERRY. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Govern- ment, Whether it is a fact that the Rev. Joseph Berry has been appointed emigration agent or lecturer in England for New Zealand ; if so. why was he selected, and what are the condi- tions as regards his remuneration ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Rev. Joseph Berry had not been appointed emigration agent or lecturer in England for New Zealand. ACQUISITION OF ESTATES IN HAWKE'S BAY. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked the Premier, If he has received any reports from the Land Purchase Board of Hawke's Bay as to the suita- bility of any estates for closer settlement in that district ; and, if so, and the reports are favourable, will the Premier proceed to acquire such estates ? He wished the Premier to give a straightforward reply to this question. The reason he said he wanted a straightforward reply was that about five years ago several 