Mr. WILFORD .- That might be your defini- tion of it ; but is it right according to this Bill because you say so? " Tend " may mean "attend to." It may mean the attending to the feeding or caring for horses or cattle in some other way. I do not consider that that clause is at all conclusive or comprehensive, and I consider the real object of it will be defeated by the use of that provision saying that, beyond the day's work, the worker can also be employed in tending cattle and horses. But probably that is a Committee objection. think every member of the House -- at any rate, every member on this side of the House; I cannot speak for the other members because you never know when you have got them -- will agree without the slightest doubt that eight hours is the proper thing where it can be made practicable. To some branches of labour it is absolutely impracticable ; and probably the honourable member for Hawera, Mr. McGuire, will be able to convince this House in Committee that farm-labourers should be exempt. At any rate, that is a Com- mittee objection, and can be dealt with later on. I do not think there is any necessity for going into the question of commerce and bullock-drays, and into the dissertation that was given us by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford). It seems to me that we simply have to discuss when we get into Committee objections that have been brought forward by different members, and therefore I suggest, as we have got a great number of Bills on the Order Paper, that we do not waste any time at all. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 An Hon. MEMBER .- What are you doing ? Mr. WILFORD .- I have watched my time, Sir, and I have not been two minutes, and if the honourable member who interrupts would keep quiet the Bill can be put into Committee, when the various objections that have been urged to various clauses may be discussed. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- I intend to oppose the second reading of this Bill, because it seems to me that we are being asked to voto on a Bill so vague in its provisions and so in- jurious in its proposals as to make it absolutely impossible for a member representing a country district to support it. It simply seeks to kill one of the greatest industries of this colony- the dairy industry. Some honourable members evidently forget that there are other industries - such as the shearing of sheep, bushfelling, and harvesting that this Bill could not be applied to. To apply the eight-hours principle to har- vesting when bad weather is coming on would be preposterous. What was our experience last year when the Crown Tenants' Rebate of Rent Bill was before this House, to give relief to people that some honourable members are now pretending to have a great deal of sympathy for? Two or three days' stonewalling was indulged in by way of giving the small modi- cum of relief asked for the Crown tenants. I am not disposed, therefore, to trust any of these so-called friends of the unfortunate back-block settlers. To suggest that the eight-hours sys- tem should be introduced into any of the in- dustries I have mentioned shows that those who suggest such a thing know absolutely nothing of what they are speaking about. It would be quite impossible of application with- out killing the industries mentioned. As I pointed out last year, these unfortunate back- block settlers are handicapped for 999 years for roading at from 2s. 6d. to El per acre, and they have not even a pack-track vet. The member for Wellington Suburbs says the members who support the Bill are on the Government side of the House. I I hope he did not include me among them, because I will not support any- thing that, in my opinion, will be so injurious in its effects as this Bill. Mr. WILFORD. - I did not. Sir, the Premier Mr. SYMES .- That is right said we should make a compromise, but I would like to know how it is possible to make a com- promise where cows have to be milked. It is impossible, and, indeed, ridiculous, to suggest such a thing. I trust every member who under- stands the question, and the bearing and effect this measure will have on the industries I have mentioned, will vote to strike out clause 4. if not the whole Bill. I am always anxious to assist our workers in every way that is fair, reasonable, and practicable, but I say that to pass a measure of this kind would seriously interfere with industries that should not be interfered with, but fostered in every way pos- sible. It would simply mean ruination to farmers engaged in any or all of the industries mentioned. As the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) remarked, these men work from sixteen to twenty hours a day, and even then they only eke out an existence. An Hon. MEMBER .- In the mud. Mr. SYMES .- Yes, an honourable member says, "In the mud." The honourable member has only seen the sunshine of a farmer's life- he has only seen the life of the farmers near the cities ; but if he comes out into the back blocks he will see a very different picture. Sir, I shall oppose the second reading of the Bill, and I trust every other country member in the House will do the same. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) .- Sir. I was very sorry indeed to hear the Premier say he intended to support the Bill. He threw out a strong lead to his supporters to go with him and to support the Bill, but I trust. Sir, there is not a majority in the House to carry it through the second reading. The Premier gave us very good advice in the course of his speech. He made reference to labour legislation, and said we should go slowly. I have no doubt that is the opinion of the country on questions of this kind : but it is hardly consistent with his advice to us that just in his previous breath be told us that he was going to support this Bill. I do not think it is by any means going slowly if he favours placing this Bill on thestatute-book -at any rate, in the shape in which it is before us. Hetold us in the course of his speech, with regard to the labour legislation already placed on the statute-book, that there was at the pre- sent time a most conciliatory feeling between the employer and the employe in this country. 