of that instrument ; and .. (3.) To trusts created either before or after the commencement of this Act." He had in his mind's eye trusts where the parties who were appointed had left New Zea- land, and had been absent for years from the colony, and there were other persons acting for them ; but still the trustees who had left were held responsible. Section 4 was chiefly for the vesting of trust property in new trustees. Section 5 gave power to the new trustees. Section 6 simply stated what clauses were in substitution of clauses of the previous legisla- tion. He might say, in conclusion, that the Law Officers of the Crown had advised him that the Bill was necessary, and he therefore moved its second reading. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Premier if he would consider the advisability of includ- ing another clause in this measure. The cases he referred to dealt with cases where money was left to a family by will, and the capital could not be divided until the children reached twenty-one years of age. There was not sufficient in the income to maintain the family, and per- haps for sixteen or seventeen years they had to struggle on until the time came to divide the money. Under the powers vested in the Public Trustee by the consolidating measure the Pub- lie Trustee could grant sufficient for main- tenance in a case like that. Now, he thought a clause giving a trustee or a Judge of the Su- preme Court a similar power might be included in the measure. He knew of several cases where great hardship was being inflicted in the way he referred to, and he thought, where it was a case where relief could be provided by statute, the Premier might take the matter into his consideration, and include a clause dealing with the problem in this measure. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) presumed that the Premier had had this Bill carefully considered by the Law Officers. He would like to ask the honourable gentleman whether his Law Officers were satisfied that there was no way in this Bill by which a trustee could, when divesting himself of the office of trustee, also di- vest himself of the responsibility of his actions which were done while he was a trustee. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might say, in reply to the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, that he intended to send this Bill to the Statutes Revision Committee. In regard to the question raised by the honourable member for Palmerston, there was no doubt that some alteration of our laws should be made, and it should be general in its application, and should apply to the cases he had mentioned as existing. There was a Bill moved last session, he thought by Mr. McNab, which to some extent set aside the power of wills. The Bill now before the House, however, was not a measure in which such an amendment should be included at all. There ought to be power given to deal with cases such as the honour- able member had mentioned, and by which children who had something coming to them at the age of twenty-one could get assistance during the time they were being brought up. In some and were an expense to them, on the under- standing that when they became of age the expense would be met. He thought where money was required for the upkeep and educa- tion of children, when it was their own money, there ought to be power given by which they could receive some assistance, as it would be much better to do that than to allow them to drag on until they were twenty-one, when, in all probability, their whole life would have been blasted because there was nothing upon which to educate them. He would have the matter looked into, and, in all probability, bring in a general Bill dealing with the matter. Bill read a second time. CHINESE IMMIGRANTS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, in the ab- sence of the Commissioner of Customs, I may briefly say that we have discovered in the work- ing of the Chinese Immigrants Act that, whilst the captain of a ship may, by taking some steps, allow his passengers to go ashore and stay ashore on the pretence that they are members of his crew - for example, he can take on board members of a crew, and he is not held respon- sible even though they go away and do not come back. I may say the point has not been defi- nitely settled, but if such an interpretation can be given, then all the captain of a vessel need do is to take on two or three hundred Chinamen at 1s. a month, let them go to any port in New Zealand, they disappear, and the captain is not responsible for them. All I can say is that it is the intention of the Legislature that the cap- tain or the owners or the agents should be held responsible, and take away whoever has been with them. It is to meet that point more particularly that this Bill is now before the House. It will not affect any dispute at present in issue. It will only prevent in future any- thing of this sort occurring, or any risk of its occurrence being run. Bill read a second time. ACCIDENTS COMPENSATION BILL. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Sir. this Bill, as honourable members will see from a perusal of it, is, in the event of an accident, to enable the Judge of a Court in which proceed- ings are taken to order the person claiming compensation to submit to independent medical examination. There have been cases in con- nection with accidents in the colony, par- ticularly in connection with the Railway De- partment, in which it was believed there was malingering indulged in, and under the law there was no provision for medical examination being made independently. It is proposed by this Bill that power for such an examination should be given, so that any person who claims compensation on account of an accident may be so examined, and the possibility of imposi- tion prevented. That is the sole object of the Bill, and I beg to move its second reading. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Does this apply to the Workers' Compensation Act? Sir J. G. WARD .- No. 