business, then they provoke a debate on the Speech from the Throne. Captain RUSSELL .- That is what you are doing now. Mr. SEDDON .- I am doing nothing of the sort. I want members to pass the Imprest Supply Bill, or I shall be just as pleased if they will agree to the Address in Reply at once and then go on with the Imprest Supply Bill. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Do that now. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I cannot very well do that, as the question would be at once raised by honourable members that notice of motion must be given. I am not going to be caught that way. There will possibly be a debate on the Address in Reply ; I think there will be myself. Mr. J. ALLEN .- You want it. Mr. SEDDON .- I assure you I do not. am quite prepared, members being willing, that the debate should stand over, and that we should bring down our measures and take the debate upon them. I can bring down twenty Bills to-morrow, and I am ready to go on with them ; so that members must not think they have caught the Government napping and un- prepared. On the contrary, we are quite pre- pared with legislation, notwithstanding the visit of Royalty, and have never been better prepared any session before with business. However, I would not have said so much only that I want honourable members to understand this : It has been hurled at me time after time that I snap my fingers in members' faces, and that I do these things in an autocratic and dogmatic way. I say that I do nothing of the kind. The https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 honourable member ought to know, and honour- able members ought to know, that we have incurred a very great amount of expenditure during the last month, and it is not ordinary expenditure in the way of salaries. We shall have claims made by people who have ren- dered services during the last month, and it will look very bad, I think, on the part of the House and the country if we are not in a position to pay these accounts. I am not exposing any State secret when I tell honour- able members that the Controller and Auditor- General has given it as his opinion that no pay- ments are to be made out of Imprest until the House passes this Bill. I believe he has even gone further than that in respect to the matter ; and, as he is the legal authority and the check we have to depend upon, I feel satisfied that there is no chance whatever of meeting some of these claims, which I think ought to be met, and met as soon as possible. Now, if it was not for these extraordinary circumstances I would not ask the House to go on with the Bill at all ; but it is now the 2nd of July, and the Bill probably will not be through another place before to-morrow unless honourable members take to it in a more kindly way than the leader of the Opposition has. Therefore I think we ought to get this Bill out of the way, and then go straight on with the debate on the Speech from the Throne. It is my intention to bring down the Financial Statement at as early a date as possible, and, so far as I can, I will put honourable members in possession of every in- | formation which they are entitled to receive. Under the circumstances, therefore, I would like the House to commence the proceedings of the session in a businesslike way, and in asking what I am now I believe I am doing what is in the best interests of the colony. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir, I only wish to point out that the attitude the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay has taken up is not antagonistic, as the Premier tried to make out, to the Imprest Supply Bill. We all recog- nise that the Bill will have to be passed, but this is a protest against the continual evasion of the Standing Orders of the House. The Pre- mier inveighed against any interference with the privileges of the House, and yet he has laid down conditions that the most abject courtier I of James II. would have been aghast at. He said that when a message comes down from the Crown demanding supplies we are to re- ceive it with submission and pass it at once, notwithstanding all our privileges and in defi- ance of our Standing Orders. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. HERRIES .- That is what I understood the right honourable gentleman to say. And he also inveighed against fusty and musty prece- dent. Why, this very motion of his depends on precedent. If it were not for the precedent of the year before last, and previous ones, the Speaker would not have allowed the motion to be put. It is fusty and musty precedent he relies on in this debate. Mr. SEDDON .- It is quite green yet. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, if the right honour- able gentleman remains in office it will become fusty and musty, because he repeats it time after time. He always promises not to offend next year ; but next year he does the same thing again and again. Our Standing Order says dis- tinctly that Committee of Supply shall not be set up until the Address in Reply has been adopted. If the Standing Order is contrary to the practice of the House, let us do away with it ; but so long as the Standing Orders are our rules-and as a young member I was told they were to be our rules, and so studied them very carefully-so long as they are our rules, .I say that they should be carried out. The Premier may, in the opinion of the House, make out this time a good case for the suspension of this Standing Order or he may not; it is possible there is a good case; but it is this continual evasion of our Standing Orders in every way- a breaking of the law almost ; and I had to call attention this afternoon to an evasion of the law which the right honourable gentleman has con- tinually practised in regard to the old-age pen- sion regulations-this continual evasion of the Standing Orders in defiance of the law to which we, as representatives of the people, feel it our duty to call the attention of the House. I trust the honourable member for Hawke's Bay will divide the House. We do not want to intercept Supply, but to point out to the people that the Standing Orders of the House are continually being evaded and suspended at the pleasure of the Premier. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Mr. 