the very best men, a salary of $1,000 is the very lowest we ought to offer, and for that salary I believe we can get men who will satisfy th . public of New Zealand that they are thoroughly qualified for the position. The ad- ditional cost of their salaries would be abso- lutely imperceptible to the colony. If $400 a year is added to the salaries of four or five of the Judges the total increased expense would only be 92,000 a year -so absolutely insignifi- cant that it is hardly worth talking about. One honourable member .I think it was the honourable member for Masterton -- asked what would we be able to do with the Judges if they There proved incompetent or unprincipled. need be no consideration of failure at all. The very fact of Ministers having to appoint as Judges men who would not be removable would cause them to take the same care in making appointments to the District Court Bench that is now taken in appointing to the Supreme Court Bench. Not that all cases of appoint- ment to the Supreme Court Bench have been all that might be desired. And when it can be said, as it has been of one promotion from the lower Courts to the Supreme Court Bench, that the person appointed had, during his ser- vice under the present Government, had his eves firmly fixed on the Supreme Court Bench, and that the appointment to the Supreme Court Bench was consequent on a decision that was desired by Ministers - whether it was true or not may be difficult to prove, but it was notorious. Mr. SEDDON. - There has not been a case of a District Court Judge being appointed to the Supreme Court Bench. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. PIRANI. - But you tried to. You offered to appoint Judge Ward. Captain RUSSELL. - At any rate, it follows that the practice of promoting persons liable to the imputation of being under the control of or dependent on Ministers is indefensible. It was notorious-or it was generally believed at any rate-that the position of Judge was given on account of a decision that pleased Ministers. Mr. SEDDON .- He never was appointed on any such grounds. Captain RUSSELL .-- The honourable gentle- man quite knows to whom I refer. I do not refer to Mr. District Judge Ward Mr. SEDDON. - If Judge Martin is intended, he was a Commissioner. Captain RUSSELL .- But in a judicial capa- city. Then, I maintain we have come to this : that the necessity that the public should feel that they are not dependent on the whims of Judges, District Court Judge, or Magistrates, who have to keep their minds fixed on the pleasure of men on the Government benches, is a matter of the most vital importance to ; pure administration of justice in New Zealand. Then, as to increasing the number of District Courts, that is a matter of considerable im- portance. There are a great number of persons who are extremely unwilling to ineur the delays and expenses of a Supreme Court action, and therefore I believe the proposal to increase the Captain Russell I think we should have men of high legal attain- ments to occupy the position of District Court Judges, and unless we have such mou it would be wrong in the extreme to extend the powers of their Courts. If we did so we should be weak- ening our own powers. I do not think we should make any alteration whatsoever in the District Courts Act until the District Court Judges are placed in a proper position. To further extend their powers without conferring proper privil ges and proper responsibilities upon the Di-tniet Court Judges is a principle which I. at any ride, shall not approve of, and in order to record my opinion against any tinkering with the District Courts -- and I hope other honourable. members will vote with me-I move, That this Bill be read a second time this day six months. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I do not know by what method of reasoning the honourable mom- ber thinks he will attain his object by moving his amendment in reference to a Bill which he admits, and which other members have ad- mitted. contains necessary amendments of the law -- that because no increase is proposed to be made to their salaries this legislation should not be passed. Captain RUSSELL. - That is not correct. Mr. SEDDON. - That would be the effect. The honourable member said, if I remember rightly, that because members continually My that there ought to be an increase in the salaries of the Judges that they ought to be put in the position of Supreme Court Judge - this Bill should go no further. Is that the position ? Very well ; the honourable memte? is a long way from the fact if he thinks be will attain his object by moving that the Bill be read a second time this day six months. If this Bill is not proceed, d with further it will not affect the Government in :h- slightest. As far as I know, there is no very great urgency in respect to those amendments at all. Some slight amendments have been pointed out to be necessary, and to give effet to them we have brought forward this Bill. But if this course of procedure is to have the effect of increasing particular salaries, that i another matter. I can only saw that we ba Government, have been accused from time to time of swelling the permanent appropriate . and the estimates, and vet those who are attais. ing us bee mise of these increased appropriatoti are now in this particular instance-it is to use disguising the fact that if we had not Juos Kettle as a District Court Judge we should be have had this motion, and we should not have ! had this question from time to time coming up on the floor of this House. Captain RUSSELL .-- I have not mentiond his name. Mr. SEDDON. - You have not mentioned ". . but it can only refer to him. We have read nothing in regard to District Judge Ward. 1 Although in one breath you are extolling and lifting up one Judge, you are casting a reflection upon another, a grave reflection, and one that I stand on the floor of this House and say there I have se is not the slightest foundation for. 