like to make arrangements for their homesteads and in regard to other matters, who would like to know definitely which way the line was going to be carried through beyond the Kaipara Flats. He thought the Minister would acknowledge that their request was a reasonable one, and that there should not be the same delay in the future in regard to the prosecution of this work that there had been in the past. It was fully expected by the settlers that the Minister would fulfil his promise of about February or March to go over the route and inspect the character of the country through which it would pass. The settlers were most anxious to meet him. and preparations were made to receive him with the hospitality due to his position, and to confer with him in regard to the future progress of this tardily constructed line. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Worksi thought he could satisfy the honour- able member when he told him that. when in Auckland, he gave instructions for the survey to be put in hand forthwith, and the engineer would start upon the work almost immediately. He believed it was desirable to have the route fixed as far as that could definitely be done. Money spent upon surveys was money well spent, because a survey would often lead to the saving of many thousands of pounds by ena- bling the best route to be selected. There would be no delay caused, as there was sufficient work to keep them going until such time as a further section was surveyed by the engineer. The honourable gentleman was wrong in saying the department had been rather slow in pro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 secuting the construction-works. He had only to carry the honourable member's mind back to last November, when some of the settlers expressed themselves as quite satisfied when http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero he (Mr. Hall - Jones) stated that the line would be carried to a certain point within a certain time. Since then there had been some bad weather, which had brought down some slips, and this had caused a delay that had not been anticipated. However, the Go- vernment would proceed with the line as vigor- ously as the money provided would allow. Mr. MONK asked if it was going to have any influence upon the amount of the grant that would be provided. Mr. HALL-JONES said it would not affect the grant, because the line was located far enough and beyond the present location. The first two miles was comparatively easy. It was not difficult to survey, and that would be done in a very short time. Certainly it would not interfere with any grant the House would provide. TRAINING-SHIP. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will purchase and equip a training-ship for the education of the youth of the colony in seamanship? This sub- ject had engaged the attention of a very large number of persons in every part of the colony for many years past. It had been brought under the notice of the Legislature for Mr. Joyce. The question had always received at the hands of the House the most generous consideration. There was a strong belief that a training-ship ought to be purchased and equipped for training the youth of the colony in seamanship. It would take numbers of boys off the streets, train them to earn a means of livelihood, and would provide a source from which could be drawn the future seamen of the country to man the ships of New Zealand. He had never heard, in all the discussions which had taken place in the House, one word said against the proposal. On the other hand, those who had taken the trouble of drawing attention to it, in speaking upon it in the House, had always spoken of it in the most favourable terms. It was true that, notwithstanding the favourable reception the question had met with on every occasion, no encouragement had been given to it by the Government of the country - that was to say, no money expenditure had ever been offered in aid of the proposal. The old argument might be adduced of the failure of the training-ship at Kohimarama. Mr. NAPIER .- It was not a failure. -- Mr. FISHER said, That was so: but many persons who professed to understand the sub- ject ignorantly said it was a failure. He knew they were wrong, but that was the stock argu- ment used by gentlemen who knew nothing about the question. As he had said, there was a strong desire throughout the colony that a training-ship should be established for the pur- pose of teaching youths seamanship. He asked the same question last year, and endeavoured as best he could to induce the Government to take some active step in the direction of equipping a training-ship. The Hon. Mr. Hall-Jones, in answering the question, said .- "So far nothing had been done in the matter. It had been inquired into very carefully by a Committee in another place, who had made a very comprehensive report in regard to it. 'He believed they recommended that a training-ship should be established on our coast ; but, as he had said, nothing had been done. The matter was now under the consideration of his col- league the Minister of Education." He supposed the matter was still under the consideration of his colleague the Minister of Education, and he (Mr. Fisher) would be glad to hear whether the Minister of Education had succeeded in forming any views on the subject. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) regretted he could not give the honour- able member a reply more satisfactory than that given last year. The honourable member, of course, understood that in order to make provision for the establishment of a training- ship it would be necessary for the Government to ask the House to provide funds. For the cost of a ship and its maintenance for one vear it would be necessary to appropriate a very considerable sum of money, and, no such vote having been asked for, so far, the question was one for the Government to consider whether it should ask for it this year. While he agreed with the honourable member as to the desir- 