who has drawn a section cannot transfer that , know what might happen under the compulsory section to any member of his family, as circum- stances might arise which would render it desirable for him to do so. Coming to the amendment moved by Captain Russell, I sup- ported that amendment on this occasion, as I have supported it on previous occasions, because I approve of the principle contained therein. That amendment provided that a landowner whose land was being taken should have the right to retain a certain arca for each of his children. And I ask, Who has the best right to the land in such a case ? We must remember that the family of a settler are very often his partners -- to all intents and purposes his part- ners. They may have helped to buy that land ; in all probability they have helped to improve it ; but when the Government take it away they deny the right to the head of a family to retain any area, even a small area, for his own family. I say that in this respect the law is unjust, and I am sorry that Captain Russell's amendment was not inserted in the Bill. As to the amendment moved by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, with regard to the freehold, I do not think it received the support which it deserved. I have always supported the freehold, because as a country settler I know-it is not a question of thinking - that the freehold tenure is the best form of tenure under which a country settler can hold his land. It is the tenure a large majority of the settlers approve of, and if we provide for the freehold tenure in connection with the Land for Settlements Act it will have this advantage : we can take the money which https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the settlers will pay for their freehold and use that money for the purchase of other lands for settlement under the Land for Settlements Act, and thereby prevent what is being gradually http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero done at the present time the transfer of the ownership of our lands to people outside the colony. An old argument has been brought forward that if we have the freehold system it would mean the aggregation of large estates. But members who have expressed that appre- hension evidently know nothing about the history of land tenure in other countries. If they knew anything at all about it, they would know that it goes in the other direction, that with the system of freehold, and free-trade in land, the tendency has been for holdings to become so small that in thousands of cases it is almost impossible for the owners to make a living on them. If you want to prevent the aggregation of large estates, all that you have to do is, as has been suggested in this debate, to amend the Land Transfer Act, so as to make it impossible for a man to have land transferred to him after he has acquired a certain area. the Premier will introduce reasonable legislation in that direction I will support him in doing so. I am sorry there has not been a modification of the compulsory clauses of the Land for Settle- ment's Act, as these clauses have, in my opinion, done far more harm than good. Men holding comparatively large blocks of land which they have been anxious to sell have been afraid to approach the Government, because they did not ! he spoke of him in anything but complimentary Mr. Massey clauses. They feared that the Government, having their attention drawn to it, would take their land compulsorily, and that they would not receive a fair price, but only what would be decided upon by the Court set up for the purpose. Some little time ago I made a calcula- tion as to the cost per head to the State of the land-for-settlements system, and found that it was as nearly as possible $1,000 for every settler placed upon the land. We have two systems of land settlement : the one, the land- for-settlements system, and the other the sys- tem under which we settle the Crown lands of the colony. When under one system we find that settlement is costing us nearly $1,000 per settler, then I think we ought to do more in the other way, because the land- already belong to the Crown, and the only outlay is the cost of survey and roading. I think, Sir, that if we did more in the way of opening up the Crown lands of the colony, we should not be required to do so much under the land-for. settlements system. I am very pleased to see the interest that is being taken in this subject -probably the most important that will come before the House -- and I hope that interest wil continue, because if it does I am satished that perhaps in the near future we will place legis- lation on the statute-book which will promote legitimate and genuine settlement, and do justice to all concerned. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .- As I did not speak on the second reading of this Bill. I do not think I would be doing my duty were I not to refer to some of the remarks made during the course of the debate by the different speakers, more especially by the member for Hawke's Bay. With respect to the recrimina- tions indulged in by two honourable gentle- men. I have nothing to say on that point, excepting to repeat the old adage that out of evil comes good. I have heard it said to-night that influence was being brought to bear upon the (Government to place an incompetent valuer in my district- - a district which is particularly unfortunate at present in that respect. I would here ask, if a valuer is to be sent, that be will be capable of making correct valuations and of wide experience. I would tell the gentleman in charge of the department that there is a good deal of dissatisfaction in connection with the valuations of the present valuer, and that I hope the gentleman referred to to-night will not be sent to this unfortunate district if he is incompetent. It appears to be a dumping-ground for incompetents. This being his first speech, I listened to the honourale member for Patea with a certain amount of attention. I thought it would have been wise If if he had remained quiet for a few days to see how the business was worked instead of com- mencing his speech immediately on taking his seat in this House. That is the course usually followed by new members. The honourable member referred to a gentleman whom I know very well - one who has been a pioneer settier in the district in which I am living. I think 