Rotorua was the chief feature in the Royal | visit to New Zealand ; and not only that, but it was the chief feature of the visit of their Royal Highnesses so far as they had then gone in their tour round the world. When I was speaking to Lord Crighton at Rotorua, he said he was de- lighted at the spectacle of the Maori war-dances, and he could not restrain his admiration. may mention that one of the chiefs exhibited some of the emblems of his rank. The noble form of this great warrior was tattooed in every part, the symbol of the highest position in his race; and I asked Lord Crighton could he conscientiously say that any of the aristocracy in England could show such emblems of rank, and he said they could not. I do not think it is right that the Government,-which carried out the whole Rotorua business so successfully,-should be deprived of the credit of their work, and I do not think it is right to introduce small out-of-the-way matters in order to reflect on them. I may mention that repre- sentatives of the London Times and other leading English papers cabled as much as a column and a half a day to their journals, expatiating on the success of the Royal visit to the hot lakes of New Zealand ; and the illus- trated papers also did justice to the occasion. It was chiefly owing, I think, to the efforts of the Premier and Government of New Zealand that the reception arrangements were carried through so successfully. As one of the repre- sentatives for the City of Auckland, I say that our thanks are due to the Government, which so successfully carried out such a difficult and delicate undertaking. In saying this I do not wish in the slightest degree to depreciate what was done by the Mayor of Auckland. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- 1 also desire to remove what I think may create a false im- pression. I cannot allow the concluding re- marks of my esteemed colleague to pass without a protest. He said the reception at Auckland -if I understood him rightly-was due, not to the Mayor of Auckland, but to the Premier. The success of the reception of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall at Auckland was solely and absolutely due to the citizens of Auckland. Mr. WITHEFORD .- I spoke of Rotorua. Mr. NAPIER .- The Premier had very little to do with the success of the reception at Auck- land, and cannot, and I am sure does not, claim credit for it. I do not deny that the reception as carried out by the Government has been an immense success, and I give the Government the fullest possible credit for the way in which they have upheld the reputation of New Zea- land for hospitality, and for its ability to carry out a brilliant function. The reception at Auckland was organized and engineered by a large representative local committee and by the Auckland Harbour Board. I am rather surprised to hear an ex-Chairman of the Auckland Harbour Board attribute the suc- cess of the proceedings on the wharf to the Premier. Although Mr. Witheford was not himself a member of the Harbour Board committee which made the arrangements, he should give credit to those local representative bodies which so largely contributed to secure for Auckland the honour of having given the best reception in New Zealand to our future King and Queen, because there is no doubt that, so far as New Zealand is concerned, Auckland was pre-eminently first both as regards decora- tions and the heartiness and enthusiasm of the 1 I people. I do not suggest that the loyalty or the 1 enthusiasm of the people of the other districts . of the colony was less ardent ; but I say that in the opinion of the journalists, and, I under- stand, also in the opinion of the suite of the Royal visitors themselves, Auckland was first. Now, though my honourable friend has stated that the Mayor of Auckland said he would only present the address to the Royal visitors, the reception by Auckland City was not intrusted to the Mayor. It was considered by the citizens to be a function beyond the capacity of the City Council. Some months before the visitors arrived, the citizens at a public meeting elected a reception committee, and the Harbour Board was to undertake the functions on the wharf. Besides this, there were hundreds of girls who \--- contributed towards the success of the functions at Auckland, and who decorated the city with garlands of flowers and greenery, and I think it is unjust to take away the credit from those people. Mr. SEDDON .- He was simply meeting Mr. Monk's arguments. Mr. NAPIER .- I have as great a respect for the Premier as my colleague has, and I do not believe the right honourable gentleman desires for a moment to pose in borrowed plumes. I do not agree with the honourable member for Waitemata that the fact that the marine de- monstration of the Maori canoes on the arrival of the Duke at Auckland did not take place was due to the Government. I believe, myself, that the failure was entirely owing to maladminis- tration and want of tact on the part of the committee that was appointed to get the canoes and Maori crews together at Auckland. 1 be- \-- lieve that Mahuta himself was so disgusted with the unbusinesslike negotiations that he, so to speak, sulked in his tent and refused to take part. There is no doubt about it, if the committee had been in earnest, and had under- stood their business, even though there may have been obstacles in the way, they could have got the canoes down by Mr. J. J. Craig's carts in plenty of time ; but the fact was that the Natives thought that the committee did not mean business, and, notwithstanding the offer of the Harbour Board to contribute #25 towards the freight of the canoes, they allowed the matter \- --- - ---- to drift on to such a late period that there was no possibility of carrying out the dis- play. I believe that if they had taken the matter up earnestly they could have collected £1,000 or $2,000 in a very short time. To place the blame of the failure on the Railway De- partment is, I believe, quite unjust, because I am satisfied the Railway Department was in no way to blame for not bringing those canoes down. The honourable member for 8.0. Waitemata also said that the reception of the Imperial troops at Auckland had been 