the country ought to pay its members an ade- quate salary. I say that £300 a year is not too much to pay members under existing condi- tions, and in view of the demands made upon them, and when they cannot follow their ordinary avocation without being losers. I say that the State ought to have its best 10.0. men as representatives, and the State ought to pay its members well. That, Sir, is my contention, and it does not fall to the lot of the honourable member for Riccarton or any other member of the House to say that my action in respect to these matters has been in the slightest way inconsistent. I say, as regards the land- and income-tax, the placing of the people on the land, land - settlement, cheap money, granting the reductions, taking the railways from the Commissioners and giving them back to the people, old-age pensions, and labour laws, which have helped so much to im- prove the condition of the toilers of this country, I only claim a fair share. I claim that I have consistently supported those matters which I believe to be for the good of the people and of our country ; but there are those who are rash, and who would force upon Parliament extreme measures. If you pass extreme mea- sures there is a recoil, and your reform is lost, and its chance is lost for years. They were talking about these things when I first came into this House in 1879, and before that. And I give a share in bringing about these reforms to the honourable member for Ric- carton and the other members who supported os. No one knows better than the honour- able member for Riccarton what myself and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 colleagues went through in forcing these mea- sures on the statute-book of the colony. I only ask that that honourable member and others should do simply what is abstract jus- tice. I will tell him further now, and it can be borne out, that the master spirit of initia- tive is still at the head of the Ministry, and that two of admitted constructive ability are still on the Treasury benches of New Zealand. The power of initiation is not exhausted. We are gradually and surely forging ahead ; but you must not create unnecessary alarm. Already in the country districts there is a slight fear, and, that being the case, as leader of the Liberal party, and as one whose de- sire is the well-being of every soul in the coun- try, my foot has to go on the brake. Some- times harsh terms are applied, but it is better to steer carefully and bring the State coach into safety than have it run over the precipice and be wrecked. Sir, I hope the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton will take to heart what I am saying in this respect, and not again do what is unjust. Then, the honourable mem- ber, in respect to workmen's homes, made an attack on the Minister of Lands that was entirely unwarranted. The Minister of Lands is in no way to blame for any matter in connection with lands for settlement. I stated to the House last night that since Sir John Mckenzie had left the Ministry I had under- taken the business of the department as re- garded the lands for settlement. Captain RUSSELL .- That is distinctly illegal. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member may say so as often as he likes, but he cannot have read the law. The leader of the Opposition ought to be acquainted with the law. I say, Sir, that under the law any Minister can act for another, and there was a special law passed enabling this to be done. Captain RUSSELL .- No. Mr. SEDDON .- That is the honourable mem- ber's opinion, but I say he is wrong. The honourable member for Riccarton said last night that we had only spent £20,000 in the purchase of land last year. What is the fact ? Last year, for workmen's homes 902 acres were pur- chased, and for ordinary settlement 82,974 acres, at a cost of £356,850. A total of 777 farms were established, and 170 workmen's homes. Here is the paper. It is an official document, and I will lay it on the table at the conclusion of my speech. The honourable mem- ber wanted to make out that an injustice had been done to Canterbury. Why, Canterbury, under the Land for Settlements Act, has had more money spent in it than any other part of the colony, and more workmen's homes have been established there. The honourable mem- ber himself recommended the purchase of land near the Islington works. There are two or three areas of land there. One was bought by Mr. Wilson ; but that was through no fault of the Government. The owner got an offer from the Government, but he evidently got a better one from Mr. Wilson. Then, in respect to the Coleridge Estate, we made an offer of £36 an acre, and the owner sold it at an increased price. But we have succeeded in getting one estate there. If the honourable member had asked me for information I would have placed the files at his disposal. It is not fair to have imaginary cases trumped up for the purpose of adverse criticism, and to injure the Govern- ment. I will only say now, in conclusion, that during the debate what we have com- plained of is the want of speaking for the whole colony, and seeing that the best is done in the interests of the people. It has been my duty-and I am sure it has been the duty of my colleagues-to endeavour to lift New Zea- land, and place it in a better position, so that the people of the colony shall have homes, and also to see that the rising generation may hold better positions than their parents. We have in a great measure succeeded in doing that. It is true, this year well-deserved honour has fallen to the lot of my worthy colleague, the Post- master-General, and that four years ago honour also fell to my lot. In so far as the honour- which I think was sarcastically referred to by the leader of the Opposition last night, the member for Hawke's Bay, and by other honour- able members-I may say I was sent Home by you, the people of this colony, to represent you in London. The honour conferred on me was your honour. It was the duty of whoever that honour was conferred upon to conform with whatever was necessary, and to appear, when in high places, properly attired. I am 