tricts, asking him to establish a larger and more extensive train-service in these localities. He would like to remind the Minister that a few weeks ago a train was run at night from Christchurch on the occasion of the Ducal festivities, and he had seen four coaches loaded from end to end, starting at ten o'clock and going to these localities on a Saturday night. The residents would greatly prefer the train- service if the trains were run at a convenient hour. He hoped an assurance would be given that something would be done at an early date in the direction he was suggesting. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Rail- 3.30. ways) said the existing train-services met all the requirements, with the exception perhaps of Saturday nights; and in regard to Saturday nights it was proposed to run a train from Christchurch to Templeton at half-past ten p.m. each Saturday night for four weeks as an experiment. The continuation of the ser- vice would depend on the patronage accorded . the train. RAILWAY SERVICE WAGES. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will, con- sidering the very heavy nature of their work, increase the wages of the railway-men working in the ballast-pits to 8s. per day of eight hours ? The ballast-pit hands on the Otago Central Rail- way had brought under his notice the fact that they did not receive adequate remuneration for their work, and it appeared to him that, con- sidering the heavy nature of their work, they were entitled to Ss. a day. As the Minister for Railways, as well as the Government, had seen https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 fit to raise the wages of the co-operative labourers in many parts of the country to 8s. a day, surely the men who did such heavy work as the ballast-pit hands should get a similar sum. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the rate of wages paid to men working in bal- last-pits was considered a fair one, and the department had no difficulty in obtaining men to fill all vacancies that arose in these gangs. In fact, a large number of applications were received from workmen who were paid by con- tractors as much as 9s. per day, but who pre- ferred working in the railway ballast-gangs at 7s. per day, as they did not lose so much time as in other employments. To increase the rate of wages to ballast-men from 7s. to Ss. a day would cost, approximately. $2,000 per annum. If the concession were granted to ballast-gangs it would require to be extended to all casual labour, which would involve an additional ex- penditure of, approximately, £14,000 a year. ANNUAL SEASON TICKETS. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, If he does not consider the time has arrived when annual season tickets should be charged at a uniform rate on the railways of both Islands ; and. if so, will he move in the direction of equalising these charges ? He did not wish to see any further penalty imposed on the residents of the North Island, but he thought the time had arrived when the charge for annual season tickets on the railways in both Islands should be made more equal than they were at present, if they were not made the same. He did not know that there was any argument that the North Island was entitled to a lower rate than the Middle Island, unless it was the existence of the Manawatu Company's line; but he did not know that that would justify the lower rate charged in the North Island. As matters now stood the Government railways carried people from. Wellington to Napier or to New Plymouth. and, that being the position. he trusted that in these days of reductions the Minister would see his way to equalise the rate charged for annual season tickets, and give the South Island people the benefit. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he was now going into this matter, and he was not yet prepared to say what decision would be arrived at. It was an important subject, and would be most carefully considered. If any alteration was made it would be included in. other proposals with regard to the railways which would shortly be announced to the House. RAILWAY SERVICE WAGES. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he is prepared to give the necessary authority to increase the wages of those men who are employed in the Railway service, so that the minimum wage shall not be less than 8s. per day ? Casual labourers, per- manent hands, and many others in the service received only 7s. a day, but they were prevented from taking action under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to get what he would term a living-wage. In some parts of the colony 7s. a day might be a living-wage, but in other parts of the colony it was certainly much below a living-wage. Some of the men had to work in parts of the colony where the weather was very wet, which necessitated considerable expense in providing proper clothing and outfit to meet that state of the weather. Under those cir- cumstances, he hoped the Minister would seri- ously take into consideration the necessity of fixing the wages at the rate of Ss. per day as a minimum wage, instead of 7s., or, if he could not do that, to allow the men the same right as the Government had given to other individuals to take their case to the Conciliation Board. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that if one were to allow his sympathies te govern him in dealing with a matter such this it would be an easy thing to give a favour. able reply to the question. The fact was, how- ever. that to accede to the request would mean an additional expenditure of $52,000 a year, and. that being the position, no Government conid give effect to the suggestion without serious con- sideration. The wages of many of the workers in the Railway service had recently been raised. but to give way to all requests made for increases would, if they were not careful, result in a re- vulsion of feeling. He believed in good waves. and was willing to do anything in his power. but 