eight or a dozen men came to him and asked what were they to do with their money until there was another ballot. I merely mention these facts to show that the words used in the Speech from the Throne on this subject were perfectly true, and not marked by the slightest exaggera- tion. In fact, more extravagant words might have been used in connection with it. There was one amendment to the Land for Settle- ments Act that I did hope the Govern- ment would have considered-I should like to have heard the opinion of honourable members upon it-and that is this: Where there are a number of large estates adjoining one another and suitable for close settlement, that the Go- vernment, instead of taking up one of these blocks only, should take six or seven thousand acres out of each of them, and make one string of settlements as near as possible to the railway- line. I have in my mind's eye estates in Hawke's Bay, and particularly near to Napier, that would not only be highly suitable for close settlement under this method, but if it were adopted a business-man would not feel the sting of so-called confiscation, for the re- mainder of his land would benefit. It would increase the value of what was left to him, owing to the fact of the close settlement that was adjoining it. I would ask the Premier to say, when he is replying, whether he will be prepared to receive such a suggestion and give it favourable consideration, and so amend the Act as to empower the Land for Settlements Board, instead of purchasing the whole of a block, to take portions of each estate that adjoins. It is undeniable, I suppose, that in purchasing land for settlement we should take advantage of the money the colony has spent in roads and bridges and railways. And in advo- cating the taking of land, especially in the dis- trict I have the honour to partly represent- honourable members may sav for which I am holding a brief, and no doubt I am - I maintain we have opportunities of securing some of the best land in the colony without enforcing the compulsory clause. Nature has lavished all its blessings upon that special district except popu- lation, and the Government should imme- diately, if the Minister of Lands will agree with my suggestion, set about taking estates, or por- tions of estates, that they have such favourable opportunities of obtaining. I do not think I will at the present time say anything more upon this subject. I only once more ask the Premier if he will, in his reply, consider the suggestions I have made. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) .- Sir, while agreeing with most of the remarks that have fallen from the honourable member for Napier. nevertheless, I must take exception to one opinion expressed by him - that is, that mem- bers of Parliament should not have seats on the ! Land Boards. Now, I maintain that members of Parliament are no more susceptible to sinis- ter influences and to political bias than any other individuals in the community, and we : it the added value that would be given to the cannot complain if the newspapers sometimes severely criticize us when we in this Chamber | it would recoup the Government for the outlay Mr. A. L. D. Fraser ridiculous to nnd in the legislation of the country how members of Parliament are de- barred from taking places on public bodies and enjoying the privileges that are extended to others. Take, for example, an Act passed a short time ago, and which debars members of Parlia- ment from holdine seats on the Board of direc- tors ; I refer to the Bank of New Zealand Act of 1898. Here now we find members of the House actually declaring that members of Parliament should not have seats on Land Boards. I may say I have no seat on a Land Board and I never had, but I know from experience that members of Parliament who have been placed on those Boards are discharging their duties faithfully and well, without any bias or without being susceptible to any political influences that I am aware of. I hope that the discussion of this measure will have the effect of infusing some life and vigour into the operations of the Land Purchase Board, and that in time to come the Board will endeavour to acquire for closer settle- ment those estates suitably situated for settle- ment, so that poor men may be able to take up small selections and make homes for themselves and their families. It is well known that the best properties are not being offered to the Gio- vernment. It is mostly properties that will not find a ready sale by other means that the owners endeavour to palm off on the Land Purchase Board and on the people of the colony. I maintain that the Board should be more zealous in their endeavours to bring about the acquisition of such desirable estates, no matter what part of the colony they are in -that is, pro- vided they are favourably situated for settlement and not too remote from the main roads and railways. They should also be in open country for the most part, so that those who take up the sections will be able to work them from the start, instead of having to wait for years before they get a sufficient return to enable them to pay their rent. I agree with the honourable member for Napier that a good deal of the pro- perty in Hawke's Bay is admirably adapted for closer settlement-the properties, for example, of some of the "Twelve Apostles " might in the interests of the colony be acquired for the pur- pose of giving the people facilities to take up land for themselves. Then, we have round about Timaru large estates admirably adapted for close settlement, and I consider that pres- sure should be brought to bear on the . overn- ment by those interested to endeavour to induce them to purchase some of those estates and have them thrown open for settlement. Then. we have in Otago a large estate called the Mov Flat Estate. It is partly good agricultural land, and I consider that that estate should be acquired by the Government. In the case of the Moa Flat Estate there is a large area of land that has no railway or road facilities such as have some of the properties in Canterbury and Hawke's Bay ; but if the Government would ac- quire the estate and then construct a railway to land by the expenditure of public money upon 