The Hon. Mr. KERR .- I think the matter should be put off for a week. I do not agree with the Hon. Mr. Shrimski that there is any combination or understanding among any party in the Council to force the motion at the present time for a particular purpose. I think it would be as well to postpone the question for a week. The whole subject will come up again when the Committee report to the Council. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, the Hon. Mr. Shrimski is quite right. This motion has been brought on for a particular purpose-namely, for the purpose of enabling the Council to choose any gentleman whom the Council may think fit to put in the position of Chairman of Com- mittees. If we are not to have the ballot for the election of Chairman of Committees-if the ballot is not fit for such a purpose-surely it is not fit for anything, especially if it is to be treated with the contempt that has been shown towards it by several members during this dis- cussion. Sir, I cannot understand how the honourable gentleman could consent to the nomination of a candidate for the position by the Government, but object to a system of this kind on the ground that it might be unfair. do not see that any good purpose could be gained by adjourning the motion. The Stand- ing Orders Committee will bring up a report on the matter, and when that is done the Council will be able to consider the whole question with some amount of intelligence. I trust that in the meantime those honourable gentlemen who have spoken against the ballot will investigate the question for themselves, and see if it is really what they have said it is, or whether it is not one of the best methods for carrying out https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 what the Council has in view. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH. - Sir, I am disposed to vote against the adjournment, for two reasons. When the motion was pro- posed an amendment was made that the ballot should be taken, and the Hon. the Minister in charge strongly opposed it. We have now disposed of that situation by electing the Hon. Captain Baillie to the position of Chair- man of Committees, and now, when an inde- pendent motion is brought forward for the purpose of deciding whether or not in the future the selection of Chairman of Com- mittees -and, I suppose, of Speaker also-shall or shall not be carried out by ballot, the honourable gentleman gets up again and gives us a dissertation on what he considers the disadvantages of the ballot. Sir, I believe that nine-tenths of the members of the Council still believe that there is good precedent for adopting the ballot form of appointing our chief repre- sentative of authority in this Council-that is, the election of yourself, Sir. I cannot see that, if in the case of the Speaker it has proved an advantage, the same advantage should not be gained in the choice of our Chairman of Com- mittees. What do we gain, Sir, by delaying? One or two more members may attend, but several gentlemen may have important business to keep them away on the day when the ques- tion again comes up. Under any circumstances, there will be no harm in taking a ballot now, as this is not the time when we can finally decide whether we should adopt a new system or not. The matter will have to come before the Coun- cil on another occasion-when the Committee bring up their report-and I am glad to hear that the Hon. Mr. Reeves is averse to postpon- ing the matter. To my mind, Sir, the ballot is the proper method to adopt in all elections of this kind. I think it is a very invidious thing to be called on openly to decide between two men who may be equal friends with the voters, and to avoid any unpleasant feeling the ballot is the proper way to get out of the difficulty. I cannot understand why the representative of the Government in this Chamber opposes that principle. The Council divided on the question, "That the debate be adjourned." AYES, 21. Smith, W. C. Arkwright Louisson Barnicoat Ormond Swanson Pinkerton Taiaroa Bowen Tomoana Harris Pitt Walker, L. Johnston Reeves Scotland Walker, W. C. Kelly, W. Shrimski Williams. Kerr NOKS, 10. Rigg Jenkinson Baillie Smith. A. L. Jones Bolt Feldwick Kelly, T. Twomey. Gourley Majority for, 11. Debate adjourned. HOSPITAL NURSES REGISTRATION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- Who may be registered. Subsection (2) .- " Every person who. on the passing of this Act, has had four consecutive years' training as a nurse in a hospital, and passes an examination in theoretical and prac- tical nursing by examiners appointed by the Governor under this Act, is entitled to regis- tration on payment of a fee of one pound towards the cost of examination." The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH moved to strike out the words "one pound," for the purpose of inserting "ten shillings" in lied theerof. The Council divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be struck out be re- tained." AYES, 14. Tomoana Louisson Bolt Feldwick Walker, L. Ormond Walker, W. C. Pinkerton Gourley Williams. Pitt Harris Shrimski Kerr NOES, 8. Rigg Swanson Barnicoat Jen kinson Taiaroa. Scotland Smith, A. L. Jones Majority for, 6. 