the viaducts beyond Makohine, so that the con- struction might be proceeded with at the same time as the formation, because, if the Minister waited until the formation was finished up to . the site of the viaducts, necessarily the com- pletion of the line would be greatly delayed. He might say that he had every confidence that. the Minister intended to push on the work with all possible expedition, but he would like to know the approximate date when he pro- posed to call for these tenders. Mr. HALL . JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, As the honourable member stated, this was a very important question, and one which he had not lost sight of. The first via- duct beyond the Makohine was the Mangaweka, which would be constructed with the same plant used in connection with the Makohine. The manufacture of the material for the Mako- hine Viaduct was practically completed, and he hoped to have a train running over that viaduct and through to Mangaweka this summer. An Hon. MEMBER .- When will the plans for the other viaducts be ready ? Mr. HALL-JONES said he hoped to have a train running to Mangaweka this summer. That was some miles beyond the Makohine Viaduct. Then, they had the Mangaweka Viaduct, which was nearly 1,000 ft. long. All the material for this work was on the ground ; the foundations were pretty well completed, and the manufacture of the ironwork was in hand. Then, beyond that there was the Toi- tois Bridge, for which the contract had been let ; beyond that again there was the Hau- tapu, the girders for which were now under contract. There were some smaller structures between, which the department could carry out with its present staff in ample time to meet the requirements of the line. He had been advised by those who understood the posi- tion that none of the other structures were nearly so formidable as the Makohine Viaduct. It was true the Mangatote Viaduct was longer and higher, but the construction was much simpler, and it would not take anything like the time nor would the cost be nearly as great as the Makohine; and he had been advised by his officers that if the Government carried out the work themselves it could be done quicker than if the plans had to be sent to America and the Old Country for the purpose of inviting ten- ders. However, he would like to test the other markets, so as to compare the prices with those of New Zealand. Mr. MONK .- Quite right. Mr. HALL-JONES knew the honourable member for Waitemata was as anxious as he was to see communication completed between Wellington and Auckland, and as early as possible, and the Goverment had decided that it would be more advantageous to carry out the smaller bridge with the present plant and staff. With regard to the largest bridge, the plans and specifications were almost completed. In the event of tenders being invited in England and America, as well as in the colony, if they were in excess of the estimates the department would be in the position of having to do the Mr. Napier work themselves, and in this way the inviting of tenders outside the colony might lead to delay. So far, arrangements had been made to carry the work a long way on the road to Auckland, and from the northern end the work was well in hand. At the north end they had all the bridges let, as far down as Taumaranui. that bridge having been let to a Christchurch firm for some months, and everything in the shape of bridges was in a forward state : and, in accordance with the promise he had made to the House last session, he saw no reason to doubt that the line would be laid through to Auckland in about three years. SCHOOL-TEACHERS' CLASSIFICATION. Mr. TANNER (Avon) asked the Government. Whether they intend this session to introduce a Bill classifying the public-school teachers of the colony, and fixing their respective salaries. in a manner similar to what has been done for Railway employés and Post and Telegraph off- cials ? Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the honourable member would see the difference between school-teachers and the employés of a central department. One would almost imagine from the form of the question that it was suggested to centralise the teaching staff of the colony. He did not think such was the case, but a classification such as was suggested here could only be properly carried out if that were done. He himself did not favour such a system of centralisation, as he thought it would be much better to leave all matters relating to the teachers in the hands of the Education Boards as at present. But. if it were asked whether the Government would deal with the question of teachers' salaries on the lines as laid down in the Bill of last session, he must reply that they would have to await the receipt of the report of the Commission which had been set up to deal with this matter, before taking any action. He knew nothing as to what their report would be ; and it was only right that Ministers should know what the recommendations of the Commissioners were before making any promise. He could only hope that the report would be such as to bar out what he believed to be the wish of the House- - namely, that the teachers should be enabled to receive fair salaries irrespective of what districts they might be employed in. KATPARA RAILWAY. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Minister for Public Works, If he will urge the raid prosecution of the survey of the Kaipara Rail- way route? The route had been surveyed .: " a very short distance beyond the point at which the construction was now being carried out. The amount which annually the Governmoi had hitherto granted upon that line had Iven very small, and it was desirable that no delay should take place in the further progress of this work. There were a large number of surveyors now unemployed, and no excuse was to be final for delaying this work. He could assure the Minister he had been asked to put this question 