to stop and take their meals. The question : old age and for their families. This Bill, if that my honourable friend has just asked does not indicate that high intelligence with which I have always credited him. Now, in connection with overtime, I admit there are cases in con- nection with certain industries where men are compelled to work overtime. The only safe- guard with the view of limiting that is the pro- vision in section 6, namely : that where there shall be workers employed more than forty- eight hours in a week the employer shall be re- quired to pay for that overtime at rate and a quarter for the overtime so worked. Those are briefly the provisions of the Bill. I do not claim that it is a perfect Bill. I am not aware of any law in force to form a precedent upon which such a Bill as this could be drawn, but it is an attempt, like all Bills dealing with similar questions; and it is only by giving legislative effect to the principle, and building upon an enactment the superstructure that experience teaches that you can get a start. I venture to place this Bill before the House as a start towards legislation on the eight-hours question. I am prepared that the Bill shall be referred to the Labour Bills Committee, and I am prepared to withdraw it in the event of the Government bringing down legislation, as promised by the Premier, dealing with this question. I beg, Sir, to move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) .- Sir, the 8.30. honourable gentleman made a state- ment that was quite correct - namely, that the Bill has a great many defects. I am in agree- ment with him on that point. The honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 gentleman referred to the dairying industry. Let me assure him and members of this House that if the ordinary rate of wages were paid for milking that is now paid by the Government http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero on the co-operative works, and if only eight hours were worked per day, the whole of the dairy industry of New Zealand would have to be suspended, and it would result in throwing a large number of people out of employment, and in great injury to the country - more injury than ever the honourable member will be able to do good. I am satisfied of that. The conditions of the life of those who engage in that industry demand that the milking shall be done in the morning, running over two hours and a-half, and again for two hours and a-half in the evening-five hours altogether. But between the morning and evening milking many hours intervene, perhaps as many as seven or eight hours, and if the dairy industry were to be brought under this Act the work could not be done. Many men in this country have been induced to put their money into this industry believing that they would not be hampered by legislation. Perhaps the honourable gentleman has received a solitary letter on the matter from some individual who has nothing what- ever at stake, but there are many people in the colony who have their all at stake, and who are endeavouring to make a living out of this particular industry. They are self-reliant and industrious, and they do not wish to become a burden on the State, and they desire to make provision for their passed as brought in, will prevent them from achieving that object. It will take from them that energy and thrift, together with self- reliance, which they now possess. Sir, I am surprised that any member of this House should bring in a Bill of this kind, so far- reaching and hurtful. I am prepared to believe that the honourable gentleman was not aware of the damage he was about to do to such a great industry as the dairy industry. There may be some good points in the Bill, but, as regards the dairy industry, I say it would almost annihilate it. Last year we exported from this colony butter and cheese to the value of over a million sterling, and if this Bill should become law that valuable industry would become seriously hampered, or perhaps destroyed altogether. Why, Sir, should our dairy farmers not have an oppor- tunity of making a living for themselves, and working out their own salvation ? They cannot all get Government billets. It is strange indeed that, in a country where the people are indus- trious and thrifty, they should be penalised and interfered with as they would be under this Bill, and I sincerely hope the good-sense of the House will give this vicious measure a short shrift. I did intend to move, Sir. that the Bill be read a second time this day six months, but I will not do so on this occasion. I will leave it for some of my honourable friends opposite, as they may have a better chance of carrying such a proposal through than I would. The member for Egmont says "Hear, hear," and I will therefore give the honourable gentleman the opportunity to move in the direction indicated by me. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I may say the Government support this Bill. To do otherwise would be inconsistent with all we have done, and against that which we think is in the best interests of those engaged in certain occupations in the colony. The great difficulty has always been - and the great diff- culty still is- that there are certain occupa- tions, in which many are engaged, to which it is not possible to apply either the labour legis- lation or a measure such as the one now before the House; and why on earth, because a diffi- culty exists, you should still continue to keep thousands of others to whom it can be ap- plied, and to whom it ought to be applied. without the benefit of it I cannot understand. It is no use mincing matters. There is no man in the House here who would say that in respect of mining - of coal-mining and other mining-a man should work for more than eight hours. There is not one of us here who would say, in re- spect of our factories, that we should not have the eight-hour system applied. We have it already on our statute-book. The same principle is there applied ; but when a Bill is introduced putting us in conflict with what has been given in other measures, then there is hesitation whenever the Bill gets into Committee. The second reading of this Bill will be carried. Do not make any mistake about that; but as soon as ever the Bill gets into Committee there will be amend- 