members would not make statements of that kind. He had just given the House the assur- ance that yesterday, before lunch-time, the Government was consulted on this question. The honourable member stated that he would, as soon as the House met, ask the question without notice. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) might add to what the Premier had just stated, that before the House met yesterday he called the attention of Ministers to this matter, and asked them if they would be prepared to answer if he put a ques- tion without notice. When the time came Mr. Speaker ruled that, as on Thursday the House proceeded to the orders of the day, he would not be in order in putting his question on that day. At that time he did not know of the intention of the honourable member for Riccarton to give notice of his question. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. This Bill was read a first time. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I would ask that the second reading be taken at half-past two o'clock to-day. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Has the Bill been circulated ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. An Hon. MEMBER .- We have not got it yet. Mr. SEDDON .- You will have it shortly. The Bill only contains some technical amend- ments, which I stated to the House yesterday. The House divided on the question, "That the Bill be set down for its second reading at half-past two o'clock to-day." AYES, 36. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 O'Meara Arnold Hanan Buddo Houston Palmer Parata Carneross Laurenson Carroll McGowan Seddon Colvin McGuire Stevens Mackenzie, T. Duncan Steward Mckenzie, R. Flatman Thompson, R. Fowlds Ward McLachlan Meredith Gilfedder Willis. Graham Tellers. Mills Guinness Lawry Morrison Hall Napier Symes. Hall-Jones NOES, 15. Lethbridge Atkinson Tanner Bollard Thomson, J. W. Monk Collins Rhodes Teilers. Hardy Russell, G. W. Massey Russell, W. R. Pirani. Herries Hutcheson Majority for, 21. Motion agreed to. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked that the Speaker would order that the Bill should be circulated, so that they might have time to read it before they had to discuss it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, Yesterday he had introduced the Bill without a Governor's message. It was then discovered that there was an appropriation in the Bill, and that a message should have been brought down with it. He could not circulate the Bill because of that, and the delay was on that account. He could, the previous night, have moved that the House go into Committee and take the first reading, and it would have been on the Order Paper for to-day; but it was a stretch, he thought, of the rules, and he did not wish to do that. At half-past two o'clock the Bill would be brought on, and in the meantime it would be circulated. He would be the last to attempt to force a Bill, and, had he introduced the Bill with a Governor's message, it would have been the first order of the day for to-day. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said, Of course, he would not be so rash as to impute any blame to the Premier under any considera- tion whatsoever. But he wished to point out that the House would not rise till lunch-time, and members would have little or no oppor- tunity of reading the Bill. He thought, there- fore, the sooner the Bill was circulated the better. Mr. SPEAKER said he would instruct the officers of the House to have the Bill circulated as soon as possible. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) desired to make a personal explanation. On account of being paired with the honourable member for New Plymouth, and finding himself in the Chamber, he voted as he believed Mr. Smith would have voted had he been here. REFERENDUM BILL. On the question, That the amendments made in Committee on this Bill be agreed to, Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said,-I move, That this Bill be recommitted for the purpose of considering a new clause to the effect that the poll in regard to the question submitted to the referendum of the people be conducted through the post-office, instead of by the expensive machinery provided in the Bill, which one Government supporter said the other night would mean an expenditure of about $20,000. Honourable members know just as well as I do that there is not the slightest hope of any question being submitted to the referendum under this Bill except at a general election if the cost is so large as that, and I have no doubt- Mr. SEDDON .- I rise to ask a question as to a point of order. The question is whether, when a clause is rejected in Committee, the Bill can be recommitted for the purpose of considering the same clause. Mr. SPEAKER .- Yes, the amendment is in order. Mr. PIRANI. - I took very great care to ascertain that it was in order before I took this step, and I am very glad to be in a position to educate the Premier on one point for once. Mr. SEDDON. --- After you have been edu- cated first by Mr. Speaker. Mr. PIRANI. - I have not spoken to Mr. Speaker on the subject. You will find the same rule laid down in almost every session of Par- liament, and I am surprised that the Premier is not aware of what goes on in this House. It 