an expression of the mind of the country. This House is a Liberal House, and, having been elected by the Liberal party of the colony, it would be utterly impossible for a Ministry which did not express the Liberal sentiments of the country to keep on these benches. It will be exactly the same whenever the elective Executive is brought into force. As I have said, I shall support the Bill, and in Committee I shall reserve to myself the right to vote as I please on the amendments that may be moved. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- The honour- abie gentleman who has just sat down has treated us to a very strenuous speech against the Gi vernment under the cloak of supporting this Bill; and he tells us, and protests, like the character in Dickens, that it is all on account of his conscience and his patriotism. But. Sir, it may perchance be that " patriots are grown too shrewd to be sincere, and we too wise to trust them." I must congratulate the honour- able member who introduced this Bill on his very interesting speech, which I listened to with very great pleasure ; and, though I cannot sup- port the Bill as it is drawn, vet I sympathize with some of his arguments. I do not agree, however, that the time has arrived when it would be convenient or politic to allow the House of Representatives to elect the Ministry of the day. Personally. I should prefer that, while some system of election should be deter- mined upon, it should be election by the mem- bers of the predominant party for the time being. I think that, as the electors at a general election express their faith in or their dis- approval of a political party, so that political party, when it comes together at the beginning of a Parliament, ought to elect the members of the Administration. Such a method, I think, would preserve the homogeneous character of the Ministry, which is one of the attri- butes in a Government most to be desired. The honourable member for Waitaki, however, I think, prejudiced the chances of his Bill by his general and very vehement attack on the principle of party government. I understood from the honourable gentleman's former speech, which he was kind enough to give me a copy of, and also from what I gathered was his present opinion, that he believed the party system could be maintained in its entirety under an elected Executive. But to-night he completely threw to the winds any such opinion, if he ever enter- tained it, and he unmistakably and uncom- promisingly assorted that if this Bill were carried party government in New Zealand would be destroyed. Now, that being so, I shall be wholly unable even to vote for the second reading of the Bill by way of affirming its principle, because I hold that the instrument of party government has been one of the most potent in the hands of reformers in ameliorating the condition of humanity that the world has ever known. In proposing a great constitutional change, I think it would not be irrelevant if I were to quote the warning of Lord Bacon, who says, in speaking of the considerations that ought to guide one in introducing any large measure of constitutional reform,- " It were good that men in their innovations would follow the example of time itself, which, indeed, innovateth greatly, but quietly, and by degrees scarce to be perceived. It is good also not to try experiments in States except the necessity be urgent or the utility be evident ; and well to beware that it be the re- formation that draweth on the change, and no! the desire of change that pretendeth the reformation." Now, Sir, to-night the honourable gentle- man who introduced the Bill did not advance any reason why this change should be in- troduced. He merely assumed that the case for a change was proved, and then he attempted to show that the change he proposed would be a salutary one. But I take it that perhaps it was his desire that the debate should not be prolonged. I contend that it was incumbent upon him to show, either by the experience of other States or by a priori arguments, that this was the best possible change to mise in our system of government ; but iwire he did that it was equally incumbent upon him to show that great evils had arisen frem the present system of party government. I maintain that the system of party government -that is, the division of the representativ. body into two parties, and only two parties - a division which our own experience and history alike prove to be calculated best to promote the welfare of the people. I will take an: country under parliamentary government, auf country you like where there has been Le party government, and will maintain that the condition of that country and of its peupt is infinitely worse than that of Great Britain or this country under the party system. T.s. for instance, in our own day, the French nation Now, since 1871 there have been, I think, ni :: or sixty Ministers in France. The Front Chamber is split up into little factions, small intriguing groups, and the result is that a Government is up to-day and down to-monica. The consequence of that has been absolute paralysis in the body politic. There has two a sterility in legislation, an impotence in foreign affairs, until France has almost bom. a second-rate Power. The average duration of a Ministry in France has been about five months -- some of them have only lasted a few days. ani this has been the direct result of not having to. Chamber of Deputies divided into two parte. so that there would be always one united patty ready to take the reins of power when the ate party failed to satisfy publicopinion. Now. th: principle of electing Ministers of State for a definite term is vicious. It has been desi- strated in America to be one of the greatet causes of corruption, and also of want of or gress, in political affairs. I have an Amortit writer's opinion here, which I propose to Live showing the extraordinary condition into wine the American Cabinet drifts, owing to the faci that there is no cohesion, no solidarity. and that Ministers of diverse views are frequento placed in power. Mr. Woodrow Wilson. wh, has written a work on "Congressional Goven. ment," gives us a glimpse of the chaos the: 