trying to save one or two he might be endanger- | by day. With the exception of one of the ing the lives of many thousands. With regard to the return, he was of a different opinion from that expressed by the Hon. Mr. Bolt. He (Mr. Shrimski) thought such a return would enable them to judge better the amount of mischief that had already been done. The sooner they knew what mischief had been done the sooner would they be able to stop it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH thought the contention of the Hon. Mr. Bolt would not hold water for a minute. It was necessary to see how the Act passed last session had been working, and this return would enable members to see whether it had worked well or not. For that reason he would support the motion. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS asked if the Hon. the Minister would be satisfied with the motion on the word "conscientiously " being struck out before the words "refusing to have their children vaccinated." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he was quite satisfied with that, only he thought "neglecting " should be substituted for the word " refusing." The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS preferred to stand by the word "refusing." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said it was ·neglect in most cases. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS was prepared to allow the motion to go to the Council as it stood. He would move that the word " con- scientiously " be struck out. Now, in regard to the exploded and far-fetched argument of the Hon. Mr. McLean, that argument had been used almost from time immemorial. If smallpox https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 was to break out in this country he had no doubt many people would get vaccinated, be- cause people would do under fear what they would not do in their calmer judgment. But http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero he was satisfied that there need not be any great apprehension ; if any cases occurred our means for isolation were so good that danger would soon pass away. It was amusing to hear the Hon. Mr. Kelly talk in the strain he did ; also the Hon. Mr. Scotland. They went back to the days of their childhood. Surely honour- able members would admit that there had made in regard to been great strides medical science, as well as in everything else since the boyhood of either of those gentle- men. Here was one of the highest authorities in the medical world of America, and one who had been accepted by the Lancet as an autho- rity upon this particular subject, who had pointed out the very great dangers arising in connection with the lymph being by nature septic. He . would call the attention of those honourable gentlemen who were prepared to continue the same old practices followed by their forefathers in regard to vaccination to this : If all the intelligence in the world were concentrated in his honourable friends Mr. Bolt and Mr. T. Kelly, what about the great num- ber of people in the United States of America, where compulsory vaccination was not in force? Vessels were arriving there from all ports of the world, and thousands of people, even from small- pox infected districts, were landed almost day Hon. Mr. Shrimski States of the Commonwealth-our next-door neighbours-vaccination was not compulsorily enforced in Australia. In Britain compulsory vaccination of children had been done away with. and also in the majority of the cantons of Switzer- land it had been abolished. Did those honour- able gentlemen claim to possess superior know- ledge over these other people of the world ? He knew even in this colony there were several doc- tors who refused to allow their children to be vac- cinated. If in the minds of the people of the colony there was a necessity for compulsory vaccination there would not be so many cases of unvaccinated children, as the return he asked for would show. In regard to what had been said about provision being made for persons to record conscientious objections, he would say that there were only four months' notice given to persons to record their objections. The time was altogether too short. It seemed to him not right to put any man in the position of being fined and imprisoned in this country for non- compliance with the vaccination - laws. He would submit his motion to the Council. As had been pointed out by one honourable gentle- man, it would give information as to the number of vaccinations performed during the past five years, and also give a true account as to how many people had been fined. The Hon. the SPEAKER said he would put the motion, omitting the word "conscien- tiously." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER was sorry the motion was to be put in that way, because be must then vote against it. The Hon. the SPEAKER would point out that, the honourable mover of the motion having replied, he had no power to take any further amendment. The Council divided. AYES, 15. Baillie Louisson Harris Barnicoat Jenkinson Ormond Pinkerton Bowen Jennings Kelly, W. Feldwick Taiaroa Gourlay Kerr Williams. NOES, 15. Arkwright Reeves Swanson Tomoana Bolt Rigg Scotland Jones Twomey Kelly, T. Smith, A. L. Walker, L. McLean Walker, W. C. Stevens The Hon. the SPEAKER said he would give his voice with the "Ayes." Motion agreed to accordingly. GOLDFIELDS AND MINES COMMITTEE. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, moved, That Standing Order No. 162 be suspended, and that the names of the Hon. Mr. John- ston and the Hon. Mr. Twomey be added to the Goldfields and Mines Committee. He was sorry to say that two old and respected members of the Mines Committee had not been able to attend the session this year. He did not wish to strike the names of those gentlemen off the 