time I am quite sure it will be of the highest value to Parliament in discussing defence matters when they come before it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I have no obicetion to the return asked for being granted. and therefore, perhaps, it would be premature if I were in any shape or form to traverse the views and opinions expressed by the honourable gentleman. I think he has been a little rash in some of the statements he has made- - An Hon. MEMBER. - Which ones ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - As I said before, there is no reason why the return should not be granted, and I have great pleasure in supporting the motion. Motion agreed to. # DEATH OF QUEEN VICTORIA. The following message was received from His Excellency the Governor :- # " RANFURLY, Governor. " In reply to the Address from the Legisla- tive Council and House of Representatives to His Majesty. the Governor has been com- manded by the King to assure both Houses of the Legislature of New Zealand of his warm gratitude for their expressions of sympathy on the death of Her late Majesty, and to convey to them his cordial appreciation of their con- gratulations on his accession. cal nursing from the medical officer and matron " Government House, Wellington, 8th July, 1901." On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, it was ordered, That the message be https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 entered on the Journals of the Council. # ASSASSINATION OF KING HUMBERT. A message was received from His Excellency a nurse in a hospital, and who may not have the Governor, covering a copy of the following had the same opportunity for attending lectures despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies, relative to the addresses of sympathy dealt with in the 1st subsection of the Bill, from the Parliament of New Zealand on the but is ready to pass an "examination in theoreti- occasion of the assassination of King Hum- cal and practical nursing by examiners appointed bert : - by the Governor under this Act, is entitled to registration on payment of a fee of one pound " Downing Street, 31st October, 1900. " MY LORD, -With reference to my despatch towards the cost of examination." Then, as regards the future, the Bill provides that- (No. 79) of the 20th ultimo, I have the honour to inform you that Her Majesty's Ambassador thousand nine hundred and two, every person at Rome has received a note from the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs, stating that the who has attained the age of twenty-three years, and is certified as having had three years' train- King of Italy has been specially pleased with ing as a nurse in a hospital, together with syste- the spontaneous manifestations of sympathy matic instruction in theoretical and practical towards the Royal House contained in the nursing from the medical officer and the matron addresses of condolence on the assassination of of that hospital (the matron herself being a King Humbert which were passed by both Houses of the Legislature of New Zealand. certificated nurse), and who passes an examina- tion from time to time held by examiners ap- " The Italian Government requests that the pointed under this Act, is entitled to registra- Roval thanks may be conveyed to the Legis- tion on payment of a fee of one pound." lature, as well as those of Her Majesty the Queen Mother .- I have, &c., " H. BERTRAM COX, come across a modern hospital nurse in any shape or form, whether he has been nursed by For the Secretary of State. her or whether he has seen her nursing his "Governor the Right Hon. the Earl of Ran- friends or patients, who cannot but realise what furly, K.C.M.G., &c." a guardian angel she is to all who come under her influence. We should therefore endeavour On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. to raise her status and protect her against those WALKER, it was ordered, That the despatch who may perhaps attempt to trade on her well- be entered on the Journals of the Council. ## HOSPITAL NURSES REGISTRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I beg to move the second reading of this Bill. It is a Bill which I feel quite certain will be for the best so far as we are concerned, and the experi- ences of last year have shown us that our hospital-training is not merely hospital-training for ourselves, and for our own purposes, but it is also a training which lends itself to very much wider purposes, and for very much wider good. That the hospital nurses trained in New Zealand have been well known and well adapted to the veldt, and to the hospitals there, is a matter of great satisfaction, as they have been for many years in our own hospitals in New Zealand ; and it is with the object of raising their status, and getting an absolute assurance that the hospital nurse of New Zealand shall never be known but by the hall-mark of real professional perfection, that I bring this Bill forward. The Bill proposes that there shall be a register of nurses which shall be kept by a registrar, who is to be the Inspector-General of Hospitals. Then, the Bill provides that,- " Every person who, on the passing of this Act, holds a certificate of three consecutive years' training as a nurse in a hospital, and proves that during her training she received systematic instruction in theoretical and practi- (the matron herself being a certificated nurse), is entitled to registration on payment of a fee of ten shillings, and on application to the Registrar on or before the thirtieth day of June, one thousand nine hundred and two." Then every person who on the passing of this Act has had four consecutive years' training as in theoretical and practical nursing as the nurses " From and after the first day of January, one Well, of course, there is no one who has ever 