new clause :- " 8. (1.) Whenever land acquired under the principal Act is cut up for occupation, the al- lotments shall be classified according as they are suitable for ordinary farms, or dairy farms, or small grazing-runs, or partly for farms and partly grazing-runs. "(2.) Every applicant for an allotment shall state in his application what class of allotment he requires." New clause added. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the following new clause :- "8A. (1.) After inquiry by the Board, as pro- vided by the principal Act, as to the applicant's bona fuies and suitability, the number of ap- proved applicants shall be reduced by ballot to the number of allotments available. "(2.) A second ballot shall then be taken as follows :-- "The name of each candidate shall be placed separately in one box, and the number of each allotment shall be placed separately in another box, and lot shall be drawn from both boxes simultaneously ; and the allotment whose number is so drawn shall go to the applicant whose name is simultaneously drawn, and he shall be deemed to be the successful applicant for that allotment." The Committee divided on the question, "That the new clause be read a second time." AYES, 36. Allen, E. (i. Palmer Hall-Jones Parata Arnold Hogg Barclay Laurenson Seddon Bennet Smith, G. J. Lawry Buddo McGowan Stevens Carroll Mackenzie, T. Steward Collins Mckenzie, R. Tanner Duncan McNab Ward Ell Millar Willis. Field Mills Tellers. Napier Flatman Carneross Fowlds O'Meara Colvin. Graham NOES, 15. Fraser, A. L. D. Lang Rhodes Fraser, W. Russell, W. R. Massey Tellers. Hall McLachlan Hardy Meredith Herries Monk Hornsby Pirani. Hutcheson PAIRS. For. Against. Thomson, J. W. Fisher Houston Bollard Morrison Allen. J. Smith, E. M. Lethbridge Witheford. McGuire. Majority for. 21. New clause read a second time, and added to the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the following new clause :- ment under this Act shall reside continuously thereon." The Committee divided on the question. "That the new clause be read a second time." AYES, 33. ()'Meara Allen, E. G. Fowlds Arnold Graham Parata Barclay Hall-Jones Seddon Smith, G. J. Bennet Hogg Buddo Laurenson Stevens Steward Carncross Lawry Ward Carroll McGowan Mckenzie, R. Willis. Colvin Sollers. Duncan McNab EII Mills Collins Field Tanner. Napier Flatman NOES, 16. Fraser, A. L. D. Lang Rhodes Mackenzie, T. Russell, W. R. Fraser, W. Hall Mclachlan Meredith Tellers. Hardy Hornsby Herries Monk Hutcheson Pirani Massey. PAIRS. Thomson, J. W. Fisher Bollard Houston Allen, J. Morrison Lethbridge Smith, E. M. Witheford McGuire. Majority for, 17. New clause read a second time, and added to the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the following new clause :- "8c. It shall not be lawful for a lessce under this Act to transfer the land comprised in the lease within the period of seven years from the date of such lease : " Provided that, on the death of a lesser. or on the happening of any event which in the opinion of the Land Purchase Board renders a transfer necessary or expedient, a transfer of the lease may, with the sanction of that Board, be made." Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) moved the excision of the word " seven," with the view of inserting "tive." Amendment agreed to. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, after the words "such lease," the addition of the follow. ing words: "except to members of his own family not already possessed of land." The Committee divided. AYES, 16. Russell. W. R. Collins Lang Ell Smith, G. J. Laurenson Fraser, W. Massey Mackenzie, T. Hardy Tellers. Hutcheson Herries Monk Pirani. Hornsby Rhodes NOES, 32. Carroll Allen, E. G. Bennet Colvin Buddo Arnold Carncross Duncan Barclay 