Premier this difficulty : The delegates who would assemble in Wellington in the course of a fortnight were members of an association similar to the Municipal Association. Therefore their business was within themselves ; and it seemed to him that they could hardly welcome the presence. however much they might desire it, The of the representatives of the Road Boards. Road Boards were in no way connected with the County Councils Association. That seemed to be an initial difficulty which would have to be surmounted. He had received communications with respect to the matter, and he desired to be in a position to give a complete answer. Mr. SEDDON suggested that there should be a conference of Road Board representatives, who could sit simultaneously with the County Council Conference. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked if the mea- sure would affect Town Boards as well as Road Boards. If so, would they be represented at the Conference ? Mr. SEDDON said the Bill would certainly affect Town Boards, and there would be no objection to their sending delegates the same as the Road Boards. Mr. SPEAKER said that subject could be discussed when the second reading of the Bill or the notice of motion now given were brought up next day. There could be no further dis- cussion at the present stage of giving a .notice of motion. BUSH SETTLERS' RENTS AND TAXES. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he proposes to amend the Land Act so as to meet the diffi- culties of bush settlers, who are now compelled to pay rent and taxes on the whole of their sec- tions from the date of selection, by exempting them from paying rent until a portion of their sections are cleared and grassed. Owing to the extreme wet weather of last season a great many selectors in the Province of Auck- land who had selected bush lands a year or more ago had not been able to burn the large areas of bush which had been felled on their sections. The result was they were called upon to pay rent and local taxes, while getting no return for the money expended probably for the next two years. He need scarcely point out to the Minister, who was a practical farmer him- self, that under such conditions a poor man had no chance whatever of making a start in life, and he hoped the honourable gentleman would see his way to introduce an amendment of the Land Act this session to meet such cases as this. If that was done he believed the very poorest of the northern lands would be readily taken up. In districts such as Hokianga and Mongonui, in the extreme north, there were large areas of poor bush lands which could be made available for settlement if the Minister would introduce such amendments as he had suggested. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he had a Bill in course of preparation to deal with such matters, and he agreed to a large extent with the statement that had been made by the honourable member for Marsden. They would, however, have to be careful to see that the settlers went on with their improvements and did not delay them too long, because it might lead to speculation in the taking up of bush sections, which might never be grassed, and he intended to provide for that in the Bill. It would relieve them to some extent, because he was himself aware that it was sheer nonsense to ask a man to pay rent if he could get nothing out of the land to pay it. He quite recognised that the time had gone past when people should be expected to work on some other property to pay the rent they ought to be able to make out of the land which they held. ## HANMER SPRINGS. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter of Public Health, Whether it is intended to provide free beds at Hanmer Springs for the use of invalids who, through impecuniosity, are unable to take advantage of using the baths? He thought the time had arrived when free beds should be provided for those who could not afford to pay for the baths at Hanmer Plains. He was well aware that there were free beds at Rotorua, and he was quite sure that if there were free beds provided at Hanmer they would be often occupied by a necessitous people. It was the duty of the State to look after those who were suffering from certain diseases, and who could not get relief in consequence of not being able to pay for it. That was his sole rea- son for asking this question, and he trusted he would receive a favourable reply. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) quite agreed as to the importance of having free beds provided at Hanmer. So far, the difficulty had been that there was not sufficient accommodation for the people who desired to avail themselves of these baths, many of whom had come long distances. In the meantime, however, he had given instructions to have three free beds provided. It was to be re- membered, though, both as regards the free baths at Hanmer and those at Rotorua, that they were not to be indiscriminately used, except in cases where the invalids were unable to pay, or where their friends were unable to pay. That was necessarily the system in force in connection with the sanitoria. Free beds for impecunious cases would be provided at Hanmer, and equal facilities to those at Roto- rua would be provided for those desirous of using them. DISTRICT HEALTH OFFICERS. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister of Public Health, Why no District Health Officer has been appointed under "The Public Health Act, 1900 "? The Public Health Act was probably the most important Act that was passed last session, and, as honourable gentlemen were aware, it provided not only for a central Health Officer, but also for District Health Officers. These district officers were really the executive officers of the Act, on whom was placed a very large responsibility, and it came as a surprise to him a few weeks 