unprecedented in the annals of parliamentary government. Mr. SEDDON .- It was done last session. Mr. FOWLDS. - Still, it was not done in the same definite way; and right throughout last session the Premier and other honourable mem- bers referred to the honourable gentleman as leader of the Opposition. Sir, it would now be improper to so describe the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. The position, therefore, is this : A very serious responsibility devolves on every member of this House, each having in his humble way to undertake the duties of a constitutional Opposition. Mr. MONK .- You will have an elective Exe- cutive now. Mr. FOWLDS .- Quite so, and I shall come to that presently. But I want to say that it behoves every one in this House to carefully criticize the proposals and administration of the Government in the absence of any organized Opposition. Of course, in any criticism I make this afternoon it will be understood that I give a general approval to the policy and adminis- tration of the Government, else I should not be sitting on this side of the House. Therefore I do not intend to waste much time in commend- ing the different proposals that I approve of. I shall prefer to have it understood that where I do not criticize I generally approve. It also seems to me that since the late Opposition have abdicated their functions it will be absolutely necessary for us, as early as possible, to secure the passing of the Elective Executive Bill. I quite agree with a good deal that the late leader of the Opposition said last night about the con- fused state of parties and the want of definite dividing-lines. I think any one who has watched the proceedings of this House during the last few years will have seen that there is no clear line of demarcation dividing parties. Mr. MONK .- Honesty and dishonesty. Mr. FOWLDS .- I see ; and the dishonesty is on which side of the House ? Mr. MONK .- I do not say. Mr. FOWLDS. - Well, without organized opposition it seems to me there is no excuse at all for the maintenance of the old methods. I do not mean to abolish party government, because you can never have government in any other way except by party. The majority in this House on any particular question will be the party for the time being ; but I think the time has arrived when the members of the House ought to have a voice in choosing who shall be the Executive officers of Parliament, and I hope the honourable member for Waitaki will have fair treatment this year. It was rather pitiable last year to see Ministers and Whips so deliberately stonewalling - not the Elective Executive Bill, because I do not be- lieve that even they had the courage to stonewall that Bill, but some poor little innocent that stood before it on the Order Paper. I hope this year we shall not have an exhibition of this kind, but that the measure will have a fair chance of coming forward and being considered on its merits. A few remarks were made last night by the Commissioner of Trade and Customs with reference to the converting of the Opposi- tion and the Press. Now, there is just a possi- bility that both those things have come about by a departure on the part of those who at pre- sent occupy the Treasury benches from the old ideals of Liberalism that first placed them there. I think I could enumerate one or two matters that point in this direction. This is not a posi- tion to be proud of-to have converted your opponent by having gone over to his position. I take in reference to this the question that was so lengthily debated last session-the ques- tion of granting a rebate of 10 per cent. to Crown tenants. I cannot imagine for a moment that the ideals that possessed the Government and the party when they first took office were embodied in that measure. I cannot imagine any other motive that could exist for a mea- sure so retrograde in character but to go " one better" than the proposal of the Opposition to give these tenants the freehold. The pro- posal of the Opposition was to sell them the freehold ; the action of the Government was to give it them for nothing by instalments. With reference to this matter, I was not in the House when the final compromise was made and the Bill passed, but I have seen written statements taken down at the time, and signed by those who acted with me, as to what was the inten- tion of the Government and what would be done-namely, that each individual application for rebate would be considered on its merits. Now, I have been informed that this has not been done; that in some land districts the law has been interpreted that the rebate should be paid, and was paid, to every one who paid rent promptly ; in other land districts none at all was given. In Auckland I have made inquiries, and have not found one single case where rebate was made. This clearly shows An Hon. MEMBER. - It shows it was needed in some land districts and not in others. Mr. FOWLDS .- I deny that, because there is no district in the colony where the Crown tenants have been able to sell out their leases, apart from improvements, at from $1,500 to $3,000 premium except in Canterbury. There they got the rebate. In the Auckland District tenants would not be able to get people to buy their leases at any price, and they got nothing. Mr. SEDDON .- Pardon me for a moment. I think the difficulty has occurred through the interpretation being that if tenants are behind- hand with their rents altogether, although they pay this year's rent promptly, they cannot get the rebate. Mr. FOWLDS .-- That does not explain the rebate being given universally in Canterbury while not in other land districts. Reference has been made to the Royal visit, and to the visit of the Imperial troops. These events have no doubt been useful in their way. I am sure it was the desire of the people of the colony to have a look at their future King and Queen, and the people of the colony have risen to the occasion and given them a right Royal recep- tion. But, when you look back over the past two years, there has been a series of excite- ments, prejudicial, I think, in some respects 