at least keeps them supplied with up-to-date weapons. There is no need perhaps for me to say more on this question. The Minister for Railways may be well congratulated upon the fact which His Excellency tells us-that the traffic and the revenue of our railways continue to increase. It appears to me, Sir, there is reason for congratulation in this, inasmuch as such a continuous increase in the traffic and receipts from our railways is at once a pointed and conclusive proof of the reality and solidity of this colony's progress-not only of its pro- gress, but of the solidity and progress of its prosperity. The day has gone by when that prosperity can be longer denied ; and, while I am not so foolish as to suggest or to believe that the whole of that prosperity is due to what is done in this House, at least, Sir, what has been done in this House has not militated against that prosperity, and, had it been the other way about, there is no doubt that this House would have been largely blamed for the position. That being so, we have a right to congratulate the Government upon the permanence of the pro- sperity which is maintained in this colony. We are told, Sir, that, " with the arrival of the extra locomotives and rolling-stock now on hand and ordered, the requirements of the railways will be fairly met." I am glad the railway authorities saw the necessity of very considerably increas- ing the rolling-stock required. But, Sir, there is just one little matter to which I would draw attention. It is hinted at by His Excellency in his Speech when he says, " At no distant date, both as regards locomotives and rolling-stock, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 my Ministers hope to have the same constructed within the colony." I hope, Sir, it will be at no distant date. I am fully persuaded that we ought to make our own rolling-stock within our own colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- We should always have done so. Mr. COLLINS .- It is no use now saying it should always have been done. What has been done in the past cannot now be undone, and I am expressing my sincere opinion when I say that whatever can be manufactured in this colony ought to be manufactured within this colony, and we ought not to go outside for a single article or a single ounce of material that can be produced within the colony itself. Sir, it is a well-known fact that our railway-men here can produce as good material. can produce as good locomotives, and as good railway-car- riages as can be produced in any part of the world. An Hon. MEMBER .- Better. Mr. COLLINS .- One honourable gentleman says " Better." Probably he is right ; but, at any rate, I will say that our workers can pro- duce as good as can be produced in any other part of the world. There is no need to say "Better." If we can produce as good, then we have no right to place our orders outside our colony. Our own people must be our first con- sideration. If the plant be insufficient for the completion of orders, let us increase the plant. If the workshops are insufficiently large, let us plenty of material for employment in the colony. Let us have that material employed, and let us have our resources within ourselves. I dislike the impression going abroad-as the impression must have gone abroad when these goods were manufactured outside the colony- that we are incapable of either producing the material itself or producing it in a short enough space of time. At any rate, we are told it had to be done to meet the requirements, and it has been done, and I only throw this out as a suggestion as to what should be done in the future. I am delighted to find a scheme is to be formulated to provide superannuation and other allowances for railway servants who may be retired from the service on account of age, infirmity, or acci- dent. When Parliament itself provides the machinery whereby an employer is compelled to make at least some provision for an employé who may be injured while working for him, it is surely surprising that Parliament should have paid so little regard to those whom the State itself employs, and I undertake to say the Go- vernment must be prepared to do at least as much for its own employés as it compels the private employer to do. I am delighted to find them alive to this question, and I make these remarks in no captious or critical spirit. I say I am unfeignedly delighted that the Govern- ment has recognised the necessity for doing as it proposes. We are told the continuous development of the productive capacity of this colony renders it necessary for the extension of our commerce that there should be an increase of facilities for the transmission of our products to other markets. It must be gratifying to every member of this House to know that there is a continuous development of the pro- ductive capacity of the colony. I have many times heard from the floor of this House the somewhat well-worn truism of the man being a benefactor who makes two blades of grass grow where only one grew before. There is no doubt, Sir, that the policy pursued by the Govern- ment in developing hitherto our untilled lands has marvellously increased the productive capa- city of this colony ; and I believe very largely the substantial nature of our progress, and espe- cially of our prosperity, is due to that particular policy. And, that being so, it simply empha- sizes the necessity of finding new outlets for our products, and increasing the facilities for the transmission of those products to other markets. I will not weary the House by any lengthy tables of figures-I have some here- but I will just point out, Sir, that our exports have increased enormously during the last five years. In 1895 the total exports of the colony were valued at $8,390,153. In 1900 the total value of the exports was £13,055,249-an increase since 1895 of £1,665,096. Sir, the increase is so substantial, I take it, as to make it beyond dispute that the increased productive capacity of the colony has been of a very remarkable character. What proposals are to be made to Parliament I do not know, Sir, but, at any rate, proposals are to be submitted to Parliament providing for increased means of transmitting 