and they are recognised as pariahs on local : that has long called for further power on the society. I want to ask the Minister if he will ! part of the Magistrates, and I ask the Minis- agree to the insertion of a further clause in this , ter of Justice to give the Magistrates that B:Il to give the Magistrates power to deal with : power. this particular class ; for every Magistrate wishes able member for Christchurch City has just been to have the power to at least send these persons to gaol for a period of, say, twelve months if necessary. Under present circumstances the terms of imprisonment are simply sufficient to cultivate, on the part of the convicted, a huge another amendment in this Bill, an amend. thirst, and immediately they are liberated they proceed to gratify that thirst : and the methods ment which will give Magistrates the option of tining instead of compelling them to im by which they obtain the means to gratify that thirst are as discreditable as they are hurtful to prison in cases of obscene language. The mem ber for the Suburbs has already enlarged on the community. I ask the Minister if he can- not help us to rid our cities for a time of this not take up the attention of the House in disreputable class. Furthermore, this class pursuing that point. I may only state that goes to swell very largely the criminal statistics during the last ten years I have sat as a Magis- of the colony, and I say it is altogether unfair trate in the town I have the honour to represent, that our records for drunkenness should be in- created by convictions of men and women of this and time after time I have allowed men to escape altogether rather than send them to gaol particular class, who perpetually oscillate be- tween the pavement and the gaol. I could for obscene language. Firemen and sailors off ships who have given way to that language name half a dozen individuals who are the cause almost of all the trouble in this respect which we all know they have a habit of using come before the Court, and then there is no in our city Police Courts and our local gaol. option but to imprison them or let them go They are the most troublesome class to deal with in gaol, and they provide a large amount altogether. Under these circumstances, I do not mind saying that I have always let them off of work for the local Magistrates' Courts ; and rather than send them to gaol and put a therefore I would ask the honourable gentleman criminal brand on them. I remember a caso a to at least give very serious attention to this little while ago where a Magistrate sent a man point. I would point out that they are mostly to gaol for nine months for using profane and dis-olute women, who disseminate the most foul and loathsome diseases in our cities ; and it is in obscene language : and I say that the sentence was a monstrous one. I find in the Police the interests of the social, the physical, and the Offences Act of 1884 that it provides that if a moral condition of the people that I ask that man prints and sells obscene and impure lite- the Magistrates should have enlarged powers to rature he is liable to be punished by twelve send these persons to gaol for a longer period months' imprisonment. Now, I say that twelve than three months. It may be urged that the years is not a long-enough sentence for that gaol is not the proper place for such characters, offence. At the same time, if a sailor comes and that these people should be sent to in- ashore and gives way to that language which ebriate homes; but I say that this particular sailors sometimes use, he also is liable to twelve class would destroy the reputation of any inebriate home that might be established. months' imprisonment, and the Magistrate does not have an opportunity of fining him. I cer- I can understand the value of an inebriate tainly think this is a very wrong state of things, home for persons who are desirous of re- and I only hope that the Minister of Justice gaining that health and strength which will see the wisdom of carrying out the sug- would enable them to lead sober lives ; gestion so strongly urged by the member for but these persons are of a disreputable taint- the Suburbs. The Bill itself provides for two lawd persons as well as hopelessly incorrigible things: It provides that insulting and obscene drunkards -and it would be useless to send such persons to an inebriate home. Frequently the Salvation Army would take charge of these is within the hearing of passers-by. I know people, and sometimes the officers from the Samaritan Home have applied for them to be about a month ago, a man was brought be- given into their charge; but invariably the officials of these institutions have to admit that they cannot control and bring about beneficial results so far as this class is concerned. They must be sent to places where they can be de- tamred and sufficiently controlled, and there is Magistrate was unable to punish him as he no other place where that can be so well done deserved, because he was in his front garden, as the gaol, which is the proper place for unde- -iranle persons of this class. I avain appeal to the Minister to add some amendment to this Bill which will enable this class to be properly dealt with. And my remarks apply to every other city in New Zealand besides the one I have the honour to represent. It is a matter Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- The honour making an appeal to the Minister to give cer- tain enhanced powers to the Magistrate in connection with a certain class of offenders. I am going to ask the Minister to put this, and at this late hour of the night I need language in any public place shall be punish. able -- and not only in a public place, but if it I remember, the necessity for that provision. fore a Magistrate's Court on a charge of using vile and obscene language in his front garden. It was plainly heard by scores of ladies and gentlemen passing by at the time; but the and it was not a public place within the mean- ing of the Act. I say that it is very necessary that that class of offence should be provided for. This Bill provides for doing away with this anomaly, and I think that is a step in the right direction. In reference to the second part of the Bill, which enables the police to deal with a 