scores of young fellows who have been ruined in consequence of making bets with bookmakers and embezzling the moneys of their employers to meet their engagements. An. Hon. MEMBER .- It it just the same with the totalisator. Mr. LAWRY .- I have never known of one such case, and I challenge the honourable gentleman to cite an instance. Then, Sir, take the extent of gambling as it exists and obtains in this colony and compare our gambling with what it is in Australia, where there is no totalisator. If the honourable gentleman knew anything at all about the question he ought to realise this: If we have a horse in New Zealand that can win a classical race what do we do with him ? We send him across to Australia ; and why ? Because where the owner can make $1 by racing the horse here, by putting money on the totalisator, he can make thousands of pounds in Australia, where there is no totalisator. How will the honour- able gentleman meet that argument ? I say it is a pity that the shoemaker would not stick to his last. It is a pity the honour- able gentleman did !not undertake to intro- duce a question to this House about which he knows something. I remember, Sir, some little time ago, when there was a question of regulating the taxation of this country, the honourable member for Ashley said, "I would raise the taxes of this country by putting 3d. a gallon duty on beer." The honourable member for Ashburton, with his usual acumen, said, " How much of that money will you pay?" Now, the honourable gentleman in speaking about the totalisator, it appears to me, is inter- fering altogether with the liberty of the subject. I would ask the honourable gentleman what does he know practically about the totalisator. Did the honourable gentleman ever put £1 on the totalisator ? Mr. ELL .- No ; have you ? Mr. LAWRY .- Yes, and have seen the good of it too. I have seen the good of it in this way: I have seen the good of the totalisator when our young thoroughbreds in Auckland have been sold. I say, Sir, that I would to- morrow vote with the honourable member to abolish the totalisator if by doing so I could stop gambling. I look upon gambling as a national evil, and I look upon faddists as a national evil also : and there never was a fad- dist in this House who did not come from Canterbury. Mr. FISHER .-- Excepting Sir Robert Stout. Mr. LAWRY. - Yes, excepting Sir Robert Stout. We have in Auckland establishments where we breed thoroughbreds-sires and mares which would be a credit to any nation in the world. Abolish the totalisator, and you would reduce the value of those by 75 per cent. What does the honourable gentleman care as to whom he ruins so long as he carries his fad through this House. We talk about the referendum, and the honourable gentleman has advanced one of the strongest arguments in favour of it when he talked about the vast amount of money passed through the totalisator ? Docs he not realise that there must be a vast number of people in favour of that machine, who put their money through it ? Is he prepared to drop his Bill and refer the 1 question to the referendum ? If we had a referendum of this House a majority would be found in favour of the retention of the totalisa- tor, under proper conditions and regulations. But, Sir, when we hear men who do not invest on the totalisator speaking on matters they know as little about as the spoilt child knows about a whipping which his mother will not give him, or allow any one else to inflict upon him, it is very amusing. Then, Sir, the honoura: le gentleman said that we are hunting the book- makers from pillar to post, and making them pariahs or outcasts. Has the honourable gentle- man ever seen the class of bookmakers we have in Auckland? Has the honourable gentle- man ever made a bet with one of them? Let him go to our racecourses at Auckland. where we treat our bookmakers fairly as gentlemen, where we give them a license to ply their trade on the racecourse, and he will see men abandoning the totalisator and investing their money with those book- makers. If, Sir, you were to abolish the totalisator to-morrow you would intensify gambling, instead of lessening it. The evil would be intensified as it has been in Australia. There is another aspect of the question, and that is the question of revenue. This House passed an enactment under which the State took a percentage from the machines. If the honourable gentleman wants to become a reformer, let him move in this House that a !! the money derived from the totalisator is to be devoted to charitable purposes only. Sir. if the honourable gentlemen wants to suppress gambling in the country, why does he not apply himself to the removal of one of the greatest evils that ever existed on the face of the earth. and that is gambling in land by land agents. Look at the advertisements in our Auckland papers. Read the advertisements setting forth the land sales. I know a man in Auckland who put an estate into the hands of an agent, and when he saw the advertisement in the paper he did not recognise it. He bought the property. and he then discovered he had actually bought his own property. The honourable gentleman's action in this House at the present time savours very much of that of the new-chum. Politi- cally speaking, every statement he has made in this House has been verdant with political limejuice. I dare say as the honourable gentleman gets older he will get more wisdom. In the meantime I would ask him to devote his energies and his honesty of purpose - no one can question his honesty of purpose - to dealing with matters he knows something about. When we have men engaged in racing like the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay, whom no mar has ever dared to say a word against for the way he races his horses ; when we have a gentleman like the Hon. Mr. Ormond. why occupies a seat in another part of this Legis- lature, and who has always been above re- proach-I say that when men like those two honourable gentlemen support the totalisator. 