the right honourable gentleman-to be not afraid of his convictions on the freehold or any other question, for assuredly trimming and turning and waiting to find out where the breath of wind called popularity will come from is a policy that will bring that right honourable gentleman to grief, although he thinks himself so absolutely invulnerable. As the honourable member for Masterton was speaking-I am sorry he has gone away-he said that for one man who wants the freehold there are three or four who prefer the lease in perpetuity; and honourable members round the House have been continually asserting that the lease in perpetuity is better than freehold. I have myself been guilty of using those words upon former occasions, but I am not afraid to change my opinion, and I have good cause for changing that opinion now. What does the Right Hon. the Premier say, and what Bill are we to be asked to pass by his colleague, the Minister of Lands? That, however, is quite a different thing. We shall get a Bill with the Minister of Lands' name on the top of it, but he will have no more to do with the conduct through the House of that Bill than I shall have-not so much, indeed. I will, if necessary, move amendments in it, and the Minister who has charge of the measure will not even understand it. As for trying to explain the provisions of his Bill, everybody knows that would be abso- lutely futile on his part. But the Bill is to be called the Fair Rent Bill, and under that Fair Rent Bill there is to be a principle embodied which the honourable member for Masterton himself admits to be wrong. What were his words? " What is to be said of those who make laws which are not based upon justice." (Here the honourable member comes.) The honourable gentleman used what may almost be called an aphorism when he inveighed against "those who make laws which are not based upon justice." He used that phrase in connection with the settlement of people on the land by leases in perpetuity. I maintain that any law with the provisions contained in that Fair Ront Bill, which provides for the constant re- valuation of leases held in perpetuity, is not based upon justice, but, on the contrary, is a down- right and absolute fraud upon every person who has taken up a piece of land under the lease-in-perpetuity clause of the Land Act, as the lease in perpetuity gives a leasehold for ever at a fixed rent, one that cannot be raised. am not now going to argue as to whether the form of tenure called the lease in perpetuity is a wise one or not ; I do not believe it is ; the freehold is better. I believe a great deal of logical argument is to be used in favour of what is known as the "perpetual lease " ; but the lease in perpetuity has nothing whatever to recommend it if there is to be constantly in- creasing rental and revaluation. But I do maintain that when the State has deliberately entered into a compact with certain people " in perpetuity," whatever happens they and their descendants should be allowed to occupy the land for the 999 years which the State has agreed upon ; and it is a deliberate wanton fraud to perpetrate on those men to alter that which the Crown has given them deliberately after careful consideration, unless the tenant is willing to vary the terms of his lease. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who proposed that ? Captain RUSSELL .- The Minister of Lands has a Bill to that effect, now in my possession. An Hon. MEMBER .- The acting Minister ? Captain RUSSELL .- What shall I call him ? I am not allowed to name the honourable gentleman, but I believe he is the member for That honourable gentleman is so Oamaru. little interested even in this Bill, of which he ought to be in charge, that he has gone out into the lobby. He has not taken the trouble to remain in the Chamber to listen to the debate. But, of course, he has his substitute; the Premier stavs and takes charge of the Bill for him. The additions we have made to the Bill "Queer," no are many of them very queer. doubt, is a strange word to use; but I do not know a better one to apply to some of the amendments introduced by the Premier last night. He was suffering -and no one was more sorry than I, for I was suffering in a somewhat similar, though lesser, degree-from a cold, as I am at present ; but I could only conclude that the right honourable gentleman really did not know what he was introducing into the Bill. This clause, printed as clause 8A, is one of the most remarkable provisions ever read or thought of in connection with a Bill. Why, Sir, if Gilbert had written such a bur- lesque of land-selection and placed it on the stage, to music composed by the late Sir Arthur Sullivan, every one would have said it was such an utterly impossible absurdity that they ought not to insult the public intelligence with such manifest trash. What does the honourable gentleman do by way of meeting the iniquities he admits there exist in the present ballot system ? He proposes that there shall be two ballots, and that everybody-I believe he him- self says the most charming young ladies, mem- bers of families, and ladies who are not mem- bers of families- Mr. PIRANI .- Barmaids. Captain RUSSELL .- Did the right honour- able gentleman say " barmaids " ? I could not quote him without due deliberation ; but I be- lieve it was barmaids the right honourable gentleman specially referred to - barmaids would be included in the double ballot, under which, it would appear to me, that the small farmer and the working-men will be excluded, and in all probability not allowed an opportu- nity of getting a piece of land ; but the lady of the bar, who has no more desire to settle on the land than I have to serve behind the bar, will be put on the land and compelled to reside on it continuously to the exclusion of those who really want to get farms. But there will be the man with a fair-sized capital who wants a fair-sized piece of land ; and, on the other hand, there will be the man with small capital who wants a small piece of land. How are their natural and legitimate aspirations to be dealt with. A hat is taken, and the man who wants a large block, 