dentally to faulty grading that has occurred in | connection with the Wellington Meat Com- pany :- "Trouble has arisen over a parcel of Welling- ton sheep. Messrs. Gordon, Woodroffe, and Co. report : 'Considerable trouble has arisen in con- nection with a shipment of 5,700 sheep er s.s. ' Delphic,' frozen at Wellington. The parcel was sold c.i.f., and described as of the favourite . W.M.E. Co.' brand, but the buyer refused the delivery, as not only were the sheep not of the brand specified in the contract, but were much inferior to 'W.M.E. Co.' in quality. Legal opinion went against the seller, and eventually the matter was compromised. The .W.M.E. Co.' brand ranks first from the North Island, in the same way that Eclipse does from Canterbury, and sheep should not be sold as . W.M.E. Co.' unless they bear the brand." Now, I think I have shown from authentic reports in recognised market and pastoral papers that the prices and reputation of the Eclipse brand of meat are really higher than the prices of the best Belfast, and in addition to that there is my own experience of these facts. Now let me say that that difference has purely arisen because the grading is more reliable in the Eclipse work. Very frequently the same quality of meat exactly is sold from the Belfast works c.i.f., but does not bring as high a value, because the reputation of the brand of these works is not so high. The C.M. Company's brand and " Belfast prime " more nearly approximate. It is only after the meat is opened out that equal quality at times is found in Belfast lines. I will tell you now https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 what I think occurs in the Belfast Works re- garding grading. First, however, I will quote a letter from Mr. Inglis, who is the representa- tive at Home of the New Zealand Farmers' Co-operative Association, and he has recently had cause to complain very seriously about the lack of grading from Mr. Waymouth's com- pany's works. He says :- " It will probably be news to the bulk of the freezing clients of the Belfast and Fairfield freezing-works that those companies are sin- gular, among the sixteen other freezing com- panies of New Zealand, in shipping a large portion of the sheep and lambs frozen by them without grading. "The particular grade used does not matter very much, but it is difficult to see why the Christchurch Meat Company should grade lambs 28 1b. to 36 1b., 36 lb. to 44 1b., and 44 1b. to 50 1b. ; the New Zealand Refrigerating Com- pany 30 1b. to 36 1b., 36 1b. to 42 1b., and 42 1b. to 50 lb. ; while the Belfast and Fairfield only make one grade when they do grade, of 32 1b. to 42 1b. "The fact that all the other freezing com- panies in New Zealand grade all their meat invariably would tend to show that there must be some reason, and some good reason, why it should be done. " The price realised for meat probably suffers through the lack of grading, because if some butchers and salesmen will not buy meat which is not graded, and this is the case, competition I grading to weight ; on a line of lambs he had is lessened, and lessened competition generally means lower prices. One or two instances will show the effect of non-grading. " In one line of lambs frozen at Belfast which purported to average 38 1b., several lambs (n) weighed 58 1b. The buyer, a butcher, buying 381b. average, naturally expected that the lambs would vary up to, say, 41b. on either side of that weight. The result was that he said when Belfast meat was graded like others he would buy it, and not before. " In a line of 305 carcases mutton frozen at Fairfield, which I sold on an average of 60 1b .. no less than fifty carcases were found to go as high as 76 1b. to 80 1b. A weight of this sort on an average of 60 lb. is too absurd, and is enough to spoil business, more particularly when it is remembered that 481b. to 64 1b. sheep are worth probably 2d. per stone more than weights over that range. " It is to be hoped that the Belfast Company will see their way to change their system as soon as possible." This matter of grading was taken up by the Pastoralists' Review of 15th February, 1901. and this is what is said in that journal by its Lou- don representative, who is a most capable man. regarding the eccentricities of grading at Bel- fast :- ## " Belfast Grading. " Mr. Inglis's letter to the Christchurch Friss has been canvassed here, as grading cuts at the root of the New Zealand mutton trade. Your correspondent at that place seems to take it as a matter of course that Canterbury men and methods must be perfect. Mr. Inglis's state- ments were moderately put, and could only be refuted by proving that the figures he gave were wrong, and that Mr. Waymouth in his reply did not attempt to do. Mr. Inglis has been here long enough to know about London's trade wants. His (Mr. Waymouth's) remarks Were uncalled-for and were most unreasonable. If the object of the New-Zealand-meat people is to get the best possible price for their article. why. when a point like this is reasonably raised, can- not they consider it on its merits? I suppose Mr. Inglis and Mr. Waymouth, here and there. are working towards a common end. What Mr. Inglis complains about is that a good proportion of Belfast mutton is sent out not graded to weight at all, simply shipped as averaging a certain weight, which allows of such ups and downs as 45 to 75 and 85 in a parcel averaging 60 1b. Mr. Inglis did not say that none of the meat was graded to weight ; his contention is that all the mutton should be graded. as the other company grades its meat. Grading to weight is such an enormous facility to the sale of mutton that no wonder the subject has Ixen raised. It seems a pity that Canterbury mutton. the very best that comes to this country, should not have the very best arrangements made to commend it to buyers. I spoke to a salesman. on the subject. He said that he was constantly in the habit of declining to buy Belfast and Fairfield mutton on account of the absence of 