with in connection with this Bill. However, I hope that when the Premier rises to reply he will give information with regard to the points I have mentioned. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) .- Sir, I shall deal with the questions at once. First of all, I wish to say that the member for the Bay of Plenty has quite an erroneous idea with re- gard to the liabilities. As a matter of fact, he ought to be delighted that the colony is com- mitted to the expenditure. We let contracts which may not be completed at the 31st March, but at the same time there may be a liability. Well, of course, you cannot stop the work suddenly on that date; but to meet a case of the kind Parliament gives us authority to ex- pend for another three months. That is what has happened in connection with the works in the honourable member's own district. If the honourable gentleman objects I shall have to suggest to the Minister in charge and to the departmental officers to stop short with the work on the 31st March, and have nothing at all done until Parliament again meets and votes money for works. Will the honourable gentleman ask me to put him in that position ? Mr. HERRIES .- If you start them at the proper time. Mr. SEDDON .- They are all started. In fact, the general complaint is that the honourable gentleman's district takes a large sum of money ; and I do not say it does not need it, because it is a district in which settlement is going on. I quite believe there are other members of the House who would be very glad indeed to be in the same position as the honourable gentleman with respect to the expenditure of money in their districts, because when works are in that position money must be voted for them-the colony is committed to them. I was really astounded to hear the honourable gentleman's remarks. As to the non-expenditure of public- works money going into the surplus, I think that only one who has not seen work outside a parish Board would make such a statement. The non expenditure of the consolidated reve- nue does come in as a saving, and helps to swell the surplus, but not otherwise. Mr. HERRIES .- That is #206,000. Mr. SEDDON .- There, again, the honour- able gentleman is wrong. If he will look at the Public Accounts he will find the non-expenditure under Consolidated Fund was £63,000, so that I must again correct him, and remind him that he is now at school. The remarks made by the honourable member for Franklin certainly de- mand some little attention. I may tell him that, as far as the Government are concerned, it has always been our desire to manufacture our rolling-stock, and, as stated in the Speech from the Throne to day, we hope, now the ab- normal condition in respect to the railways and the necessity for rolling-stock has been over- come, that we shall be able to construct our loco- motives as well. We could not get them made in Great Britain in the time the conditions re- quired, although we tried our best, and we had to meet the abnormal demand upon the rail- ways for the carriage of grain and meat. The Mr. Massey order went direct from the Government to the manufacturers in Great Britain; and here I might say, in reply to an interjection as to commission, and which implied more than what was said, that there has not been any intermediate person between the Government and the manufacturers, and it is as well to meet any suggestion of that kind at once. As regards the Makohine Viaduct, the Minister for Public Works is not here, but I may say at once that there is no ground whatever for the statement which appeared in the papers respecting that work; and the Government Engineer, Mr. Hay, immediately wrote a memorandum to the Minister for Public Works absolutely denying that there was the slightest foundation for the statement. With regard to the expenditure on the North Island Trunk Railway, it will be seen when the Public Works Statement comes down-and, in fact, I may mention before the Statement comes down- that we have kept up to the amount we stated we would expend. The only main trunk line of railway in regard to which complaint could be made at all in connection with the expenditure was the Otago Central, and the reason of that is that a statement showing how £11,000 was spent only came in after the end of the financial year, and could not be included in this year's accounts; hence the Statement will show that £11,000 less was expended than was actually expended, and owing to something occurring in the transmission of the memorandum from the Government Engineer, Mr. Ussher, this amount did not come to debit during the year. We are acting in accordance with the estimates passed by the House, and we are pushing on these works vigorously. I say also that the Minister for Public Works will keep faith with the House and country, and hopes to complete the North Island Trunk Railway within the time he told the country it would be done. An Hon. MEMBER .-- What time ? Mr. SEDDON .- Four years. Mr. MASSEY .- Is it correct that the man- ager at Makohine has applied for an extension of time ? That has been stated in the Press. Mr. SEDDON. - All I know is this : that everything possible has been done to get that viaduct completed. Bill read a second and a third time. The House adjourned at five minutes to six o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 3rd July, 1901. First Readings - Address to the King-Sessional Committees-Address in Reply. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Hospital Nurses Registration Bill, School Attendance Bill, Shops and Offices Bill. 