the measure, and dealing with what appears to me to be a serious injustice to the people of this colony. Motion agreed to, and reported to the House. Bill read a first time. # ASSASSINATION OF KING HUMBERT. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor covering a copy of the following despatch which he had received from the Secre- tary of State for the Colonies relative to the address of sympathy from the Parliament of New Zealand on the occasion of the assassina- tion of King Humbert :- " Downing Street, 31st October, 1900. " MY LORD, - With reference to my despatch (No. 79) of the 20th ultimo, I have the honour to inform you that Her Majesty's Ambassador at Rome has received a note from the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs stating that the King of Italy has been specially pleased with the spontaneous manifestations of sympathy towards the Royal House contained in the addresses of condolence on the assassination of King Humbert which were passed by both Houses of the Legislature of New Zealand. " The Italian Government requests that the Royal thanks may be conveyed to the Legis- lature, as well as those of Her Majesty the Queen Mother .- I have, &c., "H. BERTRAM COX, For the Secretary of State. " Governor the Right Hon. the Earl of Ranfurly, K.C.M.G., &c." On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), the despatch was ordered to be entered on the Journals of the House. # DEATH OF QUEEN VICTORIA. The following message was received from His Excellency the Governor :- # "RANFURLY, Governor. " In reply to the Address from the Legislative Council and House of Representatives to His Majesty, the Governor has been commanded by the King to assure both Houses of the Legis- lature of New Zealand of his warm gratitude for their expressions of sympathy on the death of Her late Majesty, and to convey to them his cordial appreciation of their congratulations on his accession.' ". Government House, Wellington, 8th July, 1901." On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), the message was ordered to be entered on the Journals of the House. # ADDRESS IN REPLY. Mr. SPEAKER .- I have to inform the House that His Excellency appointed Saturday last, at noon, as the time on which to receive the Address in Reply, and that, accompanied by some members of the House, I waited on His Excellency and presented the said Address, to section alluded to by the honourable member which he returned the following communica- tion :- "MR. SPEAKER, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. "I thank you for your Address, and for the assurance it contains that the measures sub- mitted to you will receive your serious atten- "RANFURLY. tion. " Government House, Wellington, 6th July, 1901." It was ordered that the reply of His Excellency be entered on the Journals of the House. # TASMAN RIVER. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether, in accordance with the promise given in the House last session, he has caused a report to be prepared by a competent engineer upon the best means of crossing the Tasman River (whether by mono-rail or otherwise), so as to enable the shortening by a day of the tourist route from Fairlie to the Hermitage, Mount Cook ; if not, why has such report not been obtained ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the District Surveyor at Timaru was instructed some time since to examine the river and report on the proposal made last session by the Hon. Major Steward, but pressure of other work pre- vented his doing it. He was, however, now on the ground, and his report was expected in the course of a few days. # SYSTEM OF PAYMENT TO CO-OPERA- TIVE WORKMEN. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Govern- ment, Whether it is true that workers on the North Island Trunk line have in some instances to travel distances of fifteen to twenty miles to and from the nearest township every time they receive their cheques ; and, if so, why the sys- tem of paying co-operative workmen on the works where they are employed is not uni- formly carried out ? His reason for asking the question was that he had been informed that some of the gangs of men working on the Northern Trunk Railway-line, eight or nine miles beyond Taihape, had to travel to that township every time they received their money, and then back to their camp-a distance of about eighteen miles. They usually started in the afternoon, and did not get back to their camp until it was dark. It was a dangerous practice to travel about the country with money in one's possession, and at the same time it was a needless task to set for the men. He submitted it was better that one man should be sent to the works with the money than that a lot of workmen should be incon- venienced by having to travel a long journey. He understood that in the Lands and Survey Department the men were paid on the sections on which they worked. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said his instructions were that the men were to be paid on the section on which they were engaged ; but he understood that in one or two instances the men on the particular were asked to come into Taihape for their 