while, of course, the Aucklanders might beat us in bunting, they could not beat us in that col- lection of five thousand children. I had great pleasure in going to the review at Hagley Park, and, with the exception of the time when Auckland was peopled with the soldiers of the Imperial army, I do not think there was ever so many men under arms in New Zealand be- fore. The were eleven thousand, I believe, of well-drilled men, and two or three thousand school cadets, which is the largest number of boys ever gathered together in the British dominions, and they all marched with the pre- cision of well-drilled soldiers. In fact, I favour- ably compared it to the marching of the representatives of the Imperial army who recently visited New Zealand. Now, Sir, the honourable member for Waitemata found fault with the Right Hon. Mr. Seddon for going round the colony with their Royal High- nesses. Why, Sir, the show would have been like a menagerie without the elephant if the Premier had not been there; and I believe that the people of the colony felt great pleasure in seeing him there, and that the Royal party themselves did not receive louder huzzas than the Right Hon. the Premier, who was re- ceived with loud huzzas wherever he went. In fact, on one occasion I understood him to request the people to cheer the cadets, and leave him alone. Now, Sir, my concluding remark is this : that of all the receptions accorded to the Royal party in this colony-and there were many-Ashburton, I believe, topped the line. They came to that place; and I do not know whether it was John Holmes, or His Excellency the Governor, or who it was who had the ar- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 rangement of this matter, but the train was to pass there without stopping, according to the first arrangement. There was a suggestion that the Royal train might carry its own water- tank. so that there would be no necessity to stop anywhere. The Mayor of Ashburton asked me whether 1 would use my great influence with the Right Hon. the Premier to stop the train for five minutes at the station. I said, "No; if the people organizing this reception do not like to stop themselves, they can go on. I am going to Christchurch to see them, and you can do the same." Then, the Chairman of the County Council came to me and said, "Mclachlan, you must get the Premier to arrange for the Royal train to travel from the railway -station to the bridge at a funeral pace, and then their Royal Highnesses can come out on the platform and exhibit themselves." I said, " No, I am not going to ask any favour of the Premier on this occasion." However, the train did stop at Ashburton, and I believe the Royal party expressed themselves, on leaving Ashburton, to the effect that the reception there was the best that they had received, and the people of Ashburton were equally delighted with the cordiality of their Royal Highnesses. They shook hands with the people without any restraint whatever. A gathering of five or six hundred of the Ashbur- ton children had been got together at the last moment ; and the Duke not only shook hands with the leader of the boys, but their leader went on to the platform when going away and said good-bye to the Duchess. For cordiality in their reception Ashburton " took the cake." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I think the House ought to take exception to one state- ment made by the Premier-that there was a defect in the law in local bodies not being allowed to incur extraordinary expenditure, such as is referred to in the Bill. I trust local bodies never will have power to make extra- ordinary expenditure of this kind without the direct approval of Parliament, for it is not to be supposed that if the expenditure is justi- fiable a Bill of this sort would be rejected. I do not think the Government did their duty in putting the enormous expenditure they have done on the local bodies ; because we know there is not a local body in New Zealand that had to incur the expenditure which is solvent ; they have all borrowed large sums of money, and would not be in a position to pay it back at present if it were demanded, and it is an extraordinary thing that they should have to incur further expenditure for a purpose of this kind. There is all the more reason to think that these receptions would have been better directed by the Government solely when I remember what took place at Rotorua. There the whole expenditure and the arrangements were in the hands of the Go- vernment, and, with all due deference to those honourable gentlemen who talk about Auck- land, Ashburton, and Dunedin, I say that for general arrangement, orderliness, and success right throughout there was nothing in the colony approaching the arrangements at Roto- rua. And a particularly grand feature of the functions was the organization of the Natives. Why, the Government do not know how to organize or provide for large numbers of Volun- teers : and yet we have here an assembly of five thousand Natives, and for orderliness, good conduct, and everything in connection there- with it would be impossible to beat them any- where. If this can be done by Natives-and almost the whole management was exclusively in the hands of the Natives themselves-it is a reflection on the Government that they are unable to assemble a few thousand Volunteers in a city like Wellington without having the scandal we had. The decorations and illuminations and everything connected with Rotorua management, I think, was perfect, and it affords me great pleasure to be able to congratulate the Govern- ment on the way they carried out everything there. This strengthens my opinion that, if the functions throughout the colony had been under one direction and carried out in the same manner, we should not have had the numerous complaints, the heart-burnings, and bickerings which have gone on in many of the large centres about what was the duty of the local bodies and what was the duty of the Go- vernment. But I do say we ought not, simply because the law did not allow local bodies in this case to go to extraordinary expenditure without an Indemnity Bill-we ought not to consider any general amendment of the law, 