no opportunity at present of ascertaining whe- ther or not the cases are such as should be fairly compensated. That being so, no injustice can possibly exist in clause 3 when it says " if they refuse to allow themselves to be examined." I think no persons could have good grounds for refusing to allow themselves to be examined. If permission to do so had been obtained under an order of the Supreme Court, why should they not be examined ? An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the necessity for clause 3 ? Sir J. G. WARD. - I thought I had just ex- plained the necessity for it. I may say that it is not intended that this Bill, if it should become law, should interfere with the pro- visions of the Workers' Compensation Act. Mr. WILFORD .- It will be said you have no right. because it is a special right given in special cases. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, I am dealing only with accidents that may happen to people out- side of the Workers' Compensation Act. Take the case of railway accidents-the Rakaia one, for illustration. If it had not been for the adjustment that was amicably arranged by the department there we might have had disputes going on for years. I know the amendment is necessary, and think honourable members, on carefully looking into it, will also see that it is necessary. Bill read a second time. THE CONTINGENTS ON THE STEAMER "TAGUS." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I wish to make a statement to the House. I have just received a telegram from Brigade-Surgeon De Lautour, of Dunedin. Honourable members will regret to know that there are eleven cases of sickness among our troopers on the steamer "Tagus." I have received information that Trooper Forbes, of the Thames, is dead. Last night I sent instructions to Brigade-Surgeon De Lautour that the cases of sickness were to be taken off the boat. I was requested to give permission for the buildings on Quarantine Island, in Otago Harbour, to be used for the reception of these cases. I refused my consent to that, and sent instructions that separate provision should be made for the cases. The reason the authorities asked for the Quarantine Island is that no beds were available in the Dunedin Hospital. My reply was that all the available beds should be taken for the men, and that the rest should be provided for in private hospitals in the city. There are about thirty-two cases altogether. I have since received the following telegram from Brigade-Surgeon De Lautour :- " Am making arrangements for removing serious cases to public and private hospitals this day." Captain RUSSELL .- What are the cases ? Mr. SEDDON .- They are cases of malaria, enteric, and one or two cases of pneumonia. The doctor puts a great deal of it down to over- crowding. REFERENDUM BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- " In any of the following cases, that is to say,- "(1.) If a Bill is a rejected Bill within the meaning of this Act ; or "(2.) If a Bill passed by both Houses con- tains a provision that such Bill shall be reserved for the referendum ; or "(3.) If a resolution is passed by both Houses in favour of submitting to the refer- endum anv legislative proposal (other than a Bill) set forth in such resolu- tion,- then such Bill or proposal shall, in manner hereinafter directed, be referred to the vote of all the electors entitled to vote for the election of members of the House of Representatives." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to insert, in subclause (1), the word " Government " before " Bill." The Committee divided. AYES, 41. Rhodes Allen, E. G. Herries Seddon Arnold Hogg Atkinson Houston Stevens Steward Carncross Hutcheson Lang Carroll Symes Colvin Tanner Laurenson Thompson, R. Duncan Massey Thomson, J. W. ElI McGowan McLachlan Ward Flatman Fowlds Meredith Willis Millar Witheford. Graham Hall Tellers. Monk Fraser, A. L. D. Hall-Jones Palmer O'Meara. Hardy Parata NOES, 6. Tellers. Bollard Lawry Allen, J. Russell, W. R. Heke Pirani. Majority for, 35. Word inserted. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to insert, after " Bill," the words "introduced by message from His Excellency the Governor." Words inserted. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) moved, in subsec- tion (3), after "by," to insert the following words : "one House and rejected by the other for two sessions of Parliament, or if a resolu- tion is passed bv." The Committee divided on the question, " That the words be inserted." AYES, 15. Tanner Arnold Lawry Thomson, J. W. Bollard Massey Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Fowlds Monk Allen, J. Hall Rhodes Herries. Hardy Lang NOES, 34. Fraser, A. L. D. Allen, E. G. Colvin Fraser, W. Duncan Atkinson Graham ElI Carncross Hall-Jones Flatman Carroll 