state, in reply to this question, that what Mr. Hogg apparently wanted was that the Govern- ment should exercise some control over the roads generally, in order that accidents should as far as possible be prevented. This informa- tion could not all be obtained by the staff at present employed by the roads department without neglecting other duties, for it would involve the inspection of most of the roads in the colony, and much correspondence with local bodies would be involved. It would, more- over, be an expensive return to prepare, and would take a considerable time. But he was still of opinion, with Mr. Hogg - the matter having been brought under his notice time and again-that there certainly ought to be a surveyor whose business it was to inspect roads and bridges. Such an officer would be well occupied, and would easily save his cost to the colony. In nearly every district they would see bridges neglected. The wind blew in dust, and the seeds of grass and weeds ; there was no one whose business it was to clean them and put on a bit of tar to keep out the water, and so they found the structures rotted prematurely for want of provision being made that it should be the duty of some one to see that they were kept in proper condition. He was quite sure it would pay the colony to have such a man. Mr. HOGG wished to be allowed to explain to the Minister that he wanted nothing ela- borate or expensive, but a simple report such as Inspectors could give, he believed, within a few days, if not within a few hours. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 APITI AND NORSEWOOD ROAD. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Minister of Lands, If he has any report on a road to connect Apiti and Norsewood ; if not, will he have one prepared as soon as possible ? This road was also connecting the East and the West Coast, and what the Minister had said in answer to Mr. Hogg's question, as to the dryness of one side of the ranges and con- sequent shortness of pasture at some seasons of the year, and the plentiful supply of rain and pasture on the other, applied here more than it did in connection with the Eketahuna and Shannon Road. Last year, in answer to a deputation, the Minister promised, if possible, to send an Inspector to make a survey of this road, and to give an estimate of the cost of making it. He might say that settlers on this side of the range had made their own roads, had rated themselves heavily to do so, and all they were now asking the Government to do was to make the connection complete. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands), in reply, might state that a preliminary report had been made on the subject, from which it appeared that the gap in the proposed road which had yet to be formed amounted to twenty miles. The formation of this portion as a horse-road 6 ft. wide was estimated to cost $5,200, and as a 12 ft. dray road $12,500. A survey had been made, and it was reported that the road was very rough between Pohangina and the main range, so that it was doubtful whether a very good grade of road could be got if the country was as rough as it was stated to be. However, this and the other road would receive attention, and, at any rate, they would get a horse-track, over which they might drive live-stock. NOXIOUS WEEDS BILL. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Go- vernment, If they will bring in a Bill to amend the Noxious Weeds Act, by inflicting a penalty for the sale of chaff or other produce adulterated with noxious weeds ? This question had been suggested by a case which had occurred. The case was that of a man who had bought a con- siderable quantity of farm produce from a dealer, and then, finding it was filled with noxious weeds of various kinds, he was unable to give it to his cattle, because if he had given it to his cattle, and had then turned them out into his paddocks, the result might be that next year he would find his paddocks covered with noxious weeds. The consequence was that he had to burn this produce. The question was now asked with the view of ascertaining if the Go- vernment could see their way to do anything in the way of bringing in an amending Bill to pre- vent this state of affairs. There was no penalty in the Act at present for the sale of produce adulterated with the seeds of noxious weeds. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, in reply, that he quite agreed with the honourable gentleman that an amendment of the Noxious Weeds Act was absolutely necessary. But there were other and considerable amendments that were necessary as well as the one now referred to, and, as the amendment of the Act was a matter that would take some time, it was doubtful whether it could be managed this session. But if an Act had been in force thirty years ago to stop people from disposing of stuff they called seed-dirty grain and chaff - there would have been very few weeds in the colony to-day. They should do their utmost to see that the seed which was disposed of in the colony was clear of weeds. This would be a step in the right direction. IMPROVEMENTS ON UNIMPROVED LANDS. Mr. BOLLARD) (Eden) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will amend the land regulations re improvements on unimproved lands so as to ex- tend the time for making such improvements ? This question was a very important one to the settlers who wished to take up the unimproved lands of the colony, and especially in the Pro- vincial District of Auckland, because there was far more unimproved land there open for settle- ment at present than, he believed, in any other part of the colony. The conditions under which unimproved land could be taken up, whether by lease or right of purchase, were, in his opinion, far too stringent, as it was impossible for a poor man to take up land under present conditions. In order to prove what he was stating he would cite a case : A poor man took up, say, five hun- dred acres of broken grazing country. He had to spend so-much the first year, so-much the second year, and so on ; and, assuming that 