I gue declared there was no damage on the whole of country, and of unjust claims that are levied regarding the quality of the meat that lands at Home and also of infamous insurance claims. I shall give personal experience in connection with these matters, and I hope, if there is time, which I doubt, to go into what I consider are the necessary remedies for the evils. First, I would like to say that the system of assessing for claims in the Old Country is exceedingly unsatisfactory. When a cargo of meat arrives Home, sold c.i.f., a claim is at once levied on that meat whether it is damaged or not. The men who are appointed to award the damages for the buyers may be the buyers themselves acting on their own behalf, or else men connected with the market ; and the in- surance companies appoint assessors to act on their behalf. The vendor or insurance com- pany usually receives no indication that there is a claim to be made on meat, although the policy so provides ; and it has often occurred that three or four months pass after the claim has been awarded by the assessors before the insurance companies know that any claim is made or levied in respect to a cargo at all. For some months I found this state of affairs exceedingly unsatisfactory, and it was brought to a head in my case in connection with the portion of a cargo I received by the steamship " Ionic." I sold to a person 2,600 lambs by that ship, and nine weeks after the sale, and when the meat was all out of stores, I was notified that 2,000 of these lambs were awarded as damaged, and, of course, I had to pay that damage. My first step, however, was to inquire into the history of the voyage, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 condition of meat on discharge. The "Ionic" was one of the vessels that usually brought meat cargoes to the Old Country in a remark- ably sound condition. I discovered that the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero meat left the ship's side subject only to a few trifling faults, and was received by the New Hibernian Wharf Cold-stores Company, up the Thames. I called upon these people to ascer- tain why 2,000 out of 2,600 lambs were so greatly damaged in the ten days they were in the freezing-stores. They were exceedingly in- dignant that I should cast any reflection on their stores; but, as I had seen the receipt that the ship obtained from the barge that the meat was then in good condition, save, as stated, a few trifling faults, I said that either the meat had been damaged in their works in ten days or else there was no damage there, and that it was an unjust award. I am inclined to think the latter was 9.0. the case. My next step was to hunt up other shipments by the same vessel, to see how they had turned out, and I found after a time that the Colonial Consignment Company had obtained from the same ports in this colony that my meat came from and stored in the same holds 10,700 lambs. They took the meat further up the river, up to Blackfriars Bridge. The Colonial Consignment and Distributing Company's meat was not in quite so good con- dition as mine when it left the ship's side. Sir Montague Nelson and his capable manager, Mr. Keele, rendered me every assistance. Sir Monta- their parcel sufficient to justify a claim. You can therefore readily understand that I ceased to employ the assessor who acted for me on that I next endeavoured to obtain a occasion. thoroughly capable assessor who would assert his rights, and not be browbeaten by the Smith- field demands. I am going to mention the name of this assessor, because there has been a news- paper correspondence in the colony in connection with it, a great part of it being sheer romance on Mr. Ismay's part. I told him he had to stand by what was a just award. The assess- ment was on a part of a cargo by the " Delphic." When he met the buyer they ran out 50 carcases of a line of 1,104. Out of the 50 which was to be the basis of the assessment of the lot, the buyer declared that 27 of the 50 were damaged. My assessor could only discover 7 damaged. This caused the assessment to be broken off, as they could not come to terms, and I requested Mr. Ismay to report to me the con- clusion he arrived at. This is his report :- " Having surveyed to-day at Hibernia Cold- stores 50 carcases mutton ex ' Delphic,' marked 'A 51' (the same being part of a parcel of 1,104 carcases), I have to report as follows : That 27 out of the 50 carcases were put aside by Mr. - as having stained legs, but that I could not find more than one- fourth of the 27 to be so damaged, the apparent discoloration of the remainder being due to the manner of dressing, by which nearly every scrap of fat has been stripped off the legs and none left over the lean parts, which thus naturally look of a bluish tint. I affirm that, with the exception of about 7 carcases which were slightly bruised on the legs, the said 27 carcases are quite uninjured by transit or handling, the fault of unsightly legs being caused by the mode of dressing, as aforesaid. Mr. - claimed 4d. per stone on the proportion of 27 to 50 for the whole parcel of 1,104 carcases. I regard this claim as absurd. I offered him 1d. per stone on the same proportion of carcases, and I consider that this is a liberal offer, because the actual damage falling under the terms of the policy is very slight, being confined to about 7 carcases in 50, instead of to 27 car- cases in 50. I have to report that Mr. - de- clined to accept my offer as above, and that the survey was then stopped." After a time he wished to call on the claimant, and I informed him that he must not give way if his assessment was correct. He, however, did call and give way, and eventually he allowed the amount of damage on twenty-seven sheep out of the fifty, and at double the rate which he had declared to be a liberal offer, which amounted on the parcel of 1,104 to 597 damaged sheep. That was what was done in that case. This led to a rather lengthy controversy. I demanded his reasons for having conceded damage to this enormous extent when he had previously declared that not more than seven out of the twenty-seven were damaged. His reply was that he thought by conceding this amount, which was less than what was de- manded, he would probably make better terms 