Provincial District of Auckland there are the following estates, which might support hundreds of thriving families, which are now, I may say. only semi-cultivated-if even that can be said of them-in the hands of the Assets Board :- Area in Acres. Lockerbie .. 21,700 . . . . Matamata. . 55,016 . . . . Paparamu .. 7,073 . . . . Okoroire and Tirau .. 16,294 Mangapouri 2,728 . . . . Paeroa 8,728 . . . . Richmond Downs 12,498 .. . . Okauia 7,719 .. .. Waitoa 22,924 . . Bay of Plenty District- Ohauiti .. 6,547 · · Rangiuru 6,746 .. . . 4,850 Waimana .. Maraetai .. 59,164 .. . . Waotu 319 .. . . Waotu 1,988 .. . Matanuku .. 252 . . Maukoro .. 2,680 1,330 Maungatapu . . . . Total .. 238,556 Mr. HERRIES .- Rangiuru is sold. Mr. NAPIER .- Oh, indeed. I think only a portion of it was sold up to a few days ago. Of that large area of land there are 65.733 acres absolutely lying dormant, upon which there is no fencing, no draining or grassing being done by the Board. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is the land not in occu- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 pation ? Mr NAPIER .- Only in the occupation of the Board-good fertile land, most of it. I have a report here from a competent gentleman about the quality of the various estates, and he says that most of the land is well adapted for settlement. With regard to Lockerbie, he tells me. " About 5,000 acres of this property is very suitable for close settlement." With regard to Matamata, he says, " Practically the whole of the land is suitable for farms of from 200 acres up to 500 acres." He speaks similarly of Paparamu, Okoroire, Mangapouri, Paeroa, Richmond Downs, Okauia, and Waitoa. The other blocks are good dairving land. Now, I would express a hope that the Govern- ment will use greater expedition in securing the settlement of these lands. This is prac- tically dead land. There is no energy displayed in the management ; the overseers have no interest in developing the properties, or in the way of increasing settlement, or of carrying out improvements. All their endeavour is to re- main in possession, and, if possible, to pay something towards interest. But the system of allowing this land to remain in the hands of a Board the members of which are to get salaries so long as the land is unsold is, 1 think, a most pernicious one. It would pos- sibly be better if arrangements were made by legislation to vest the necessary power to deal with these lands in the Land Board of admit, as an honourable member has sug- gested, that the mode of appointment to the Land Boards leaves something to be desired. I think it would be better if the Land Boards were elective and in touch with public opinion. Greater energy would then be shown in the settlement of the country. It has been sug- gested in the debate that the time would soon arrive when there would be a revaluation of the lands held under the lease-in-perpetuity system. Well, Sir, I am in favour of the principle of the perpetual lease, and I have always been opposed to the system of lease in perpetuity ; but I hold it would be a breach of public faith with the lessees who have taken up land under that system to subject their properties to periodical revaluation. An Hon. MEMBER .- It would be confiscation. Mr. NAPIER. -- It would be just as wrong to revalue it without compensation as to take free- hold land without compensation. It was a bad system to introduce, but we understood from Sir John Mckenzie, who was responsible for the Act, that, while he was not actually in favour of the system, it was really the only compromise that could be effected at the time in order to get a measure through Parliament to prevent dummyism. In future let the country be settled under the perpetual-lease system ; but where the State has entered into contracts, where the public faith has been pledged, it would be dishonourable, it would be a violation of the elementary principles of fair dealing, to revalue those lands. But, it may be said, how are you to get any contribution for the State out of the unearned increment of such lands ? I answer that the land-tax can legitimately be assessed on the unearned increment of leases in perpetuity, just as in the case of freeholds. The State can legitimately impose a land-tax upon the unearned increment of the land held by leases in perpetuity. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It would be as much a breach of faith as the other. Mr. NAPIER. - I submit not. The land-tax is a general tax imposed upon the unimproved value of all private lands in the colony, and it does not, therefore, violate any contract. Mr. J. ALLEN. It violates a contract made with the lease-in-perpetuity holders. Mr. NAPIER .- There is not a single syllable in the leases in perpetuity which says that lands held under that tenure shall not be taxed under the ordinary taxation system of the colony. The honourable member's objection thus in no way applies to the taxation under the general law of the unearned increment of the leases in perpetuity. I would point out, with regard to the properties to which I have referred, that most of them are near constructed railways -- in fact, the whole of them, with only two or three exceptions, are connected with existing railways by excellent roads, which in nearly all cases are macadamised. Hence, all you have to do is to put your people on the land, for you have the estates, you have the railways, and you have the roads. Moreover, the lands are nearly all in grass, and are eminently suitable for 