were not able to manage the railways. It was only done for the purpose of using the Commis- sioners to levy high rates upon the producers of the colony. Well, Sir, what has been the result ? Since we took over the railways the result has been - An Hon. MEMBER. -- Why did you continue them for three years. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member is just as well aware as I am what occurred. The moment we had control of the railways and got them under the control of the Minister in charge there was an improvement, and the consequences have been phenomenal. You have had an increase in the traffic of the railways in contrast with the traffic under the Com- missioner-, and we have given concessions amounting to nearly $400.000 ; we have made concession after concession ; and while we have contined the working-expenses relative to the rates, the revenue has increased and so have the net profits, until I think that even those honourable gentlemen opposite must admit that for all those years when the rail- ways were beyond the control of the people and in the hands of the Commissioners they were doing the farmers of New Zealand a gross injustice. And now what are those honour- able gentlemen trying to do ? They are angling for the support of the farmers. We have been threatened that the support of the farmers will be withdrawn from us, and that they will avalanche-like come down upon us, and that we shall be utterly swept away. The honourable member for Waitemata, in his https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 concluding remarks, said, "The honourable gentlemen on those Treasury benches will be swept away," and the honourable member for Eden said, " You will see the Premier brought to his knees by the farmers of this country." Sir, it does not require the farmers to bring me to my knees. I think the honourable member for Iden will admit that the difficulty both of us would feel would be to get off our knees. The honourable member knows, Sir. that he has been brought to his knees before to-day. At the last election he was only returned by a majority of three votes. And who was it that brought him to his knees? It was the settlers in his own district, who trusted him not. Sir, we find the honour- able gentleman at one time posing as the champion of the farmers; at another time we find him attempting to pose as the cham- pion of the labourers in his district, and en- deavouring to provide homes for the workers. Now, Sir, if the honouralde gentleman does not. want to be brought to his knees again he must not be simply a labour representative. He must not simply be the representative of any particular section of his constituents. Sir, the men who stand highest in the public opinion, the men who are surest of their seats in this House, are the men who do justice to every soul in their constituenev. And if that applies to members of the House. it equally applies to the members of the Treasury benches - to the Government -- who do justice to all in the Mr. Seddon about farmers' unions. I have been noting care- fully what has been going on, and when the member for Waitemata, who admits, I think. that the commencement of these unions was made in his own district- An Hon. MEMBER .- No; in the Bay of Islands. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, the possibility is that they may have been started there with the view of getting rid of the member for the Bay of Islands. It appears the honourable member for Waitemata had no chance of making a commencement in his own district. so he advocated making a start in another district with the view of putting out of Parliament the honourable member for the Bay of Islands. Sir, I have every reason to be suspicious of these so-called farmers' unions when I hear that the Government is threatened by them. Who is it that causes that suspicion to be strength- ened in my mind ? It is the honourable mem- bers who sit opposite and use these threats. Sir. I say this : it is well that there should be unions -unions of farmers, labouring-men, or other -. Union is strength : and in order to get the pro- duce of the country to market at reasonable rates, and to see that the producers are encou- raged by the State, it is proper and right that a union with such objects should be formed. How- ever, when any union commences to lay down a little programme and says, " Unless you con- form to this programme in respect to taxation and administration you cannot join with us." as this union has done in their programme, then it is not a farmers' union at all. but a political organization. Under these circum- stances, it seems to me the Auckland Farmers' Union is the National Association, phomix- like, rising from the ashes caused by the la-t election. An Hon. MEMBER. - They are in the majority. Mr. SEDDON .-- It is admitted that at one time the honourable gentleman claimed they were so, but that was when he belonged to that association, and when he, as leader of the (11- position, was the head of the National Associa. tion. In a speech he made in the Wairarapa district he said to the farmers. " Do you think you come here to listen to me? If you do. then you are stupid. What you have to do i- to put your hands into your pockets and assi-t the National Association. If you do not Go that, how can we expect to have a majority in the couutry ?" At all events. Sir. I must now come back to the Bill. I should not have digressed as I have done if it had not been for the speeches of the gentlemen opposite: lt I could not allow their speeches to go into Hansard and go forth to the country without The honourable member for a refutation. Waitemata said to-day. "The statement tha: there is industrial quietude and good-wi is absolutely fallacious." I say he is altogether wrong. The disputes, as they are calied, are simply matters that are before the Court for adjustment. The cases before the Board and the Court are simply cases that have arisen ou account of the extension of the Aet to other industries, the workers in which are dosirons of 