Flatman McGowan Stevens Mckenzie, R. Steward Fowlds Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Tanner Ward Meredith Graham Willis. Mills Hall Hall-Jones Napier Tellers. Field Parata Hogg Seddon O'Meara. Lawry PAIRS. For. Against. Allen, J. Morrison Bollard Houston Lethbridge Smith, E. M. Witheford McGuire Thomson, J. W. Fisher. Majority against, 16. Amendment negatived. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the insertion, before the word "event," of the word "extra- ordinary." Amendment agreed to. Mr. MEREDITH ( Ashiey) moved the excision of the word " Purchase." Word struck out. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved the addi- tion of the following words after " Board" : " of the district in which the land is situated." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON( Premier) moved the insertion, after the word "Board," of the words "and the Minister of Lands." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved the following new clause :-- . "Sp. The Land Board of the district in which the land is situated may, at any time after two years from the date of any lease, and with the consent of the Minister, accept a surrender of the lease on the condition that the value of the improvements made by the lessee shall be paid to such lessee by the incoming lessee, the value of such improvements being previously ascer- tained and determined by the Board of Land Purchase Commissioners." New clause agreed to. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) moved the following new clause :- " Any legitimate son (of or over the age of seventeen years) of any frecholder whose land is resumed by the Crown for settlement purposes, shall be entitled to take up for his own use an area of such land not exceeding two hundred acres if it be first-class land, or not exceeding 50% acres if it be second-class land, provided always that he shall farm the land so taken up." The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 10. Herries Tellers. Monk Hornsby ()'Meara Fraser, A. L. D. Lang Mackenzie, T. Pirani Massey Rhodes. NORS, 32. Arnold Collins Buddo Barclay Colvin Carneross Bennet Carroll Duncan Field McGowan Stevens Mckenzie, R. Flatman Steward Tanner Graham McNab Hall Ward Meredith Hall-Jones Mills Willis. Tellers. Napier Hogg Laurenson Ell Seddon Fowlds. Lawry Smith, G. J. PAIRS. Against. For. Morrison Allen. J. Bollard Houston Lethbridge Smith, E. M. McGuire Witheford Russell, W. R. Gilfedder Thomson, J. W. Fisher. Majority against, 22. Motion negatived. Bill reported. The House adjourned at five minutes past three o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 25th July, 1901. Third Reading-Industrial Disputes-E. M. Fulloon - Gorse on Rangitaike laver - Inspection of Private Schools-Young Persons Protection Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Accidents Compensation Bill. INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. McLEAN. it was ordered, That there be laid on the table of the Council a return of industrial disputes, sup- plementary to that laid upon the table last year on 19th September, being a return from 1st April, 1900, to 31st March, 1901. E. M. FULLOON. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY asked the Minister of Education, What steps the Government have taken to give effect to the recommendation of the Native Affairs Committee contained in their report of the 27th September, 1900, on the peti- tion of Emily Maria Fulloon, and agreed to by the Council on the 28th September, 1900 ? That unfortunate woman had on three occa- sions come to Wellington with this grievance, and, as far as he could ascertain, nothing had been done to carry out the recommendation of the Native Affairs Committee of both Houses. The report of last session's Committee was,- "The Committee recommends that a full inquiry into the claims of the late James Ful- loon to any of the confiscated lands mentioned by the petitioner be made by any one of the Commissioners who formerly investigated the titles to the land on the East Coast, and that such inquiry be held as soon as the Government can arrange for its taking place." 