That referred merely to the terms and condi- tions, not, of course, to the rates or premiums. An Hon. MEMBER .- They say so. Mr. SEDDON said, At all events, there was no such agreement or combination as that referred to in the question between these companies and the Government; and if there had been any- thing said in that way, then all he could remark was that whoever said it had been under a misapprehension. He knew what his instructions had been. His instructions were to do business for our own rates and to go our own way, and the companies were to do the same. The intention of the Legislature was that, just as in introducing cheap money into the colony, 1 we practically fixed the rates payable. The only question that could possibly arise would be on the question of reinsuring, and in respect to the claims. At all events, the directions of the Government were clear and distinct : that they fixed the lowest possible rate, and that they had reduced their expenses to a minimum, and they would go on in that way, and that was what was intended by the Legislature. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Are you reinsuring? Mr. SEDDON said they might, as far as coal-mines were concerned, but they had not decided definitely. REBATES TO CROWN TENANTS. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked the Minister of Lands, Why the Commissioner of Crown Lands in Auckland and the Receiver of Land Revenue have, as is stated, refused to allow any rebate to Crown tenants in the Auckland District, while it is alleged that in other parts of the colony a rebate of 10 per cent. has been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 allowed to the whole of the Crown tenants ? This question was one which affected a very large body of settlers in the Province of Auckland. It appeared that a rebate of 10 per cent. was allowed to the Crown tenants in other portions of the colony when they paid their rents promptly, but this has not been so in the Province of Auckland. It was a difficult matter for him to believe that the Commissioner of Crown Lands had taken up this position unless he had been instructed by some higher authority to do so. It appeared from the information he had received that the Commissioner of Crown Lands had himself no other course than to refuse to allow the rebate. He held in his hand a receipt which an Auck- land settler had forwarded to him. It was a receipt from the Receiver of Land Revenue. This settler had sent in his rent in due time, deducting the 10 per cent. The Receiver of Land Revenue returned this receipt, showing the settler still indebted to the amount of 10s., being the amount of the rebate. And he put a foot-note to the receipt to the effect that the Commissioner had refused to allow the rebate. Now, it appeared to him that that was the system in which the Crown tenants of the Pro. vince of Auckland had been treated, and, if so, it was a very serious matter to them. Heknew this particular settler well, and also his section of land, and there was no poorer section of land perhaps in the County of Whangarei, nor a section of land whose tenant or occupier was more entitled to a rebate than the occupier of this section. Until he heard an explanation from the Minister he could form no idea why the Receiver of Land Revenue had taken up this attitude; but this officer seemed to wash his hands of the whole thing and to throw the responsibility on the Commissioner of Crown Lands. He hoped the Minister would make in- quiry and see that this state of things was not allowed to continue longer. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, in answer to this question, the Commissioner of Crown Lands in Auckland reported that the Receiver of Land Revenue had allowed the re- bate in all cases where good reasons had been advanced for doing so, and that several appli- cations were now under consideration. Mr. R. THOMPSON said, Here was a receipt showing that that was not the case. Mr. DUNCAN asked what was the date of it. Mr. R. THOMPSON said the date was the 21st June, 1901. It was the receipt for the July rent. Mr. DUNCAN supposed the case was one that came under the designation of not being, in the officer's opinion, deserving of rebate. However, he had stated the answer he had received from the Commissioner ; but later on he expected to get a report from him as to how the thing worked generally, and when this report was in his hands he would be able to say how the system worked in Auckland. Mr. R. THOMPSON might be permitted to explain further to the Minister that he had received several complaints from settlers on the same subject, and he had declined to move in the matter, thinking they were under some mis- apprehension in the matter. He suggested, therefore, to them that unless they forwarded him a receipt showing conclusively that they had not received the rebate he would not move in the matter. Now, here was a receipt in which the Receiver of Land Revenue assigned as his reason for refusing the rebate that the Commissioner of Crown Lands had so instructed him. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the House had agreed to a return being prepared showing the number of rebates given in each provincial dis- trict. They could do nothing in the matter outside the powers that had been granted to them. When the Bill was before Parliament members suggested that discretionary power should be given to the Commissioner of Crown Lands and the Receiver of Land Revenue, so that each case might be dealt with on its merits. That compromise he agreed to, and if it had not been acted on it was contrary to the wishes of the Government and of the Legislature. Mr. R. THOMPSON asked what would be the position of the unfortunate settler whose rebate, as he had shown, had been refused. Would these settlers get credit for this rebate which had been disallowed ? Mr. SEDDON said, When the Commissioner of Crown Lands and the Receiver of Land Revenue did agree to the rebate the tenant could deduct it from the amount he sent, but where the tenants had been deducting the 