not be taken in this particular district." The Premier may shake his head, but. of course, we all understand he says all the time that he is exercising the most pure and very best dis- cretion in this matter, that he serves no per- sonal interest, but purely seeks the country's good : still we know at the same time his own success and his country's good are so inex- tricably woven together that you have " R.J.S." always on top and the country's good a tritle lower down. It is true, as the Premier said, that this is mostly a technical Bill, and I devoted such time as I was able during the luncheon adjournment, instead of recuperating in the open air, to look through the Bill, and I find that it is in no way conciliatory to the persons who are compelled to suffer by compulsory ex- propriation. Clause 2 I do not think matters either way. I admit that, having read it, and having compared it with section 54 of the original Act, I really do not see that there was any urgent necessity for the introduction of this clause. It is merely perpetuating the prin- ciple which seems to actuate the Minister on every occasion of interfering with every Act on the statute-book, and not allowing us or our business to go on under the laws when we are !.. ginning to understand them. What happens is that when the people are beginning to under- s. and an Act the Minister brings down an amend- ment or repealing Act, and he introduces an amendment in the provision of another, until not even the most skilful lawyer in the country can know where to look for any law on any particular subject. I admit, however, that. with regard to clause 2, it really makes no https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 difference whether it is introduced or not. Its operation is so absolutely insignificant that I scarcely think it is worth the ink and paper required to print it. But, Sir, the powers in clause 3 are a very great deal more than technical. The Premier led us to understand : hat this was a generous little clause to allow the Minister to agree with persons or with local government bodies for the benefit of the persons or the advantage of local bodies. Well. so far as I can understand, it embodies an entirely diff rent principle from that tak n from the provisions of clause 65 of the principal Act. called " The Land for Settlements Consolida- tion Act. 1900," which gives practically all the powers which it is necessary for the Minister to have in cases where he has purchased a piece of land and is preparing it for settlement. I think this clause is a decided departure. Subsec- tion (2) of clause 65 of the principal Act says, " Pending the disposal of the land by way of lease. the Minister may deal therewith and carry on operations thereon in such manner in all respects a .. he deems expedient "; and though it may be said that that subsection would not give him power to put a bridge across a river immediately adjacent to this land, yet we all know that if a Minister is acquiring a block of land for settle- ment, and he is desirous of making a bridge across a river, there is not a single man in the district who would not . be only too pleased to allow him to build it, and he requires no power or assistance to recommend that such VOL. CXVI .- 33. a bridge should be erected. It appears to me that the ultimate effect of this clause 3 lies deeper than appears on the surface; but it was difficult in my hurried and cursory reading of the clause to arrive at its full signi- ficance. It would appear to me, however, that the object and intention of clause 3 is to re- move the duty of protecting, roading, and of bridging streams adjacent to the land which is compulsorily taken by the Government, and which should be roaded and protected by the Land Board before being cut up for settlement, and to throw a part of that responsibility and duty upon the ratepayers of the surrounding country, and to that extent it would appear to me to be a dangerous provision, one which is not properly understood, and which on the surface is not fully apparent. This is a departure in principle about which we have the right to know in the House, and we ought to have been afforded full information on it. Again I express my regret that the Bill has been brought before us in the extremely hurried way it has been placed before us to- day. And, though I understood the Premier admitted as he spoke that there was power to make drains through lands acquired under the Land for Settlements Act, I also understood that he thought there was no power to take drains through any contiguous property. Hon. MEMBERS .- Ha, ha. Captain RUSSELL. . The noise going on around me is so great that, speaking as loud as I can, I am unable to make myself heard. To continue my remarks, I believe the Minister told us that, although he had power to dig the drains to the edge of the land acquired by the Government, he had no power to take them through neighbouring properties. I cannot, however, give an answer straight away on that point, and that is another disability that I suffer under from not having been allowed time to study the Bill. But I assume that under the Drainage Act it would be quite possible for the Government to be treated as an ordinary owner on acquiring property, or having acquired pro- perty, even under the compulsory clauses of the Act. Surely the Government will not claim that the responsibilities devolving on the owner of the property, prior to its acquisition by the Government, have lapsed altogether. 1 pre- sume that the Goverment would be liable to exactly the same conditions, with all the privi- leges and all the responsibilities of the previous owner, and consequently under the Land Drain- age Act they would be able to take the water through the neighbouring properties. I should have thought that that was the effect of the law, but I reiterate I have been denied the oppor- tunity of studying the Bill. Then, again, with regard to the next section (section 4). the Premier told us, and no doubt quite correctly, that there . was a difficulty in charging the expense of ad- vertising and other expenses in connection with the acquisition of land to the Land for Settlement Account, and therein I sympathise with him. I think it is only right and proper that all the expenses in connection with the acquisition of land should be borne by the land acquired - that 