thing connected with commerce. He, I think, [ is not so far distant as some may think, when will be able to exploit for us new markets. and to place our products in them at the most reasonable rate. With this assistance, and the co-operation of the farmers' unions, we should be able to put our products on the markets of the world at the cheapest possible rates. This is essential, because we have no pro- tection as farmers in this country. We have to buy in the dearest market everything we eat, drink, and wear, and to sell in the markets of the world. We get no bonuses of any kind ; and it is the duty of those who rule the destinies of the colony, therefore, to do everything they possibly can to help the farmer to get rid of his produce ; because the volume of produce, con- sidering the number of farmers, is something marvellous. They sent Home last year some twelve million pounds' worth of produce. Therefore, I think that everything possible should be done to assist them, for even this volume of produce would be largely increased if every facility were given, as I hope it will be. Now, with reference to this Bill. I will vote for its second reading; but I hope it will be amended in Committee. Of course, it is right that all the expenses in connection with the land for settlements should be borne by the land : it is not fair to place them upon the whole colony. I consider that under clause 5 the notice is rather short ; that, however, can be rectified in Committee. I would like to see, Sir, some other form than the present system of balloting for land. I really think there should be some other form for acquiring it : if it were done by tender, for example, that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 would be, I believe, an improvement. I admit that this matter is surrounded with difficulties. It is our duty to devise a more satisfactory scheme. Under the present lottery system, a i, ma tide man may never be able to get a sec- tion, but there are many who succeed in get- ting sections who have no intention of settling on the land : should they draw a prize-namely, a good section --- they turn round and dispose of it for $200 to $300; and, if they draw a blank, they will have nothing to do with it. Now, that would not be the case under the tender system. Every man would tender at what he considered it to be worth, and therefore the Crown would get the value of the estate. I cer- tainly agree with the Minister of Lands that married men with families should get the first offer. I think it is only wise and prudent that this should be so. We should encourage men to get married and settle on the land, because once married they will become, in most cases, real settlers, and I am perfectly certain when a really go-ahead man goes on the Crown land, when he has spent the best part of his life in clearing, fencing, and subdividing, if he is a married man with a wife and family he will be most desirous of making his leasehold property a freehold. I trust the day is not far distant when we may look to the land-laws being changed, and the Crown tenants being allowed to acquire the freehold of their land. That is the natural desire of every man in the country. I am satisfied the day will come, and every man who is settled upon the land will have the right to purchase that land. I admit that the Government, where people are in want of land, have the right also to come in, and if there are any large estates, and they are neces- sary for the purposes of close settlement, that they should be purchased and subdivided. I will vote for the second reading of the Bill. In Committee I will endeavour to amend it in a few minor directions. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I desire to say a few words on the second reading of the Land for Settlements Bill now before the House. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to make any declaration of faith in the matter. I have always been a loyal supporter of land for settle- ments. I am a loyal supporter at the present time, and I hope to continue so. I saw the evils of land aggregation in the country of my birth and early manhood, and I believe in that respect I share the views of some of the most eminent statesmen in New Zealand and the Mother-country. Great credit is due to the Hon. Sir John Mckenzie as the apostle of the land-for-settlements policy, and consequently for the popularity of the Liberal party at the present time in New Zealand. Land for settle- ments, together with cheap money for the people, I look upon as the two most popular planks in the Liberal platform of this colony ; and as long as they continue to be carried on in their entirety, fairly and squarely between man and man, I believe there is a future for the Liberal party. I am astonished, however, at the position taken up this afternoon by the Premier usurping the place of the Minister of Lands. I did not see the Hon. Mr. Duncan present, and I asked myself, " Has the mantle of Elijah fallen on Elisha?" What has become of the Minister of Lands, that practical man who, though not gifted with the eloquence so characteristic of the Premier, still when he speaks, speaks with weight, and commands the attention of the House, and utters 8.0. sentiments that find an echo in every intelligent mind? I consider this hybrid state of things, this dual administration of the Lands Department, is calculated to bring about chaos and disaster. I do not want to detract from the Premier one iota ; but I am of opinion that, while the Premier is a capable man in many respects, he knows little or nothing about the land question : and when he arrogated to him- self the functions of Minister of Lands he was taking up a position he cannot maintain. As a supporter of the Government I feel it my duty to be an impartial critic and a candid friend ; and I believe the true friends of the Liberal Government and the country are the men who have sufficient independence to stand up on the floor of the House and give their opinions and convictions apart from party considera- tions. I want to ask the Hon. the Premier not to touch the land policy of this colony, but to leave the portfolio of Minister of Lands entirely to the Hon. Mr. Duncan, and I, for one, would be most happy to help Mr. Duncan in any shape or form. What knowledge I pos. 