universal consumption, and must be regarded as one of the prime necessaries of life. The high price maintained for coal in the chief cities of a colony so rich in that mineral as New Zea- land year after year has simply been outrageous. Not only has the poor consumer been entirely at the mercy of an army of middlemen with regard to the price of that article, but they have no protection with reference to weight or quality. They have had to take an article absolutely blindfold and give any price de- manded. That is a state of affairs which should not be tolerated. I trust the Govern- ment will not merely provide coal to meet the requirements of the public service, but that they will establish depots in the chief centres, so as to provide an abundance of coal for the benefit of the people at large. It will be one of the greatest boons for the families of work. men which has ever been granted to them. Then, Sir, we have some reference to our land legislation and to the question of cheap money. I believe it is largely due to the amount of settlement which has taken place under the Act of 1892 that the colony has grown so rapidly. It is chiefly owing to the settlement that has gone on steadily ever since the Act became law, and to the facilities given to small settlers to obtain the money they require to carry on their operations, at a reasonable rate-I say it is due more to those factors than to any- thing else that New Zealand is at present in such a prosperous condition. The Crown tenants-and I have a great many of them in my district - the men and women who have gone into the bush and carved out homes https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 for themselves and their families, increasing as they are year by year, making, every day of their lives, improvements of a permanent character - not for to-day or to-morrow, but improvements that are going to last for all time-those settlers that are increasing our exports, adding not a few pounds but hun- dreds and thousands of pounds every year to the wealth of this country-those men and women who are building up New Zealand on a substantial and sound foundation are the people who have been regenerating this coun- try, and it is to them that we owe our pro- sperity. They are, in every sense of the term, rapidly becoming the backbone of this colony. And notwithstanding all that may be said about the extravagance of the Government in this direction and that direction, while I deprecate anything in the shape of extravagance, for I am not one who would defend undue extrava- gance for a moment, I must acknowledge that, as far as I am aware, districts like my own and like those of Pahiatua and Rangitikei -- I see one honourable member smiling while I make this reference to his district - and also the Patea district, although it has not been represented - districts like those represented by members on both sides of the House have never realised more favours at the hands of any Ministry than they have done during the past year in the way of roads and bridges. . Can it be questioned that the amount of expenditure since the last session of Parliament on public works demanded by the settlers has exceeded anything that has taken place during any former similar period ? If that is the case, can it be said that the Government are neglecting the true requirements of the country? If they recognise the necessity of carrying out those works quite independently of political feeling, I ask, can it be said that the Government are not performing their duty ? I say for that reason alone I am bound to support the Ministry of the day. Roads have been made; bridges have been constructed over our rivers ; works have been done of the utmost importance to those who are occupying land and consolidating their homes : and in the face of such facts as these I am bound to admit that the Government have assisted the settlers in a way that has never been performed by any previous Administration. I have referred, Sir, to the important hearing which the 7.30. settlement of our bush lands has had upon the general prosperity of the colony, and I have also spoken in terms of appreciation of the nature of the policy which has been pursued by the Government, of the magnitude of the works that have been performed, and of the practical consequences manifested in the huge increase in the value of our exports. But, Sir, I regret to find that at a time when farmers have reason to be fairly contented with their position, when land has been considerably enhanced in value, when I believe there is more cause for contentment. than ever before in New Zealand, there are emissaries travelling about endeavouring to foster prejudices which are likely to be very hurtful to the class of people I represent-the small farmers. We have individuals travelling over New Zealand trying to establish what they term " farmers' unions." Mr. HORNSBY .- The National Association in disguise. Mr. HOGG .- That is all it is. The honour- able gentleman has spoken the truth. Hon. MEMBERS. - Oh ! Mr. HOGG .- And, I hope, not for the first time by any means. Like myself, he has the courage of his convictions, and he is not afraid to speak out. When we find that there are wolves in sheep's clothing travelling through the country and endeavouring to seduce the farmers from their allegiance to the party that has assisted them in New Zealand it is time to issue a note of warning, and that is what I intend to do now. I maintain this: that these agitators have a card con- cealed up their sleeves, and other interests to serve besides the interests of the farmer. They are travelling from place to place, ob- viously for the purpose of trying to foster ill- feeling between the settlers and small farmers in the country and the workers in our towns and centres. That is their whole object-to foster prejudice between the small settlers, whose assistance and votes they want, and the workmen and artisans in the cities. Hitherto there has been a good feeling between town and country, and I, for one, do not want to see that disturbed. Hence, from my place of vantage in this House I intend to warn the farmers of New Zealand, and particularly the smaller settlers, 