in agreement with them in thinking that the Government should at once take steps to bring the producer and consumer closer together, so that the price paid by the consumer may be as nearly as possible that paid to the producer - that is, the elimination of the enormous num- ber of middlemen who are at present exploiting our produce at this end and in the Old Country. It seems to me there should be no difficulty not only in establishing cool-stores in the Old Country, where our produce can be stored until the proper time for remarketing arises, but also of effecting the sale of produce as nearly as pos- sible direct to the consumer in the Old Coun- try. Coming nearer home, to the question of other produce, particularly garden produce, it is within my knowledge that in my own district many small settlers have taken up small areas with a view to market-gardening and fruit-growing, and in nearly every instance they have had to give up the project, because they found that the profits of the middleman and the freights were so high that they could not make a living out of their small areas. I know an instance where men on small areas not very far from the City of Wellington have been at great expense and toil to put in crops of vegetables and other small produce for the purpose of supplying the City of Wellington. I know cases where men have sent down sacks of cabbages to the auction-rooms here, hoping to make a livelihood thereby, and the result has been in some cases no returns at all from the sale, and in other cases a return of only 6d. a sack, and out of that they have had to pay for the sacks. These things should not be in such a progressive country as this if they can possibly be avoided, and I strongly urge the (Government to see to this matter, and remedy this condition of things as far as it is practicable to do so. Wherever we see the producer putting his products on the market, whether in this colony or elsewhere, we find the same complaint prevailing-that some middleman is reaping the profits, and that the sums charged in commission, rebates, freights, and discounts, and the other innumerable charges, go to swell the profits of the men who do not work to pro- duce the goods, but live in the towns. They simply reap all the profits which the producers should get as the result of their toil. I have here, for instance, certain flax returns which bear out this fact. And the flax industry, let me sav, is likely to become a very much larger in- dustry than it is at the present time, and the time is not far distant when we shall find the Phormnon tenox grown in larger quantities on suitable land, mills established for its manufac- ture, and altogether a better and more extensive state of things existing concerning this industry than we find to be the case now. But before that can come about we must have the atten- tion of the Government directed to this question of the freights and the other charges on flax. have here a return from a merchant for the sale of sixteen bales of hemp in the Old Country, realising from $19 10s. to $20 a ton. The total price realised in the Old Country for that flax was $65, and the charges here, in- cluding freight, amounted to £24 15s. Now, had that flax been sold, as it very often is, at as low a price as €15 a ton, then nearly one- half of the total price realised in London would have been caten up by freights and other charges, and out of the other half which comes to him the miller has to pay interest on the capital he has sunk in land, buildings, and plant, and he has to pay flax-cutters, and carters, and mill hands, and has to pay freight, railage, and the hundred and one expenses which have to be met in getting his produce to market. If the flax industry is to prosper it should receive more encouragement at the hands of the Government, and I hope, Sir, it will receive that encouragement at an early date. I do not want to croak or take a pessi- mistic view of things, but I will call the at- tention of the Government to the fact that, at any rate in this part of the colony, wool-growers have drawn on their wool during this season sums in almost every case very largely in ad- vance of the net amount realised from sales in the Old Country. In many cases advances have been made on wool at the rate of 53d. and 6d. per pound ; while the net return to the wool-grower in this country has not been more than 44d. per pound. In many cases one-third of the actual advance will have to be refunded by the wool-grower who has received the advance. That is a very serious state of things. There are plenty of small farmers who are absolutely unable to pay the excess they have borrowed over the amount they have actually realised. On this question of wool I would also call the attention of the Govern- ment to the desirability of appointing a wool expert, or wool experts, for the purpose of teaching the sheep-farmers of the colony more of their business than they understand at the present time. It may not be within the know- ledge of many members, particularly town mem- bers, that a great want of knowledge exists among sheep-farmers as to the preparing of their wool for the market. For instance, there is a case within my own knowledge in which a farmer in this district sheared a flock of something like a thousand sheep, in- cluding about a hundred log-stained fleeces. Though he was an old sheep-farmer, he was actually guilty of the ignorance of dividing those stained fleeces pretty evenly among all the bales. His next door neighbour had also about a thousand sheep of an exactly similar class, and about a hundred log-stained fleeces, but, quite by chance. this man put these fleeces in a separate bale. The result was that the latter farmer got 1d. a pound more than the other for his wool. Sir, I am thoroughly of opinion that if a wool expert, or wool experts, were appointed to go round the colony as the Poultry Expert does at the present time, and attended at the shearing-sheds to inspect and improve the methods adopted there for shearing and sorting I the wool, and to teach the men to skirt and fold their fleeces, and generally to prepare the wool for the market, at least 1d. per pound more would be realised by our wool - growers than they receive at the present time. This is an 