That is quite true; but, I ask, who will deny the fact that being in this position to-day huis strengthened, not only ourselves, but our brethren and our kindred in the Mother- country, and it has strengthened the Empire, because it has proved to the world' there is a power in existence which, in my opinion, was hver reckoned upon before. It is a power for defensive purposes. It shows the outside nations that there is no possibility whatever of their coming to our colony with any hope of success. If, again, there is any necessity-and as the emergency has arisen once it may arise again- we may then again contribute our help to the Mother - country in the way we have already d ne in South Africa. I say, then, why should We now, in discussing a Bill of this kind, raise maintained by the Education Department no the larger question that has been raised by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) namely, " little Englander " peace-at-any-price - and the wiping out of respect to the military training of the youths the British nation from the face of the map? Sir, I say there was no necessity whatever to have control. The instructors, of course, are rise that question: and I resent the attack that has been made upon myself. In any- thing that I have done I have only been the -the boys in the Sixth and Seventh Standards mouthpiece, owing to the position I hold, of -that they should be provided with a light the people of New Zealand. If the people of New Zealand had not desired what has been classes to have wood guns, I do not think it is done I say it would never have been done. We sufficient for the boys who have reached a cer- took the voice of the people as represented in this Chamber, and when we find that only four boys is shooting, and there is no doubt that the shooting gives the boys a taste for volunteering or five members out of seventy representatives hold the views held by that honourable gentle- and a pleasure which compensates for the drill and the fatigue they have to undergo. Of man, then I say, with all due respect to the course we shall not be able to arm the whole large majority, that they should bow down to that decision, and they should not imply that of the corps with light rifles; but I think we might offer as a prize, as it were, twenty or so because the majority have taken this course rifles to the first dozen or twenty boys of a cadet they are not doing what is right to the nation and to the people of this country I, Sir, corps who showed the best drill, so that they tuke exception to that conduct altogether ; could be used in turn by the different members and when we know what the consequences have of the corps. In this way the rifles could be made been, it is hard to sit here and have one's-self a sort of reward for proficiency in drill. Now, that is the view of the Government on this ques- accused of simply doing this to promote jingo- tion ; but, as I have said, there was a difficulty. ism-that one is influenced by a jingo spirit, We had no desire to interfere with the Boards and does this with that object and for no other motive. Sir, considering the suffering that has of Education and teachers and children of the boon entailed, setting apart altogether the great schools. On the other hand, unless there is to be a difficulty with the instructors, there must be cost of this war - two hundred millions-to the Mother-country, and considering the homes complete control of all military training by the now mourning the loss of those who have gone, Defence Department. The best course, pro- to say that those who have taken part in this bably, to be pursued, as matters now stand, have been actuated only by jingoistic motives is saving that which should not be lightly levelled, Education themselves, and, after conferring with particularly when there are no grounds to sup- the Boards of Education, then to decide what is port it. Sir, I say with regard to the Bill that the best to do under the circumstances. But I am not in accord with conscription ; I am not the passing of this Bill in an amended form, in accord with forcing conscription in the public and the introduction of this Bill as it is now schools. before the House, ought to have been met, as it Mr. ATKINSON .- You said just now you has been met, in a proper spirit. The honour- were in favour of conscription. able member's desire is to see that our boys get Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, I do not know how it is, a military training. I believe myself that it but there is something in respect to the accous- helps them out of school, and it does not take tie properties of this chamber which generally too much from the time that they devote to pats exactly the opposite of what I said in the other subjects. However, I should not have ears of the honourable gentleman opposite. I troubled the House at all had it not been for could not expect the honourable gentleman to the charge levelled against me : that I have not undergo a surgical operation to clear his under- been actuated by proper and patriotic motives the reverse The member for Wellington City will bear me out that I never said that I was in favour of conscription. What I did say was this : that there was no necessity for it. At the same time, I believe that this Bill could be improved in Committee. I believe that there was a necessity at one time for something to be done; and now, while I am on mv feet, I will put the position before the House. The Government decided some time ago in respect to the cadet corps in the public schools that the Education Department should deal with these corps. It was urged that if the Defence Department, or the Commandant, of the military officers were to interfere with the public schools the Boards of Education might object to that course, while if the system was exception could be taken. My own view, I may tell honourable members at once, is that in of the colony the Defence Department ought to under the Defence Department. I believe also, in respect to the older boys in the schools rifle. While it is right enough for the junior tain age. The great attraction, of course, to the would be to refer this matter to the Boards of 