years. I look upon it as a disgrace to the Go- Vernment that that land should lie idle and unoccupied for so long. I venture to say that if this land had been in the South Island it would have been settled long before this ; and I think it is a cause for complaint that the working of the land-settlement policy has been almost entirely confined to the South Island. In a case within my own knowledge in the Auckland Province one block of land was offered to the Government and refused. It was then cut up by the owner, and the people who took up the land were able afterwards to sell it again a: a profit, showing that the price asked was fair and the land was suitable to be cut up. When such properties as I have mentioned are offered to the Government voluntarily there is no need to take land compulsorily from people who do not wish to sell it. Reference has been made during the debate to the ballot system. I look upon that as neither more nor less than gam- ! the case to show the House that without cost biing. It has been said that a poor man cannot get land under any other system ; but under this system the poor man does not necessarily get the land. It is often taken up by speculators, : himself, and he was candid enough to admit he and if a bond tise settler wants it he has to pay a large amount by way of premium for the land. Many settlers have gone month after month-I might almost say year after year-without being able in many cases to get land, and when they do get it the probability is that they pay more for the land than they would have done if it had been put up to auction in the first place. I hope before long there will be an amendment to the Land for Settlements Act enabling those people who take up land under the lease-in- perpetuity system to acquire the freehold. Why https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 should not the man who has settled on land have the right to acquire the freehold ? An Hon. MEMBER. - That would destroy the system. the big fish would swallow the little ones. Mr. LANG. If the honourable member is afraid of the big fish swallowing up the little ones, that is easily prevented by having a law whereby a man is unable to acquire more than a certain amount of land : but I say that en- couragement ought to be given to the settler to acquire the freehold of his property. He ought to be allowed to do so by instalments, paying off bit by bit, and should receive interest, of course, upon the amount paid up, so that he would be gradually reducing his rent and acquiring the freehold. There is no blinking the fact that the lease in perpetuity is not the most popular system of settlement in the colony. If any one will take up a paper and see the land-sales, especially in Auckland, he will see that a much larger quantity of land is taken up under the system of occupation with the right of purchase than under the lease-in- perpetuity system, and that is done even though they have to pay 1 per cent. more rent than under the lease in perpetuity. The people are willing to do that in order to be able to acquire the freehold of the property. I hope, Sir, the time is not far distant when all the lease-in- perpetuity settlers will be allowed to acquire the freehold of their properties. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton). - I regret very much that the mover of this Bill, the Premier, is not present, because he is rather an important personage and factor in the whole of the legislation of this House. He made some wonderful statements this afternoon, in introducing this Bill, about what he conceived to be cases of dummyism and cases of that sort which obtained, as I understood, in connection with the various Land Boards in Canterbury : but my honourable friend Mr. Meredith and myself, from our position on the Land Board. know to the contrary. I can tell you, Sir, of a most flagrant case-one of the most flagrant cases that came before the Canterbury Land Board in the last six years -- that was connived at by the central office. The Land Board. because it was pure, defeated this attempt, and that is not a matter that there can be any dis- pute about. I shall briefly recite the facts of to one's-self it cannot be done. An applicant for a section to the Canterbury Land Board made application that he desired to get this section for wanted it for his son, who was eighteen years of age. There would be a difficulty about this applicant complying with the conditions of settlement, and he said he would submit him. self to all sorts of inconveniences if the Board would only accept himself or his wife as apli. cant for the section, and at the end of two years he would remove his boy from the sencol he was then attending and send him to Lincoln College in order that he might acquire a know. ledge of agriculture and qualify himself as an average Crown tenant. It seemed to be quite right to the gentleman himself that he should want to acquire this section for his son. From my place in the Land Board I touched this gentleman on the shoulder and said, " If you should succeed in this little oracle of yours you would be the biggest 'dummy' in New Zealand. The Hon. John Mckenzie has spent the best vears of his life searching for one and has never caught one, but if he put his hand on you be would have the biggest one in New Zealand " Now, this was connived at by the central other in Wellington. The Premier said this Act had proved a failure. Then, why does he not revert to the past system of sale by public auction ? I can suggest a clause in order to better this great feature of the Bill, giving the Land Board, with the consent of the Minister, power to select the applications of married people : that a married man with a family of one would be elen ie : that a married man with a family of two would be more eligible ; and that a married man with a family of three would be still more eligible: but he might not have the physical power to hold the position. Why, there are people with large families who are unmarried. I may say it would place enormous power in the hands of the Land Board to discriminate amongst the eligible candidates for sections on estates. Now. it appeared to me absurd that any restricti ! should be allowed to interfere with Boards. wir. are selected for the purpose of dealing fairy with all persons desirous of becoming Crown 