because if we give local bodies the right to make " unauthorised expenditure " in the way the General Government do they would in time be as bad as the General Government in this respect. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I quite agree with the member for Palmerston with regard to the danger of giving local authorities any such general power as is provided by this Bill in regard to this particular occasion. deed, I carry his objection a little further than he did, because I object, even on this particular occasion, to giving local authorities all the power conceded by this Bill. Seeing that the expenditure was admittedly illegal at the time it was made, and that Parliament has no official or even actual knowledge of the amount of this expenditure, I do not think that Parlia- ment should pass an Indemnity Bill without making itself better acquainted with the actual facts. In other words, I think it would be perfectly reasonable to indemnify the local bodies for all reasonable expenditure in this respect ; but it appears to me that it is for Parliament, and not for the local body, whether in theory or in practice, to prescribe what is reasonable. I would not be disposed for a moment to deal with these accounts in a cavilling fashion, but I think that, as a matter of constitutional practice, that is the proper course for us to take. Now, the Premier, in a way, anticipated that objection in the course of his very brief speech, but he did not deal with it at any considerable length. He put no power into his argument. He just stated the contention in order to brush it aside ; but, whatever may be the importance in practice of the distinction, in this particular case the course I suggest seems to be quite clearly the right one in principle, and I submit that the Right Hon. the Premier should convince me if I am wrong, or he should enable the House to carry out the principle I have suggested. Let me point out to the honourable gentleman that there is a single word in this very short Bill which really-I will not say it gives effect to my suggestion, but, at any rate, it gives point to my suggestion. We are only proposing by clause 1, subclause (1), to indemnify the local authorities for the expenditure of any sum or sums of money in fitly receiving their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York on their visit to New Zealand. Well, the whole question will turn on the word " fitly "; but we shall abrogate our jurisdiction, and we shall retain no competence to consider the "fitness" of the expenditure in Parlia- ment, and we shall pass away from our hands | Personally, with regard to the local expendi- all power of adjudicating on the question i ture that we shall have authorised under this at all, if we pass this Bill in its present form. We shall practically be giving a blank cheque to these local bodies without taking the trouble to see how it is filled in. That is wrong in principle, although in the present case it may work but little wrong in practice. With regard to the point raised by the member for Christ- church City (Mr. Collins), that appears to me to be a very important one. I should certainly sup- port making the Bill apply to all local authori- ties, though I should be for retaining the prac- tice of having their accounts audited by some parliamentary authority. This Bill will allow a local body to spend $5,000, and it will not be liable to have its accounts stuck up by the Auditor-General. The Auditor-General can only stick up the accounts if the money has been expended for some other purpose. I should like to make the Bill more complete in the direc- in- tion suggested by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), who mentioned that some Drainage Board in Canterbury would be excluded by the terms of the Bill. I should indemnify all local authorities who incurred a proper expenditure for the purposes of this Royal reception. Mr. SEDDON. - That is the first I have heard about the Board in question. Mr. ATKINSON. - No doubt the Premier will be anxious to have that Board included : but I hope that the Bill will be so amended as to include that and all possible cases by the necessary general words, without attempting an exhaustive enumeration, and perhaps failing \------ in our object by the omission of one particular case. We have had some interesting speeches this evening, particularly from the member for Waitemata ; and it was a most enter- 8.30. taining speech that we had from the honourable member for Auckland City, Mr. Witheford. I was very sorry to see, however. that with all his kindliness, there was the same taint that appears to be very general just now- the taint of recognising in this Royal reception a splendid advertisement for the colony. Really it is positively disgusting to any man, with pride for his country in his veins, and to whom patriotism is anything but mere words, to talk about this thing as being nothing better than an advertisement for the colony-to put the patriots of this colony on the same plane as the vendors of a pill or patent medicine. Certainly it would have been a grand advertisement for a pill or a patent medicine to have had it em- blazoned on the Duke's carriage; but are we to put the loyalty of the colony-and it may be the extravagance of the colony in its loyalty -- on the same footing? It is disgusting to hear that there appears to have been a lot of money extravagantly spent, but that in the long-run it will be a good advertisement for the colony. The advertisement that I understood from the honourable member for Auckland City the colony was getting was a column and a half per day in the London papers. I do not know the exact value per inch of an advertisement in the London Times, but it must be considerable. Bill, I do not think there has been anything in the nature of gross extravagance. I agree with my honourable friend the member for Palmers- ton that the Government have organized their part of the work very creditably. I am sorry to say, at the same time, that I think they were guilty of a great deal of unnecessary ex- travagance ; but I have no hesitation in saying that their organization was good. I fully agree, however, with the remarks that have come from 