is altogether uncalled-for. If there is to be an alteration in our electoral system, and if we are to adopt voting by post, or if we are to give electoral rights, let us go straightforwardly and boldly for an alteration of the electoral laws. Sir, I will not be a party to tinkering with the electoral laws in any measure that is before the House, whether it is the Referendum Bill or any other measure. If such an alteration is carried I may say that is the last you will hear of the Referendum Bill. I look on the ballot system as being superior to any referendum, or to any law on the statute-book of the colony. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. SEDDON .- Honourable members do not seem to like it. We know they have been at this for years. They want to do away with the ballot. They want to get electoral rights, and to get an opportunity to use undue influence. Take a case in point : There were ten thousand people in Christchurch yesterday who did not exercise their right to vote. They did not care a fig about the result. Well, some one else might have exercised those votes. Sir, there are some people who have " fads," as the member for Waitemata and the member for Palmerston. You would find them going round to every per- son who is entitled to send a vote by post, and there would be a nice little arrangement. They would go from house to house fixing up these papers, and getting the mistresses to influence the girls and the masters to influence the men. We all know the little arrangement. They do it now. They have done it before and they would do it again if they got the chance. Sir, I say that the ballot means freedom, and to tamper with it would be unwise in the extreme. We know what it has cost to obtain, and, that being so, are we to give it away lightly ? If we did so it would be a grievous mistake. To say that one cannot tamper, and that there cannot be personification, is all "buncombe." I have known it done, and done to a considerable ex- tent, in Australia. In Victoria they used to have that system, and I have known electoral rights brought from Castlemaine to another electorate ; and I have known electoral rights sent up from Williamtown to another electorate in the coun- try. I have known cases on the West Coast, Sir, in the early days, where miners' rights were used as voters' rights. Mr. MONK. - Was that the time they put George in ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, that was not the time when we put George in. We can always say that any member who comes to this House on our side comes in honestly, but, Sir, the mi- nority representatives you have on the Oppo- sition side of the House come in by trickery and deceit. We have that exemplified every election. The Prohibitionists invariably put up a candidate and they say, "There are two things to be gained - it is heads we gain, tails you lose. There are the two objects to be gained. If we do not get in a Prohibitionist you will stop the Government candidate from being elected." And they are doing that per- sistently throughout the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is incorrect. Mr. SEDDON .- It is not incorrect. I have known too many cases. They do not care a fig for the general politics of the country or for the Government : they only desire to further prohibition. That is all they care about. I have it from the leaders that they are in- different to the general politics of the country or to the Government of the country, but that they want to secure temperance reform : and that they seek before everything else. But. Sir. 1 the good sense of the majority of the temper- ance people is against throwing over every progressive measure and wrecking the Liberal party simply for the purpose of furthering prohibition. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the question before the House ? Mr. SEDDON .- The question is whether you are to tamper with the ballot system. That is the question, and I have been constrained to make these remarks because I see there is great danger of tampering with the ballot sistem which now obtains, and I shall tight to the bitter end-I shall fight to the death against the electoral-right system of voting. i shall vote against having voting-papers sent to people's homes. And, Sir, the poor, unfortunate, ever- suffering woman is drawn into this again. Says the member for Waitemata, " She cannot come : a wet day will keep her." Why, Sir. oid as he is, he knows nothing about women. A rainy day keep a woman at home when she is going to help a man she believes in nothing of the sort! If she wishes to support a candi- date she will go through fire and water: and it is because the women of the country are with the Government that we prosper and keep in power. It is the careless, indifferent women in respect to political matters who want to remain in their luxurious dra . ing-rooms and have post-cards sent to them. The country farmer's wife-the women of the country- brave all the dangers of the road or rain to record their votes, and take a delight in doing it. I know a farmer's wife who came down the West Coast, and she had to cross the river four times, swimming it three times, so that she might vote for me. The idea of talking about this postal-note system of voting being want d by the women. I say they have never asked for it. I challenge the honourable member to show a single petition or communication to members of Parliament indicating that to be the case. It is all in the honourable member's brain. Mr. MONK. -- Oh. no. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, where is it. I ask ? If there was a general feeling amongst the elector or amongst the women electors of our cal ny we should have it manifested either by petition or voiced at some public meeting, or weald be, at any rate, through the Press. Now, we have no petitions, we have no resolutions fr in public meetings, we hear nothing of it in the Press, and the only one who presses it is the honourable member for Waitemata. We mu: allow the honourable member to refer to the past-it is always pleasing to me to be re- minded of the " wretched past," and whenever 