return to power again. At that time Mr. Chamberlain and some of his associates issued a political programme. It was known in history as the "Unauthorised Programme." They spread it all through the country, and they asked the country to indorse this pro- gramme, and put them in power at the coming election. Amongst others whom Mr. Chamber- lain approached was the Irish Home Rule party. He made proposals to them for a grant of Home Rule. It was the first time that the Home Rule party had had any offer made to them from any statesman of prominence, and the bulk of the party desired very greatly to accept these pro- posals and throw in their lot with Mr. Cham- berlain. There was almost one only against it, and that was the leader of the party at that time, Mr. Parnell. Mr. Parnell said, " No, we will not accept these proposals. Mr. Gladstone will come back and will sweep the country, and by-and-by we shall obtain Mr. Gladstone's ad- herence to our proposals." Mr. Chamberlain was waiting to hear the result of the meet- ing. He was told that they did not accept his proposals; and from that moment he became a bitter opponent of the Home Rule movement ; and he himself, who had been the very first man to put these proposals forward, and to offer to the party almost all that they wanted if they would join him, was the one to turn and help to deprive the Liberals of office and power, and afterwards to ally himself with the Conserva- It tives whom he had so bitterly opposed. seems to me that that is not the kind of states- man whom we as Liberals and Radicals in this country can have trust and confidence in ; and I. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 for my part, do not care to express any approval whatever of that honouralle gentleman's policy or conduct. Now, Sir, there is little that I have to say further, except to express very general approval of the proposals in the Governor's Specch, although I cannot help saying that I noted with some regret the suggestion of the Premier last night that the time has now come when we must go considerably slower in the direction of social and labour legislation. Now, Sir, I agree that the workers are not the whole community. There are others than they that have to be considered, and legislation must be for the whole of the country. But I do say this : that of all classes in the com- munity the workers are those which stand most in need of beneficial and remedial legisla- tion. They form the class which has suffered most in the past, and they are the class that require and ought to have the most considera- tion of all the classes in the community. I trust that the honouralle gentleman who is at the head of the Government will see no neces- sity for holding his hand for any lengthened or extended period. I feel greatly relieved, Sir, at having said what I was obliged to say and what I have said. I am glad to have it said, and it is much more pleasant to turn to the congenial task of offering my congratulations to the Government on their administration, which almost as a whole is exceedingly satisfactory to the country, and also on the legislation which they propose to provide. If the measures sug- gested in the Governor's Speech are to a con- siderable extent carried out and placed on the statute-book I think there will not be reason to complain of the work which will have been done, provided these things are, for the most part, ac- complished during the present session of Parlia- ment. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- It is not my inten- tion to weary the House with a lengthy address, but some honourable members who have pre- ceded me have spoken of some of the subjects dealt with in His Excellency's Address, and I cannot withstand the temptation now of saying a word or two in answer to them. I would like to congratulate the honourable members who proposed and seconded the Address in Reply. Of course, both of them are experienced speakers in this House, and we were quite prepared to hear full justice done to the Address. In regard to the question, which was raised by the last speaker, as to members of this House or the people of this country receiving honours at the hands of the Sovereign, and the expression of his opinion that we, as residents of this colony, ought to disapprove of that, I must frankly own that I do not agree with that honourable mem- ber in one single word that he said. I think if there is one kind of honour that we may heartily approve of it is the dignity given to our people and to ourselves, and when it is an honour given only to the person who has earned it. I could have understocd the honourable member if his eloquence had been directed against those honours which descend to persons on account . of some great work done by a predecessor. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about those who have bought them ? Mr. McNAB .- I have nothing to do with any who have bought their honours. It may be that persons in other walks of life have got into positions and into society, when, if we knew their innermost history, we would know that they do not deserve any credit at all. But I do not think a case of that kind ought to be brought forward to diminish the lustre of the honour in a case where it cannot be suggested that the honour has never been won; and I think, in the case of the two knights recently created in this colony, if ever there were gentle- men in this House or the country who earned such a reward for their services it is the two gentlemen who have had the honour of knight- hood conferred on them recently. In regard to the other great events in the history of our country and the Empire which are referred to in His Excellency's Speech, I do not intend to detain the House by speaking about them at great length. There is no doubt that the era which has just passed - known as the Vic. torian era - was an era unparalleled in our history, and in that of the Empire. And, though under our present reigning Sovereign we cannot expect to see such an extension of the boundaries of our Empire as there has been during the reign which has just closed, still, there is much to be accomplished ; and I hope, during the years to come, that as part of the great British Empire we shall extend our boundaries in the Southern Pacific Ocean, 