draftsmanship when he does not even offer assistance. Why, over and over again honour- able members on this side of the House who have had a legal training have assisted the Premier in his draftsmanship. We had an in- stance of it to-night. An amendment of a clause was suggested to the Premier last night by an honourable member on this side of the House, and to-night we had a similar amend- ment brought down by the Premier. Mr. FIELD. - And yet you say this side of the House never takes suggestions from your side. Mr. PIRANI .-- And I repeat, that the other side do not accept amendments from this side : but the Government comes down later on with those very suggestions, so as not to give the original mover the credit. When the Premier introduced this Bill he said it was a Bill of urgency, and that it was absolutely necessary that it should be passed. Even before it was printed he wanted it read a second time, be- cause it was a Bill of urgency. Now, has there ever been a Bill that the Premier knows of in this House which has been treated with less urgency. not by himself but by his party, than this Bill? Why, we have had discussions hy Government supporters on subjects ranging from Dan to Beersheba, from the Advances to Settlers Department to the Valuation Depart- ment, and Goodness knows what else, on this Bill. We had also what I might characterize as a bear-garden exhibition between supporters of the Government to-night. I think it is unfair to members that they should be kept here listening to this sort of squabbling between Government supporters under the pretence that they are discussing a Land for Settlements Bill. I might point out to the honourable member for Otaki that there is some reason for the alarm shown by the recently elected member for Patea as to the Government's land-for- settlements policy. I may say that since I have been in the House I have been a consistent supporter of that policy ; but I do say there is every reason on the part of those who believe in a man being allowed to retain a reasonable amount of land as freehold when they know what the proposals of the Government in this direction have been. Does he know that not very many years ago-in 1897-the Govern- ment brought down a Bill by which the maximum amount of land allowed to one owner under the Land for Settlements Act was to be twenty-five acres. In any part of the colony the Government could take away a two-hun- dred-acre farm from a man and leave him only twenty-five acres for himself. In the face of such a ridiculous and unjust proposal - which was, of course, scouted in the House - how can we be surprised that gentlemen living in the back blocks, and who have only seen this phase of lands-for-settlement principle, are afraid of what the result will be to small holders. I do not intend to go at any length into the subject to-night, but I should like to emphasize one or two points which I brought before the House in Committee. I say it is theduty -the urgent duty -of the Government to bring in legisla tion by which they should limit the aggrega- tion of extensive freehold estates in the colony. I say, then, if they intend to do their duty 1 to the settlers in the colony, who desire to see a proper state of things in connection with the land. they should limit under the Land Transfer Act the right of any man to register more than, say, 640 acres of first- class land and 2,000 acres of second-class land which was Crown land after the passing of the Act. Then there would be no fear of the ery about the aggregation of estates. But the first important amendment to the Act in the Ball proposed by the Premier, apart from the machinery clauses, which were necessary to perfect the original legislation, is the extra- ordinary provision the Premier introduced it regard to the ballot. Personally. I have always said the ballot-system was faulty and wanted amendment, and no one would be more pleased than myself to see some attempt made, even at this late stage, to stop the crying seandals going on in connection with the selection of Crowe lands ; and if there is any part of the Crown lands which want to be safeguarded more than another, surely it is those we are acquiring at so great expense under the land-for-settlement system. Therefore I welcome the proposal of the Premier, and although criticizing those proposals I do so in no captious spirit, because I admit that the distribution of the land to the applicants is one of the most difficult problems in connection with land-settlement. And if the Premier s proposal in the Bill works out as suc- cessfully as he is sanguine enough to think it will do I shall be pleased to accord him the praise he would deserve in solving what I think is the most difficult problem we have to face in connection with the land-f-r-settlements sys- tem. At the same time I may be forgiven for having a little partiality for a proposal I made myself. I placed on a Supplementary Order Paper a proposal for what I think would be a better system of distributing the land to intend. ing applicants than that at present in force. or the amendments introduced by the Premier ; but, in the face of the fact that the Premier had brought other proposals before the House. I did not desire to take up the time of the House by bringing forward my own proposal. because I knew very well that it would only lead perhaps to a long debate, and was certain to be rejected in view of the Premier's pro- posals. As the Premier is practically respon- sible for the administration of this Act. it is only right, perhaps, that his own proposals should be accepted in preference to those of an irresponsible member. At the same time it is well perhaps, in view of future events which may take place, that I should place on record what my proposals are in connection with the ballot for land. They are as foi- lows : - "A list, to be called the 'applicants' list.' shall be kept in the principal Land Offire in each provincial district, and such list shali be open for public inspection during office hours. "(1.) Such list shall contain the names, ad- dresses, and occupations of persons 