the clause as he has explained to the Committee is entirely satisfactory, as far as I can gather. By the alterations which the Premier proposes the objectionable feature of altering statute law by rules and regulations is entirely deleted from the clause. It was indeed interesting and amusing to hear the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs objecting to that clause on the ground. somewhat haltingly and weakly, that he thought it was rather improper. Why, he does not seem to know that if that clause is allowed to go as it is it violates the very gravest and most fundamental principles of the Constitution. He never seems to have had an inkling of that fact. He has no idea of the enormity of the offence, but goes and tells the Committee that he thinks it is rather improper. Well, I hope the Premier's suggestion will be entirely carried out. It is entirely satisfactory to those of us who understand the question and the subject, and I feel sure it will be satisfac- tory to the House as a whole. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Sir, Mr. SPEAKER .- The honourable member cannot be allowed to speak again to the amend- ment he has moved. Mr. WILFORD .- Am I not allowed to make a personal explanation ? Mr. SPEAKER. - Yes, you may do that. Mr. WILFORD .- I would like to point out that the statement made by the junior member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) with reference . to me is quite incorrect. I always take the greatest care in speaking with absolutely no warmth when discussing a matter which reflects personally on myself. I would like to inform the honourable gentleman that the "jumping of the claim " was done by him and not by me, because when the discussion took place in Com- mittee I moved the very same thing I am moving now. The honourable member was not in his seat at the time, and when I saw that he was inclined to jump my claim I took care that he should not do so effectively, although he might succeed in advertising himself by placing his motion on a Supplementary Order Paper. The honourable member seems to be an adept in that particular class of advertisement which he accuses me of taking part in. I can assure him that I had absolutely no intention what- ever of allowing him to jump my claim, and that I intentionally got up and spoke before he could have an opportunity of what might be termed "poking his nose" into business which did not concern him. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- Speaking in strictly personal explanation, I desire to say that I knew absolutely nothing, and this is the first I have heard of any motion or intention to move by the honourable member for the Wellington Suburbs. Mr. WILFORD .- That is what I said ; you knew nothing. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I cannot see how the Premier's amendment touches the question at issue at all. I want to know whether the Premier is willing that sub- clause (2) should be struck out. That, I under- Mr. Barclay stand, is the clause which violates the funda- mental principles of our Constitution according to the junior member for Dunedin City. Do I understand the Premier that that is to be struck out ? Mr. SEDDON .-- No. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, that is the part of the clause I object to, and, therefore, I strongly support the motion of the honourable member for the Suburbs to recommit the whole of the clause, so that we can have an intelligent vote as to whether we are going to validate regula- tions which are made in violation of the law as it stood. Now, the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) seems to object to his elain being jumped ; but he forgets that just before the motion was moved he was in earnest confab with the Premier. We know that when the Premier takes the trouble to go round to a private member just before a motion is moved, and discusses the matter affably with him, there is something in the wind, and I clearly re- ceived the impression-and other members, and I think the member for the Suburbs too-that it was for the purpose of preventing the moving of the recommittal. If the member for the Suburbs had not moved the recommittal of the Bill, there are half-a-dozen other members who would have, because there is no doubt that the most objectionable portion of this clause is subsection (2), but therein the amendment is peculiar, because, if you look at section 18 of the Act of last year, it is exactly what the Premier's amendment will make clause 9 of this Bill. Now, I say this : that in connec- tion with the whole land-settlement policy -not only land for settlements, but the whole of the land-laws of the Government- they frequently issue regulations which are in contravention of the provisions of the law. Mr. SEDDON .- I will go on with the Bill without recommitting it. Mr. PIRANI .- We are not asking the Pre- mier to recommit it ; we are asking the House. And it does not matter a button what the Pre- mier thinks, or what he is going to do ; if the House orders the recommittal he will have to recommit. But I say I can produce a number of regulations of the Government with regard to the settlement of the land which are in con- travention of the provisions of the Land Act. Now, I say this : that if regulations have been made in contravention of the law, and we are asked to legalise them, then it is only fair to the House that we should be told what the regulations are which are ultra vires, what the effect of them has been, and why they should be legalised. If the House is not taken into the confidence of the Government in that re- spect. I do not think it is fair to ask us. with- out that confidence, to legalise them as is pro- posed by section 9. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- I bez to move that the recommittal be confined to the first part of clause 9. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- As a point of order, I would ask if the position is now not this: There is, first of all, a motion for the considera- 