a party to an industrial agreement. This Bill imposes liability upon any trade-union which has come under an industrial agreement, but if it has refused to register as an industrial union, then, in opposition to the aim of the Premier, the union will still evade any liability under the Act. I will just cite a few other sec- tions in order to show how haphazard the drafting has been. Section 24, as I said, is already amended by the insertion of the words " trade-union or," but take an adjoining section which is dealing with the same general subject of industrial agreements. Section 27 says,- " Every industrial agreement duly made, executed, and filed shall be binding on the parties thereto, and also on every member of any industrial union or industrial association which is party thereto." Now, a trade-union has been inserted as a possible party to an industrial agreement under the provisions of clause 4; but the personal liability of the members of industrial unions which is imposed by section 27 is not imposed on trade-unions, because the words have not been added thereto. There is another case which shows that the honourable gentle- man's proposal to make the trade-unions sub- ject to the same liability as the industrial unions is not being effectively carried out by the Bill we have before us. Take section 42, subsection (4), of the principal Act, which says that a chairman or a member of a Con- ciliation Board is to be disqualified " if he is proved to be guilty of inciting any industrial union or employer to commit any breach of an industrial agreement or award." Then, Sir, it is perfectly clear the word "trade - union " should be inserted there, for a trade-union by this Bill is enabled to be a party to any indus- trial agreement just as much as an industrial union registered under the Act. Of course, that raises a general question of principle, on which I have before differed from the Premier. I refer to the great danger of attempting an exhaustive enumeration of cases. In order to be quite cer- tain what we are doing by this kind of amend- ment. the only safe plan would be to go micro- scopically through every section and line of the principal Act where the words " industrial union " and "industrial association " occur and insert the word " trade-union." It is per- feetly certain that has not been done. Now, there is another way in which it could be done, and that is this : by amending the interpreta- tion clause. That, of course, is scientific and comprehensive, and must meet every possible case. Sir. I have been looking so far upon the obligations imposed on trade unions by the Bill, and the obligations which the Premier said he desired should be imposed, but now I will take the privileges which the Act confers. The important privilege of moving the Court is conferred by section 52 of the principal Act. which says : "Any industrial dispute may be referred for settlement to a Board by applica- tion in that behalf made by any party thereto." Now, an industrial dispute is defined in the interpretation clause of the Act to mean i he is making, and they have a right to go to " any dispute arising between one or more | him and ask for an increase, and, in the even" employers, or industrial unions or associations of employers, and one or more industrial unions or associations of workers, in relation to industrial matters." From this clause trade- unions have been excluded by the Arbitration Court, and, of course, the reason why the Bill is introduced, or this particular amendment is introduced, is because they have been so excluded. They are expressly now included in the provisions relating to industrial agree. ments, so if they choose they can get the ad- vantage and liability of an industrial agree- ment. But, assuming that they are not parties to any industrial agreement, then in the case of an industrial dispute the trade-union may incur liabilities in the event of the Court making an award, yet they will have no right of initiating proceedings nor any locus standi in the Court. Well. I am quite certain that neither friend nor foe of the legislation contained in this Bill could desire to see this matter treated in this piece. meal and haphazard fashion. I would suggest. therefore, to the Right Hon. the Premier that the Bill should be thoroughly overhauled. I am sure this House is not the proper body to undertake the task. Mr. SEDDON. - It is my intention to refer the Bill to the Labour Bills Committee. Mr. ATKINSON .- I was going to suggest something of the sort. I hardly dare to pro- pose to refer it to the Committee of lawver -. which was somewhat severely handled the other day. But if this Bill is not to be overhauld by some Committee there will be a chance of something like hopeless confusion, which I fear the matter would be phuiged into if these curiously selected amendments are put through without the matter being comprehensively dealt with. My honourable friend has asked me what would be the position of a trade-union. assuming they were fully subject to the Act. Well, it seems to me that if that were so, under subsection (6) of section 94 of the Act the whole of the property and trust funds of the union would be liable under that section, and the individual property of the members would also be liable, to satisfy the judgment. I do not know whether in consequence it could be regarded as too drastic. I do not suppose it would, because trade-unions registered inder the Act are already fully subject to it. How. ever, that and other difficulties which have been pointed out in this debate would form a very proper subject for consideration on the part of the Labour Bills Committee. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .-- When th. 12.0. Conciliation and Arbitration Act wa- first introduced I understood it was brought in. for the purpose of settling disputes between em. plovers and employés. I quite approve of that. I am also in favour of trade unions. I believe that any body of workers working in any i- dustry have a right to get a fair share of the profits of that industry, and they have a richt to band themselves together to get hi ther wages if they are of opinion that the employer is not giving them a fair rate according to the profit 