a large number of cemeteries where the trustees were appointed by the Superintendent under a provincial Ordinance. Will this Bill in any way affect these cemeteries or the Cemetery Boards ? I quite agree with the principle of the Bill. Road Boards and local authorities are fitter trustees for a cemetery than individuals, who die or disappear, or who may neglect their duties. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- The Bill is not one dealing with old cemeteries which were provided for by Ordinance ; they, no doubt, have been validated, and there is no necessity to vali- date them again. The difficulty now is that Road Boards are not local authorities under sec- tion 2 of the Cemeteries Act. It is to rectify this that the Bill is necessary. If I find there is any necessity to make the Bill go further and cover more ground in the same direction I shall be prepared to meet it. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at a quarter to five o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday. 24th July, 1901. First Readi. gs-Counties Bill --- Presbyterian Church of New Zealand Bill -- Fiji-Sanatorium at Roto- rua - Nighteaps Stationmaster - Wages of Casual Railway-hanus - Advertisements of Quack Medi- cines, &c. -- Stock-loading Yards at Inglewood- "L" Wagons for Nelson - Motupiko Railway - https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Preferential Railway Rate on Waipahi Heriot Railway - Clifton Railway.platform - Glenavy Station yard - Railway Emulo, es Clas- ification -Casual Railway hands - Periodical Railway ke- turns - Employés in Railway Workshops - Ad- dington Rahway-station - Islington, Hornby, and Templeton Railway Services - Railway Service Wages-Annual S. ason Tickets- Railway Ser- vice Wages - Weight of Grain-sacks -- Conduct of Inquests -Aparuma Railway-bridge -Kaikoura. Daily Mail-service - Levin Post-office - Homos for Incurabl s . Con-umption of Fuel by Loco- motives - Flag-station at Kelvin Grove - . Club Charters -- Accommodation at Christchurch Railway station -- Carriage of Bicycles -- Dunedin Post-office- Railway from Patterson's Creek to Springfield -"Phumping" at Elections -Railway Pares -- Mount Egmont Railway -. Harbour Board Charges - North Island Main Trunk Railway Viaduets - School teachers' Classification - - Kai- para Railway-Training ship - Hansard Reprints -Cook Strait Ferry-service -- Copies of Bilis for Public Libraries - Rangitane and N_atikuia Hapus -- Mming Companies Low-District Court for Auckland . - Southland Police Di-triet -New Gaol for Invercargill-Supreme Court Judges- Ammunition License fees - Worktiens homes -Waikakahi and Parcora Roads and Bridges- Morven Wesleyan Church Site - Kapua Set le- ment - Pareora Water-race -Public Health Bill- Land for Settlements Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Palmerston North Reserves Bill, Contagious Diseases Repeal Bill. COUNTIES BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That Stand- ing Order No. 211 be suspended, and that a Select Committee, consisting of thirtysix mem- bers, be appointed. to whom shall be referred the Counties Bill and certain other Bilis or matters more particularly referring to local administration affected by the Bill : five to be a quorum : the Committee to consist of Mr. J. Allen, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Bollard, Mr. Buddo, Mr. Carneross, Mr. Colvin, Mr. Field, Mr. Flat- man, Mr. Fowlds, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. Guinness, Mr. Hall, Mr. Hardy. Mr. Herries, Mr. Hogg, Mr. Hornsby. Mr. Houston, Mr. Lang, Mr. Lethbridge, Mr. Massey, Mr. McGuire, Mr. T. Mackenzie. Mr. R. Mckenzie, Mr. Mclachlan, Mr. McNab, Mr. Meredith, Mr. O'Meara. Mr. Palmer, Mr. Pirani, Mr. Rhodes, Captain Russell, Mr. Stevens, Mr. Symes, Mr. J. W. Thomson, and the mover. Motion agreed to. PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH OF NEW ZEALAND BILL. Mr. McNAB ( Mataura). . Bir. this measure I am now moving the second reading of is rendered necessary owing to the fact that the Presbyterian Church of Otago and Southland has decided almost unanimously to join hands with the Presbyterian Church of New Zealand. In connection with the property held by the Presbyterian Church of Otago and Southland legislation was years ago passed, and one of the terms of the union between the two Churches is that this property shall remain under the trusts which hold it at the present time. That being so, it is absolutely necessary that the Synod, or the governing body of the Otago and Southland Presbyterian Church, should be continued, not- withstanding the union, for the purpose of carrying out the trusts under which these lands are now held. This Bill is to give effect to that provision. I move its second reading. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .-- I wish to ask the mover of the second reading of this Bill one question. I think he has in his remarks deal with the subject I am about to refer to, but I hope he will make it clear in his reply. What I refer to are the particular trusts in Otago and Southland. At the present time these trusts are held, amongst other things, for higher educa- tional purposes. A portion of the money deriv. able from the endowments is being used for services in the Otago University, and three prof - sorial chairs are being kept up out of it. I believe the honourable member in moving the second reading made it clear that these trusts would remain absolutely unimpaired. I hope that that is so, and that he will give the House an assur- ance to that effect. If it is so, I have no d og tt that there will not be any objection to the Bill going through. I have nothing further tosas, (- cepting that it would be a very serious matter for the people of Otago if they were deprived of that assistance from these endowments. It would result in considerable harm to if not the break- ing-up of the Otago University. I agree with the principles of the Bill, but I would like the 