measure that ought to be passed, so far as simphfication. Mr. PALMER (Obinemuri) .- I must thank justice is concerned. honourable members ; I had no idea when I in- troduced the Bill that it would get so much abuse. There is a proverb which says that Allen, E. G. " You never throw stones at a tree unless it has Arnold good fruit on it." There must, therefore, be Colvin something good in the Bill, or it would not Ell have had to endure so much "stone-throwing " ; Flatman and I am more satisfied with it than I ever was Fraser, A. L. D. Lawry before, notwithstanding the treatment it has re- Guinness ceived and the unconscientious misrepresenta- tions it has had. Take, for instance, the honour- able member for Avon : he spoke of a bicyclist Allen, J. knocking down an old lady in the street, and he Atkinson said the man would immediately appeal if cast Bennet in damages. Nothing of the kind. The honour- Bollard able member has not looked at the provisions of Buddo the Bill. It was for that very reason that I was Carroll particular not to allow a man to appeal at once Duncan unless he had an excellent case. A solicitor has Fraser, W. to get an affidavit and a report of the facts, and Graham on those facts counsel has to give an opinion Hardy that the case is a good one and ought to go to appeal. Mr. HUTCHESON .- That is where the law- yers come in. Mr. PALMER .- The lawyers come in in the same way in a case of in forma pauperis, and if the law is wrong in this respect it is wrong detain the House long in introducing this short in the other, and that law has been the same since the time of Henry the Seventh. The member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) referred to the criminal cases. This Bill has nothing to do with criminal cases. I never ex- rected that the honourable member for Auck- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 land City (Mr. Napier) would admit that any clause 3 of the amending Act of 1899 omitted one in the House could draft a Bill except him- self. We have had some experience of his Bill drafting in this House. He quoted a case in http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero the Supreme Court where the verdict of the jury was set aside by the Judge. There was another case beside that mentioned by Mr. Napier in which a verdict of the jury went for the plaintiff against the City Council, and the Judge again upset the verdict of the jury. Of course, I expected the chaff about the lawyers. In fact, I rather like it. I got the most of it from the Opposition, and naturally a great deal of it reflected on the Opposition lawyers. The honourable member for the Bay of Plenty and the honourable member for Franklin raised the point that any person could appeal if this Bill were passed, and it would lead to frivolous appeals, and that this Bill was one- sided. They are wrong. According to this If he has Bill he must have a good case first. a good case, why should he be denied the right of appeal? If the law-courts have injured a man, why should he not have an opportunity of getting justice, and have the right of appeal ? I feel I have done my duty in introducing this Bill. I do not mind it being thrown out. I intend to carry it to a division. In introducing the Bill I did not say it was a labour Bill. Had I brought it forward as a labour Bill I would have asked that it be referred to the I abour Bills Committee. I see no reason why The House divided. Ayes, 20. Millar Hall Hall-Jones O'Meara Heke Steward Symes. Hogg Tellers. Laurenson Palmer Stevens. McGowan Noes, 29. Parata Herries Pirani Houston Russell, W. R Hutcheson Tanner Lang Thompson, R. Lethbridge Thomson, J. W. Massey Willis. McGuire Tellers. Monk Morrison Collins Russell, G. W. Napier Majority against, 9. Second reading negatived. COUNTIES ACT AMENDMENT BILL. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- Sir, I shall not amending measure. In the session of 1899 a Bill was passed with a clause in it providing for an alteration of the boundary of the Selwyn and Ashley Counties, owing to the change in the course of the River Waimakariri, generally understood to be permanent ; but unfortunately to define the local authorities referred to. Clause 2 of this amending Bill is simply to provide for the omission, and to allow this par- ticular clause in the Act to become operative. When that is done, Sir, the intention of the Act of 1899 will be carried out, and the local authorities will be able to do an act of justice to several settlers who have no roads, and are in a most unfortunate position with regard to the counties, as they are prevented from paying their rates to the local body which should provide them with roads. The other clause of this amending Act is clause 3, and it is considered necessary to protect the River Board from any difficulty that might arise through the alteration in the boundary. Clause 3 will be found to effectually protect the South Waimakariri River Board, which gives its opinion thus: "At a meeting of the Board the members present unanimously agreed to the alteration of the boundary, and considered that clause 3 of the Bill containing the proviso was unnecessary " ; but, as one of the Road Boards insists on this safeguard, the proviso is there, and if any diffi- culty should occur the proviso will meet it. I move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read a second time. RABBIT NUISANCE BILL. Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - Sir, this Bill is precisely similar to the one introduced last 