evil, as also does this Legislature, by inflicting heavy fines, and by inflicting as a maximum penalty twelve months' imprisonment. Such is the opinion of our Legislature. But, Sir, to return to the question of the totalisator: If honourable gentlemen will turn to our Year- book they will find that the total amount put through the totalisator in 1892 was $506,078; in 1893, ₺720,020; in 1894, $691,673, a slight decrease in that year compared with the pre- ceding year ; in 1895, $696,456 ; in 1896, £743,763; in 1897, 4704.096; in 1898, $886,567; in 1899, 9912.969 ; in 1900, €1,065,580. Now, Sir, while the amount put through the totalisator has considerably increased, I will ask honourable gentlemen to note this: that it is not on account of the increase of population, because the increase of our population for the last five years, comprising the last census period, was only about 8 per cent. ; whereas the increase in gambling through the totalisator for the same period was a little over 43 per cent., that is, over five times the increase in gambling to what there was in population. So, Sir, we see that, instead of the totalisator checking the evil, it has rather added to it, and the test is the amount of money that has been put through. Now, seeing that the Legislature has laid down the principle that it is the duty of the State to check the evil as far as it possibly can, and seeing that the totalisator was created with the idea that it would check the evil, and it has not checked the evil, then, Sir, it is the duty now of the Legislature, seeing that they have increased the gambling evil by legal- ising the totalisator, to sweep away the cause of temptation to increased gambling. We drive the bookmakers from one end of the colony to the other. Wetreat them as blackguards ; we treat them as the very worst class of society practi. cally ; wedrive them off the streets and we drive them out of offices ; we say that they are not worthy people ; we say that they are a source of temptation to other people, and that they are doing nothing else but spreading evil amongst our people. Such is the opinion of the Legis- lature as shown in our statutes. Now, if it is absolutely wrong according to our laws to make a bet, to be logical and consistent we must not carry out the gambling evil through the total- isator as we have been doing. There is no need for me to dwell at any great length upon this question. I think every honourable member has made up his mind on this question. Petition after petition has been sent to this House - in fact, scores of them. This Bill simply provides for the abolition of the total- isator. Every member who is in favour of the abolition of the totalisator will vote for the second reading of this Bill, and every one who is not in favour of the abolition of the totalisator will vote against it. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- Sir, I scarcely think it would be fair to the honourable gentleman, and it would be scarcely fair to the House or to the country, to allow this Bill to go to its second reading without some discussion. The honourable member has been just about as logical as other members of this House who have introduced questions about which they know nothing at all. He quoted figures show- ing from his point of view that the existence of the totalisator has increased gambling year by year. If the honourable member had studied the history of this question he would have realised that the suppression of the totalisator had been responsible for increasing gambling. Did the honourable member ever read an Act passed by this House, through the instrumentality of Sir Robert Stout, to limit the issue of totalisator permits. That was in 1894. Ever since that limitation has been made by statute the amount of money that has been passed through the totalisator has increased as years have rolled on. The honour- able member stated the amount of money passed through the totalisator in different years. The honourable member knows nothing what- ever about the subject. He wishes the House and the country to believe that those were the amounts of money put in by indi- viduals, whereas on a racecourse-for instance, we in Auckland sometimes put £10,000 through the totalisator; but that probably represents not more than $1,000, because the money goes through and through again. Of course, in the end the machine is bound to get the lot, but the money is redistributed amongst labourers, producers, and others by the racing-clubs. And the honourable gentleman does not realise this : that he ought to support it, because it is about the only ready-money business in the whole colony. Now, Sir, I would like to give the honourable gentleman a warning. There was once an honourable gentleman in this House who was imbued with the same great moral ideas as the honourable member for Christ. church City, to purify the whole country by wiping out gambling. I refer to a gentleman who represented Napier. He thought he was going to carry the whole country with him in abolishing the totalisator. He thought the goody-goodies of Napier would rush forward to embrace him when he got back there. He stood at the next general election and made this one of the planks in his platform, and what was the result ? He was defeated at the poll by one of the straightest and best racing-men that ever owned a horse in New Zealand. Mr. ELL. They did not do that to me. Mr. LAWRY .- Yes; but they did not know you then. You make it a plank in your plat- form at the next general election and you will go down never to rise again. Sir, the honour- able gentleman has referred to the suppression of bookmakers on the street. What has caused the Legislature, by enactment, to prevent the bookmakers from plying their trade in the streets ? It was not to keep the totalisator out, but to prevent crowds from assembling at the corners of the streets. There is this in favour of the totalisator: I have never known one single person to have been brought up in our Courts of law charged with embezzling the money of his employer in consequence of betting on the totalisator, because if a man goes out to invest on the totalisator and makes a loss he must take the money with him. I have known 