this matter unless he is keen enough to see what will happen, and they will make themselves a power. The Premier has been warned before, and I warn him again, that he will find them such a power as will compel justice to be done to them. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) .- Sir, after the warnings the Premier has received from the honourable member for Waitemata and the honourable member for Eden the best thing he can do is to go down on his knees in fear and trembling. But he has had warnings before, and yet has the Hon. the Premier been brought to his knees ? No. Has the country been ruined ? Not a bit. Theirs is the same old cry : the same old Tory speeches that have been delivered time after time in this House, and we are getting extremely tired of them. I wish these honourable gentlemen, next time they speak, would introduce something new -some- thing fresh-and give us some change from the old ideas. And, in regard to the statement about the Waihi Mine, why did not the honour- able gentleman, the member for Eden, go and learn something about it before he came here to give us his version, which is absolutely and wholly incorrect. The statement that he made is that the Waihi miners were satisfied with the wages they were getting until agitators went amongst them. Now, that statement is without the slightest foundation in fact. There has been for the last three years there an agitation among the miners themselves for a rise in the price of wages, and the men said they were underpaid. It was not the agitators at all who did this, but the miners, and they voted as a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 whole on the question as to whether they would go to the Conciliation Board or whether they would not. It was decided by an overwhelming majority to ask for an increase in wages, and later on it was also resolved by an overwhelming majority to go to the Conciliation Board. An Hon. MEMBER .- They were satisfied. Mr. PALMER. - The men who said they were satisfied were called by the employers. Of course, you will get blacklegs in every union, and you will get men to come forward and say what they are told to say. If they do not do so, what is the consequence? What has been the consequence to some of the men who came boldly forward and said they were dissatisfied, and that they were not fairly treated ? They were left at the merev of the manager, and nothing was said about reinstating them. Why, the witnesses who gave evidence have also been dismissed from their employment. Would any one wonder, then, that men who have wives and families to keep should come forward when they were called by the employers and say that they were satisfied ? They had to stretch their con- sciences when their situations were in jeopardy. An Hon. MEMBER. -- You cannot believe them. Mr. PALMER. -- Well, at any rate, the posi- tion was this: When they asked for that increase they had a Supreme Court judgment before them -the judgment of Mr. Justice Edwards on the West Coast-which had fixed the scale of the wages of miners at 25 per cent. above what Mr. Bollard They said, " Why should the miners down there get those wages? If they are entitled to them there, then we are entitled to them here." But, in case the employers should not be satisfied. they actually went and fixed the scale they asked from the employers at from 10 to 15 per cent. lower than the actual judgment of Mr. Justice Edwards. Well, that was done and submitted to the employers, and it was asked, " Will you look and see whether you can give us this scale of pay, which is 15 per cent. below what Mr. Justice Edwards fixed in the Arbitra- tion Court ? ~ The result of the application was that every one of the officers of the Miners' Union was dismissed. The officers were singled out, and the general manager of the mine dare not say it was not simply because they asked, " Will you consider this question of an increase ? " Now, this Bill, I say, goes in the right direction when it says, "We will not let you ' sack ' a man simply because he asks you to look into a scale of increased wages the men wish to lay before you before resorting to the Conciliation Board." If they were allowed to dismiss men in that manner, then good-bye to the Conciliation Act. What person would take a position in the Miners' Union, or in any union, as secretary, treasurer, or committee- man, or any other position, if, whenever they were to go to the employers to submit a scale of wages to them they were to be dismissed? Then, who would take these positions ? It would mean that the men would have to employ paid secretaries and paid officers outside their own union, and these people would not care what demands they made. Mr. TANNER .- They would be called agi- tators. Mr. PALMER .- Yes, they would be called agitators, and they might be properly so called. At present these officers are members in the union, and feel that the responsibility is on their own shoulders, and therefore there is, as it were, a brake on them. They will only ask what is fair, and they will not go too far in their demands. That being the position. Sir. I consider that the honourable member should have been careful before he made the statement he did about the matter of the Waibi Mine, for when the whole of the facts are looked into the case certainly does not look well for the em- ployers. I would like to explain that all the companies are not concerned -- only the Waihi Company. The other companies were willing to deal fairly and justly with the men. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Waihi is the richest company in the north. Mr. PALMER .- Yes; the richest in New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER. - That is always the way. An Hon. MEMBER .- But it applied to all the mines on the peninsula, rich and poor alike. as well as the Waihi. Mr. PALMER. - The honourable gentleman's objection is that the men applied for the Con- ciliation Board to award for all the mines in the district. But who did this ? Was it the men? Why, they cited the Waihi Mine, but when the 