" Are you a married man ? " and the applicant answers " Yes." The man may have his wife and children in Timbuctoo. They may be in South Australia. We do not know whether he has got a wife and children at all, but he makes a statement on oath. Another man may come from Taranaki, or from the wilds of Auckland. He is asked if he is a married man, and he says "Yes." Under this clause Land Boards would be forced to admit all married persons. Another man may have taken out an order of separation from his wife, yet he will say he is a married man and will be admitted to the ballot. But the sons of the early colonists, the men who have borne the heat and burden of the day, those noble early pioneers of the colony who have made the colony what it is to-day, and not the result of Conservative nor Liberal Governments -these sturdy sons and daughters of the country, a slur is to be cast upon them. What does this clause mean ? When the Premier stood on the platform on the wharf on the day the First Con- tingent sailed for South Africa and addressed the multitude, including the men who were going away, he culogised them, and spoke of the noble parents from whom they had sprung. He said, " You go, and you carry with you my blessing, and may prosperity attend you " ; but he might have added, " By the time you come back to New Zealand I will introduce a Bill and place it upon the statute-book that no trooper need apply for land in New Zealand." That is the meaning of it, unless the trooper has married a Boer widow with a family of children in South Africa. In the name of the young men of the colony, in the name of all that is just and right. I protest against this clause of the Bill. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- This de- bate seems to have drifted into a general criti- cism of the land-for-settlement question, and possibly that has been forced upon us, first, by the speech of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, and subsequently by such hysterical speeches as we listened to a few moments ago. Unlike the honourable member who has just sat down, I must congratulate the Government on section 8. We have been con- tinually told that there is unfortunately a de crease in the population of New Zealand, and I think it is commendable of the Government to encourage people to get married, so that they can settle on the land, because possibly one of the Ministers on the Treasury benches may have to go on the land soon, and he will have to get mar- ried first. It is, Sir, very necessary, I think, that we should criticize the whole of the land- settlement policy, and especially one section of it which has been dealt with by some honour- able members to-day - that is, the compulsorily taking of land. I agree with the compulsory taking of land if that compulsion is dealt with honestly, without any personal feeling, and the broadest interpretation of the word " justice" is given to it. Now, I say at once that the compulsory clause should never be brought into effect unless there is no other land that can be obtained in that special district or that part Mr. Meredith to reply to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay in regard to the special case he brought under the notice of honourable members to-day. I am sure that honourable member did not intend to do an injustice to the Government. but if his words, uttered as they were in this House, are read in Hausar a false impression may be conveyed to its readers. The Govern- ment, I can say with confidence, did not under- stand the circumstances, and if they had it is possible they would not have taken that land. as I believe they propose to do. The circum- stances of that case are these : Some twelve months ago the lady who owned the property offered it voluntarily to the Government at a price. The Government had it reported upon, and then offered £3 17s. 6d. an acre for it. the lady asking 44 10s. After further inspection the Government offered $4. This, as honour- able members will recognise, took at let: twelve months, because the machinery under the Land for Settlements Act has to be var; carefully worked, otherwise very grave mistakes will be made. Now, the Government did not know when that lady offered the property to them that she had in her mind a smaller pro- perty to buy for herself in her declining yer and for her children after her. Mr. SEDDON .- We understood she was go- ing Home. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The Hon. the Pre- mier says he understood the lady was going Home. She was not. She was about to by a property for herself and her children. At ane rate, during that twelve months she bat the opportunity of buying that property, and cone- quently the Government, not knowing da: fact, have gazetted the property to be taken under the Land for Settlements Act. and Lay that unintentionally a great injustice has tmn done to that woman. I wished to explain that matter in reply to the honourable memier ter Hawke's Bay. The same honourable mont-r also denounced the whole of the land-for-wtt- ments policy, as he did in 1896. 1 can see him now, standing on the platform in the election : f that year, denouncing such legislation in the bitterest language he had in his voca! they. Now, I would like to know if the honouravie member. or any other honourable member in this House, would have dared at last election to stand on the platform and advocate the repe al of that Act. Not one. Consequenth we wie w have it recognised throughout the country and in this House that that Aet has been one of the most advantageous to the colony that ha- inen passed in this Chamber. We are often ask d the question, " What has made the prospect of New Zealand ?" There are many ros sons, but I say the cru of the prosperity 's the Land for Settlements Act. In coming to the Bill, I take it, Sir, that if there was of; the one section in it -the one section allowing the Government to participate in sales in ale tion-this Bill is really worthy of the conside s. tion of the House. It has been brought under my notice -- I have witnessed it myself -where. unfortunately, the owner of the property is in 