to visit him, and asks if he is in want of a couple of boxes of tea, and he says " Yes," then he has sold to a person not in trade a couple of boxes of tea, and he is liable to a fine of $5. Sir, there are thousands of people in the colony who get their tea in that way, and they are not com- mitting any offence. Sir, this Bill comes into conflict with the Municipal Corporations Act ; it comes into conflict with the Licensing Act, and the Police Offences Act : and every case here provided for has already been provided for in the statutes which have been passed by this House. That being so, what is the use of pass- ing this Bill at all ? If the honourable gentle- man wishes to deal, and deal solely, with what he regards as an undesirable class of hawkers and pedlars-the Assyrian class-why did he not confine himself to them and to them alone ? The undesirability of bringing in such a Bill is apparent. Some members appear to think it necessary to introduce a long Bill containing many provisions. If they would bring down short measures, setting forth their proposals in a concise form, they would not have the same difficulty in getting them passed by the House. As I have said, I am opposed to this Bill. and I thank the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs for bringing under our notice the 11th clause. Could anything be more dangerous than to put power into the hands of the constables to arrest an individual on mere suspicion that he might be an unlicensed hawker or a pedlar, to take that individual in charge without warrant. and hold him in custody until next day, before he would have an opportunity of di-proving the accusation : and he might be https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 treated with great indignity by the mere fact of his arrest, and be put to considerable incon- venience and suffering because a policeman had I shall a suspicion that he was a pedlar. feel bound, as I have said, to vote against the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) .-- I shall not detain the House by replying at length to the statements made by honourable gentlemen op- pred to the Bill. I cannot, however, pass over the arguments used by the honourable member for Dunedin City, and the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs. I was not, in one sense. astonished to hear their arguments as to the difference between commercial travellers and pedlars and hawkers. It certainly was the kind of argument one might hear advanced by a solicitor in a Police Court, but they were not such arguments as one expects to hear ad- vancedin this House. It is quite apparent to me that neither of those honourable members have read the Bill. It is clearly defined in the interpretation clause what is a pedlar and a hawker, and what is a commercial traveller. It is also clearly set forth in clause 15 that if a commercial traveller converts himself into a pedlar and hawker without taking out a hawker's license, he shall be liable to be fined ; and I say that a commercial traveller who represents a wholesale house, and who vet goes from house to house and sells a pound of tea or a pound of candles, must be considered to be a pedlar and hawker, and if he infringes the law in this respect I say he should be liable to a penalty for such breach of the law. A great deal was made of the clause which deals with hawkers and pedlars going from one dis- trict to another and trying to escape the taking- out of another license, but I do not think it is necessary to reply in detail to what was said on that point. The member for Wellington Suburbs also dealt with clause 14, and the provision in reference to selling spirituous liquors. I may inform him that under the English Act a pedlar may be fined if he is found with liquor in his possession, whether he is selling it or not. He is held to be commit- ting a breach of the law, and may be fined in a similar way to that in which persons may be fined for sly-grog selling who have liquor in their possession. The talk about the liquor being carried about for the good of the person's health or as a medicine, in my opinion, is neither more nor less than "buncombe." We have heard that argument over and over again in sly-grog cases in country districts, and we know what it means. I say there should be a law to prevent the selling of liquor by pedlars. With regard to some of the other arguments used with reference to how this measure will affect bakers, butchers, and those disposing of vegetables, these matters can be dealt with in Committee. It was necessary in my opinion that something should be done to rid the country of a class of men who are certainly not a desirable class. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The House divided. AYES, 24. Allen, E. G. Guinness Morrison Barclay Hall O'Meara Buddo Pirani Hall-Jones Carneross Lawry Stevens Ward. Carroll McGowan Mackenzie, T. Duncan Tellers. Fisher Mckenzie, R. Houston Flatman Mills Palmer. Gilfedder NOES, 30. Allen, J. Hogg Russell, W. R. Lang Steward Arnold Atkinson Laurenson Tanner Bollard Lethbridge Thomson, J. W. Ell Wilford Massey Fowlds Millar Willis Fraser, A. L. D. Monk Witheford. Graham Napier Tellers. Hanan Rhodes Collins Hardy Russell, G. W. Meredith. Herries Majority against, 6. Second reading negatived. STATE - SCHOOL CHILDREN COMPUL- SORY DRILL BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- "The Short Title of this 7.30. Act is 'The State School Compulsory Drill Act, 1901,' and it shall be read with and form part of ' The Education Act, 1877."" 