no possibility of it. We see ridiculous decisions given by the Magistrates in the Court and by different Justices of the Peace; we see these decisions standing one alongside another. A man is brought before the Court for assault upon his wife, we will say, and the Magistrate fines him $2 or $3 as the case may be ; while a sailor who comes a-hore for the first time and gets drunk and makes a fool of himself, and makes use of some obscene language, and comes before the Court for the first time, is imprisoned. The wife-beater and the brute receives a fine of 15s., or 51. or £2, as the case may be. Now, if the Magistrates have any power at all they should have also a discretionary power. They should have the right of saying whether a first offender who has been found guilty of using obscene language should be fined or imprisoned, as the case may be. If the Hon. Minister had taken that clause from the Bill which was introduced last session by the honourable member for the Grey. I would have supported him in that alteration. But what is this Bill going to do ? It is going to enlarge the powers of the police in regard to offences alleged to be committed. The Hon. the Minister, in introducing this Bill, says it is impossible to get a conviction for using obsence language. I tell the honourable member that, unfortunately for this colony, his statement is absolutely incorrect and contrary to fact. If honourable members read the papers of this colony they will see, unfortunately, that there are convictions for obscene language. There is no ditheulty in getting convictions for obscene language in this colony. You see a man arrested at, perhaps, 2 or 3 in the morning .- he has been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 found about the streets drunk and disorderly. He does not know what he is doing at that time in the morning, but he is run in on a charge of using obscene language. In the morning he is brought up before the Magistrate and charged, and when he is asked for an explanation, or how he pleads, he says, " I was drunk, and I do not know what I was doing." Well, that is no defence for any crime, and quite rightly too, because if drunkenness was a defence for any crime it would be a defence in every case. This man has before, perhaps, been a respectable. hard-working man, who has never been before a Court in his life : but he is found guilty of obscene language within the meaning of the Act. on the evidence of a constable, the only person who heard the language, and that man has to go to gaol. He is marked as a gaol-bird, and there is no possible way open to him to clear his name of that black mark. Now, I object to the principle of the Bill altogether. I consider that if the Magistrates of the colony are to have any power at all, they should be given this discretionary power of fining or im- prisonment. But not only does the Hon. the Minister propose to introduce that clause in this Bill, but he further extends the scope or power of the Magistrate of sending men to gaol, and creates a new offence by allowing an offence to be complete if it is "within the hearing of people passing by in any public place." If it is within the hearing of people passing by, it is a perfectly just provision, and to my mind the Legislature in introducing that condition into the clause wisely foresaw the strength of that con- dition so far as the penal effect of the Act is con- cerned. Now, Sir, let us just have a look at it. The condition is, that he is.found guilty of using obscene language in a public place. The law says. if he is found using obscene language in a public place, within the hearing of people passing by, that he shall be found guilty of an offence, and most assuredly he should be. But the objection that the Minister has at. tempted to meet is this: A man is charged with using obscene language in a public place when there is not a soul about-when nobody's ears are shocked by the words he uses. Now, the Act says that the language must be used in a public place within the hearing of persons passing by. If these people hear the language and are shocked by it, then the Magistrate takes into consideration that fact in dealing with the evidence ; but if it takes place in a public place at a time when nobody is about, the same punishment is not meted out as is meted out to the individual who grossly shocks the sense of refinement or dignity of ladies in a public place-such as the Queen's Wharf. on a day when there might be a public reception. It is all very well to say there are no degrees of a crime. To my mind there are degrees and extenuating circumstances which should affect the Magistrate's decision in giving judgment. 1 object to the principle of this Bill altogether. In our gaol at the present time there are two men whose case has some bearing on this point. They were travelling through this city. and they were arrested in two different bedrooms in an hotel at about one o'clock in the morning. Two constables were stationed at the doors of their rooms, and they broke into the bedrooms of these men and arrested them. When they were arrested they asked what they were charged with, and they were told that the charge was that they had no lawful visible means of support, as defined by the Act of 1884. They were searched, and upon them was found a large sum of money-about #160 in cash. They were charged with having no lawful visible means of support, and were not allowed to go free, al- though they had this sum of $160 upon them. On the contrary, they were detained, and they were informed by the police, " Oh, we are going to make some other charge against you later on." When they appeared in Court their counsel suggested that it was a ridiculous thing that they should be charged with having no lawful visible means of support, seeing that they had $160 in their possession. This the Magistrate agreed with, and the police with- drew the charge. The police then said, " Oh, we are going to charge them with a burglary said to have been committed at Lyttelton." When the charge came up in the Court the police said there was no evidence to adduce, and the charge was abandoned ; but thev jumped round and charged these two men with quite another offence altogether. Now, Sir. the machinery of the law is not set up and is not to be invoked for this kind of purpose at all. It is for us to jealously guard those 