the first year heis absolutely barred, and for five ; provements have to be made ; sheep, cattle, and years he is prevented from raising any money unless by the special permission of the Land Board and the Minister of Lands. Now, Sir, under the original Land for Settlements Act, previous to the Consolidation Act being passed, facilities were given to settlers to raise a small amount of money on their improve- ments. But in the Consolidation Act of last year this was omitted; but it was pro- vided that the lessees of workmen's homes, subject to certain regulations, might get an advance on their dwellings; fences, and other improvements up to $50, repayable within ten years at 5 per cent. interest. The sum of $50 seemed very small, and I asked that other tenants, mostly small dairy farmers, who are settling on those lands, should have the same opportunity of getting a little money as those who selected workmen's homes. But how was that proposition treated in this House? On the &rd October last I proposed, when the Bill was in Committee, that the provisions for borrowing on improvements relating to work- men's homes should apply to all leaseholders under the Act. A division was taken, and eighteen members supported the proposal, but twenty-five, including the Premier, the Minis- ter of Lands, and other members of the Govern- ment and the Government party, voted against it. Since that time I have been frequently ap- pealed to by settlers who are anxious to make improvements, to build good residences for their families, and to obtain the cattle they require. I have had to apply myself to the private money- lender on their behalf, and ask him in the ab- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 sence of better security to take their good cha- racter for thrift and honesty into account and to assist them, seeing that the Government, although their landlord, was unable to help them. That, Sir, is the position in which the settlers are placed, and I think it is a great oversight that no remedy is proposed. When I appealed on behalf of the settlers to the Land Department, what reply did I receive ? Sir, I am sorry to say that some of our Government departments appear to be subject to various kinds of human ailments. As long as you do not trouble them, and allow them to go ahead in their own way, you will receive very mild and courteous replies to your communications. I am afraid the Lands Department has what we mav call a liver, and now and again it becomes very bilious, especially if you attempt to stir it up. When I asked on behalf of these settlers that they should be placed in a position to raise a little money on their improvements, the reply I got was to the effect that the benefits of the . Act were never intended for settlers who were not able to provide themselves with all the money they required. They were not sup- posed to borrow. The Act was only intended to help country settlers who had capital enough to stock their land and make im- provements. Now, Sir, during the first year these settlers experience the worst difficulties they will ever have to contend with. In that year everything is going out, and little or Mr. Hogg. implements have to be bought. This is the time they urgently require all the reasonable assistance the Government is able to give them. Yet this is actually the time when they are refused the slightest assistance under the land- for - settlements system. I wish to take this the earliest opportunity I have had of bringing this matter forward, with the view of endea- vouring to convince the Government that they have made a mistake in refusing settlers the assistance they so much require ; and I hope when they consider the subject fully they will yet do something to enable those who are tak- ing up land under existing conditions to over- come their early difficulties and be allowed a reasonable opportunity of placing themselves on a prosperous footing on the sections they have selected. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I have no intention of going into a general dis- cussion of the land-for-settlements policy, and, in the main, I have to confess at once that I can find no fault with the Bill now before the House. Other members have fitly pointed out that it is a purely technical Bill, and, that being so, there is really little fault to find with it. My chief regret is that it does not cover more ground than it actually does. In common with other members of the House, I took some exception last year to alterations made in cur land-for-settlements policy, and, as honourable m mbers will remember, my strongest excep- tion was taken to what was generally known as the rebate of 10 per cent. to Crown tenants. [ have no desire now to revive that old debate, but I would just point out that what has trans- pired since then is very largely a justification of the action that I and others took at the time. Returns have been called for so that we may learn to what extent the rebate has been granted in the different land dis- tricts. At present we have no such information before us. But I wish to draw the attention of members to this fact : that in the Otago District the rebate may be said to have been of a partial character. We have been told by one honourable member that, as far as the Auckland District is concerned, there have been no re- bates at all, and in the Canterbury District I think I can say the rebate has been general. Now, Sir, it is just as well the House should pay some attention to the fact. Surely it was never intended when the amendment was passed last year that such a state of things should be brought about that tenants in one part of the country should be so differently treated from tenants in another part of the country. I think the sooner that clause is repealed the better it will be for the land-for-settlements police. I regret also that the Minister in charge of the Bill-and, by the by, speaking of the Minister in charge of the Bill, I cannot understand w. v a Bill dealing with the land-for-settlements policy is not in the hands of the Minister of Lands. It appears to me we have a richt to look to that Minister to explain proposals dea- I ing with the land-for-settlements policy. He - 