endeavour to block the Bill. Under the circum- stances, it was rather hard to take away the few private members' days at the beginning of the session. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might be allowed to make an explanation. He took it that the in- terruption at half-past ten that night in Com- mittee was the same as an interruption at mid- night on Saturday, and that the business in Committee must go on at the time of meeting on next sitting-day. Hon. MEMBERS. - No, no. Mr. SEDDON said, If that was not the case, he would ask, this Bill being one of urgency, what had they been doing since half-past seven ? How much further forward were they ? As far as private members were concerned, he did not want even to block questions or private mem- bers' business, and he had said he would give them another day. As to questions. if mem- bers preferred that they should be asked to-mor- row afternoon and go on with the orders of the day at half-past seven he would not object. but he took it that the business interrupted at half- past ten must be resumed at the next sitting of the House, and that the Chairman ought to have left the chair, and taken his place in the chair at half - past two next afternoon. He understood that to be the order. Of course, it was a new procedure, and he would like to know, if that was so when the sitting was interrupted at half-past ten, if that could be altered by an order of the House. He would leave the matter to Mr. Speaker. In view of the arrival of the hour of half-past ten he thought the Chairman would have left the chair; and he had asked him the question, but the Chairman had said that they had better report progress. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said he believed the practice in the House of Commons was that the Chairman of Committees, when the hour of twelve o'clock arrived, vacated the chair and reported progress to the Speaker, who ad- journed the House; and it followed in the ordinary course that next day the House pro- ceeded with the business set down for that day. and not with the business left over from Com- mittee. Mr. SPEAKER said that it was for the House to fix a time for the consideration of the Bill in Committee ; but it was his duty to point out that there was a special Standing Order that private members' business was to have precedence on Wednesday. Of course, if the House fixed this Bill for half-past two p.m. next day it would interfere with that Standing Order. The question before the House was, That the Committee have leave to sit at half- past two next day. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he would ask leave to withdraw that motion, and substitute for it, That the Committee on the Bill be re- sumed at half-past seven p.m. next day. Motion for the Committee to sit at half-past two p.m. negatived. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved, That the Committee have power to sit at half-past seven to-morrow evening. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) desired to say that he would take the Bills as they appeared on the Order Paper for to-morrow, and give a Govern- ment night for the same Bills. The House divided. AYES, 39. Guinness Allen, E. G. Palmer Parata Arnold Hall Russell, G. W. Hall-Jones Barclay Bennet Hanan Seddon Buddo Hogg Smith, G. J. Carncross Stevens Houston Carroll Laurenson Tanner Ward Collins Lawry McGowan Wilford Colvin Millar Willis. Duncan Mills Tellers. Flatman Field Fowlds Napier Witheford . Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Gilfedder NOES, 21. Allen, J. Monk Hutcheson Russell, W. R. Lang Atkinson Lethbridge Svmes Bollard Thomson. J. W. Massey Ell Fisher Mackenzie, T. Teilers. Pirani Mckenzie, R. Hardy Rhodes. Meredith Herries Hornsby PAIRS. For. Against. McGuire. E. M. Smith. Majority for, 18. Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON rose to speak- Captain RUSSELL said he rose to a point of order. According to the resolution agreed to the House must adjourn at half-past ten. The practice of the House of Commons was to rise punctually at the hour fixed for adjeure- ment and allow no further business to be taken. He was sure that that rule was recognised that the House must rise at the hour fixed ; if they could go on till a quarter to eleven, he saw no reason why they should not go on till a quarter past eleven. Mr. SEDDON said he only wanted to lay upon the table the proceedings at the opening of the Wainibokasi Hospital. Fiji. Captain RUSSELL .- No, I object. The House adjourned at a quarter to eleven o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 24th July, 1901. Third Reading - Training ships --- Victoria Colles- Site-Colonial Bank Liquidation .- Law Ament ment Bill -- Young Persons Protection B.1- Ace dents Compensation Bill -- Cemetery Trus tees Validation Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Public Health Bill. 