by the name of " Albert the Good," and I desire that his name should stand alone. "' In conclusion, I trust to Parliament and the nation to support me in the arduous duties which now devolve upon me by inheritance, and to which I am determined to devote my whole strength during the remainder of my life.' "The Governor is fully assured that the Legislative Council .shares in the deep sorrow which has befallen His Majesty and the Empire by the lamented death of His Majesty's mother the late Queen, who, through the sixty-four years of her reign-the longest and most bene- ficent in the history of our race-endeared her- self to her people by her manifold excellences and virtues. " The Governor is also assured that the mem- bers of the Legislative Council will testify their lovalty to the Throne and person of His Most Gracious Majesty by taking the oath of allegi- ance before entering upon the ordinary busi- ness of the country. This has already been done by the Hon. the Speaker. " Government House, Wellington, 1st July, 1901." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, it is only proper and fitting that the Legislative Council should record its feelings on this occasion, and pass a resolution expressive of them. I beg to move the following resolution : " That a respectful address be presented to His Majesty, to assure His Majesty that the Coun- cil de ply laments the death of our late Most Gracious Sovereign Queen Victoria, whose name and reign will ever be held in lasting remem- brance by Her late Majesty's sorrowing and loving subjects. This Council respectfully begs to submit to His Majesty its congratulations on his accession to the Throne, and assures His Majesty of the Council's loyal attachment to his person, and desires to pray for His Majesty the glory of a reign to be distinguished by peace, prosperity. and a general advance in the social and economic conditions of his subjects." In moving the resolution, I may be excused from dealing with the matter at very great length, be- cause the loss of our late Queen and the accession of his present Majesty has been with us and in our hearts ever since the sad event occurred. We have all realised it more or less, but I really believe more, because the more any one of us thought over it the more it came home to us what a good Queen she was, and how much we, her subjects, even in this distant part of the Empire, owed to her. If it was nothing else but her example, we, every one of us, in our homes and families, in our social circles, owe more than we know to Her late Majesty-more than we can realise, perhaps, because none of us have lived in other times -- for the great legacy of a pure and perfect life. What has come about by the mere change of the name of the sovereign is almost more than any one of us could realise, because, although some of us may have been born in the reign of her predecessor, none of us have really lived a conscious life in any other reign than that of the late Queen. Therefore the mere change in the name of the sovereign from Queen to King has been such a change as to bring home the fact to all of us. We have been realising this change ever since the event happened. We have realised still more by the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York how much the late Queen desired that she, through her heirs, should be more intimately acquainted with the colonies and their conditions ; and we also know that His present Majesty desired that his late mother's wish should be fulfilled, and that in spite of his natural desires at the time when their Royal Highnesses started to keep them with him, yet he determined that the late Queen's wish should be given effect to, and that their Royal Highnesses should visit the Commonwealth of Australia and the other colo- nies. We have had the great pleasure during the last month of receiving them here, and we accepted their visit, I am sure, quite apart from other considerations, as the evidence of a sin- cere desire on the part of His Majesty, and through him on the part of his late mother, that their visit should be regarded as the sym- bol and emblem of a united Empire, and that this fact should be brought home to and realised by every one of His Majesty's subjects in every part of his vast dominions-not from any sense of personal empire, but that the essence of true sovereignty, the true kinship of a united people, should be realised in the most personal way pos- sible by every one of His Majesty's subjects in these remote parts of his dominions. I know the Council will pass this resolution without any controversy, and pass it in the sense in which it is proposed, with a loving recollection of the Queen that has gone and a full sympathy with the responsibilities of the King that has come. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Sir, in seconding the motion which has been proposed by my honourable friend, I am only expressing the feeling of this Council in saying how deeply it sympathized with the thrill of sorrow which went through the whole civilised world at the news of the death of the Queen. It is needless now to speak of the virtues of Her Majesty, or of the dignity and strength with which she re- presented her country during her reign ; while throughout the Empire the influence of her character and of her sympathy with all her sub- jects was deep and far-reaching. Those who have lived through the reign of Her Majesty-or the greater part of it-must have felt that the reign of the Queen has really brought back to the British people and to the British Empire that sense of chivalrous loyalty which had slumbered for a time. The cry wrung from a great orator at the end of the last century, that the age of chivalry was gone, could not be repeated now. The late Queen evoked that spirit from every race under her rule. She has shown through her long reign that a country which enjoys greater freedom and truer self-government than any nominal republic in the world can be represented among the nations with a dignity that is not possible under any other form of government. And we are glad that the representation of our country is being 