Ministers of Lands have done-he has made himself personally acquainted with the nature and the character of the northern land, and its snitability for settlement. Another point I wish to emphasize is this: If we want our young men to stop in New Zealand we should lay down an attractive policy of industrial developments and land settlement ; we should show the whole world that New Zealand is a place of unparalleled resources. Such being the case We want more young men to develop these re- When the First Contingent came sources. back from South Africa I had letters from South Africa saying what a magnificent country we had here, what a magnificent climate, what a magnificent Government, and what a magni- ficent Parliament, and what magnificent laws we made, so beneficial to the human race, and that every one wanted to come and live in New Zealand. But I would ask, what specific information is prepared, or what plans can we send of the fine land open in the interior, or what terms-what encouragement --- we give to people of our own race to come over from South Africa, or anywhere else, to live here and take up these lands ? The suggestion was made by one of my friends-I think it was the honour- able member for Masterton -that until our young men had an opportunity of getting land we ought not to bring people here from distant places ; we should let our own young men have the first selection. That I approve of. Yet here is a year gone by, and there are no plans out of blocks open for settlement ; there is nothing I can send to South Africa saying, " Here are magnificent lands, go to work, and take it up ; https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 we can keep you going for two or three years while you settle yourselves on the land." Instead of adopting this principle, and working upon a defined policy of settling the land while making the line, we march bodies of men out from the towns, who disappear when the work is finished, instead of remaining permanent settlers to support the line. There should be a distinct plan for land settlement and public works laid down, so that the one might be dependent upon or assist the other. I have, I think, now given the House the drift of my ideas, and I hope the Government will endea- vour to promote it. No time should be lost in opening up lands for settlement -- not in talking and arguing about it year afer year : that does no good. Let us support the hands of the dis- tinguished gentleman who holds the position of Minister of Lands, and encourage him and en- courage the Government : and before the session is over I hope there will be laid on the table a distinct and definite programme of land settle- ment, showing what land can be secured in all the different parts of the colony-not confined to either one island or the other, but showing where lands have been surveved, townships laid down, and roads and railways fixed upon, and let us do things in a businesslike manner. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .-- I have always re- garded the Land for Settlements Act as one of the most useful measures on the statute-book. Advantage has been freely taken of it of late Mr. Witheford of placing a very large portion of the population in a position of comfort and in- dependence which, without such a measure. they could never have hoped to attain to. In the South Island it has had a very bene- ficial effect on the labour market by removing from centres such as Dunedin, Invercargill. and Christchurch, a proportion of the working population who were found occasionally suffer- ing great distress owing to want of labour. into places in the country, where they have been able to make a fair and comfortable livelihood. One of the most important industries esta- blished in the colony-I refer to the dairy industry -- owes a great deal of its prosperity to this particular measure. Had it not been for the Land for Settlements Act I am satisfied that the amount of butter and cheese we are now exporting from New Zealand, and which is very largely augmenting the wealth of the country, would never have been produced. But, Sir, I am somewhat surprised at the com- plaints I have listened to from a member repre- senting a portion of the Canterbury District. 1 believe that, if there is any place in the colony which has derived a huge advantage from the purchase of private property under this Act. it is the part of the country he represents. We in the North Island may have some reason to complain ; but I maintain that Canterbur. members have very little reason to find fault with the Government because they have not been recognising the necessity of purchasing land for settlement in their district. They have had the fat, the cream, of the money expended on the purchase of land for settle- ment. Hence I am astonished at the member for Riccarton this afternoon pointing out. as he has done, that the Government are not making sufficient purchases. I believe that the Canter- bury District has benefited to the extent of hundreds of thousands of pounds of late years. while, with regard to my own district, all that has been done with respect to acquiring land there has been to spend a few paltry thou- sands. I may speak of the whole of the North Island, and I believe I am correct in saving that far more money has been expended in Canterbury than in the whole of this island in The Cheviot acquiring land for settlement. Estate alone represents a higher value than all the land that has been acquired in the North Island. Here, not far from the City of Welling- ton, in the Wellington country district, in every direction -on the east coast and on the wit coast. you will find large estates, splendid land. fit for cutting-up and subdivision, where there ought to be any number of families land that could be turned to useful and practical account. but which is held by a few in huge areas, and remains comparatively unimproved. I do no: blame the Government for not acquiring some of that land. I am aware that the Land Par- chase Board have been trying to obtain suitable land for settlement in my own district and in Hawke's Bay, but what is the position ? The: are unable to obtain land at a reasonable price. I do not blame the owners for holding their 