for slander he can do so on the facts I have sub- they again claimed for quality. I told the buyer mitted. Although it may not be possible at the I was quite content, after seeing his meat on speed I am going for you, Sir, to follow me, the the hooks, to give him a reasonable allowance facts as submitted go clearly to show that he for quality, but that I thought it was unneces- awarded enormous damages on sheep that were sary to go to the expense of employing asses- afterwards, by another assessor, judged not to sors, and paying them six, eight, or ten guineas, in damaged to much more than one-quarter the in order to ascertain whether the quality was extent that he awarded for, and at rates higher there or not. He said, " Under the purchase I than the second assessor awarded. I would have the right to call for assessment for quality, Muy, too, in this connection, that the state- and I shall exercise it." Well, he did exercise it ; but I said, "I will not have a man from ments I allude to, and to which . Mr. Ismay Smithfield to act for me in the matter of took exception, were made here at a private meeting before the underwriters of this town, assessing for quality," and I employed a man who requested that I would give them a from New Zealand who had a thorough know- full statement of the methods prevailing in the ledge of the trade. He went to arrange with Old Country. I said I was prepared to do the assessor acting for the other side to go down so if they would treat my communication and examine the parcel. But when the assessor as confidential, but that I was not prepared to from Smithfield met him he said, "You know give full particulars of business transactions if nothing of sheep, and unless you concede to me they were to be made public, because the ob- the demands I want I will not go down to the ject I had in view was not attack, but rather to cold-stores at all." He was exceedingly abusive. point out abuses ; and in giving illustrations, I My representative came back to me and said, merely mentioned the transactions in order to "It is quite impossible for me to meet that show that such things had actually taken man ; his conduct towards me was most arro- place, and not with the object of publishing gant." Then the employer of the assessor on names of companies or persons. But what did the other side came to me and said, " You can- these underwriters do? Although it was a not afford to fight Smithfield, nor this man acting as my assessor ; but I have got him to solemn pledge that they were not to give my communication to the Press, they actually agree that he will take any man you like to gave, without consultation with or consent send except the man you have selected." I from me, the whole report to the Press of this said, "That man goes, and no other"; and town, and it was published. The consequence after a considerable amount of difficulty a of that breach of agreement was a letter from meeting was arranged, and, as I thought that Mr. Ismay at Home threatening an action for it was not quite right for me to send my man slander. Sir, I say this in connection with the down to meet this ferocious Smithfield man, I underwriters of this town: Some of them are went with him to the cold-stores in order to be not men of that commercial rectitude regarding present at the assessment. The meat was brought promises one would expect. Then, the matter out of the Victoria Dock Stores : 10 per cent. to was taken up by an Insurance Gazette, and it be assessed for quality-and, mark you, on the same parcel of meat he had already received 30 was shown they were not in sympathy with the disclosure I had made. The insurance com- to 40 per cent. for damage. There was 10 per cent. of the carcases run out, and the Smith- panies in this colony and at Home have never done their duty in connection with seeing that field man at once demanded, I think, 6d. per claims made on produce were bona fide claims. stone on most of the lot for not being up to They were content to continue to levy enormous quality. My man would not agree to that, and the Smithfield man, addressing me, said, " Do premiums on meat going Home, premiums ranging as high as $3 10s. or £4 per £100, when you not think that is a reasonable amount? " the risk, if they had been true to their duty I referred to my assessor, and said, "He is at Home, could be covered for £1 5s. Of course, authorised to act for me, and I will abide by the whole of this unjust charge has to be borne his decision." He replied, "What are you by the farmers, who have all these incidental here for ? " and I said, " I have been trying to charges deducted from the price they receive discover the 30 and 40 per cent. damage to these for their stock. If time admits, I will deal sheep you have already been allowed." He more fully with that aspect of the question a pointed out one or two mere abrasions on the meat and said, "What do you call that?" I little later on. As may be supposed, I ceased to employ Mr. Ismay, and employed the other said at once, "That was caused by sending them down a shoot, and if you had a spring assessor who had given the better, or rather the Ins. award. For a time claims were made for under the table instead of no spring at all that damage only, but about 1898 a system of would not have happened." He opened up and double-barrelled claims were set up. Not only said, "The man who declared this meat to be did they make a claim for insurance for damage up to quality ought to get three months." I on parcels of meat, but on the same parcels, said, "The scoundrel who has obtained the 30 to after receiving allowances for damage, they 40 per cent. damage on that meat ought to be in would claim for what they called " not up to gaol." I then took up the matter and said, " It has quility." I sold a considerable quantity to a been a system of rascality, and the claims which firm in London from a ship called the " Rakaia." have been made have been most unjust. I in- They claimed in the ordinary way for damage, tend to have the whole of this line of meat out and they were awarded damage of from 30 to of the store to see if the meat is damaged as 40 per cent., and on the same parcel of meat represented." He said the meat would not be 