Minister's attention to. I hope he will not succeed in passing section 3, though I see no objection to section 2 of this Act. Then, I hope he will enlarge the definition of a public place, and that he will give a discretionary power to Magistrates to ane as well as to imprison for the use of profane or indecent language in a pu. lie place. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice). - Sir, from the debate which has arisen on this Bill, 1 see it was scarcely wise on my part not to make my speech on the second reading. I would now lise, in a very few words, to place the whole position before honourable members. In regard to clause 2 of the Bill, which the honourable member for the Grey agrees to, I will quote the subsection of the present Act, which it is in- tended to amend. It reads as follows : -- " U'ses any threatening, abusive, or insulting words or behaviour in any public place within the hearing or within the view of passers by, with intent to provoke a breach of the peace, or whereby a breach of the peace may be oc- c .:- ioned." The new clause 2 introduces the word "or " after the words " public place," and I do not know why any member should object to that word being so introduced. Now, in regard to section 3, that section provides for the addition of the following words : "who habitually con- sorts with reputed thieves or prostitutes or persons who have no visible means of support." Now. just let me read the previous clause, sub- section (3) of section 26 of the principal Act- " Who wanders abroad, or places himself in any https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 public place, to beg or gather. alms, or causes or procures or encourages any child so to do." Now, to my mind, that is a very much more severe clause than the one now proposed to be added. It is made a crime here to ask alms, and we know in some cases people are obliged to ask alms. I think it very necessary that a provision such as the one proposed in this Bill should be made, as the police feel the want of such a measure as this in order that they may do the work which this House wishes them to do. They are only carrying out the measures that are passed here, and this House in its wisdom should produce measures that will operate for the good of the many in the com- munity, and not for the few. The honourable member for the Suburbs very loudly and very lavishly spoke about the powers of the police, and all the time he was dealing with an imagi- bary case, and not with a case of every-day life. I was sorry to hear the honourable gentleman mike such a statement with regard to public officers, because I have a very high opinion of the honourable gentleman personally. There is no need to say a word more about that, and I am sure he himself will be sorry he ever made such a statement about public officers who are not in a position to defend themselves. It was a statement no honourable gentleman in this House should make when the officers are not present to defend themselves. Mr. WILFORD .- What public officers ? Mr. McGOWAN .- You mentioned two police- men. Mr. WILFORD .- What two policemen did I mention ? Mr. McGOWAN .- You did not mention any names ; if you had, no doubt some one would have been here to take up the cudgels on their behalf. Mr. WILFORD .-- Which of my statements do you refer to ? Mr. McGOWAN .- I am not here for cross- examination, and if I were I do not know that you would get much change out of me. Ex- perience has shown that the amendments pro- posed here are absolutely necessary. Now, in regard to the suggestions made by the honour- able member for the (irey, I will have no objec- tion to any amendment this House in its wisdom may put in in Committee ; but at the same time we must not forget this fact : We know, in regard to obscene and abusive language, how easy it is for a man of means to pay a fine, but for the same offence a poor man might not have the money to pay the fine, and the result is that in the one case a man gets off by paying the fines, and in the other case, for the same offence, a man has to go to gaol because he cannot pay the fine. The honourable gentleman cannot deny that fact. Then, the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) mentioned a very important matter, and it is just one of those matters that every one who likes to see a community in a proper state and progressing in every direction feels sorry to see, but at the same time I think it is one of those questions that require consideration. If the honourable gentleman had fairly considered the matter he would see that, when this class of people are arrested for drunkenness, it would be manifestly unfair because of that offence to punish them for something else, and it would be punishing them for something else if, when arrested on a charge of drunkenness, they were to be sent to gaol because they are bad charac- ters and should not be let loose on society. These are matters that require the careful con- sideration of the whole House. I think the changes proposed here are reasonable, and when the Bill is in Committee I shall be quite pre- pared to accede to the proposals mentioned by the honourable member for the Grey. I think they are reasonable. I therefore beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Sir, may I be allowed to make a personal explana- tion ? Mr. SPEAKER .- Have you been misrepre- sented by the last speaker ? Mr. WILFORD. - Absolutely and totally. The Hon. Minister in charge of the Bill, with a great deal of unnecessary warmth and a great deal of apparent candour, has suggested that in my few remarks, which were made by me in an altogether nonchalant style, I imputed to some two members of the Police Force - some two members that must have existed in his imagina- tion more than in reality-some wrong-doing. The honourable gentleman says I spoke too loud. It seems to me I did not speak loud enough. The honourable gentleman could not have heard what I said. I put to him some 