Captain RUSSELL .- Apply that to the refer- endum. Mr. SEDDON .- I say we are not going on beaten tracks at all. I repeat here that you may safely trust the people. All this anxiety, all the dangers that have been foreseen during the last ten or twelve years by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, and those who think with him, and those who have all these cares, worries, and anxieties, and who have had the sleepless nights-I think, if they are honest, they will admit that they had no good reason at all for all their cares and worries, and that they have simply had a nightmare-a bad dream has disturbed their sleep and has caused them, as I have said, great anxiety when there has been no necessity for it at all. The ques- tion now is, shall this Bill be read a second time. I feel sure that it will be. I do not suppose even that the House will be divided upon the Blll. Let us, I say, place the ma- chinery upon the statute-book, and when the time comes for the exercise of the machinery the responsibility will be upon those who, in another place, if they reject measures, so, on the other hand, it will rest with us if we too reject them. We all know this: that we our- selves have to go to the fountain-head-the people-every three years. What danger can there be in sending a question to the very people who are our judges, and asking them to guide us by giving their opinion upon the subject ? I trust this Bill will be passed, and I with confidence submit it to the House. Bill read a second time. POLICE OFFENCES BILL. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- It is not necessary to say much in regard to this Bill. Last session we had a similar Bill, but in consequence of the opposition of certain gentle- men we had to drop it. I may say at once I am informed by the Police Department that it is absolutely necessary that such an amend- ment should be made. The Bill itself is ex- ceedingly simple! The law as it at present stands is such that the police are not able to obtain a conviction in regard to insulting and abusive language, owing to the interpretation of what is a public place ; and the proposal is to introduce the word "or " next after the word " public place." I take it that most members are familiar with and remember the Bill of last session, and there is no real difference between this Bill and that one. I therefore beg to move the second reading. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Last session an attempt was made by the Minister of Justice to introduce this measure and to pass it, and I did my best on that occasion to frus- trate the attempt ; and I intend on this occa- sion to oppose to the utmost this insidious little measure of his. This is a Bill which deals with a matter apparently of little importance, and from the few remarks the Minister addressed to the House in moving the second reading one would almost be led to suppose that every one had had an opportunity of discussing it : but I hope before I have finished to give the honour- able member some facts and figures which will demonstrate even to him that it is a Bill which all members ought to do their very utmost to reject. It is a Bill fathered by the Minister at the suggestion of the Commissioner, to give the police a power which they have not got at pre- sent ; and it is a Bill to allow the police some extraordinary powers, and to give them opportunities, as far as these offences are concerned, which it is inadvisable that they should possess. The Minister suggested that it was merely the introduction of the word " or" into a section of the Police Offences Act of 1884. Now, if the word "or" had been introduced into another section, dealing with obscene language, I would have supported the introduc tion of the word "or " ; but the introduction of that word alters the whole scope of the section that the honourable gentleman proposes to amend, as it gives a power to the police which it is quite inadvisable that they should possess. Would the Minister believe that such a case as this has occurred : that in the North Island. not many miles from the district he has the honour to represent, the police, under this clause in the Police Offences Act, recently arrested two men on a charge of burglary ? I might tell the Minister that the police, if they suspect a person of a crime, take advantage of this section of the Police Offences Act in order to hold in their clutches any persons who they think are guilty of a crime until they can get evidence to use against them. Sup- posing a man is suspected of the crime of burglary or of murder, and the police have got no direct evidence against that man in reference to that crime-they get a warrant and arrest him on the charge of having no lawful means of support, or under the vagrancy clauses. Perhaps the man has €150 in his possession. but they drag him in under that section of the Act. because it gives them a power which nobody can He is arrested, held in charge. controvert. perhaps released on bail, or perhaps not ; and during the whole of the time the police have got him they keep him there, hoping to obtain witnesses, after conducting what might be called a fishing examination, which may enlighten them with reference to some other charge. The effect of that power in the statute has been most pernicious in many ways, and the intro- duction of these clauses will, I hope, be met by honourable members with the strictest opposi- tion. Now, let me tell honourable members- those who have not had an opportunity of studying this branch of the law -- that at the present time if a man is found guilty under the Police Offences Act of obscene language he has got to be imprisoned. There is no option. The Magistrate in dealing with the matter has got to imprison a man, though whether the sen- tence be a long or a short one is at the discre- tion of the Magistrate. The Magistrate has no option but to imprison, and every Magistrate in this colony, from the Bluff to the North Cape. has practically asked the Government, through the Press and from the Bench, to introduce a qualification into this statute to allow him the option of fining or imprisoning. But there is 