they were no longer required. For instance, at Addington eight of these were engaged in the erection of American cars, ten were temporarily engaged in connection with them, forty were engaged in the erection of new locomotives, and forty-eight were temporarily engaged in connec- tion with the Royal visit, seating wagons for passenger traffic, et cetera. Some of these men, of course, went from one job to another as circum- stances required; but the work was, as I say, of a temporary character. Every honourable gentleman knows that, in carrying on the busi- ness of the Railway Department, we have to make provision temporarily for an occasional access of work under special circumstances. So soon as those pass away we should not be doing our duty-and I do not suppose the honourable gentleman would expect us to do so-if we con- tinued to employ these men unless there was work for them to do. We could never carry on the railways or anything else successfully if we employed any one when there was no work for them to do. Honourable members attempt to compare the casual employés who are put on for specific purposes with the number of men who are permanently employed for the erection of rolling-stock, et cetera. It is not a fair or just comparison. When they allow inferences to be deducted from the fact of these men being paid off they are not saying what is in accord- ance with actual fact so far as the railway workshops are concerned. That is the explana- tion, I can assure honourable gentlemen, of this matter. Now for a word or two as to the causes -and when the causes became so pronounced that this had to be done-that led to this ex- pansion of work and required the construction of the largest number of wagons and car- riages and locomotives ever built in the colony to be undertaken in the workshops of New Zealand as well as outside - as to the causes which rendered it necessary to go be- yond the colony for additional rolling-stock. In January, 1895, the total number of men em- ployed on the New Zealand railways was 4,733 ; on the 31st March, 1901, the number was 7,793 -that is, an increase of 3,060 during that period. Since I have been Minister for Rail- ways-and I mention this in order to show what has taken place during the limited period I have been in charge-I have appointed 1,300 employés to the railways of New Zealand, and, as I say, during the short time they have been under my administration. Do honourable mem- bers who are talking about getting ready for this enormous expansion of work realise what these figures imply ? Can they grasp the great change that has been brought about in the colony? Do those honourable members say that if they had had the administration of the department they would have come to this House before this extraordinary expansion took place, and have invited the House to give them, say, a million or two of money to get ready for a development of traffic such as the increase in the number of employés I have referred to indicates? If they had done so, there is not a member on either side of the House but would have asked them to give very strong rea- sons for asking the colony to commit itself to such an enormous expenditure, in order to make provision for increased traffic, before there were the strongest indications that such an increase of business was coming and was likely to be permanent. That is my answer. Now, what about the revenue? The revenue in 1896-97 on the railways amounted to £1,286,158; in 1900-1901 it was £1,727,236, an increase of £441,078 : that is, after deducting the enormous sum represented by the reductions of rates brought about by the Government. And in order that honourable members may have the value of these from the department itself I asked the General Manager to give me a state- ment showing the actual value of the conces- sions made by the Government in reduction of rates during that period. Here it is :--- "The value of the concessions in railway rates granted by Government, January, 1895, to 31st March, 1901, is £369,239. "T. RONAYNE, General Manager." Now, add that £369,239 to the increased re- venue, as shown in this return, of £441,078 and what do you get? You get the fact that the increased revenue is £810,317. That is the increase of revenue during that comparatively short period. I say it is a wonderful record, and ought to be gratifying to people of every class in the colony. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The concessions created the business. Sir J. G. WARD .- Very well; my honour- able friend says the concessions that we gave to the public created that increased business. That was exactly why we gave the concessions, so as to enable our people to use them advan- tageously to themselves and at as low a cost as possible ; and that is our policy still. I say that, if we had not made strenuous exertions and provided for the increased volume of busi- ness that has resulted, we should not only have been acting unwisely, but should have been doing a gross injustice to all the industries of our country, and consequently to the workers of New Zealand, and not merely to those em- ployed in the workshops of the colony. I say that if for want of sufficient rolling-stock, if for want of the necessary engine-power, and if for want of enough railway-carriages we could not have conveyed the business that poured upon us for transport from the interior to the seaboard and from the seaboard to the in. terior, both of passengers, live-stock, produce, and general goods, we would have materially crippled our industries, and the first to have felt it would have been our workers. Now, Sir, what is the increase in the number of pas. sengers during the period to which I have re- ferred - namely, from 1896-97 to 1900-1901 ? It is simply wonderful. It is not only wonderful, but it ought to be a matter of satisfaction to every member of the House, even if he is anxious to see-and I believe there are one or two anxious to see - the Government turned off the Treasury benches. What does the increase amount to? In 1896-97 the total number of passengers carried over our railways was 4,439,387, and in 1900-1901 the number 