a railway siding in the place indicated by the honourable gentleman. ADDRESS IN REPLY. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City). 7.30. -Mr. Speaker, I rise for the purpose of moving that a respectful Address be presented to His Excellency the Governor. Members of this House will be well acquainted with the nature of the Address to which we listened yesterday ; but I would, before trespassing upon their patience, just point out that I can scarcely, at this stage of my parliamentary career, claim the indulgence of the House. I will at least, however, venture to claim their patience for the very short space of time during which I shall address them. Honourable gentlemen will agree with me, I am certain, that it was natural and to be expected that His Excellency should, in the opening remarks of his Speech, make pointed reference to various events which have occupied the public attention since last we met together. There is no need for me to do more than very briefly refer to those events, inasmuch as the more momentous of them have already received attention at the hands of this honourable House. His Excellency touched first of all upon the death of Her late Majesty Queen Vic- toria, and drew attention to the fact that that death had been universally lamented not only throughout the British Empire, but throughout the civilised world. He also drew attention to the fact that since last we met a great change had taken place in the colonies of this Southern Hemisphere, and that the birth of the new https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 century saw the sister - colonies of Australia welded together into a Commonwealth. . I undertake to say, Sir, that the birth of a new nation, and the welding together of those sepa- rate colonies into a consolidated whole must for all time to come have a very considerable in- Huence upon the destinies of the colony to which we belong, and I am quite sure that I do but echo the sincere sentiments of every member of this House when I say that we wish unbounded prosperity, success, and continuous progress to that new - born nation, feeling quite sure that every progress which may accrue to the new nation will more or less beneficially affect the well-being of the people of this colony itself. The development of the social conditions and the industrial conditions of the people of a great nation near to us must necessarily stimu- late us. and prove the means of exciting-and continuously exciting- us to greater and nobler efforts. The Australian Commonwealth has become an accomplished fact, and we have had an opportunity - many of us -of participating in those festivities which were necessarily asso- ciated with its inauguration. Personally, Sir, I should like, from my place on the floor of this House, to express my gratitude for the manner in which the visitors from this colony were treated by those in the sister State. But, Sir, while so doing I am bound to confess - and the subject is akin to the matter on which I am now speaking - I am bound to confess that I, for one, thoroughly believe that the Commis- sioners, who have, I believe, presented a report adverse to this colony becoming part of the Commonwealth, have in their judgment but reflected the consensus of opinion of this colony as a whole. Sir, much as I recognise the im- portance of the birth of a new nation, sin- cerely as I believe our destinies would be very largely affected by whatever may take place amongst a people so near to us, I am bound to confess that I, for one, cannot see my way clear, and I hope it will be a long time before this House sees its way clear, to commit this colony to a loss of its individual identity as a nation, which loss would, I feel sure, follow as a consequence of our becoming part of the Commonwealth. His Excellency drew our attention to the fact also that we have had a visit from the Imperial troops, troops which came out for the express purpose of partici- pating in the inauguration of the Common- wealth. I think every member will agree that the visit of those troops to these colonies will have a twofold effect. It has not only given an object-lesson to the people of these colonies as to what the Empire has at its command for de- fensive purposes, but I look at the matter rather perhaps from a more selfish standpoint, and I regard every one of those troopers as a potential advertising agent for this colony when he got back Home; and I feel quite sure that the colony will derive quite as good results from the visit of these troops to the colony as they will from their visit to us. I make these remarks because I want to show that events led up to a very desirable conclusion. We have just had a Royal visit to these shores. It is not my intention to dwell upon that matter ; but, Sir, the Royal visitors were so heartily and enthu- siastically received from one end of the colony to the other that at least they must have learnt lessons which ought to be of great importance and of great moment to them, for, while they have given honour to the colony through their visit, I feel quite sure that the visit will be fraught with great and important issues to the visitors themselves. One of the correspondents who accompanied the Royal visitors to these shores said at a meeting only a few days ago that one of the advantages of the visit to these colonies would be that it would draw the Mother-country nearer to the colonies, nearer to her children ; and, Sir, that is an important matter. For some years past we have been talking a great deal about the necessity of drawing the colonies into closer touch with the Old Country, and events for the last two years have clearly shown how widely awake the colonies are to the neces- sities of the Mother-land, how closely in touch they are with all that concerns her, how ready and how willing they are to make sacrifices, if sacrifices be necessary, in order to conserve the interests of the Mother-land. Then, within the last two years, circumstances have brought about results which political diplomacy could never have accomplished, for we find, for the first time, the English-speaking people -- the British race-welded together by a com- mon impulse, by a common sacrifice, into a 