against the movements of that class in the carrying-out of their nefarious practices, and the public, on the other hand, had no way of investing their money openly. But since an Act was passed legalising the totalisator, and putting the conduct of sport under proper con- trol, betting has become centralised and placed immediately under the scrutiny of the public. The heavy gambling that used to obtain in hotels and clubs has been considerably dimin- ished. An Hon. MEMBER. - Has it ? Mr. CARROLL .- Yes, compared with what things used to be. You do not hear the rattle of the dice now, the expert shuffle of the cards is less frequent : and even horse-racing, though we have legalised the totalisator as a public form of betting, has decreased in number of meetings compared with what existed before the Totalisator Act came into force. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. CARROLL .- That is so. At one time every little district in the colony had its race- meeting, and in some cases two or three, and every little course was infested by all the scum of the community, and the same invariably be- came the scene of the worst cases of corrupt and indecent practices. The class of people who went there went not only to bet, but to relieve their fellow-creatures of whatever they pos- sessed by every low-down mode of swindle. There was no control, there was no superin- tendence by any body whose duty it was to see that racing was properly regulated and adminis- tered. Surely if members would only view pro- perly what was and what is they must appreciate https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the change. Under the Act which legalised the totalisator it was laid down that you could not issue more than so many totalisator permits for the year; that there could be only a certain number of clubs to whom permits could be issued, and those only according to a standard of good character. The result was that many clubs had to be wiped off the slate. No clubs without permits could exist alongside those which were granted permits, and that brought about the gradual decease of all the surplus clubs outside the limit recognised by law. By these means racing was lifted to a higher grade. An Hon. MEMBER .- A higher grade of gam- bling. Mr. CARROLL .- No, to a more public form of gambling. I admit, but which has led to the extinction of that secret. surreptitious. under- hand gambling, the sitting up to all hours of the night, and the moral undoing of those drawn into such circles. An Hon. MEMBER .-- There is plenty of it now. Mr. CARROLL .- No. The gambling that takes place to-day is carried on by those who can afford to gamble, because if they had not the money in their pockets they could not do so. An Hon. MEMBER .- That does not say they can afford it. Mr. CARROLL .- It is presumptive evidence, at any rate. that they can. If a man has #1 in his pocket he can put it on the machine, but hardly otherwise. An Hon. MEMBER .- He may not have paid his debts. Mr. CARROLL .- Well, if you go into that question, how many of those who do not bet on races are in a position to say they are clear of their liabilities ? Has the honourable gentle- man in charge of this Bill ever tried to put down gambling in mining shares, or on the Stock Exchange, or any other form to which the public have become accustomed, and which have become part of their several callings. Not at all. Why, members even gamble to get into this House. There are various kinds of speculations indulged in by people to their heart's desire, and the same exists in every course of life. You cannot be without it, and there it will always be, in spite of any mar- vellous reformer. But coming back to the totalisator, are gentlemen in this House going to say that five or six thousand people, well- dressed people, and most respectable, shall not go out to the Hutt, we will say, and have their holiday and their picnic on the racecourse, and there indulge in the sport they like, and see the thoroughbred animals and well- contested races, and at the same time also have that monetary interest in each com- petition which is afforded them by the total- isator ? Are you going to stop that ? Is it your place to say that none of those people should go out there and spend their £5 or their $1, as the case may be? What claim have you on the #1 or the £5 which they choose to invest on a race? Has a man not as much right to spend his pound in that way as you have to spend yours in another -- say, to buy shares in bogus companies, or to gamble on the Stock Exchange ? An Hon. MEMBER. - Why interfere with the Chinamen for playing fan-tan ? Mr. CARROLL. - Because that is carried on secretly and in the dark ; because it is a kind of gambling that develops the worst traits of human nature. People go into by-ways and into dark places, where the surroundings smell of vice and everything is impure Is it because we war against that form of vice you would use it as an argument against the freedom allowed to a respectable person on the racecourse, where everything is open and above-board ? Why. the two things are as wide apart as the poles. Mr. ATKINSON .- It would be as illegal to play fan-tan in the street as in a Chinese den. Mr. CARROLL .- If the honourable gentle- man wants to do away with gambling on the machine or the racecourse, let him bring in a Bill and say that there shall be no more horse- racing in the colony. Get to the bottom of it. and then see what will happen. People would give up breeding horses. How will that affect the farmer and many employés at the present time, whose honest livelihood is earned in oceu- pations more or less connected with the farm and the thoroughbred ? An Hon. MEMBER. - People would want good horses for hunting. Mr. CARROLL .- There would be very little hunting : there would be no incentive to breed thoroughbreds, and you cannot get your hunter 