Captain RUSSELL .- Within twenty days. Mr. GRAHAM .- I do not think so. I do not agree with the honourable member in his reading of the clause ; but I hope the Premier will make it perfectly clear, because he is in a position that neither the member for Hawke's Bay nor He knows what are the objects myself are in. desired by the Bill, and he has in addition the advice of the Law Officers who have drawn up the Bill as to what it really means, which is an advantage we do not possess. Captain RUSSELL .- Might I be allowed to say that the Premier, in opening, stated that the object was to avoid similar delays to that caused by serving the owner of Hatuma in Europe. Mr. GRAHAM .- Well, I hope the Premier will make clear what is meant ; and, should it differ from my interpretation, I shall support the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, if necessary, in getting that provision altered. With reference to clause 6 of the Bili, it seems to me to be a very arbitrary provision. It says that in order to prevent any evasion or avoid- ance of the main Act the area of the estate shall be computed as at the commencement of the negotiations for the purchase. Sir, I know of properties held by owners who have consider- able families of sons and daughters who are assisting them. If these properties were cut up and divided amongst the different mem- bers of the families in equal shares, none of them would have the amount fairly allow- able to them by law. A parent does not necessarily cut up his property and divide it among his children while he is with them. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 The sons work together on the farm with their parent. They all work in common, well under- standing that it is the intention of their parent to divide that farm among them when the time comes that he shall be with them no more. Now, if the object of the Government is to settle people on the land, I cannot conceive for the life of me why the sons of a settler who has worked and struggled perhaps for a lifetime to clear and improve a property -- that if divided among his family, would give them perhaps not so much as the law would allow them to take, -- should have that land peremptorily taken from them to be divided among other people, while those who have struggled for years upon it are to be rendered landless for the benefit of others who had made no struggle at all. object to that. Sir, and I shall join with mem. bers of the House who will support an altera- tion of such a provision. A parent may have no desire or necessity to divide his property among his children while he is alive: but if this Bill comes into operation, and notice is given to a man such as I have described that his land is to be taken from him for sub- division, I want to know why the owner should not have the chance of dividing that place, which he has worked for perhaps all his life- time, between his own sons and daughters? He should have the right to do so. This would be a most arbitrary provision, Sir, and I shall oppose it. With reference to clause 7 of the Bill, which makes provision for land being purchased at auction, I see no objection to it, with the proviso, which says : " Provided that the purchase-money shall not in any case exceed the amount recommended by the Board." With reference to clause 8, I think it requires material amendment. It adds some- thing new to our land legislation. It is more than an amendment of the consolidating measure of last year. It is a new proposal. It says,- "In disposing of land by way of lease the Board shall, unless directed to the contrary liv the Minister, give preference to married men with families, provided they are landless." Now, the section does not even say they have to be married men with families, who have resided in the colony, and who have been a I benefit to the colony. A married man with a family may come into the colony, and he is at once to have priority over men who have laboured here for perhaps a lifetime. How does the Premier reconcile that with his statements that the young men who have come back from South Africa are to be given every preference to go on the land, and opportunities and preferences in many other ways ? Most of these are single men, and they are to be precluded - 12.30. actually precluded-by this Bill from having an opportunity of going upon the land. And why should the Land Board, a body of mor responsible for this work and appointed to do it, why should they be compelled to give the preference in every case and under all circum- stances to married men unless directed to the contrary by the Minister ? That is surely put- ting an arbitrary and despotie power into the hands of one man, and it leaves him able to give favours to those whom he desires to give them to. As to the Land Boards. the Bill prohibi- them from allowing any single man, no matter under what circumstances, from going upon the land ; but all he has to do is to get the Minister to help him, and then the Land Board may be directed, notwithstanding that the applicant may not be married. Mr. SEDDON .- Where do you get that from ? Mr. GRAHAM .- It is in this Bill. which says, " In disposing of land the Board -ha 1. unless directed to the contrary by the Minister. give preference to married men." Am I to understand from the Minister's interjection I that he does not know what is in this Bill? He asks me where I get that from, and bere i: is in so many words. An Hon. MEMBER .- He knows all about it. Mr. GRAHAM. - I am reminded by an honourable member that the Premier is net quite so simple as he looks, that this is pure bluff ; he knows all about it, and he does not want members to know more than they em discover for themselves. There have been next speeches on the general question of land-setti- ment, and that is the sort of speech the Premier likes : he does not like speeches that dissect the clauses of the Bill. I suppose the honourable member is now satisfied that if the Minister directs the Board to give the land to a single man that he must have it. 