when inquiry was made I was informed that the permanent head of the Defence Office said that he did not know anything about the report of the Defence Committee. Is it not extra- ordinary that, owing to some rule of the Circum- locution Office, this anomalous state of things should exist, that an order of Parliament should be officially unknown to the Under-Secretary for Defence? Well, that is an absurdity, and I say that the Under-Secretary for Defence should have taken this resolution of Parliament as an order, without any Ministerial minute. It is a direction from Parliament. Then, it was ordered that the Volunteer Force of the colony should be properly equipped, such equipment to include overcoat and waterproof sheet. Now, those articles have not been supplied, and they were wanted very recently at the Christchurch re- view. Their absence has caused a great deal of inconvenience and even illness amongst the Volunteers, owing to the fact that many young men from the North, not anticipating the severity of the Canterbury climate, went down without private overcoats. The old method of expecting the soldier to do anything in any climate in any weather without adequate equip- ment is now entirely exploded, and the saner military principle of taking care of your men is the one that all modern military commanders act upon. It pays to look after your men, to preserve their health, and thus prevent unneces- sary waste of life and health. I trust that before very long this particular direction of the Defence Committee will be carried out. With regard to rifle-ranges, there is a direction here in this report that proper rifle-ranges should be https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 secured, but as far as Auckland is concerned nothing has been done to provide a rifle-range, and the whole Volunteer movement in Auckland is languishing, and the men are unable to http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero qualify as expert marksmen, because the old range has been closed for volley-firing, and only men who are highly qualified are allowed to shoot at the short ranges which are available at the Mount Eden rifle-range. The long-distance range has not been secured, although there are three or four available. Mr. SEDDON .- They demanded a large in- crease as soon as they found the Government wanted the land. Mr. NAPIER .- For the number of acres required for a rifle-range that would not have been very much. Then, again, here is 11.30. another point : It is well known that some two or three years ago a plan to encourage the drilling of Volunteers by daylight was intro. duced, because one daylight parade was worth many night parades, especially in that branch of the service with which I am connected-the Garrison Artillery. A payment of 2s. 6d. per man was authorised for daylight parades. It was found impossible to get two-thirds of a company prosent for a daylight parade, because the statutory half-holiday is kept by different businesses on different days. Some kept Wed- nesday, and some Saturday, so that you could not get two-thirds of the men on either Wednes- day or Saturday afternoon. Consequently, the Committee decided that if half a company was on parade they should get paid, and the clause in the report is to this effect. Now, that direction of the Defence Committee has not been complied with. The consequence is that daylight parades have ceased to be called. I note, Sir, also, that reference has been made in the Speech to the success of the Advances to Settlers Act. I agree that the success of that measure has been complete, and I hope that the principle will be extended still further, as in South Australia has been done, so as to include advances to shippers of New Zealand produce. In South Australia, notwith- standing that the experiment was there de- nounced, no losses have resulted to the Govern- ment in undertaking these advances to shippers. Of course, great care is exercised, and advances are only made upon approved products that have passed the tests of the Government expert. I trust that the Government will take into serious consideration the desirability of extend- ing to country settlers this boon of obtaining advances on their produce, as at present the commissions, interest, exchange, and various charges are so excessive as to unduly handicap producers. There is no reference in the Speech to any new method, system, or principle as applied to railway management, but I hope the Minister for Railways will devote a little more consideration than he has hitherto done to the question of the desirability of adopt- ing the Vaile stage system. I believe that that system is one calculated to develop the country to a great degree, especially those portions of the country which are re- motest from the large towns. Though the departmental managers have made proposals. and induced the Minister to adopt various small portions of the Vaile system, I think the time has arrived when the system should be tried in its integrity over some section of the colonial railways. I should regret exceedingly if this country should allow Mr. Vaile-the inventor of the system, whose name is world-wide, and who has received the thanks of railway scientists all over the world-to pass away from among us before an experiment were made of this system over some complete section of our railways. The people of Auckland are unanimously in favour of having the system applied to the Waikato line, and I hope that some proposals of a practical nature will be suggested by the Minister to enable this to be done. There is another important matter to which reference has been made, and that is the necessity of having Government vessels to carry our produce to the markets of the world. I entirely coneur. But, Sir, there is another feature of the matter to which I would like to advert, and that is the necessity of having large passenger-steamers to ply between New Zealand and Australia. Now, Sir, 1 am aware, from communications made to me, and from my investigations in Australia some six or eight months ago, that thousands of persons are deterred from coming to New Zealand, and seeing our natural wonders and the beauties of our scenery, because they have to travel in the inferior steamers, some of which might be called old tubs, that the Union Steam- 