learning military drill ; but no parent could | the time of the House at any great length in an- object to his child, either boy or girl, getting physical training, because it is for the physical benefit of the child; and it is absolutely neces- sary that something should be done, in order that the whole of the Boards of Education throughout the colony should deal with this important matter in a uniform manner. It is a ridiculous position to be in, when we find children in one part of the colony being taught physical drill and a portion of military drill, and in another part they know nothing what- ever about it. Of course, there will always be a difficulty in the small schools, but in these places the teachers, first having learnt the drill necessary in the large schools, will be able to impart it to the pupils. In many of the country districts we find pupils who are most expert in physical drill-especially on the goldfields is this so -- and some of the teachers have gone to great trouble and expense in order to equip a certain number of their boys for this exercise. It is a pity-because this could be 8.0. made a useful Bill-that the discus- sion has been so wide and has gone into such questions as the expansion of the Empire, and so forth. With regard to some things that have been said about the expansion of the Empire, it has been said that we should not encourage it, and that it has been extended owing to commerce. As the Premier pointed out, commerce would not be secure unless we had a powerful fleet ; and, apart from this, we occupy a position in the world, and it becomes a question whether we are to hold it or go back. So far as I am concerned personally, whether as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 a member of the Government or as a private member, I am not prepared to go back ; we must go on, and in order to do so we must see that our children are being so brought up as to be properly equipped for the battle of life, not only mentally, but physically. I am very glad to support the Bill on its second reading. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .- I thank honour- able members for the great attention they have given to this important subject. I do not wish it to go forth in Hansard that the remarks made by the member for Nelson City are correct when he says that the whole discussion shows that very little interest is taken in the Bill. I would remind that honourable member, and put it on record. that twenty-six or twenty-seven speeches have been made so far on the Bill. Mr. GRAHAM. - There were only twenty-one in the House, and barely a quorum at any time in the afternoon. Mr. GUINNESS. - Sometimes there may have been only twenty-one members in the House -that was probably the case when the honourable member for Nelson City was speaking -but I wish to put on record the fact that at some periods of the debate there were between forty and fifty members present. For some considerable time during the early part of the debate, especially when the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), the honourable member for Waihemo, and the Right Hon. the Premier were speaking, there was a very large attendance. I shall not take up i in view when they come to consider the ques- swering the speeches of those honourable gentle- men who dissented from the principles of the Bill. A great deal of irrelevant discussion has been introduced into the question-the question of militarism, of sending troops to South Africa, the question of defending portions of the Empire, and matters of that kind, which are wholly irrelevant. The question of providing proper instruction in physical and military drill to the children attending our State schools is not a new one at all. It is one that was recognised by the Education Act of 1877, and it is because of the neglect of the members of the Education Boards to carry out the provisions of that Act that I have felt it necessary, at the instigation of many who have felt that neglect, to bring this Bill forward, in order to insure a more uniform and more proper administration of the Act being carried out by the Boards throughout the colony. Therefore it has not been brought forward to-day in consequence of the military spirit that honourable members say has taken charge of the people of this country. The Bill was brought in last session, and has been brought in again this session, and many of the objections that have been urged to it are urged against what has been actually carried by the votes of the House in Committee. For instance. the honourable member for Napier says there is nothing compulsory in the Bill. As I originally brought it in there was a penalising clause that made it compulsory on the Boards to do their duty ; it was struck out by a large majority, and I presume the honourable member, if he was present, was one to support that. Then, the honourable member for Ashley, in opposing the Bill, said there was no necessity for it. I shall not deal with the arguments made use of by honourable gentlemen who say they are against this military spirit and the militarism that is rampant in the country, and are against the Bill because it proposes to perpetuate that ; and I do not think that that argument ought to weigh with the question at all. But I want to deal with the argument that the Education Boards are providing this instruction. We find the member for Ashley telling us that is being done. We find the member for Masterton telling us that is being done. The honourable gentleman recently travelled. he said, from one end of the colony to the other as the Chair- man of a Commission, and he has seen that this is being done. 1 venture to tell him that he has only travelled through the main centres of population. He has not gone back to the back blocks in the country districts, where he would have found that they have not done so, and where the member for Ashley would have found that, instead of doing so, the Education Boards are totally neglecting their duties. They are providing all the necessary machinery, all the necessary staff -- more so than they have done in the past-for having mili- tary and physical drill taught in the schools in the centres, but they are neglecting their duty with regard to the outlying districts. Therefore I hope honourable members will keep that point 