will take the earliest opportunity of having a from this protective tariff. Indeed, I deny that drillshed erected at Auckland. Some months any worker can derive benefit from a protective ago the drillshed was consumed by fire, and as yet no steps have been taken to have it re- pay artificially increased prices for nearly every- erected. Unless something is done to give Auckland a drillshed very quickly I am sure that Volunteering in the district will receive a considerable check. Reference is made in the ' Speech to the earth-hunger which still exists. ment servants; and that is a very nice thing. I It is extraordinary that this should be so when i should like all servants of the Government to hundreds of thousands of acres of good land in the hands of the Government in the Auckland District are shut up and not open to settlement, and I hope something more effective will be done in the coming year in that respect. There is another matter in this connection I should like to bring before the Government. About twenty miles from Auckland there is a block of Native land extending from the Waikato Heads to Raglan, a distance of about a hundred miles by ten miles in width. It is absolutely shut up from settlement. It is under lease to a loan company, but the lease will ex- pire in three years. Surely, then, the Go- vernment can do something to satisfy the earth-hunger when they have land in great quantities like that so near a large centre of population. It could be acquired under the Land for Settlements Act, and thrown open for selection. In addition to that, there are many other parts, like the Ohura Valley, which has been spoken of, where the land, as good as any to be found within the colony, is lying in : the hands of the Crown; it might be offered for settlement, and I hope some effective steps will be taken to open it up at an early date. I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 see there is a proposal to do something for the extension of the commerce of the colony, and various speakers have spoken about opening up fresh markets for our produce, and at the same time have talked of having everything produced w.thin the colony. I want to know how it is pos- sible to extend the commerce of the colony if everything is to be produced within the colony. If you produce goods of any kind, and send them out of the colony for sale, you must take something in return. What is it that you want to take? You say that you want everything produced within the colony. Perhaps, Sir, the answer may be that we will take gold in re turn. Why, gold is one of our principal pro- ducts. I should like to hear some of those who speak so glibly on the question explain how it is possible to extend the commerce of the colony and at the same time pursue a policy which means the shutting - out of importations from other places. In that connection reference has been made to railway-carriages, and I believe, I abolish the monopoly on which they rest. No as a matter of sentiment, it is best to pro- duco things of that kind in the Government : base, and, whenever you find a trust or combine workshops. But the whole of our policy has been to increase the Customs tariff, with the idea of shutting foreign goods out of the colony : and we cannot increase to any great ' death. I believe there is a universal law of extent the commerce of the colony until we alter our fiscal laws. The settlers in the country dis- tricts and a large proportion of the workers in the towns are engaged in occupations that cannot possibly derive any benefit whatever tariff, and most of them because of it have to thing they buy, while the prices of their own . products are regulated by foreign markets. In this connection also there has frequently been voiced the desire for increased pay for Govern- be well paid, and many require equalisation ; but it has to be borne in mind that the pay of all public servants has to be found by the people of the colony. I know very well outside the ranks of the Civil Service it is not so easy for a man to make a good living as inside the Service, and, therefore, to increase the pay of those in the Government service is simply to set up another privileged class who will receive a re- muneration higher than is received by those who provide the pay for them. With reference to the construction of railways, I am glad to see the Government recognise the necessity for pro- ceeding rapidly with the main lines, and I hope that in the allocations for the coming year they will remember that the main line runs north of Auckland as well as south of Auckland, and in making allocations for railway construction it will be kept in view that the opening-up of the lands north of Auckland is a very important matter. There are very large quantities of good land that can never be properly opened up without the prosecution of the North Auckland Railway. I notice, also, that there is no re- ference in the Address this year to licensing proposals. I presume that the Government have recognised that it is a thorny subject to handle. I believe it is ; and it is better that the law should be left as it is at present rather than adopt the retrograde proposals of last year. I do not think the law is by any means perfect. There are a good many things that could be amended, but possibly in the meantime an amendment might be made in the wrong direc- tion, and I believe the administration can be improved considerably without an alteration of the law itself. Mr. ATKINSON .- What about these re- movals ? Mr. FOWLDS .- Which removals ? Mr. ATKINSON .- These fraudulent re- movals. Mr. FOWLDS .- That is a question of ad- ministration. I notice the Government intends to undertake a big contract in reference to deal- ing with and controlling trusts. There is only one way to deal with trusts, and that is to trust can exist without some monopoly as a in any particular branch of business, throw it open to competition, take away the shelter of the monopoly, and the trust will die a natural liberty, and if men conform with it things will go on very satisfactorily. Last year I did not feel satisfied with the passing of the Public Revenues Bill. I opposed that measure, and still think that, while some amendments were 