amount to a very considerable sum -- in some cases to as much as 10 per cent. on the value of the estate --- it was but right that some appeal should be allowed in so important a matter. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the following was the department's answer : - " While valuations are being made under ' The Government Valuation of Land Act, 1900,' the assessment provisions of 'The Land and Income Assessment Act, 1900.' are, in ac- cordance with subsection (2) of section 104 of that Act, inoperative. Section 13 of 'The Govern- ment Valuation of Land Act, 1900.' gives the right of objection to any alteration in a valuation. If the assessment provisions of . The Land and Income Assessment Act, 1900,' were in force, then subsection (2) of section 22 of that Act provides that 'every alteration or addition which has the effect of imposing any fresh liability or increasing any existing liability shall be notified to the taxpayer affected, and, unless made with his consent, shall be subject to ob- jection. It is therefore manifest that the right of objection exists under whichever statute valuations may be made." LOCAL BOARDS FOR GOVERNMENT ADVANCES. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Go- Vernment .. Whether they will take into con- sideration the question of appointing local Boards for the various centres of population, with power to make advances up to a moderate amount sav, $2,000 -under the various Acts under which the Public Trust and other depart- ments grant loans, and abolish valuation-fees in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 respect to loans authorised by such Boards? The question was suggested by the experience which sometimes occurred in connection with the Public Trust Office or other public office for lending money. They were approached for a loan ; the security might be all that was de- sired, but there was a good deal of delay over the matter even when the amount asked for was not large. A valuation was demanded by an independent person, valuation-fees had to be paid, reference had then to be made to Wellington, an answer had to be waited for, and, generally speaking. there was very considerable delay. The result was that the department often lost good security, the funds accumulated, and the department had some- times a difficulty in disposing of all its funds at suitable interest. He was speaking from a knowledge of facts in regard to this matter. because actual cases of these securities had come within his own knowledge. which had been taken up readily outside. What he would suggest was that there should be a small local Board to deal with the question of advances up to a certain amount. Mr. SEDDON .- What amount ? Mr. BARCLAY. -- About $2,000, or even $1.000. Men of local knowledge might be asked what they thought of the security, and if they said it was good enough it could be accepted. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) hoped this was not Mr. Barclay Public Trust moneys under the control of three or four gentlemen in each town- - gentlemen who had no responsibility-would be a very great mistake, and in a very short time it might bring about a state of affairs such as had been found in connection with other institutions in the colony. The Public Trustee said :- " I should view such a proposal as the esta- blishment of local lending Boards with uncom. promising hostility. The cost would be hardly warranted. The delay in granting loans would be great, because the Public Trustee could not give up control as a trustee of his own funds, and would necessarily require to revise the local Board's decision. With our present postal facili- ties no reasonable complaint can be made now- adays about delays under the present system. Such local Boards could not possibly be com- posed of more disinterested, reliable, responsible. or expert members than now constitute my present Board. And as for the abolition of valuation-fees, I would observe that this cost is now, by the employment of the Government valuers, reduced to the lowest possible amount. and there is no complaint by borrowers of hard- ship on that account. I need hardly point out that local influences would certainly be brought to bear on the Board suggested, and in this way serious losses might result. There would be endless friction between the head office and the local Boards." As honourable members knew, the Trust Board consisted of the Solicitor-General and the heads of two or three other departments, who were beyond all local influences; and he had no hesitation in saving there would be a great danger in having local Boards intrusted to the extent of 92.000. Local influences would be at work, and the valuations might be detrimental to the lending body of the Public Trustee. If. for instance, this proposal were submitted in connection with the Advances to Settlers Act, he felt positive Parliament would refuse it. and wisely so. They must not run too great risks in lending trust moneys or public moneys of any kind. RODNEY ELECTORATE. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked the Premier, Whether, when appointing the bound- ary Commissioners, he will call their attention to the necessity of reviving the Rodney elector- rate, so as to give the people north of Auckland a fair representation in this House ? It might be thought that he was somewhat premature in putting this question, but he would like to point out to the Premier that when the last division was made, three electorates north of Auckland were very much overweighted with population. In those three districts there was a population of over thirty-one thousand. He did not think the Commissioners had treated that part of the colony fairly, as the population was very scattered, and there was a large area of country. He thought in fixing the quota of population in those electorates they should have adopted the lowest quota. The Rodney electorate was abolished some years ago. 