pended, and until he could have cleared himself of the charge made against him he should have remained suspended ; and if he could not have disproved the charge he should have been dis- missed from the service of the colony. I cannot understand the hesitancy of the De- fence Minister. Sir, it passes my comprehen- sion that he should try and shield this officer, who has behaved himself in a most atrocious manner towards men who have devoted their time and money to the service of this colony. Is it to be that this man is to go unpunished ? Because I tell the Defence Minister, if he doos, there will have been aimed at Volunteering one of the greatest blows ever levelled at the service, and until the whole of this thing is investigated, and until the punishment has been inflicted where it ought to be inflicted, then, I say, Volunteering in this colony is under a very dark cloud indeed. Sir, if I had been in command of the men there, and had dared to use such terms towards them, I should have expected some of those stalwart fellows to have dragged me off my horse and rolled me in the mud. And I say this, advisedly. If I had been one of the troopers to whom those words had been ad- dressed I should have forgotten for the mo- ment that I was in the King's uniform, and I should have forgotten that the offender had the King's uniform on. Now, Sir, with regard to another point in connection with this question, that of the massing of the cadets at Christchurch -- and I particularly want the Canterbury members to pay some little atten- tion to what I am going to say, and I hope they will have something to say about it themselves when they speak in this debate-1 am credibly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 informed that, in one building used by cadets in Christchurch. after the boys had left the build- ing had to be scoured from top to bottom, and that it took a tremendous amount of work to cleanse it -that it had to be fumigated and dis- infected. " That is very rough on the boys," as an honourable member remarks ; but I say it is still more rough on the so-called organization and the lack of supervision on the part of the authorities. It was not the fault of the boys, but of those who were in charge of them ; and I say to put the boys as they were put, to huddle in å steamer, heaped together on straw like so many pigs, and taken down to Christchurch, where they had to rush round helter-skelter for every mouthful they got, and to live, as they did live, in dirt and filth in the school there-I say, Sir, it was disgraceful. Members may dissent, but I am quoting now from those boys who went from my district down to Christchurch, and I am also speaking on the authority of the Lyttel- ton Times newspaper. An Hon. MEMBER .- That report is incor- rect. Mr. HORNSBY .- It is all very well to say that it is incorrect. The proper way to find out whether it is incorrect or not is to hold an inquiry into the whole business. Now, Sir, turning from the warlike aspect of things, I want to go on to the consideration of peaceful pursuits. I want to say a word or two in regard to land for settlements. Some time ago a pro- mise was made to the people of the Wairarapa that some land would be repurchased there for land-settlement purposes. From that day to this there has not been a yard of land pur- chased ; but in the North Wairarapa -- or, rather, in the Masterton electorate-there has been one estate bought, and the resale of it was most successful. And I dare venture to say that if any land is taken in the South Wairarapa it will be most eagerly seized upon by the people. The land-hunger has not been .appeased in our district, nor has there been any attempt to appease that hunger, and I hope the Premier will fulfil his promise made to the people of the Wairarapa, and that some estates will be repurchased, and that many of the broad acres now lying there will be peopled with small farmers. With reference to roads and bridges, that is a burning question in my elec- torate as well as in other people's electorates. I want to say this : that it is asking members of this House too much to, year after year, con- sent to what is neither more nor less than a farce, by voting large sums in the estimates and then never spending them. Now, Sir, this thing has been going on for, I dare say, a great many years. I, as a new member, at any rate, feel that it is an infliction that no member should quietly put up with. If the money is voted, let it be spent. If the men who are in charge of the roadworks in the various districts are not carrying on their work properly, and do not expend the money, then I say that the Minister of Lands must step in and clear out these useless people, and put practical men in their places. And, while I am speaking on this matter, let me say this: that an im portant appointment has recently been made, and I think my honourable friend the member for Masterton will agree with me when I say that no appointment that has ever been made has ever been a better appointment than that of Mr. Hursthouse, and the placing him in charge of the roads of this colony will give intense satisfaction. I think he is the right man in the right place. We have got a practical man who knows his business, and a man who will carry on that business in a proper way. I congratu- late the Minister of Lands upon that appoint. ment, and I trust the Minister of Lands will give Mr. Hursthouse every facility for carrying out those excellent ideas which we all know he possesses. Now. Sir, there is to be brought before this House a Bill dealing with the ques- tion of local government, and I do hope that before that Bill is allowed to pass through this House it will be considerably altered from the shape in which it now stands, and in the way that it will be submitted to members. There are many alterations that ought to be made, but the principal one is this : The Bill says that at the commencement of the Act all Road Boards and County Councils in existence shall be con- stituted Road Boards and County Councils undor this Act. Mr. MASSEY .- Not Road Boards. Mr. HORNSBY .- I think so, and if the honourable member will look up the Bill he will 