NEW ZEALAND.
=== PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
=== Second Session of the LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Monday, 1st July, 1901. Opening of Parliament-Swearing-in of Members- Death of Queen Victoria. OPENING OF PARLIAMENT. PARLIAMENT was prorogued on the 22nd Oc- tober, 1900, to the 20th December, 1900; thence prorogued to the 21st February, 1901; thence prorogued to the 18th April; thence prorogued https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to the 11th May; and further prorogued to the 1st July, when it met for the despatch of business. The Parliament was opened by Commission. The Legislative Council being met, Four of the five Commissioners-namely, Sir H. J. MILLER (Chief Commissioner), the Hon. Captain BAILLIE, the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, C.M.G., and the Hon. Mr. W. KELLY-took their seats. The CHIEF COMMISSIONER said,-I have to acquaint the Council that His Excellency the Governor, not being able to be personally present here this day, hath been pleased to cause a Commission to be issued in order to the opening and holding of this session of Par- liament. The CHIEF COMMISSIONER commanded the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to inform the members of the House of Representatives that the Commissioners desired their immediate attendance in the Legislative Council Chamber to hear the Commission read. The members of the House of Representa- tives being come, The CHIEF COMMISSIONER said, - His Excellency the Governor, not being able to be present here to-day, hath been pleased, in order to the opening and holding of this session of Parliament, to cause letters patent to be passed under the seal of the colony constituting us, the several honourable members therein named, his fourteenth Parliament. | Commissioners to do all things in His Excel- lency's name and on his part necessary to be performed in this session of Parliament. This will more fully appear by the letters patent, which will now be read. The letters patent were then read by the CLERK OF PARLIAMENTS. The CHIEF COMMISSIONER said,- Honourable Legislative Councillors, and gentle- men of the House of Representatives, we have it in command from His Excellency the Gover- nor to let you know that on Tuesday, the 2nd day of July instant, at half-past two o'clock in the afternoon, His Excellency the Governor will declare to you in person the causes of his calling this session of Parliament together. However, it being proper and desirable. owing to the lamented death of Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, that members of both Houses should take the oath of allegiance to His Most Gracious Majesty King Edward the Seventh, His Excellency the Governor requests that you, honourable gentlemen of the Legislative Coun- cil, and you. gentlemen of the House of Repre- sentatives, will presently repair to the places where you usually sit and there take the oath of allegiance. The members of the House of Representatives then withdrew. SWEARING-IN OF MEMBERS. The Hon. the SPEAKER said he had re- ceived the following letter from the Colonial Secretary with respect to the oath of allegiance to King Edward the Seventh :- " Colonial Secretary's Office, Wellington, 1st July, 1901. " SIR,-I have the honour to inform you that it is considered proper and desirable that the oath of allegiance to His Majesty the King should be administered to all members of both Houses of the General Assembly at the com- mencement of the present session, being the first session held since His Majesty's accession. " His Excellency the Governor will be pre- pared to administer the said oath of allegiance to you at Government House at noon this day, and 