The honourable member for the Bay of Plenty I raised. Sir, let me say finally that. although will admit that, and that is my objection to these are misrepresentations, I do not al- this clause now : and I feel that. notwithstand- together blame the member for Wellington ing the words added by the Premier, which are Suburbs for having made those misrepresenta- mere surplusage, we still have the danger-we tions ; but I do say, Sir, and I say it by way of shall still have the possibility that regulations clearing myself in the matter, that I treat with at some future date may be introduced which the utmost contempt the action of the Minister are absolutely ultra rues. And what will be the who gave him that information during the result ? I am quite prepared to say that this is supper adjournment. struck out of the latter part of the 1st sub- section of the clause, which said that no regula- as a personal explanation I might be allowed tion should be made modifying " The Public to say, in answer to the honourable member Works Act, 1894." The Hon. the Minister for Wairarapa, Mr. Hornsby, that during the said to me, when I told him that that did not supper adjournment I did not speak to any meet the case, that it did. With all due de- Minister on any subject. Furthermore, I ac- cept the honourable member's apologies for his ference to the Right Hon. the Premier, I con. attitude towards me this evening. sider he is not putting a right interpretation on that section. With the greatest deference to his opinion. I say that section does not carry - Sir, as the Minister in charge of the Taxation the meaning that the Premier tells us it does. Department as well, I wish to emphasize what I maintain, absolutely, that the Government has just been said by the honourable member bave absolute and supreme power to make for Wellington Suburbs, Mr. Wilford ; he never these regulations, and whether they are wild spoke to me, and I never spoke to him on the rares or not the House and the country has no matter under discussion in any way. As Minis- redress. ter in charge of the department I feel it incum- Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- Sir. I rise to bent on me to say that the Hon. Sir Joseph make a personal explanation, having been mis- represented by the last speaker. The honourable me, had qualified any promise he gave by this member for the Suburbs stated that my antago- statement : that the valuer must be a suitable and competent person. I acknowledge that nism to the Valuation Department was brought about by the refusal of that department to the person nominated by the honourable mem- appoint Mr Bennett as a valuer. Sir, I give that ber for Wairarapa. Mr. Hornsby, was a very a most emphatic denial. and I say that Mr. : ood settler, a man for whom I have every re- Bennett was proposed by me to the predecessor spect and would like to have found employ- in office of the Hon. Mr. Mills: that I received me - and he has put it in writing that he has a distinct promise from his predecessor in office that the gentleman should be appointed when never made a valuation of that class in his life. there was a suitable vacaney : and the only desire I had in the matter and it stands in ing into something more pleasant than the writing- - was that the man should first of all undergo an examination to prove conclusively that he was a qualified man in every respect pleasant to honcurable members-1 must say before the appointment should be made. That was my desire, and that is my desire still. I say I hold the promise of the predecessor in office of the Hon. Mr. Mills for that appoint . Wellington Suburbs. I think the whole of the ment. and that anything I may have sand with r gard to the department did not proceed in any way from the fact that Mr. Bennett was not appointed to the Taxation Department. Then, Sir, the honourable member for Wel- speaking. And parenthetically I may say, Sir, lington Suburbs inferred that I had recom- mended the purebase of some stony plains near Featherston in the occupation of Mr. Cotter. is a great deal too much interruption, which is Sir, I never made a recommendation with very disconcerting to some members who are regard to that estate. As member for the dis- triet I forwarded a petition which was signed great improvement if there was not so much in Greytown and district, and I wrote and told of it. Sir, : intimated when the Bill was in the Minister that I objected to the purchase of Committee that I would like to hansard- the stony land, but recommended the purchase ise the reason why I supported the amend- of the "home padd. eks." The honourable ment of the honourable member for Hawke's member for the Suburbs learned his lesson very ! Bay, and why the additions that : proposed badly in the half-hour's adjournment. He to it were not carried by this House. I think further stated that I said Mr. Phillipson bor- rowed money from the bank. Sir. I never mentioned the bank. I said Mr. Phillipson borrowed $200 from the Advances to Settelrs for Settlements Act than myself. But still, Office, and that he wanted 4200 more and with all revolutionary pieces of political ma- could not get it. That was the contention Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). Sir, Mr. MILLS ( Minister of Trade and Customs). Ward, who was in charge of the office before ment for. but he is a man who has honest ly told Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .-- Sir, drift- unfortunate recrimination that has been intro- duced, I go so far as to say it is far from 1 sympathise with the honourable member for Wairarapa with respect to the position in which he has been placed with the member for speech of the member for the Suburbs was a tirade-an attack-on the member for Wai- ratrapa, because the member for Wairarapa had to reprimand him for interjections while he was without reflecting on your conduct of the touse in any way, that during speeches there addressing the House, I am sure it would be a I am justified in saying that no 11.30. member in the House is a stronger supporter or a greater admirer of the Land chinery, it has its defects, and it will take 