honourable member has done. I accept his explanation. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton). - I do not intend, Sir, at this hour of the morning to do more than refer very briefly to a few of the remarks which have fallen from some of the previous speakers, and to the views I hold in connection with the land policy of this country. A good deal has been made this morning, last night, and yesterday morning. of what has been called the inordinate length of this debate. But, Sir, when we consider the importance of the subject with which we are dealing, and the far-reaching effect anything in the shape of land legislation may have, not only upon us but upon future generations, I am sure none of us who have the interests of the country at heart will begrudge a long debate upon it. The honour- able member for the Bay of Plenty made a sug- gestion that I should like very much to see given effect to. That suggestion was that where a man employed on a station or a farm or in business in town is desirous of taking up land, some regulation should be framed which would enable him to take up land and vet continue in his situation, earning capital to enable him to work the land, one condition being that he should expend a certain sum by way of improvements upon it from month to month and from year to year, and then after a certain period he could go and reside upon it. By that time his planta- tions would be well under way, and his building and fencing completed, and the place fit to live upon. I know of a number of very striking in- stances in the town I belong to of men who are https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 desirous of taking up land-some of them busi- ness men and men in situations-who would be willing to spend from $50 up to $200 or $300 a year in improving a piece of land if they could get an opportunity of taking it up. Having improved it they would be willing to go and live upon it for the rest of their days. Mr. MASSEY. . I hope you will support that when the Land Bill comes down. Mr. LAURENSON .- I shall be only too pleased to support any reasonable amendment in that direction that may be brought forward, the only condition being that the amendment shall be so drawn as to prevent dummyism. Sir, I was struck with some of the remarks of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay He said he considered that this country had not yet reached the pitch of the Australian Colonies in the drift towards the towns. I wish he was speaking what is correct, but I regret to say he must have been speaking under a misappre- hension. Why, 40 per cent. of our population is already in our towns. In this new country, where we should almost all be producers, 40 per cent. of us are already congregated in the towns, and the drift towards the towns is in- creasing every day. And not only is that so, but I find that one-fifth of our population is aggregated in the four large cities. This evil is now becoming quite common to almost all English-speaking countries, and all thinkers deplore it and see the evils of it. The honour- able member then went on to deplore that the ' time that those among us who believe the Mr. Wilford up the freehold system. But no socialist of the towns wishes to interfere with the country. We recognise as strongly as the honourable member who has made his first appearance to- night-the member for Patea-the necessity for conserving the interests of the country. We recognise that the country is the backbone of the colony, and are prepared to meet the coun try people in the fairest spirit possible : but we want them to exhibit like tolerance towards us who are in the towns. Most of us who live in the towns have come from the country, and with many of us our life's ambition is to ac- cumulate a sum of money and then take up land and settle in the country, and be country settlers for the rest of our lives. Our interests, we know, are identified with those of the country settlers, and theirs are identified with ours; we ought, therefore, to recognise that we are mutually interdependent. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay referred to the wickedness of any one proposing to deal with those people who have taken up land under the lease in perpetuity. I do not believe in the lease in perpetuity, and I tell the House frankly I am opposed to the freehold system, and very bitterly and strongly opposed to the lease in perpetuity. I want to see the perpetual-lease system-a modification of Mr. Rolleston's system, or, in other words, the sy»- tem of periodical revaluation -- back again. I believe that is a fair system, but I object to the clause giving the holder of the lease a right to acquire the freehold, and in that I believe I am expressing what will come to be the opinion of the whole country. Honourable gentlemen who talk so glibly about acquiring the free- hold of property, five hundred acres by this man and a thousand acres by that, within five or six miles of the towns, do not realise that this country is really of very limited extent. If every acre of land in the colony was divided amongst the men, women, and children of the colony, small as their numbers are, it would not come to more than fifty or sixty acres to each of them ; and I should like all to realise that any approach to land grabbing, or land monopoly, especially in the neighbourhood of the towns, is something that will materially injure the well-being of the men, women, and children of the whole country. Let me say, in connection with the perpetual-lease system-and I believe the majority of members agree with me-that we have no moral right to interfere with the people who have already taken up land under the system of lease in perpetuity without com- pensating them. What I want to see is that no further leases should be granted under that system -- that the system should be stopped, and stopped without delay. I should like honour- able members to recognise the rate at which we are drifting. Under our land-for-settle ments system we are buying up land at the rate of about fifty thousand acres per annum. and at the same time we are parting with our national freehold estate at the rate of two hundred thousand acres per annum. Is it no: 