amounts charged by voucher for actual travel- ling-expenses of each member of the Execu- tive." The words "in continuation of H .- 29, 1899, and a similar return ordered last session " are in brackets, proving that the return moved for this session was a continuation of the return which was ordered last session, but which was not produced. It was not intended to include the return ordered last session. The words are as clear as it is possible to make them. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member need not try to get out of it. He may not have intended it to include the return of last session. but why did he not put it plainly, and word the motion as those motions are always worded ? Why did he want to mention the previous year ? Mr. MASSEY .- I wanted to remind you it was not produced in that year. Mr. SEDDON .- I say the honourable mem- ber's motion is an order from the House to produce two returns. Mr. MASSEY .- No. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, the other return was not a return at all. I say the honourable member double-banked it, as shown in his motion this year. If he intended it simply as a reminder of the return of last session, well and good. At the time he made the motion the other return had not been forthcoming, and he therefore wanted to remind the Govern- ment of the return. Mr. PIRANI .- You are coming out of this badly. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, no, I always come out https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 weil, and on top. If the honourable member for Franklin wants to make things plain in the future he should say exactly what he means. Why did he not say he referred to a return http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero ordered on a given date -- the date he has just given to the House? I say there can be no doubt of what was intended ; and there is no doubt about the amendment, because I asked the honourable member to separate the two returns, and he agreed that it was a double- banked motion -- one showing the amounts of allowances and the other the expenses incurred in connection with matters outside the colony. What I referred to, of course, was to my trip to the Islands. I did not want the cost of that trip to be put in the ordinary return, and the honourable member agreed to that. Now, why did he do so ? Mr. MASSEY .-- Wrong again. Mr. SEDDON .- No. I am not wrong. It was last year that I went to the Islands. Mr. PIRANI .-- That was not " Ministers' ex- penses." Mr. SEDDON .-- You may call it what you like, but there were expenses, and the honour- able member knows it. You cannot do with- ont expenses, and the trip on that occasion was well worth all the money it cost the colony. Now, coming back to the matter at issue, I say I took the motion of the honourable member for Franklin to be a double-banked motion, and I believe it was so intended. It was amended as a double-banked motion. However, I repeat now that we have no object to gain in keeping the return back. It was simply an oversight in not giving an instruction to the Treasury. Tha: instruction will now be given, and the return will be produced. As to the threat about the estimates being kept back or unduly debated. I say we are as well able to debate on this side of the House as are the gentlemen opposite, an ! we are full of debate. Bill read a third time. MINERS' RIGHTS FEE REDUCTION BILL. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motucka). - Sir. P .: rising to move the second reading of this Bill it is unnecessary for me to go at length int. its provisions. This is the third time it has been before the House ; it has already passe; the Goldfields Committee unanimously for two sessions, but, for various causes, it has not ve: reached the statute-book. Miners' rights wer. first brought into use to provide for the cost of goldfields police and escort service in the earl days. In those days a miner did not find an; great difficulty in paying 10s. or 61 for a miner's right. But miners at present find it hard to make anything like ordinary wales, and therefore I consider the time has arrived wia h the miners' rights should be made as low as possible. In fact, in 1898, when the Goldtiel- Committee were dealing with the Mining Ac. it was a moot point whether the miner's right fee should not be abolished altogether. How- ever, there was a difference of opinion, with th . result that nothing was done. It cannot i. disputed by any one -in the House or out of it - that the mining community is the heaviest- taxed portion of the people of this colony. They produce gold and nothing else, and co ise - quently have to buy and pay taxation on every. thing they use ; and I must say this House of late years has not been very considerate or lenient with them in the way of reduction of taxation. The small modicum of relief the: would get under this Bill is a very small r. lie! indeed. There is another phase of this que -- tion. The miners' right fee is a tax on his earr- ings, and no other class in the community ha- to pay 10s. a year for the right to earn waters. It is said that small farmers have to pay a high rate for the land they rent. For every aere a miner rents he has to pay 7s. 6d. a year. it does not matter whether he gets anything out of it or not. He also has to pay heavy local rates : if he only has a tent he has to pry les. a year rates. A great many years ago the miner's right was reduced to 5s., but during a period of do- pression, when the Atkinson Government was in office, it was raised to 16s. In most of the other colonies it is only 5s. Personally, 1 believe it ought to be abolished. There is a clause dealing with the rights in the Aueklas ! Province : this clause was inserted at the re- quest of the late Minister, Mr. Cadman. I een :- mord the Bill to the favourable consideratior and approval of honourable members. forh: sure they are anxious to see every one in th community on an equal footing. 