penny-postage scheme-every one will congratu- late him upon that-and I do not intend to go into the matter except to say that it is matter for general commendation all round. I can say, as one individual member, that some tribute for the energy, foresight, and determination of the Postmaster-General was paid to him in the honour which was conferred upon him the other day, and upon which I have great pleasure in congratulating him. Sir, we read in His Excellency's Speech a reference to the cheap- money scheme and the land - for - settlements scheme. It is universally admitted, and it is generally agreed that the schemes of land- settlement and cheap money are workable, proper, and good for the country. Sir, the old arguments in reference to those schemes need not be recapitulated here; but in the acqui- sition of private lands for settlement there is one fact which should not be lost sight of, and that is this : The Government of this country have under their control, and under the Assets Board, some properties already in their hands which are able to be cut up, and which should be cut up at once. Only two weeks ago I had an opportunity of travelling round a very large estate belonging to the Assets Board, known as the Upton Downs Estate, and the Weld Hills Estate. Honourable gentlemen will know that about twenty to twenty-five miles from Blen- heim there is a large property which was origin- ally known as the Starborough Estate, which has been cut up into sections. Next to that estate is another property known as the Rich- mond Brook Estate, and between the Richmond Brook Estate and the Upton Downs Estate there is a stream called the Richmond Brook, and between the Upton Downs Estate and the Weld Hills Estate there is a river called the Medway. The whole of this vast property is well watered and well timbered. It is the earnest desire of the people of that district that they may have an opportunity of acquiring it, and I feel sure if the honourable gentleman who is in charge of that branch of the Govern- ment can see his way clear to open up this tract of country for close settlement numbers of applicants for the same will immediately be found, not only on the spot itself, but in different parts of New Zealand. Look at the benefit to the people in that particular district. I may further say that large parts of the land are ploughable. As to the price, a valuation was made by a brother to the manager of the Assets Board, and the residents of Blenheim would gladly pay that price and thus obtain possession of the land. The question of railways the honourable member for Christchurch City has touched upon, but there are other questions which concern the Railway service of this colony that he has not addressed himself to at all. feel sure that these facts have slipped his memory owing to the pressure of time and having so much ground to cover. The railway servants are classified under the Classification Act. It will be remembered that, after that Act was passed, another Bill was introduced, in order, if possible, to smooth over the anomalies which had been found to exist after the original Act was brought into operation. But those anomalies have not yet all been swept away. There are many rough edges and corners still which have got to be smoothed over, and, with the facile brain of the Minister for Railways, I feel sure that either this session or the next ses- sion those anomalies will be removed. The honourable gentleman knows what I refer to. I refer principally to the classification of labourers in the Railway Department. There are at pre- sent first - class, second- class, and third - class labourers, but I think the sooner those distinc- tions are swept away the better, for all the men have to do practically the same work. There should be only one class of labourers. During the recent rise in wages which the railway ser- vants obtained, many of the labourers were left out, for they could not come under what was called " the scale." They were classified as third-class labourers, which is practically "no class" at all. An amendment of the Classification Act should be introduced. I must congratulate at once the Minister for Railways for his introduction of a scheme by which something can be paid to those work- men in the railway workshops after retirement. To-day the railway workshop employés are not Civil servants-they do not come under the Civil Service Act, and have not the right to the same benefits as Civil servants. I think a Bill should be brought down and passed by which those who have grown grey in the Rail- way service, and who are too old, perhaps, to do the work they are asked to do-and who are un- able to retire owing to the fact that they cannot do so owing to want of means-should have a sum of money granted to them by the Govern- ment of the country, rather than that they should be dependent on the will of the Minister proposing a grant by way of solatium or present at the end of their term of service. Sir, I will next refer to the Counties Bill, which it 8.30. is proposed to introduce this session. I understand the Counties Bill is really another name for the Local Government Bill. Sir, I think in this House it will be admitted that there is too much local government in this colony. There are too many small Councils holding jurisdiction, with a Mayor and so- many Councillors, over a ridiculously small area. I have in my constituency the Melrose Borough Council, the Karori Borough Council, the Onslow Borough Council, the Petone Borough Council, the Lower Hutt Borough Council, and part of the Hutt County Council. It is ridiculous that in such a small area there should be so many local bodies. The expense of running these local Councils would be greatly minimised were they brought under one or two local governments with areas much larger than at present ; and if the object of the Counties Bill is to do away with a great number of these local bodies and substitute one in the place of, say, five or six, a great amount of money will be saved and just as effective work will be done. As to the loans raised locally, we can again congratu- late the Government. There is no doubt the raising of those loans locally will have a great deal to do with successfully advertising on the 