particular leaning to any particular part of the Force. I only wish to do what is right to the Force as a whole, and I will not be deterred from doing that by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) nor by any other member of this House, when I think I am in the right. With regard to Acting-Detective Nixon, I may say he is an excellent officer, and the proof of that is that both I and the Commissioner have recognised his services in this way: Although he is only an acting-detective, what are we doing with him ? First of all, it was proposed to remove him to Christchurch, and a considerable deputation waited upon the Premier and myself and asked that he should not be removed to Christchurch on account of his health, the application being backed up by a certificate from his doctor. We complied with that re- quest, and, instead of being removed to Christ- church, he was removed to a warmer climate, and at the same time he was given a better position. Yet the honourable member says we have done wrong to Detective Nixon. So long as I have anything to do with the police and the administration of the Force I shall strictly carry out what I believe to be best in the interests of the colony, and if it is necessary that a man should be removed from one place to another and it is necessary that members of the Force should be removed from time to time-I shall do so, and I shall not allow any political influence to interfere with the interests of the service of the colony. If I fail to do that, then it will be time for somebody else to take my position as Minis- terial head of the Police Force. It is the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 police who suffer in these cases, and it is the public who suffer. The honourable member made some remarks about crime going unde- tected in Wellington. It is unfortunate that a feeling should exist between the two branches of the Police Force here, but I may point out that the action which has been taken by the honourable member tends to increase that feel- ing. I do not want to say one word which would in any way disturb the honourable mem- ber's temper or his views on this question. I know that he has particular views in regard to the Police Force and as to how they treat the public. The honourable member said that a system existed by which men are virtually em- ployed to do a moral wrong for the sake of find- ing out those committing a similar crime. I say that system is not in vogue, and the honour- able gentleman knows it as well as I do. The police exist for the prevention of crime and for the detection of crime, and it is in order that the two branches of the Force should work in In harmony that changes are being made. regard to his remarks as to what Judge Kettle said, I think it would be no great injury if the law was so altered that those who buy drink after prohibited hours, as well as the publicans who sell it, should be punished. I have just one or two things to say with regard to the honourable gentleman. He has taken a great interest in the police. I will give one or two instances in which the honourable member has interested himself. With regard to members of the Force, he requested that Detective Neill should be transferred to Christchurch. Why was he not so removed ? I will be very glad to comply with the request of the honourable member, or with the wish of any other honourable member when that wish does not affect what I consider to be the public good ; but I shall not comply with the request of any member of the House when I consider that request interferes with what I consider to be the public good. I am respon- sible to this House for the proper administration of the department. Detective Neill was not sent to Christchurch because it is a rule of the service that no detective or police officer is sent to a place where his relatives are engaged in the liquor traffic. That is the reply to that. Then, with regard to the promotion of ex-Con- stable Costin, the honourable member requested that he should be advanced to sergeant's rank ; but the man's health prevented this, and the result was that he was not so advanced. Now, with regard to another appointment-namely, Mounted Constable Abbott, of Wellington. The honourable member requested that he should be appointed to detective-work. The plain explanation of the refusal is that he is not fitted for such work, and I shall not, at the request even of a member of this House, appoint an officer to a position which he is not fitted to fill. I must have confidence in my officers ; if I have not, then I shall remove them ; but I shall not do so until I find them unfaithful to the service or unsuited to the positions which they fill. While I find 3.30. they are anxious to do their duty it is my place to protect them. Mr. FISHER. Who was the officer recom- mended for that position ? Mr. McGOWAN .- I cannot say at the mo- ment, but perhaps if I had spent as much time in preparing my notes as the honourable gentle- man spent over his I would have been able to tell him. Another request that he made was to have Acting- Detective Cox made a detective ; but there was no vacancy. In fact, the honour- able gentleman wants to run the Police Force in Wellington. He may try to do that, but I can assure him that he cannot run me. I know that he is independent and likes to enjoy his in- dependence, but at the same time I am not going to allow the Police Force to be run ac- cording to his wishes. Of course, if he makes a request to me that I consider to be for the pub- lic good, then no one will be more ready than I to take suggestions from the honourable member. I will not, however, do so until I find out whether it is right or not; but I need not continue this matter. It seems to me that for some reason or other the honourable gentle- man desires to bring on the floor of this House his grievances against Mr. Commissioner Tun- bridge. I shall be only too glad to have in- vestigated any particular complaint that he may bring under my notice. He has now had an opportunity of airing his grievances here ; and, further, the honourable gentleman has been a frequent visitor at the Police Office. 1 will undertake to say that since I have had charge of that department the honourable 