Bill shall be set in operation only for a purpose that is of sufficient importance. As the Bill stands now, a measure that might be rejected, and which might cost the country an expense equal to the expense of a general election, might be one of a very trivial character. It is true that in subclause (2) of clause 4 of the Bill it is provided that a Bill may be sent by both Houses to the constituencies. That would be right enough under some circum- stances, where the Parliament was not sure as to the ground on which it stood so far as being in touch with the colony was concerned. But, so far as subclause (1) of clause 4 is concerned, dealing with a Bill being twice rejected in one session. I am not disposed to vote for this vast machine being set in operation under circum- stances such as that. Take, for example, the constitutional checks that have existed in days past. We have had the check of a Bill being passed by this House and sent to the Legislative Council, and then perhaps rejected. Then it has been sent up again, and the constitutional practice has been -- though not always carried out-that on a Bill being sent up the second time by the Lower House, to regard it as the duty of the Upper House then to accept the principle. But it is laid down in the clearest manner possible, in Mr. Leonard Courtenay's recent book, "The Working of the British Constitution "-a book only issued some few months ago, and which is, I think, one of the best books on the subject I have read- as the emphatic duty of the House of 11.30. Lords to accept the verdict of the con- stituencies as given at a general election if the matter has been relegated to the constituencies. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Now, I am inclined to think that if we wish to bring this Bill into operation and make it prac- ticable we ought not to bring the referendum into force too hurriedly, and I think that that is the fault of the Bill now before us. I would like to point out that the costliness of the referendum is a matter that we ought not to regard too lightly. As I have said, the whole machinery of a general election is set in opera- tion by clause 8. There is to be exactly the same expense, exactly the same number of Returning Officers ; and we know that the policy of this country has been for years past to in- crease very largely the number of Deputy Return- ing Officers in the constituencies, so as to give the greatest possible facilities to the people to record their votes. I repeat, that the bringing into operation of so large and expensive a machine as that should only be done where it is such a case that it is extremely difficult for Parliament to ascertain what exactly is the opinion of the constituencies upon the matter. Now, referring to clause 13 of the Bill, let me point out to the Premier what may be the effect of that clause. Clause 13 deals with the effect of the referendum on a proposal other than a Bill. In other words, power is given there to take a vote of the people on a legislative proposal. Then, when the referen- dum has affirmed the desirability of the legis- lative proposal, what is required is that the Government shall "introduce a Bill to give effect to such proposal." But, Sir, there is no guarantee that the Bill will be passed. You might then even require a second referendum as to the Bill itself. In fact, it is very pro- bable that that would be required if there were much feeling in the country in connection with the matter. I point that out for the purpose of emphasizing the argument that I used just now as to the importance of our getting the most clear and definite issue, and that only then that a subject of supreme importance should be submitted to the constituencies by the referendum. Now, the honourable member for the Taieri spoke just now as though he thought that the proposal of the Bill would end in our seeking to evade responsibility. He said it was a question of shifting responsibility from Parliament to the people. Now, there are some questions upon which I think it would be more desirable that the people should decide than that we should decide. Now. let me refer him to two subjects, both of which I think the Right Hon. the Premier mentioned in introducing the Bill this evening. They are the licensing question and the question of Bible-reading in schools. Now, so far as my own constituency is concerned, I believe that a large majority of my constituents are against prohibition. So far as the question of Bible in schools is concerned, I am not sure what their feeling is. Now, I do not think that the honourable member should complain if, with regard to these two questions, both of which seem to have a great deal of feeling attached to them, and feeling which will become more intense, some of us should say we prefer not to be ourselves altogether the mouthpiece of one party, knowing that the feeling is divided amongst our constituents, and that we prefer. so far as the licensing questions or matters relating to prohibition, and so far as such ques- tions as the Bible in schools, are concerned, that our constituents themselves should, by their vote. settle the question, so that the mind of the country as a whole could be obtained. I think, in connection with such matters as those, which are important matters and are very largely thought of and felt by the constituencies, the referendum could come in. There are other questions that might come up. The Premier himself hinted at a possible referendum in connection with the reform of the Legislative Council. Ave, and I would go so far as to say, in connection with many other large and important questions, when the public mind is educated it is right and proper that Parliament should pass over directly to the constituencies the decision. And, although there may be occasions such as the honourable member for Hawke's Bay referred to, where the consti- tuencies have not been educated on a matter. there is no doubt if, instead of having the principles of the Bill for which a referendum is required referred within a few weeks of its rejection for the first time, if it were held over for twelve months, till after the Bill had been introduced and rejected a second time, then by that time the public mind would be fully educated regarding the question, and we could accept with 