reference to the carriage of passengers' luggage on the trains. The Stationmaster down there was a small man, but at the same time one who was very much too big for his job. They had had no end of complaints about the man- agement and carriage of passengers' luggage, and he did not know that it was always wise to take these things into consideration without. having some proof for what they were going to say. Now, he thought it would be admitted he had got the necessary proof when he told them of the particular experience which befel him- self and two others on a recent Saturday when they were leaving Dunedin for Kingston by rail. It was a very big train and a very crowded platform. He told his friends to take their seats, and promised to look after their tickets and luggage. After getting the tickets and pasting labels on the luggage, he had it taken alongside one of the three vans fully fifteen minutes before the time the train started. He certainly did not wish to interfere with the porters or guards placing luggage in. the vans, because he recognised that they knew better than any one else where to put it, so that it might be discharged at the various stations along the line. As most people knew, on the southern lines luggage must be shifted at Gore to go to Queenstown. He said nothing until he heard the Stationmaster give orders that no more luggage should be taken in the van. At this time his friends were on board the train, and he told the Stationmaster it would be very awkward if their luggage was left on the platform when they arrived at Gore. The Stationmaster's reply was, " I do not care. No https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 more luggage goes on that train ; it must go by the ten o'clock train." There was a special leaving at ten o'clock, which he (Mr. Pinkerton) believed would reach Gore just in time to be too late for any one going on to Queenstown. Therefore he (Mr. Pinkerton) said the luggage could not go by the ten o'clock train. The Stationmaster said, "They must go by the ten o'clock train." He replied, "There is no must about it ; so far as I am concerned, it will not go. It may as well be left in Dunedin as stranded at Gore or left somewhere else." The Station- master was very indignant and his manner very offensive. He said, " I do not care who you are. These things must go by the ten o'clock train." His (Mr. Pinkerton's) reply was, "I do not sup- pose you care who I am, and it is not a question of who I am .. It is a question of passengers travelling on this train who will not receive their luggage when they arrive at their destina- tion, and will not understand what has become of it. I think that luggage ought to be carried by this train." The Stationmaster said, " You must go by the ten o'clock train ;" and he (Mr. Pinkerton) replied, " You repeat that so often I may tell you I am not going. The passengers who are going are now on board the train, and their luggage is here on the plat- form." The Stationmaster turned round and said, "I do not care." He (Mr. Pinkerton) replied, "It is very obvious you do not care ; but I care, and a great many others will care." Now, he (Mr. Pinkerton) thought the officers of the Railway Department should not be allowed to take up that attitude. The officers should be men who understood how to treat the travelling public with consideration and courtesy- men who would consult the convenience of passen- gers and endeavour to secure the safety of their luggage. Before going further he might say that the porter-who seemed to have more sense and consideration than the Stationmaster -put the luggage on the van and it was carried all right ; but if they were to be told by Station- masters or others in authority that they did not care what became of passengers or passen- gers' luggage, the sooner that condition of things was altered the better. He took it to be his duty to bring this matter before the Council. Perhaps some might be of opinion that he should have brought it before the de- partment. Well, that was a matter of opinion ; but he had brought it before the House so as to make it public, so that the public might know what to expect. Had the train he had re- ferred to gone on without that luggage, the chances were that it would have had to be taken by dray or wagon, and that it would have taken a fortnight or more to reach Cromwell, the destination of one of his friends. This lug- gage had not exceeded half a hundredweight, and the fact that it was carried in one of the vans showed that they had not been overloaded. The Stationmaster had said positively that it should not be allowed to go, but, fortunately, there had been at the Dunedin Station a man with more sense than the Stationmaster. Other Stationmasters he had always found obliging, and porters and other officials were also con- siderate and obliging; but he thought it his duty to tell the House and the country that such a man as the Stationmaster at Dunedin was far too big for his position, and that he ought to be at some station away back in the country, where there were only two trains a day, and then the public might have some security as to the safe carrying of their luggage. The Hon. Mr. BOLT wished to add a few words to what had been said on this subject. Some two years ago, and before the check sys- tem was introduced, he, along with a few others, had brought the matter before the Minister, and then this so-called check system was brought in. He referred to it as a "so-called " system, because no sane reasoning man could say that it was an effective system, and if the public had not taken advantage of it that was a consequence of its non-efficiency. He under- stood that on the Continent of Europe a man on leaving any particular town and going to any other town got a check for his luggage, and then he need have no further anxiety on its account, but had simply to claim his luggage at his desti- nation-to whatever hotel he was going. That appeared to him to be a thorough system of check, and that was what was required here : a person should be in a position to deposit his luggage with the Railway Department and find it at its destination. If that were done the puhlio would gladly take advantage of the system. The small amount of luggage he had when travelling to Wellington was not of much account ; but he 