by various speakers during the debate, but it | not any Government that sits on those benches, affords me an opportunity of alluding to one or two features in connection with land settlement that I wish to bring before the notice of the Minister for Railways. I wish specially to urge upon him the necessity of meeting the desire of the people up north by furnishing them with workmen's trains, and if, as mentioned by the honourable member for Avon, the hunger for i market, and it was only these discoveries being workmen's homes has not been met at Christ- church, there is an abundance of land at Henderson, near Auckland, which the people desire to have purchased by the Government, and which can be purchased at a very low rate: and if workmen's trains are fur- nished by the Government there will be no difficulty in finding abundance of land for workmen's homes at a very low rate, and land that is eminently suited for such a purpose if the Government will only provide the trains ; and, even if there should be some loss in initiat- ing the service, the country will be abundantly recouped in the greater comfort of the workmen and the increased value of national asset which their homes and improvements will produce ; and no Minister for Railways will be held in estimation until more is done in this respect than has yet taken place. I am surprised to note the remarks made by the honourable mem- ber who has just spoken. Of course, those who have toiled for thirty or forty years in forming for themselves a homestead do not feel very much gratified with the prospect of that home i pect to get for our produce ? Do we go to the being taken away from them-especially if they are surrounded by a grown-up family, intending https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to divide that property amongst their children- when they find there is a Bill before this House to take away from them the opportunity of so apportioning their property. I can only charac- terize such a proposal as something supremely scandalous : and be it remembered that even if such division does take place during the life- time of the parents the revenue gains, for charges equal to probate duty are levied by Government on such transactions. I do not think the honourable member is a toiler on the land -in fact, I am sure he is not, or he would not have talked in the manner in which he has talked. Talking about the land-settle- ment, he said it was the land-settlement that had made the country. It is special circum stances that have made the land-settlement so attractive and prosperous. Supposing the gentlemen occupying those seats across there had attempted fourteen or twenty years ago the land-settlement scheme which is so attractive - and I admit it is attractive to-day-do you think they would have been successful ? Could they have been successful in 1881 or 1884 when every one in the colony was trying to sell their property, and land which is selling at $5 or ¥6 to-day could have been bought at $3 or $4, when fat cattle were sold at from $3 to $3 10s., and when legs of choicest mutton, produced in Hawke's Bay on the lands its member wishes to exploit. w ere ha : ked about at 5d. and 6d. apiece ? Would land-settlement have succeeded then, or would it have been a catchy political or has sat on those benches, that has made the land-set lement successful ; it has simply been the interven ion of the Providence that shapes our ends, in the discovery of the refrigerator. the separator, Babcock's tester. It is scientific knowledge combined with mechanical skill which has enabled us to place our commodities on the made which elevated our prospects to what they are. If you had not the blessing of these inven. tions could you place New Zealand products on the London market and get the present values for them ? Members in this House talk such con- sense, and I will tell you why : The agricultural interest is so scantily represented in this House that there are not more than fourteen or fifteen members who get their living by personal con- i tact with farming life. I am glad to see the Right Hon. the Minister admits the correct ness of my statement : but why does he tair. differently when on the platform ? Why talk so differently when introducing a measure like this? I do not want to detract from the pri- tion of the country at the present time. one who is a settler in this country and has an interest in its welfare can be anything but highly gratified that we are so greatly favoured. But when we want to know about the prices, do we go to the honourable gentlemen on the Minis. terial benches and ask them to tell us what is the worth of our land or the price we may ex- land-for-settlement scheme to find these things out? No; we take up the daily paper and refer to the cablegrams we get there from the Old Country, and in the few lines there given we form an estimate of the economic status of our New Zealand homes. Then. Sir. 3 great truth has been uttered in saying that if the Government would only spend a portion of the money they propose to sprid in the purchase of land in opening up the --- ---- large areas of Crown lands they posts- lands that have been Iving idle for years and years --- it would be a saving to the country . - a saving of interest on capital invested long : 2o. No, Sir ; they prefer to raise €500,000 at 4 : cent., rather than to use the money invested !! those lands perhaps fifteen or twenty years ago. Let us think and act in these matters with a na- sure of common-sense. Let us not have party The Right Hon. the Minister dette- feeling. cates party feeling, party polities, party acti i. He would not even allow farmers to assimile politics with the interests of their avocati c. Why, he does nothing in this House from ginning to end that is not actuated by passv. The alpha and omega of all his policy in : ~ House is simply to exalt his party, and to t. at the Ministry in their positions on those bem. Sir, I believe any Ministry devoid of all these one-sided class measures and party coming - tions, could have occupied those benches - starting as they did on the advancing wave ! ! economic expansion -with just the same wef. taintv as those honourable gentlemen have | occupied them, and with a greater certainty et 