had been found at times to be greatly impaired by reason of the fact that their actions, investi- gations, and prosecutions in a certain class of cases were embarrassed and hampered by their being controlled by or under the instructions of the Inspector in Dunedin. Common-sense and the interests of the Police service of Southland, he contended, alone demanded that there should be a change. Fancy a report for instructions having to be sent to Dunedin in respect to prosecuting twopenny- halfpenny cases, such as the stealing of a box of matches, or stealing a bag. When certain serious cases cropped up necessitating prompt action on the part of the local police this remote control, through the Inspector being resident in Dunedin, with its incidental delays and roundabout methods and procedure, be- came a matter of serious complaint. inasmuch as the door was thereby opened to miscarriage of justice. To give force to his remarks on this point. he would refer to a murder which was committed a few years ago in Southland. called the Lora Gorge tragedy. The facts, briefly stated, were these: A farmer named Bell, residing in the Winton district, after returning from a farmers' meeting, was cruelly murdered while about to open his gate. He was shot, and died, after suffering the greatest agony, crawling to his home. He had no hesi- tation in saying that had that case been pro- perly worked, and had the police of Southland been able to act promptly under the immediate and direct control of an Inspector at Inver- cargill, the murderer would have been arrested. But up to this day, he regretted to say, the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 criminal went unpunished, through the delay occasioned through the police being under remote control exercised from Dunedin. He could refer to other matters which had come under his notice in course of his professional experience which called for complaint. but he did not think it was necessary to go into further details until forced to do so by the reply of the Minister. He was firmly con- vinced that in the interest of the Police service of Southland and its efficiency some change should be made, so that greater faci- lities would be afforded the police to perform their very important duties. It might be urged by the Minister that to carry out these pro- posals would mean additional expense. As against that objection, he would point out that by placing an Inspector at Invercargill it would do away with one sergeant. That would be a saving of $200 a year, so far as the discon- tinuance of one sergeant's services was con- cerned. Then, there would be the saving of the travelling-expenses of the Inspector to and from Invercargill, which he thought would, with lodging-expenses, amount to $75 per annum. The salary of an Inspector would, he took it, amount to $300 a year. As against that, there was, as he had pointed out, the saving of $200 a year by the Invercargill staff being reduced by one sergeant, and $75 a year on the Inspector's travelling- and lodging-expenses. Moreover, the Dunedin staff could, if relieved of the South- land business, be reduced by one clerk, who | honourable member had not brought forward could be taken to Invercargill. Every other department of Government service had head- quarters at Invercargill, so also had banks and insurance companies : why should not the Police Force have headquarters at Invercargill? Even if there was an outlay of a few pounds extra a year. what was it but a mere bagatelle when compared with the benefits resulting from the volume of business of the police service of the district being promptly, vigorously, and effi- ciently performed ? A strong argument in favour of his contention was that Otago and Southland extended too far south of Dunedin. and not far enough north. It should take in all Waitaki River-original stations south of boundary of the Province of Otago-which would reduce the length of Canterbury District, and place Dunedin as a more central station for the Inspector there, without reducing the importance of his district. And it would also enable the Inspector at Christchurch to have more control over his already extensive district, he being placed in a more central situation for working by such an alteration being made. If such a suggestion were given effect to Southland could be constituted a separate police district, taking in the whole of the old Provincial District of Southland, with its exceedingly numerous population. The district would include nineteen stations. In this con- nection he might observe that in making this appeal he had the support of nearly all the local bodies of Southland, they having by resolutions expressed themselves strongly in the direction of some change being made. The Minister, he felt sure, was actuated by the one desire to place the Police service of this colony in an efficient condition, and he wished the Minis- ter to put that theory into practice in respect to the Police service in Southland. He asked for no favour, but for justice being done to a just and reasonable cause of complaint. The Police service of an important and extensive district like Southland was not on a satisfactory footing. To effect reform in that direction Southland should be and must be constituted a separate police district under the charge of a Police In- spector resident and acting in Invercargill : and he, as member for Invercargill, and as long as he had a seat in the House, would avail himself of every opportunity to warmly and strongly con- demn the existing condition of affairs, and other- wise insist at all times on all the reasonable re- quirements and claims of his constituents being recognised, and accordingly receiving that favour- able consideration and just treatment which was their undeniable right, and which their necessities and public importance demanded. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the whole question was, as the honourable member had said, one of expense. There was no doubt that the establishment of a sepa- rate police district in Southland meant an ad- ditional expense of about $500 a year. Care- ful inquiries would be made, and if it was found that it was necessary that Southland should be created a police district it should be done. At the same time, he was sorry that the 