ments made with the Bank of New Zealand accounts, amounting to €104,000, which the were made in such a way that this liquidation Bank of New Zealand refused to touch on any should have been completed at the end of two condition whatever, realised, I think, some- vears. I may say it is unfortunate that ever thing like between 12s. 6d. or 15s. in the the transaction took place. If it had not been pound. I am not sure which, but it will for the action of so many chicken-hearted show you that if the others had been handled shareholders, who saw what was going on in in a proper way they might have realised Australia, and were frightened of the results, I a different amount. This is apparent when am quite satisfied the bank would have been in the accounts in the hands of the liqui- a good position to-day. What ought to have dators themselves realised such an amount. been done was that this bank should have been I wish I had had the opportunity of getting the Bank of New Zealand, and the other bank the accounts in order to put them before the should have liquidated, for after investigation Council. There were also offers made in con- they have never been able to point out one nection with some of the principal accounts single dishonest transaction. The Supreme which ought not to have been rejected by the Court has been the cause of a good deal of this Supreme Court, and that rejection has been unnecessary delay. The Supreme Court, not- the cause of the long delay in the winding-up of withstanding the votes of the shareholders, the affairs of the bank. I might say that there declared that one of the liquidators appointed are other accounts beside the one mentioned by the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith, which, in my opinion, -- the late Mr. Larnach, a man versed in banking business in every way - should be were also disposed of at a sacrifice. However, I do not know what the position is now. I saw put out and another man appointed. I say nothing of the other man who was ap- in the paper the other day that the liquidators pointed. and who might have been an excellent were waiting for something to be settled, and man, but he had no knowledge of banking that the final dividend would be declared pre- affairs, and that was the first grand mistake sently ; but for a period of six years the share- that was made in connection with the liquida- holders and the old directors have not been dation. These three gentlemen, when they allowed to know what is going on in any shape were appointed, evidently took counsel together, or form. It is, of course, the place of the liqui- and they must have sworn secrecy to each dators to know what they are doing, and, in con- other, for not a soul has been consulted by nection with this debate, I might say that when the Companies Act was under discussion the them from that time until now. I think that that was not a proper position for them to take other day I said that I thought the share- holders of any company should be in a posi- up. as those best able to judge of these matters tion to put such a state of things as has oc- could have given them good advice in connec- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 curred in connection with the Colonial Bank tion with the liquidation of some of these accounts, and that advice would have proved right ; and, in fact, it shows that there is a of considerable benefit to all concerned. The necessity for amending the Companies Act in Hon. Mr. Lee Smith has referred to the B accounts. The accounts which were reserved am not saying a word against the liquidators. first were those in the A list. They were They are all respectable and good men, but taken over without any conditions at all. The they had not the experience required for the B accounts were taken over with certain position : and I dare say the first blunder oc- curred when the Judge of the Supreme Court, reserves against them. I could not say now what the amount was, but probably my honourable friend has looked it up and will holders in favour of one liquidator, removed be correct in the amount he has given. These decision has sprung the whole of the trouble, were handed over to the bank, and, instead of the liquidators doing their business and in my opinion. The Hon. Mr. Lee Smith liquidating these accounts-or dealing with asked, "Why should the Bank of New Zea- land be allowed to retain the accounts, and the Bank of New Zealand as they should have done in regard to the liquidation of these proceed from time to time to deal with them and liquidate them in their own sweet way?" accounts instead of letting them drift about- they would have been doing their duty if they Surely they ought to be taken in hand vigor- had liquidated them themselves. Why did they ously by the liquidators and settled up in one allow the Bank of New Zealand to liquidate way or another, and not allowed to drift. these accounts for their own benefit, and let result that the people of New Zealand can con- them drift from year to year. That they should sider, and that is that the Bank of New Zealand have been sold for $4,000 is to me incompre- hensible. An Hon. MEMBER. -- Between $4,000 and hearts now, because the Bank of New Zealand $5,000. had no business to support itself with, seeing The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .-- Whatever it was, when the fact came to my knowledge I went to the Supreme Court and I paid my shilling to ness of the Colonial Bank the shareholders of the Bank of New Zealand would not only see the particulars of the transaction, and I came away from the Supreme Court as wise as when I went there. But I will say this liquidate. Whether the Bank of New Zealand handled as it is now -- I do not mean in regard in favour of the liquidators: that the D) that direction. In making these remarks I notwithstanding the heavy vote of the share- that gentleman from the position. From that Taking all in all, there is only one possible could never have existed without the business of the Colonial Bank. They can take that to their the conditions it was under. Without the busi- have not pulled round, but would have had to 