only too glad to be elected to the position ; and I would not blame them. If they con- sidered they were fit and proper persons, I think they would be perfectly right to take the positions. But, under such a Government, would we find the great changes that we in this colony have brought about under party govern- ment ? Would we have found ourselves in possession of all those measures of reform which this House has passed from time to time ? No, Sir, we should have found nothing of the kind. We would have found that these mixed-up members would have no principles of their own. They would change their opinions for the sake of holding the positions which they occupied as members of the Government. The people might cry out just as long as they liked for reforms, but these Ministers would stick to their positions, and allow everything which interfered with that to go by the board. Sir, in my opinion, that would be the result of the elective Executive. The greatest re- forms and changes that have taken place in the Old Country have been brought about by the voice of the people unmistakably declaring itself in a particular direction, and voting for the class of men who were prepared to devote their energies to striving for the reforms that the people wanted. No longer could we look forward to that result. We should find that the men who would come to the front would change their opinions very materially, and then would arise a stagnation like unto the stag- nant aerated waters that I have referred to. I did not intend, as I said at first, to occupy the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 time of the House at any length. I have spoken simply on the spur of the moment. But I think, when a very important question of this character comes on, the least we can do is in some way or other to debate it. I think, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero perhaps, the most practical way in which I can do this is to move, That this Bill be read a second time this day six months. I have much pleasure in moving that, Sir. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- Mr. Speaker, I am not going at this stage to speak on this Bill, but I certainly hope the House will negative the motion that the Bill be read this day six months, and take a straight-out division on it. There is no doubt that the principle proposed is good. I believe that the country feels that we require some change, and I do not at all agree with the arguments used against it by the honourable gentleman who spoke last. He spoke of certain great movements having taken place through the influence of the present Ad- ministration ; but, Sir, there are in the country expressions of dissatisfaction which show there is a very large number in the colony who do not approve of all the measures which have been introduced by the present Administration. While I am not ready to say, Sir, that the passing of this measure will bring about a re- form in every respect, it may lead up to some change taking place that may be beneficial to the country, and I therefore hope the House will negative the motion of the honourable member for Wanganui, and that we shall have a division on this subject, after serious consideration being given to it in the way of fair discussion. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- It is impos- sible, Sir, for me to allow the debate on this Bill to conclude without saying a few words with regard to it. For the honourable gentle- man who has introduced this Bill I, and I am confident the other members of the House also, have feelings of the greatest respect and esteem ; and if to-night I say some hard things with regard to this Bill I hope he will remember I am endeavouring to disassociate his Bill en- tirely from himself, and to forget that he is its author, for, indeed, the Bill which is now before the House is, to my mind, about as bad a Bill as could possibly be introduced into it. This is a Bill which is neither flesh, fowl, nor good red-herring. The Swiss system we know; we also know the English system, and we know what party government means. We know the alternative, which has been much spoken about, and which is in force in Switzerland to- day. But this Bill is neither one thing nor another. Under the Swiss system the Ministry is appointed for three years, and hold office for that time. They are irremovable. Under this Bill it is proposed to appoint the Ministers for the whole term of Parliament, I understand, but still they are to be removable during any session on a vote, but there can be only one such vote in each session. The Premier is to be appointed only for twelve months, and the port- folios are to be allocated by Ministers amongst themselves. Now, what is the use of a Bill of that kind. In the first place, when a Ministry is appointed, the very first thing they will do, if they are wise men, and have a majority behind them, is to have a vote moved of " want of confi- dence " in themselves. They will get that over, there will be a majority in their favour, and then they are safe for the next twelve months, no matter what happens. Then, again, the House is asked to vote for a number of Ministers. It is not asked to vote for a Minister of Lands, or a Minister of Mines, or a Minister for Public Works, or for any- thing else, but simply to vote for eight men to be made Ministers. Those eight men are to be elected, and they are to allocate the port- folios amongst themselves. Well, could that possibly work ? You would have three gentle- men perhaps elected who would make very good Ministers of Lands, but what are you to do with them ? One only can be Minister of Lands-one must be Minister of Mines, and one Minister of Education. How would a system of that kind work ? Under this system you may have, as I say, two or three men elected who would be fit for one and the same portfolio, and not at all fit for any other. There might be some sense in an election of a Minister of Mines, a Minister of Education, or a Minister for Public Works ; but to elect eight men without any reference to their qualifications for the various portfolios, and to say they are to allocate the portfolios amongst themselves, seems to me by no means a sensible proceeding. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is to be Premier? Mr. BARCLAY .- Well, I suppose each would 