in charge of the department. I regret as much as does the member for Bruce that the Premier should have suggested that there was any hilarity, or even pleasure, on this side of the House occasioned by the attack of my junior colleague upon Commissioner Tunbridge and some of his staff. I can say with confidence that the administration of the Police Force would be still more to my taste if it was still less to the taste of my junior colleague. I can say that Commissioner Tunbridge's adminis- tration would be much more to my taste-even more to my taste than it is now-if he had a freer hand than he has now. But it is clear, from the candid admission of the Premier in this debate, that both he and the Minister in charge of the Police Force are still pestered by deputations of members from one part of the colony or another, acting on behalf of this or that officer, in order to get the recommendation, perhaps, of the Commissioner, or it may be the minuted decision of the Minister, overruled on behalf of the particular gentleman they repre- sent. It is perfectly clear, therefore, that, though the right honourable gentleman's tone as to interferences was all I could desire, he himself is liable, whatever his wishes may be, to political interference at the hands of his political followers. Mr. SEDDON .- I cannot refuse to see mem- bers. Mr. ATKINSON .- No, that is so ; but the honourable gentleman must not take it that I am saying this by way of censure. I am simply pointing out the fact that, whether he likes it or not - and he may find it possibly a great https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 nuisance-but, whether that is so or not, it is clear there is an attempt to exercise improper control over the Police Department by the per- petual heckling of Ministers by members, and by organized deputations that wait on Ministers from time to time. It seems to me clear, on the honourable gentleman's admission, that, whatever his wishes may be in the matter, the Police Department is not as free from political control as I think its best friends would desire it to be. However, so admirable an account has been rendered on behalf of the department that I do not propose to deal with it at any length at all. I should like to say, personally, that I have never listened with greater pleasure to the Minister of Justice than I did this afternoon. I may say he never did himself such full justice, at any rate in this Parliament, as he did this afternoon, and it must have been a pleasure to him to find that he had both sides of the House practically unanimous with him in his very spirited vindication of the officers under his charge. But there were two or three other parties attacked by the junior member for Wel- lington City in his speech for whom no defence has been made, and therefore on their behalf I wish to say a word or two. He referred to a caso that has been mentioned in this House before. He mentioned names, but in what I say I would prefer not to do so. He referred to the case of a child, and a charge which, he says, was brought against a respectable Thorndon resident. He said that the information was Mr. Atkinson laid in the police-station by a lady-I will not mention her name-who was a member of a "social purity " society in Wellington, which is his humorous way of describing the Society for the Protection of Women and Children. Mr. FISHER .- The Salmon case. Mr. ATKINSON. - My friend says it is the Salmon case, and, if the name must come out, I may as well say that is the correct name. He says that the counsel who brought it to the Court was so ashamed that he threw up his brief. Now, I am here for defence and not for attack, and I desired to leave out even names. I shall say nothing harsh unless I am provoked. nor anything that would give pain to the genth - man who was prosecuted in that case; but I wish to put briefly before the House what the circumstances were. This was a case of a child who had suffered very cruel injury. The child's foot and part of the leg were in a horrible state. A kind of festering gangrene was on it. and the whole condition of the child was piti- 1 able, squalid, highly nervous, and terrified. may say the child had sought refuge with a neighbour while in this condition, and the child and neighbours were interviewed by the responsible officers of this society and by one or two members of the Police Force. Their statements were taken in the usual way; I am not quite certain whether they were sub- mitted to the police at first or not. But they were taken in the usual way, and were sui - mitted to one of the honorary solicitors for the society, Dr. Findlay, and upon his advice an in- formation was laid and the prosecution tous place. I do not think there is any honoural! ; gentleman in this House who would dispute the qualifications of this particular gentleman to advise upon a case of this kind, seeing that he has attained eminence in the profession, and has done a large amount of very responsii.le work for the Government, and has done it very well. Well, when the case came into Court the child was the essential witness. Honour- able gentlemen will understand there may be cases of this kind-that an essential link in the chain of evidence may be a weak one, and. though the case may be absolutely conclusive as a whole, yet without this single link in the chain the whole thing is gone. The foundation of this case consisted in the child's state- ments, repeatedly made and taken down in the presence of witnesses. The child was put in the box, and the question was as to whether the injuries were the result of accide ::: or cruelty. The child absolutely withdrew all the statements previously made. What else was there then for the solicitor to do bn: withdraw the case? All the other evidence was simply corroborative. The whole thing fell through when the child abandoned his story. He had been in the hospital for some weeks, and had not been allowed to be inter- viewed by anybody except in the presence of one of the accused. Honourable gentlemen may recollect the version given by the honoer- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher, in his speech. I hope I have made it plain. I have not attempted to excite the feelings of 