Main Trunk line. In connection with that proposal the Erening Post, in its leading article of the 25th May, 1883, was good enough to say :- " We are glad to find that the people of Wellington are at last awakening to the local, as well as the colonial, importance of the South Island Trunk Railway question, and the Mayor is much to be commended for having taken steps to bring the subject prominently under notice by convening the meeting which takes place this afternoon." At the meeting referred to, which was held on the 26th May, 1883, there were present the Mayor (Mr. Fisher), Sir William Fitzherbert (Speaker of the Legislative Council), Hon. Mr. P. A. Buckley, M.L.C., Hon. Mr. J. Martin, M.L.C., Messrs. C. J. Johnston, M.H.R., J. B. Harcourt (President, Chamber of Commerce), A. de B. Brandon, sen., W. T. L. Travers, J. H. Bethune, W. Dawson, W. Gardner. J. Duthie, N. Reid, Dr. Newman, and Captain Williams. In speaking upon the subject, amongst other things, he (Mr. Fisher) said, - "The project to construct the last link of trunk railway in the Middle Island he regarded as the final effort of the Legislature to carry out the valuable principle embodied in the public works scheme propounded by Sir Julius The importance of the matter Vogel. to Wellington and its district was this : that it ought to be the aim and object of every re- presentative of the people to secure if possible the carrying-out of the Middle Island trunk line to some point in Cook Strait. He had nothing to say as to the particular point in Cook Strait at which the line should come out, whether at Port Underwood, Picton, or Nelson. The way to make Wellington a metro- polis was to complete the trunk railway system, and then express steamers, such as those the Union Company proposed to build, would be able to perform a two-hours ferry trip between the two Islands, which would be as easy as the ferry passage between New York and Brook- lyn." The subject was discussed at length at that meeting, which was held in the Mayor's room ; and after a long and interesting debate between those eminent men-for they were eminent at that date-Sir William Fitzherbert, in con- cluding his remarks, said. -- " He thought the thanks of the community were due to Mr. Fisher for being awake to so important an object, and if the people were so blind and slow that they would not take any step until the eleventh hour it was their own fault." He believed that nothing had been done in the matter from that date to this, although he had brought the matter before the House on more than one occasion, for in the debate on the Financial Statement in this House on the 7th July, 1890, he made these remarks :- " In regard to the railways I shall run foul of my honourable friends from Canterbury, but I do say, in the interests of the colony, if the railways are to yield the magnificent returns ! Mr. Fisher prognosticated by Sir Julius Vogel in his states- manlike speech of 1870, the South Island trunk line should have been continued from the Red Post upwards to Picton, instead of being carried across to Westland. If we had the trunk line carried on as Sir Julius Vogel con- ceived it, with a two-hour ferry-service from Wellington Wharf to Picton Wharf-a service belonging to the Government as part of the railways-the country would now be deriving the enormous passenger revenue which the Union Company receives. I hope, if this country ever becomes possessed of the neces- sary capital, it will complete the southern trunk line to Picton. That would be a states- manlike public work, and I hope, even if it is ten or twenty years hence. this Parliament will insist upon the completion of that line. Then a person might take a railway-ticket at Auck- land to carry him to Invercargill, and then we might truly say we had a trunk railway system in the country.' He had been induced to bring up this question of a fast ferry-service across the Strait because the commercial prospects of the colony-the abnormal development of the passenger traffic, as shown by the railway returns-showed the absolute demand there was for fast communica- tion between the North Island and the South Island. There was no such communication at the present time ; and if the Government could see their way, either this session or before the end of the Parliament, to put a sum on the estimates to complete the line to Cook Strait it would be a step towards securing such a system as he contemplated in making the re- marks already quoted to the House-" a trunk line from one end of the colony to the other ' and, to repeat what he said in the House in 1890, "that would be a statesmanlike work." That man who completed the work would be deserving of the highest award the people of the colony could bestow upon him. He would be a statesman in the truest and best sense of the word. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said it would be a satisfaction to the honourable member to know that progress had been made since 1890 with the work he referr. d to. Within the last two or three years the work on the Main Trunk line had been push. d on from the south end- from Waipara, in the direction of Cheviot -- and also from the north end - from Blenheim to the Awatere River. The section of the work that now remained to be provided for was from the Township of Seddon, on the Awatere, to the vicinity of Cheviot, and the Government hoped this year to be able to bring down proposals to the House to continue the work they had in hand. He thought the time was not far distant when they might hope to see the completion of the line to Picton, and probably before that time arrived the Minister for Railways would have given consideration to the very good suggestion of the honourable member for Wellington City that the Railway Department should have a service of fast ferry-steamers running across the Strait. 