Waipawa district, requesting the Government to purchase under the Land for Settlements Act some of the large estates in the district for close settlement. Notwithstanding the promises that Sir John M'Kenzie had made at that time, however, four years had gone by and little had been done. He believed that within the last two or three months several estates in the district had been inspected, and he believed the Commissioner had sent in to the Govern- ment a report on them. He (Mr. Hall) would now like to know if it was the intention of the Government to give effect to the reports and purchase some of those estates. The Premier had been in the district, and knew the demand there was for land, and it would be pleasing to the people to know that the Government in- tended to give effect to their wishes that some land should be secured for close settlement in the district at once. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he received a great shock a few moments ago. The honour- able member had asked him to give a straight- forward reply, as though he ever gave any other than a straightforward reply ; and such a re- mark, coming from behind, and from the honourable gentleman, made him feel it more acutely. Now, when he gave this straight- forward answer members would say it had been done by arrangement, and that the honourable member's indignation had simply been put on, because the reply he had to give was as follows : The recommendations of the Land Purchase Board in respect of the Milbourne and Abbotsford Estates-a solid block of 37,000 acres, stretching from the Township of Wai- pawa to the township of Hampden, a distance https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of twelve miles-would be in the hands of the Government to-day. If the fact of 37,000 acres of land being recommended by the Board was not straightforward, he did not know what would please the honourable member. STOCK-LOADING YARDS AT OTAMITA. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether, in view of the increase of traffic 'in stock in the locality, he will take steps to erect suitable yards for loading stock at Otamita ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the District Traffic Manager reported on the 4th instant that the traffic at Otamita did not call for the provision of stockyards. The erec- tion of such yards could not, therefore, be re- commended at the present time. He might inform the honourable member that was the report from the responsible officer of the de- partment. OTAUTAU TELEPHONIC COMMUNICA- TION WITH LAKES. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Post- master-General, What steps the Government intend to take to establish telephonic communi- cation between Otautau and Lakes Manapouri and Te Anau? In asking this question he might refer to the necessity that existed for telephonic communication between Otautau Mr. Hall and again the Postmaster-General had been urged to construct a much-needed service be- tween these two points. So far that had not been done. It was unnecessary to point out to the honourable member the advantages which would be derived from such communication. Attracted by the exquisite scenery which these lakes afford, a very large number of tourists went there, not only from other parts of the colony but also from the Australian Colonies and even the Home-country. Consequently, some communication with the outside world was urgently necessary. Moreover, nothing had been done to give reasonable facilities to the settlers along that route. The dis- trict was now being settled, and progress was being made in every direction, and, conse- quently, people who were settled along the valley of the Waiau, as well as those who went there for the scenic beauties of the lakes, laboured under considerable difficulty in not having means of communication with outside localities to enable them to make their arrange- ments for transit and for the transaction of their business. It was also proposed to ask the Government to take a light line of railway up the valley. It was partly adapted for agricul- tural purposes, and the other parts that were not adapted for the growing of grain and other cereals were well fitted for grazing purposes. He hoped the Government would see its way clear to make the lakes more accessible to tourists from outside, and that it would endeavour to make provision to give effect to the request of the settlers. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) was quite in accord with the honourable member in the statement he had made, both as to the desirability of having this telephone-line for tourist purposes and also for the convenience of the settlers. His difficulty, however, was the cost of the line, which was estimated to be £2,000. As against that there was an estimated deficiency of $171 per annum in the revenue from it. That being so, it could only be taken up as a policy matter. He was unable, from sufficient reasons, to give a favourable reply to the request made to have the line carried out by the department itself. If in connection with the requirements of the tourist traffic in different parts of the colony, as a matter of policy, it was considered desirable to have the line carried out, personally he would be glad to support it, but he could only say the making of the line required to be approached, as all matters involving great expenditure did, with a great deal of care by the Government. HUNDRED LINE SIDING. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, When the siding at the Hun- dred line, for which the settlers have subscribed the sum of $200, will be constructed ? In con- nection with this subject an agitation had been on foot long before his advent into the House. For the last fourteen years representations bad been made to the Ministers for Railways to ai- ford to this locality the facility that it was so 