[HOUSE.] Imprest Supply 1901.] his reply will state when the return to which I alluded will be laid on the table. Mr. SEDDON .- I must admit that the honourable member has been very courteous to me, and that he was quite within his right in asking the question, and I can only say that I omitted to give the instructions to get the return completed. With so many things to attend to it escaped my memory. I think I promised to give the return, and there is no reason for keeping it back. That is what they make their capital out of. They think there is something wrong, and when there is any delay they complain, and then, when they get the return, they are like the little boy-they do not know what to do with it. The money has gone ; the money is spent, and not only that, but it is .within the amount appropriated by Parliament; and as long as it pleases the honourable member it does not affect the Government. He will get the return in due course. Mr. MASSEY .- In due course ? Mr. SEDDON .- I mean to say within a reasonable time. It is only a fortnight since the order was passed. Mr. MASSEY .- I beg the Premier's pardon : it was ordered last year. Mr. SEDDON .-- I tell the honourable mem- ber it was also ordered this session. Mr. MASSEY .- Allow me to correct the Pre- mier. The return was ordered last year. Mr. SEDDON .-- I will show you that it was ordered this session. Mr. MASSEY .- That is another return. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. SEDDON .- I recognise that the order of the House has a right to be complied with. The resolution passed this session is as fol- lows : - "That there be laid before this House a re- turn (in continuation of H .- 29, 1899, and a similar return ordered last session) showing, for the financial year ended 31st March, 1901,- (1) The amounts drawn by each member of the Executive for travelling-allowances ; and (2) the amounts charged by voucher for actual travel- ling-expenses of each member of the Executive." And then I suggested that there should be certain additions to it. Those additions were : "Showing separately the amounts in each case for allowances or expenses incurred in con- nection with matters outside the colony, and in connection with other than ordinary matters." So that the honourable member must admit that the motion of this session is a double- barrelled one, namely :- " That there be laid before this House a return in (continuation of H .- 29, 1899, and a similar return ordered last session)." Mr. MASSEY .- In continuation. Mr. SEDDON .- No, no. A similar return ordered for last session was not for the financial year ending 31st March, 1901. That is dated the 16th July. This is a double-barrelled one, and, of course, I do not object to it ; double or single, it is all the same to me. The honourable member wanted to emphasize the fact that last session he had ordered a return, and that it Bill (No. 2). 695 started. The House ordered the return last session, and is entitled to it, and it only wants notice to the Treasury to get the return and the return will be supplied. There is no reason whatever for keeping it back. I do not wish to go into the other question, which you, Sir, have ruled is not admissible. All I can say is this : that as Colonial Treasurer I am anxious to get the finance for the year fixed as soon as possible The expenditure is going up, and is in excess of last year's. There were certain reductions in taxation that we promised last year to make. I allude to the reduction in the mortgage-tax; and I now find that it will be almost impossible to give that, with our in- creased expenditure, unless we supplement the revenue in another direction, and that other direction is by increasing the graduated land- tax. This is a matter we shall have to con- sider, and where we find that the expenditure is such as to warrant the consideration of further ways and means the sooner we have the Financial Statement the better, so that I am not keeping back that Statement, nor other financial matters. The colony gets very good value for any expenditure with respect to Minis- ters' travelling-expenses and allowances. The expenses are generally a little higher during the year when there is a general election on. Mr. MASSEY .-- That is why we want it. Mr. PIRANI .- I would like you to come to my district again next general election. Mr. SEDDON .- It is strange the honourabie member wants me, but when there he wants me away further. There is not the same general interest as regards Minister's travelling-expenses in the middle session as in the first session after a general election. Some honourable members then seem particularly anxious to know the travelling-expenses of Ministers. I only know this : that Ministers do not go to half the places they are invited to visit; and if not welcome why should there be so many invitations ? It is a pleasure for Ministers to meet the people, and the expenses are very well spent. As re- gards the return the honourable member desires, I hope to have it in a day or two. Mr. MASSEY .- The Premier says, Sir, that the return in question was ordered a fortnight ago, but I am going to show that it was ordered on the 19th September last year. Quoting from the Journals of the House of that date : " On the order of Mr. Massey, That there be laid before this House a return (in continuation of H .- 29, 1899) showing, for the financial year ended 31st March, 1:00,-(1) The amounts drawn by each member of the Executive for travelling - allowances ; and (2) the amounts charged by voucher for travelling-expenses of each member of the Executive." That is the return which I referred to. Now, with regard to the motion of this year, 8.0. it was as follows : -- "That there be laid before this House a return (in continuation of H .- 29, 1899, and a similar return ordered last session) showing, for the financial year ended 31st March, 1901,- (1) The amounts drawn by each member of the 