out at the time, I felt quite sure it would be absolutely impossible for that rebate to be ade- quately granted, and we have seen as the result that those prognostications-I have not the slightest desire or intention to pose as a pro- phet before the House-that everything I said then was absolutely correct ; and we have dis- covered that in one part of the colony the rebate was partially granted, in another part of the colony it was wholly granted, and in still another part it has not been granted at all. Therefore, taking all things into consideration, I am quite sure that the best thing to be done is to reconsider the whole question of rebate to the Crown tenants, and to devise some means by which the rents can be so adjusted as to make it impossible for any Crown tenant to be called upon to carry an unnecessary burden. The only other point on which I wish to touch, and it follows so closely on the remarks I have just made as to be at once sequential, is that the Premier declared-and I am glad again that he did so-that he would rather surrender his position as Premier of the colony than surrender to those who are clamouring for the reinsti- tution of the freehold to the Crown tenants. Sir, I am glad of this, because it appears to me that this is really the dividing.line between those who are still Conservative and the modern Liberal. If there is a dividing-line at all, this is the dividing-line. I admit at once that, on many, if not on the majority of matters, it is an extremely difficult matter to draw the line between Liberal and Conservative -- the voting is so close, and cross-voting is so general on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 many questions, that it is almost impossible for the dividing-line to be drawn at all ; but, after the discussion of this evening on the question of the land policy of the State, there is still a dividing-line. There are some who think there is no sound tenure other than the freehold tenure ; and I am glad that the Premier has declared his unswerving loyalty and strict adhesion to the principle of leasehold tenure, and that he would rather sur- render his position as Premier of the colony than see that system at all abrogated in favour of the readoption of the freehold system. Mr. SEDDON .- Allow me to make the posi- tion clear. I said in respect to the tenure under the Land for Settlements Act. Mr. COLLINS .- Sir, I have not the slightest desire, of course. to misrepresent the right honourable gentleman, and I am quite willing to admit that he said what he has just de- clared. I have not the least desire to take up the time of the House, but I simply wished to put on record the facts I have just brought be- fore the House, and I hope the House will par- don me for doing so. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). Sir. I have no intention of trespassing long upon the attention of the House. There can be very little doubt that the real debate took place last night. We know exactly what the result of that debate is going to be, and though we were arguing with one another last night, what we are doing to-night is endeavouring through Hansard to speak to a wider audience than is to be found within the four walls of this Cham- ber. It is right and proper it should be so : and it was perfectly evident that the Right Hon. the Premier was conscious that there is a wider audience than was to be found in the limited number of honourable members who listened to him when he halted and hesitated about his views on freehold and leasehold tenure. As he so frequently does, he blew hot and cold with the same mouth. He is for free- hold to-day and for leasehold to-morrow, per- petual lease on one occasion and lease in per- petuity on another ; but there is a dangling freehold for the Crown tenants whenever the Premier thinks it is the proper time to hood- wink them. An Hon. MEMBER .--- They have always had it. Captain RUSSELL .- And they always will have it, though my honourable friend opposite hopes they will not. The member for Christ- church City, Mr. Collins, says the dividing-line between Liberal and Conservative will be the granting or withholding of the freehold tenure. Sir, the dividing-line is the pavement in the cities. Many of those honourable momiers who walk about the streets in thin-soled shows. who would be unwilling to put on a good honest pair of thick-soled boots and walk about the country, are the theoretical politicians, who know exactly how land ought to be managed : and people like myself, who have spent a litetime on the land, are supposed not to know the sentiments or the feelings they have been called " the prejudices " - of the people who live in the country districts and are the main-stav of our prosperity. Sir, happily this country is not yet so unfortunate as the Australian colonies, where the aggregation of people in? large cities is a sad political factor in the (- vernment of those States, and more than half the population are not producers, but dwelier- in the towns. New Zealand is not set so bene! as that. And I do not care how soon the day comes when it is put to the vote at a general election whether the farmors of this country are to be the slaves of the pohtician- of the colony, or are to be allowed to be masters on their own freehold. I hope that day mav come quickly, and if the result relegatos m. : 0 oblivion I am quite prepared to go down nicht- ing a good fight. The idea of aiming at para- larity by trying to pander to the cry of the socialist and the craze of the hour is one I do not care for. Such popularity is not worth having. "The idol of the hour is the mois wooden puppet, and the doing of the popnier thing seed of no harvest." That is a quota- tion from a writer Meredith by name - where works. I venture to believe, will becom : classics in English literature. Sir. I have no doubt that the infinite wisdom of the honourable ment of for Ashley is on a par with that of the groa: English writer, but it was not the honoura. le member I referred to on this occasion. It is too often found now that men in public life are afraid of their convictions, and anxious mainly to be the mob's wooden puppet, but such a coure achieves the merest temporary popularity : bat it is far better-and it is advice I tender to 