Mr. SEDDON said, in that case the selection of members would be restricted. At all events, the matter would be considered by the Govern- ment. He believed the better way was to amend the law, which was, in his opinion, the straightforward course. But, then, if the Go- vernment did that they might be met with the difficulty that this was passing retrospective legislation, which was generally objected to. However, the honourable member having called the attention of the Government to the matter, they would give it their fullest and earliest con- sideration. # CUSTOMS DUTIES. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Government, Whether they intend this session further reducing the duties on the necessaries of life? Last session he asked the Government at the beginning of the session if they would take the duty off kerosene. He saw that the Government received something like $59,000 a year through the Customs from kero- The Premier informed him that the sene. honourable member for the Suburbs evidently wanted more light, but that there was no possibility at that time of entertaining the pro- posal. He was pleased to see, however, before the session closed that the Government did take the duty off kerosene, and he claimed the credit of bringing that matter to the notice of the Government. He hoped the Government would see their way to make further reductions this year. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) said he thought honourable members would admit that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 this opened up a very large question, and at this early stage of the session it was almost trenching on the unreasonable to ask him to commit the Government to a reply in respect to this question. # ANNEXATION OF FIJI. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked the Premier, Whether a copy of the resolution passed by this House on the 19th October, 1900, recommending that a respectful address be pre- sented to His Excellency the Governor, praying that he will forward a resolution to the Chief Secretary of State for the Colonies in favour of the incorporation of Fiji as an integral portion of this colony, has been forwarded to His Ex- cellency the Governor of Fiji, or the Govern- ment of Fiji, and if any reply has been received thereto ? It would be in the recollection of the House that last session a resolution was passed reflecting very seriously on the Government of Fiji, and on the manner in which the Europeans were there governed. A copy of that resolution was sent Home to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and he presumed that. in common courtesy, a copy of it was sent to His Excellency the Governor of Fiji, and to the Colonial Secre- tary and other officials there, who had so badly, according to the resolution, administered the affairs of Fiji for several years past. Well, he presumed that a copy of the resolution was sent to the gentlemen who it was alleged had so misbehaved themselves in Fiji, so that they might be able to answer the accusations which this House had levelled against them. He hoped that the Right Hon. the Premier would be able to tell them that a copy of that resolu- tion was sent to His Excellency the Governor of Fiji, and that there had been an answer re- ceived from him or from any of the other officials. When he was informed of that fact. he would take an opportunity of moving that a copy of the correspondence be laid on the table. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable gentleman had rightly gauged the situation. The resolution as passed by the House was re- ferred to the Secretary of State for the Colonies. who had sent a reply to that communication. The correspondence was not yet concluded. The Governor of Fiji had in very courteous terms practically been called upon to explain why he had traduced the fair fame of this colony in respect to the treatment of the Maoris; and he might say that the letter which was received from the Secretary of State for the Colonies, to put it plainly, did not concur in the course the Governor of Fiji had taken nor in the speech he had made. That, of course, would be seen later on. He might say that the reply actually made the matter worse, because this colony had been put in the position of a bogey to frighten the unfortunate Fijians. Something had to be done to keep the Fijians straight, and New Zealand was used for that purpose, and the reflection which the honour- able member now claimed was contained in the resolution was well merited. He said that the number of deaths and the reduced state of the native population of Fiji in the last few years was something appalling. Any one who had read the letters which appeared in the papers from the pen of a disinterested writer, who was simply on a visit to the islands, must come to the conclusion that this House was well justified in the course that it took. On the question raised, as to changing the form of government of these islands, which was the larger question underlying the whole matter, there were difficulties in respect to that which the honourable member knew; and the Imperial Government, as reported by the telegram sent to the Australian Government, had stated that for the time being nothing would be done. The honourable member, as a member of the Federa- tion Commission, would no doubt be able to tell the House what was the situation at the present time in regard to this matter. Our position was that we were taking from Fiji to the value of about $365,000 of their products annually, and we were sending them $43,000 in return. The honourable member would be able to see, from the evidence taken before the Commission. that Australia was taking from Fiji products to the value of about $73.000, and they were send- ing there about €165,000 value. That, he be- lieved, was about the relative position of the trade. He said that New Zealand at the present time was supporting and maintaining Fiji, and all they got from Fiji in return was a return trade of less than $50,000 a year. The honour- able member, no doubt, had an opportunity on his Australian tour of meeting gentlemen 