then the honourable member for Christchurch | quoted. He must bear in mind that, although City must bow his head and admit his ignor- ance of the whole question, and never bring it up again. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) .- Sir, I am quite willing to give the honourable gentleman who introduced this Bill every credit for being de- sirous of bringing about what he deems to be a needful reform, but I am very strongly of opinion that he has not yet made much investi- gation into the subject he is now dealing with, and which he is asking the House to deal with this evening. From want of knowledge on the matter he would willingly fly to evils he knows not of, rather than bear the ills from which we at present suffer. No doubt he thinks that if this Bill were carried the effect would be to altogether do away with gambling; at all events, he certainly must believe it would greatly minimise it. Sir, I contend that is absolutely wrong. The honourable gentleman has not studied the question. He knows no- thing about it, or he would not hold the opinion that to abolish the totalisator means a reduc- tion in the amount of gambling. What has been the experience over in South Australia ? The totalisator was once legalised there, with the idea the honourable gentleman is pos- sessed of-namely, that it would abolish betting. After a little experience there was a howl raised against the totalisator, and it was repealed. Then the people began to recognise that the totalisator was the lesser evil of the two, and it was relegalised. It was found that the betting that went on under the patronage of the bookmakers was greater and of an in- finitely worse kind than the betting conducted under the regulation of the totalisator. Sir, that is exactly the experience we should have in this country if the honourable gentleman suc- ceeded in placing his measure on the statute- book. One of the principal arguments to-night in favour of the repeal of the totalisator was the fact that the amount of money annually put through the totalisator is on the increase. I admit it is quite true it has been on the increase; but the honourable gentleman knows perfectly well, as we all do, that during the last ten years there has been a steady in- crease of prosperity in this colony, and people have had more money to spend, and a larger proportion has been put on the totalisator than formerly. If we reverse the position, and we have prosperity steadily receding from us, then we shall find a reverse set of figures in connec- tion with the totalisator ; we shall find the ex- penditure, as indicated by the returns from the machine, will greatly decrease as times get dull. Unfortunately, one of the signs of prosperity also is an increase in drunkenness ; that follows with an increase of good times, simply because people have a larger spending power. We have it indicated in the Court returns as plainly as in the returns from the totalisator. Then, again, one has to bear in mind that all this gambling recorded on the totalisator does not represent such an enor- mous amount of money as the honourable gentleman imagines from the figures he has €7,000, or $8,000, or £10,000 may be what is termed "put through " the totalisator in one day, it does not mean that ten thousand separate individual sovereigns are invested ; it means perhaps $1,000 or €2.000 going through over and over again, so that it is nothing so very great after all. Judging from the honour- able gentleman's arguments, he is plainly of opinion that if we stopped the totalisator we should increase the number of race- meetings, and gambling would decrease in con- sequence. Well, Sir, that is the greatest fallacy he could give utterance to. As a matter of fact, the existence of the totalisator under the control of our legislation, as it is controlled now, has been a wonderful factor in reducing the number of race-meetings throughout the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh ! Mr. CARNCROSS .- The honourable gentle- man says "Oh." He is absolutely ignorant of the subject, otherwise he would not cast any The honourable doubt upon my statement. gentlemen who are supporting this measure I will tell have never been behind the scenes. you what would be the effect of abolishing the totalisator. The effect would be that we should have small race-meetings springing up through- out the whole country every Saturday after- noon. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Why, that is what the totalisator has done. Mr. CARNCROSS. - The honourable gentle- man evidently knows nothing about it. Total- isator privileges are only issued under certain conditions, and part of those conditions is that no totalisator permit shall be issued unless a certain amount of money is given in stakes. The effect has been to crush out of existence many racing-clubs that formerly existed, the reason being that they could not raise sufficient to get a permit. An Hon. MEMBER .- They get it out of the machine. Mr. CARNCROSS .- The honourable gentle- man knows nothing about it. The statute- book limits the number of permits to be issued, and we cannot increase this. By our 9.0. legislation and the totalisator regula- tions a number of clubs have absolutely been wiped out of existence, and they cannot esta- blish themselves again because they cannot get the totalisator permits ; but if you abolish the totalisator altogether, and have no longer the supervision that is exercised by the Jockey Clubs Conference, the result will be no limit as to the number of meetings to be held. And if you had no limit as to the amount to be offered for a race, the result would be that £60 or 570 would be sufficient to have a day's racing, and people could have their racing, and no one could prevent them. And if they could race for this small sum of money the result would be that the local publicans in every small country district could go round with the hat and very quickly raise enough to have an afternoon's racing, as was the case before the totalisator was in exist- 