the strongest argument that could be brought forward in cases of this kind-namely, an in- crease of population. He would have inquiry made as to the increase of population and the necessity for a new district, and if it was found that a new district should be established at In- vercargill he would consult his colleagues as to that being done. NEW GAOL FOR INVERCARGILL. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister of Justice, If the Government will take steps to acquire, under the Public Works Act. the ap- proved site for a new gaol near the Hospital in Invercargill, and for which a vote was placed on the estimates last session ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the Government had already taken action in this matter, the Public Works Department having been instructed to take the necessary steps. SUPREME COURT JUDGES. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Govern- ment, If it is intended to introduce this session a Bill providing for the compulsory retirement of Supreme Court Judges at the age of sixty or sixty-tive years ? He did not see any reason why a general rule which was applicable to the Civil servants of the colony should not also be made applicable to the Judges. At the present time we had Judges occupying seats on the Supreme Court Bench at extreme old age- eighty years. In his opinion, a man of that age could not possess the mental alertness https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 required in contested actions. Only the brightest and best intellects that we had in the colony should be placed in important positions such as that of a Supreme Court http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Judge. In the army and navy the highest officers retired at the age of sixty-five. He would say no more in asking the question, but he hoped for the sake of the colony in which we lived that fair justice would be dealt out, and that this matter would receive the Minis- ter's consideration. Mr. MCGOWAN (Minister of Justice) might say that the question the honourable member asked was a very important one, and he ad- mitted at once that there were cases in which it might apply to Judges, and there were cases in which it might apply to other officers in the public service. He would bring the matter before the Government and see if anything could be done in that direction. He admitted that something should be done in regard to officers who were what might be termed past the age of active service. AMMUNITION LICENSE-FEES. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked the Minister of Customs, If he will discontinue the collection of license-fees from small storekeepers for the sale of ammunition ? Small storekeepers only made a small profit on the sale of ammuni- tion, and yet they were obliged to pay the ordinary fee. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said a similar question to this was asked a few days Mr. McGowan ago by the member for Waitemata, and he must give the same reply that he gave on that occasion. The license-fee was reimposed under the Act of 1898 in consequence of the trouble with the Natives in the Hokianga district in the early part of that year. The imposition of the fee was the only check the Government had upon the indiscriminate sale of arms and ammunition to the Natives. The license-tee was only $1 per annum, therefore he did not consider its imposition entailed any great hardship. The time might come when the Government would be able to do away with the license-fee. WORKMEN'S HOMES. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister of Lands. If he will acquire a block of land in the immediate vicinity of Hawera for the pur- pose of cutting it up into allotments of from three to five acres for working-men's dwellings. so as to place Hawera on an equal footing with other important centres ? The system has worked well in other places, and he would like it tried in the neighbourhood of Hawera. He thought they could get very suitable land there. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state that there was still a large proportion of the Borough of Hawera which was to a con- siderable extent not occupied for residential purposes. There was a populatian in Hawera of 2.131, and an acreage of 700 acres. The Gio- Vernment had acquired 1,500 acres of first-class land within three miles of the centre of the township. That land was now being surveyed into small dairy farms. He did not see that at present there was any great necessity for moving in the direction indicated in the question. WAIKAKAHI AND PAREORA ROADS AND BRIDGES. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Lands. Whether he will make pro- vision for assisting the Waimate County Council in the construction of roads and strengthening of bridges to meet the needs of the settlers in Waikakahi and Pareora. being settlements established under the Land for Settlements Act ? One of the consequences of carrying out the land- for settlements policy had been to impose addi- tional burdens on the local governing bodies. Those burdens fell very heavily upon the County Council of Waimate, in which district some large and successful settlements had been established. When the Minister of Education was in Waimate recently he stated to a deputa- tion of the County Council -- no doubt on behalf of his colleagues -that the position was quite understood, and the Government would be will- ing to help as far as they could. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might in- form the honourable gentleman that provision was made for opening up these roads out of the Land for Settlements Account. This expendi- ture was finished, and the necessary roading to meet the requirements of that settlement had been constructed. He had seen a note sent from the county to a tenant of the Hatuma Estate. That estate was valued at $4 an acre 