am not a lawyer, I venture to say I could draft a Bill better than this one in about an hour's time. Clause 8 says : "No person shall be allowed to contract himself out of the provisions of this Act." Sir, there are many men working in this colony who agree to take a weekly wage wet or dry. Is a man to be debarred of that privilege if it suits his purpose to do so ? These men know that, taking the year round, they are better off by accepting this arrangement than they would be if they were paid a daily wage and had a deduction made for loss of time. If the Government will take this matter up, and if the Premier will introduce a workable Bill to suit all classes, I will support it ; but in its pre- sent condition I will not support this Bill, which is nothing short of a malformation. I believe that the majority of members of this House will say that my argument and contention is right, and that we should not be asked to vote blindly on any Bill on the understanding that it will be put right in Committee. Those are my views, and those are the reasons why I will vote against the Bill. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- It is 10.30. not my intention to detain the House for more than a few moments, but there have been some statements made to-night which I cannot allow to pass without a word of protest. I am a country member, representing perhaps one of the most prosperous dairying districts in the whole of the North Island, though not the most populous or most numerous. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many dairy factories have you got ? https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. HORNSBY .- We have about six in my district. I say this : that all this talk about the unfortunate dairy farmer is an insult, I take it, to a class of people in this country who are doing exceedingly well, and who are very well pleased http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero with their position. These men are able to drive about in traps; they are doing well, their families are well-cared for, and they are amongst the most prosperous people of the colony. But I agree with the remarks that fell from the honourable member for Hawera, who said that if you insist upon placing these people under the disability of this Bill, and confine their work to eight hours a day, you would be helping to destroy one of the finest industries in this colony. Therefore up to that point I would support the Bill, but if it went beyond that point-if there was any attempt made to insist upon making the pro- visions of this Act apply to the dairy industry- I would consider it my bounden duty to vote against it. But I recognise this : it is quite possible to amend the Bill in Committee, and I shall do my share in that direction. I also recognise that there are thousands in the colony that this Bill will very largely benefit, and it is on their behalf that I support the second read- ing, with the desire to see that it does not harm any industry. I believe it can be so worded, and the clauses so arranged that it will not harm the country districts. Now, Sir, when- ever a measure of reform comes into this House there is always an outcry raised that you are going to ruin somebody or other. The same story is told over and over again, in the House and out of it, with regard to every piece of labour legislation that has ever been introduced, and I have been wait- ing for years and years to see this wholesale smash that was going to be brought upon in- dustrial New Zealand. It has never come about. I admit there is a certain amount of unrest in the colony ; I believe there is a cer- tain irksome feeling amongst employers in this colony ; but, as one who has been cited before the Conciliation Board, I say this : I am glad it has been done. I am proud to think that an effort is being made to level up a number of men who have been levelled down during the last fifteen or twenty years. I am an old union man myself, and I say I should like to see every trade and calling in the colony levelled up. should like to see the condition of the agri- cultural labourer improve. I know in my dis- trict the hours worked by many men on stations are very long : their duties are very arduous ; and shepherds and drovers in my district have to work seven days a week instead of six. I do not think it is fair they should do so: but what I want to see is the whole army of people that the present labour laws do not touch at all given some help, and I think there are thousands in the towns and cities of the colony whom this Bill will very materially benefit. For this reason alone, I shall support the second reading, and I shall, as I said before, do all I can to amend the clauses in Committee so that no harm shall be done to the agricultural and pastoral industries of the colony : because it would be a serious mistake to interfere in any way with these people, who are the backbone- aye, the spinal marrow-of the colony. With- out them the colony would be nothing, the colony would crumble away into nothingness : and we should be very careful about what we do in regard to these industries of ours in the interior. The Premier and the mover of the Bill have both told us that they are willing that something should be done to amend it in Com- mittee. The honourable member for Riccarton has offered the Bill to the House, and is per- fectly willing it should be amended if the House thinks fit, and, under these circum- stances, I ask every man, whether he is a coun- try member or not, if he is a Liberal, and his Liberalism is worth anything, to vote for its second reading, and then assist in the work of amending it in Committee. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .-- In saving a few words on the second reading of this Bill, I have to compliment the honourable gentleman who introduced it, as it has led to a most interesting and good-tempered debate. No such question as town versus country has been raised. We are here as the representatives of the people of the colony to do our level best in the interests of the whole colony, and not in the interests of any particular portion of the colony. I have to compliment the member for Dunedin City ( Mr. Millar) on his excellent speech. He is a city member, and viewed the question from a com- mon-sense standpoint. I have also to compli- ment the member for Taieri, who represents a 