been nominated on this occasion. It has been | have been much indebted to him for his valu- with extreme regret that I. have not asked the Council to appoint him again ; but still the Council will, I think, admit that it is only be- cause he has come to a time of life when more should not be required of him, and he is pro- perly entitled to rest. We are only too pleased to think that he is able to do the duties de- volving upon him as a member of this Council. He has been a member of this Council for many years. He has by his attention to the duties, and by the way in which he has carried out the duties of Chairman of Committees, added con- siderable lustre and safety to our deliberations. His decisions for many years have given satis- faction, and it is with extreme regret that I find myself obliged to make the proposed change on the present occasion. At the same time I desire to express my personal acknow- ledgments to him for the services he has rendered, and I feel quite certain the Council also feels indebted to him in as high a degree -and from many members of the Council in a still further degree than I can myself express, because I have been only a few years a member of this Council. I know that he, along with other old members of the Council, have by their attention to duty, and by the high standard they have attached to the duties they have performed, left to the younger mem- bers of the Council a legacy of obligation to duty which I trust will always be carried on by this Council from generation to generation. As regards the gentleman I am proposing, I am quite certain, from his long experience in public affairs, both in local matters and also in matters connected with Parliament-his many years' services in the other House and the sessions he has served in this Council - that he is perfectly competent and able to do this Council good service, and to keep up the high standard of fair, honest, equitable, and intelligent adjudica- tion on what may be submitted to him as Chair- man of Committees. I beg to move the motion standing in my name. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I second the mo- tion, and in doing so I will only say that, if the Hon. Mr. Smith be elected to the office, I feel satisfied he will bring to the discharge of that office the value of very large experience in public business, and will have a thorough acquaintance with the duties that appertain to his office. He has been a member of the Legislature, chiefly of the other branch of Par- liament, for a very considerable number of years. During all that time he has been an active member, and during the time he was a member of the House of Representatives he was repeatedly in the chair of that honourable body, and is thoroughly acquainted with the duties. Like my honourable friend who has moved this motion, I cannot help also express- ing my opinion upon the loss the Council will sustain by losing the services of our old Chairman, my friend Captain Baillie. I under- stand he has expressed the desire to retire from active work, and, if he retires, he will carry with him the esteem . of every member of the able services during the long time that he has occupied the position of Chairman of Com- mittees. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I just wish to make a remark upon what the honourable gentleman who moved the motion has said about the honourable member who has so emfi- ciently discharged the duties of Chairman of Committees in this Council for so many years- that he required a rest. There are different kinds of rest ; there is bodily rest and there is mental rest. Now, I will venture to say that there is no member in this Council who has a clearer head for business than the honourable gentleman alluded to by the Minister of Educa- tion. I have been surprised, and others have been surprised, in sessions past-and even so lately as the last session - at observing the acuteness of the honourable member's judg- ment. I can point to one particular instance last session in which he called our attention. in dealing with a Bill, to something which had been reserved, the consideration of which had escaped the notice of the other members. I have talked to the honourable gentleman during the few days we have been here this session, and I find that his mental powers have suffered no deterioration whatever, and I venture to say this, whatever may be the result of this motion, that if any other gentleman is ap- pointed Chairman of Committees we shall not get the equal of the Hon. Captain Baillie, and for this reason : His experience in the duties of the office has been so great as to give him an un- questionable advantage over us who have had no such experience. He has been Chairman of Committees in this Council almost ever since I became a member. The Hon. Major Richmond was Chairman of Committees for a few sessions. and for the rest of the time the Chairman bas been Captain Baillie. I do hope the Council will take this into consideration in coming to a determination as to who is fittest for the position of Chairman of Committees. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- I thoroughly agree with the remarks made by the honour- able member representing the Government with reference to the Hon. Captain Baillie. Since I have had the good fortune to be a member of this Council . and that is now some years- I can say that the Hon. Cap- tain Baillie, in his position as Chairman, has on all occasions been very kind and very courteous, and he has discharged the duties of his office with impartiality, and I hope that whoever may succeed him may follow in his footsteps. I extremely regret that the Govern- ment did not think fit and proper to renomi- nate him. I am confident that if he had been so nominated he would have been re-elected ; but, under the circumstances, I fear that any nomination now might tend to injure him as well as others. I have known the Hon. Mr. Smith for a great number of years, in the other branch of the Legislature as well as in this, and I always found him very industrious and pains- taking, and I hope that, if he is elected, he will 