honourable gentleman is only out in his | expenses. He thinks members are to be gulled reckoning by the small sum of £163,572. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- Those are the very figures I took from your own returns in the Gazette. Mr. SEDDON .- I am glad the honourable member owns up so nicely. The total land purchased, according to the statement made by the honourable member, amounted to $186,000. Now, the total land purchased, according to the official return from Mr. McKerrow, amounted to $350,000; take off $186,000 and the honourable member is wrong in his statement to the extent of #163,000. The honourable gentleman only gives the amount paid over, and has taken that to use for his own purposes. If the honourable member will use figures for the purpose of misleading the House his statements must be taken cion grano salis in this House. I wish to show the honourable gentleman how he fell into this error. He takes these small payments that were made in connection with the following properties, and to prove this I will quote from a statement given by Mr. Collins of the Treasury :- £ d B. Earnsclough* 3,100 0 .. Hatuma 141,618 0 0 .. Karapiro" 253 0 0 . . Lyndon 15,750 0 0 .. Maungaraki* 2,797 0 0 . . North Bank 6,750 0 0 . . Ohakea* 5,245 10 () .. Tarawahi 2,857 10 0 . . Waipapa 8,250 0 0 .. 0 0 . £186,621 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Purchased early in 1900, but were not paid, except estates marked ., until March, 1901. Here is the exact statement from the Trea- sury showing the amount of the purchase- money and expenses :- Nine months Twelve Months ended 31st enmed 3 st March, 1901. Dec., 1.000. £ Purchase-money 186,621 11,396 11,652° Expenses 14,305 Interest .. 50,910 21,903 . . £44,950 $251,836 * For survey of estates acquired in 1930. but not paid for till March, 1901; aiso for roads and lime- kilns, Shag Valley. But the honourable member again was wrong, because he must add the total expenses to the cash paid for the estates, and together these amount to $251,836. It does not matter which- ever way you take it the honourable gentleman is absolutely wrong. He then tried to make an unfavourable impression, because he said the purchase-money was only $11,000 in the first three quarters of the year: but he said there were €8,000 of expenses. Why, Sir, there were $11,000 of expenses. You have to pay the interest on the whole of the money and the ex- penses in connection with the land bought the year before and the lands bought during the year, and the $11,000 is the whole of the ex- penses. The honourable gentleman wanted to make a point out of the $11,000 and $8,000 by statements of this sort. It is a well-known fact that we purchase estates at the beginning of the year, and the proper time to put settlers on the land is from March to April in the next year. There are twelve months in which the owner has to remove stock and give up posses- sion. Perhaps we may buy in March, but we do not get actual possession till April of the following year. There is no payment till we take possession. The honourable member would see the position if he took the trouble to go into the Public Accounts. But what he has been doing-I will not say wilfully, but for want of knowledge has been to mislead himself and try to mislead the members of the House and the country. It is like a statement made by the honourable member which appears in the black- book. He made a statement last year in Christ- church to this effect : He said there would be a deficit of $200,000, and that the reason why the surplus was shown was because we had never transferred last year's surplus to the Public Works Fund, and if you took off the Public Works Account you would find a deheit which he estimated to be .$200,000. The surplus came to $550,000, and, as usual, the honourable gentle- man is $300,000 out in his calculation. Why on earth does the honourable member for Riccarton go out of his way to make such ridiculous statements, and to put his state- ments so that one cannot take any notice of them ? They are utterly fallacious, and you cannot depend upon them for a moment. Mr. PIRANI .- You seem to take great notice of them. Mr. SEDDON. -- It is necessary for me to point out these glaring mistakes. He ought to be a good deal more accurate. We know the honourable gentleman's weakness for railways, and he must show that he has some knowledge of finance. But he will be out of place as Colonial Treasurer if he cannot do differently from what he has been doing in connec- tion with these figures. Then, the honourable I gentleman complained about Canterbury. say that last year we had a hundred and fifty homes as against fifty for the previous year. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .-- You mean sections, not homes. Mr. SEDDON .-- No, I mean homes. I give the term given me by the officer, who says " homes." There is the position. Take the provincial districts. Since the Act started there have been- Price Paid. Area. Acres. Auckland .. 35,885 89,500 . 317,996 Hawke's Bay 58,855 .. Taranaki .. 1,500 31.500 .. Wellington 15,606 106.190 . . Nil Nil Nelson . . Marlborough 159,700 64,450 3,230 Westland . . 3,634 137.660 774,660 Canterbury .. 336,300 Otago 59.615 .. .. Southland. . 88,030 34,165 . . 410,966 €1,610,510 