much in need of. Within the last two or three years great advances had been made in settle- ment in the district owing to the cutting-up of large estates, and consequently the want of a siding at the Hundred line was each season felt to a greatly increased extent. The out- put of grain and wool was considerable, seeing that there were no facilities for loading the grain, unless the settlers had it carted up-hill against the direction in which they wished to send it. There was also a serious drawback in the fact that the roads were not of the best. Consequently, representations were made a short time ago to the department, and the settlers were asked to subscribe a sum of $300 in order to get effect given to their request by the construction of the siding. The settlers at the time did all they possibly could to raise the stipulated sum, and they succeeded in getting together some $200, which, considering it was a newly-settled district, that the settle- ment was growing, and that the farmers there had not yet, for the most part, got a firm footing, was very creditable. He hoped the Minister would take into consideration the re- quirements of the locality, the growth and the extent of settlement that was going on, and would grant facilities and advantages to the settlers in the direction indicated. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he was familiar with the circumstances con- nected with this railway-siding. The honour- able member had correctly stated what had transpired regarding it : but there were one or two facts which he thought it only right he -hould take this opportunity of putting on re- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 cord. in order that the settlers who were looking hopefully forward to having a siding made upon a contribution of $200 should not remain under any illusion. The cost of the proposed siding, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero with necessary road-approach, would be $600, ex- clusive of platform, goods-shed, or loading-bank. The line was already well supplied with stop- ping places-namely, Waicola, 3 miles 57 chains from Otautau ; Woodlaw, 4 miles 18 chains from Waicola ; and Wairio, 2 miles 69 chains from Woodlaw. The site of the proposed siding was only 1 mile 15 chains from Woodlaw. The construction of the siding would not in- crease the railway traffic, and, in view of this, the settlers were advised through Mr. Gilfedder in March. 1899, and again in August of same year, that it could only be laid on their subscribing half-cost -- namely, $300. This they have not yet done. He desired to point out to the honourable gentleman that if it was the case of providing a necessary siding in the absence of any other siding, the department would lay it down ; but there were three sidings there, and one only 2 miles 69 chains from Otautau. At any rate, the honourable member would see it was not the duty of the department in such a case as that to find so large a sum as €600 for a siding. He thought the offer he had made last year, that the siding should be put up on the settlers con- tributing $300, the department finding the other $300, was a fair one. If the settlers would find $300 he would be very glad to give instruc- FAIRFAX STATIONMASTER. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, If his department, taking into consideration the increased traffic at the Fairfax Station, will appoint a Stationmaster there ? He thought it unnecessary for him to make any remarks with regard to this question. The Minister would be by this time in possession of a return of the amount of traffic from this station, and no doubt the report made to him would show whether the station was entitled to a Stationmaster or not. The traffic in this locality was considerable, and, as a new bridge was being erected over the Aparima, the busi- ness done at this station would be greatly in- creased. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he had had a report prepared on this matter, and he found that from the traffic at this station it was desirable that a Stationmaster should be appointed there, and the repre- sentations of the honourable gentleman would be given favourable effect to on the 31st March. RAILWAY WORKSHOPS AT INVER- CARGILL. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minis- ter for Railways when a start will be made to erect workshops in Invercargill ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that negotiations were now being pressed forward with the land-owners, and when com- pleted it was intended to proceed with the erection of the workshops. It would take some time, as the honourable member knew, under the Public Works Act to acquire land by that process, but he might say that im- mediately it was decided to take the block of land selected for the extension of the work- shops in Invercargill the matter of acquiring the land was put in hand by the department, and the necessary machinery had been some- time in operation for acquiring it. There were, however, a good many people who expected to get the fullest value for their land, and the duty of the department was to see that the colony was not imposed on by giving for such land a price which was beyond the full and fair value, and not a fictitious price simply because the Railway Department required it. He could assure the honourable gentleman that he had long ago made his mind up that this work should be carried out, and he intended to do so ; and he could assure the honourable mem- ber that the matter was not being lost sight of, but that he was having it pushed forward with all possible celerity. KUROW PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will make provision this session for the erection of new buildings for the Railway, Telegraph, and Postal Departments at Kurow, the existing buildings being altogether inadequate to the requirements of the public. He had to express his regret that during the recess circumstances had prevented the Minister from visiting this locality, because 