people of this country ; what has been the means of sweeping out of existence the de- precated swagger nuisance; what has sup- pressed the cry of the unemployed, and brought prosperity to hundreds of homes where there was nothing but darkness and distress threaten- ing them before? What has done all this ? Sir, it is owing to the way in which our lands have been administered. It is because in the back blocks, notwithstanding all that may be said about the difficulties of the settlers there, you will find families in a posi- tion of comparative independence and able to maintain themselves. There is no want of food as a rule in those places. There is no such thing as absolute privation. There are none of those fearful things that may be witnessed in the back slums of our cities. There is neither crime nor destitution nor depravity nor nakedness. If you clothe the people with the land, no matter how poor a man or a woman may be, they will gradually overcome all their difficulties and become prosperous, happy, and contented. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) ... Sir, I did not take part in the debate in Committee on this Bill, because I had determined to reserve any remarks I might have to make for the third reading, and to give my reasons for the votes I cast during the Committee stage. Sir, as a candidate for a seat in this House at the general election. on every platform on which I spoke, I enunciated this principle : that if the freehold could be surrounded with sufficient safeguards to prevent the aggregation of large landed estates, then I preferred the freehold to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the leasehold. And every vote I cast during the passage of this Bill through Committee was based upon that declaration on the public plat- form when I was seeking the suffrages of the people of my electorate. But I have always held as a cardinal principle of the land policy that there must be a limit to the holding- power of any individual. Now, Sir, as I said the other day in the discussion on this same Bill, it is not the freehold itself that has been the curse of older countries; it is the aggrega- tion of large estates ; and if we want to do some- thing that we shall be blessed for in years to come, when we are no longer here, I say that it will be the passing of a law that would limit the holding - power of any individual. Now, Sir, last session, on the 19th September, I asked this question of the Minister of Lands : " Whether, in view of the continued acquisition of large estates, he is prepared to recommend to his colleagues an increase of the graduated land-tax ?" as a means, of course, of prevent. ing the further acquisition of properties by large landed proprietors. I would now point out that since that question was asked one at least of the settlers of the colony has gone on adding to his already largely overgrown estate. And there is no law to prevent him. I was in strict sympathy with every effort that might be made, and I am still in sympathy with every effort that may be made, to make this sort of man give up a very large portion of his estate. In the case I refer to, the person is the owner of something like a hundred and thirty thousand acres of land, and yet when a piece of rich land that was fitted for dairy- ing purposes was in the market, and could have been purchased by the Government, but was not- when that land was known to be under offer, this gentleman went and snapped it up, and turned it into a fattening-paddock and cattle-vards. Had that land been pur- chased by the Government, at least a dozen families could have been settled upon it, and we could have started a dairy factory at Martinborough. The piece of land which I refer to was held at the time by Mr. Wil- liam Bidwill, and was purchased by Mr. Riddiford, who shortly after that also pur- chased an estate on the East Coast, and is still going on adding and adding to his possessions. Now, I say it is the duty of the Government to take into their most serious consideration the necessity of bringing in a measure which will prevent the perpetuation of this sort of work in the colony. If the members of the House are in earnest on this land question this is one of the first steps we ought to take, and it will be one of the best steps taken for the prevention of people building up large landed estates in the colony. Now, there has been a good deal of talk about those who have sympathy with the amendment that was proposed by Captain Russell, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. I steadily voted for that amendment, and I say this: that with modifications-for we would have insisted upon the modification of it --- with a little modification it would have been one of the things which would have popu- larised the land - for - settlements policy in the colony more than anything that has ever been done by the Legislature. Sir, I have in my mind at the present moment a group of families in a valley of the Wairarapa. One of these families, when the father was alive, possessed something like eighteen or twenty thousand acres of land. Since the father died and the sons came into possession of the property it has been cut up into blocks of from three thousand five hundred to four thousand acres. In their turn these men had families, and by-and-by, when the natural distribution of this land amongst the members of these families takes place, there will not be one of these men owning more than a thousand acres of land. That is the natural distribution that ought to take place, and that will take place. I hope. Yet people turn round and sav that that is an improper way of dealing with the land -- that we have no right to deal with it in that way. And then, Sir. you are going to do this : to say to each one of these men, " You and your family must turn out. and strangers- we do not care where they come from, either from this or any other colony-shall come in, forsooth. and take possession of the property, and perhaps hold it in equally large areas." And these strangers are to be allowed to do this after the State has cut up an estate com- pulsorily. As an example of what may go on under our land-for-settlements law. what happened when the Langdale Estate was cut 