such a rule as that, if strictly adhered to, is a proper thing at all. Why, many of our best settlers are single men. I know, at any rate in special settlements, some of our best settlers have been young fellows who have taken up land. They have done all the rough work under difficulties that no human being who had any decent feelings about him would dream of enuring his wife and family to, and by the time the land has been opened up by roads they are able to marry and take their wives there and make a home on the block. It is all very well to talk about speculation in con- nection with these Crown lands. The Minister can stop speculation in five minutes if he likes by refusing the right of transfer on lands purchased for settlement, merely taking the section over and paying the man who wants to leave his land for his improvements. The Crown tenants we put on the land under the land-for-settlement system are now allowed to bargain and to sell 1 their right to the land, and if this were not per- mitted we would stop the speculation which goes on at the present time. You would find then that only genuine settlers would take up the land. We are also told that there is a necessity for this Bill because of the expenses which cannot now be charged to the Land Fund. What does that mean ? Every year 9.0. we are being told by Ministers how successful the land-for-settlement policy is. We are told what large sums are being realised by the Crown by the occupation of these lands. and what large profits are being made. Now we are told that the very expenses which are being incurred in the acquiring of these lands have not been charged against them. That is a reflection against those who have told us what a profitable speculation it has been for the colony : and I seriously think that if all the ex- penses were charged to the land, instead of a ! protit being shown by the Government there would be in many cases a loss I say that too much is being made, in the North Island at any rate, of this land-for-settlement policy. We have any amount of Crown lands and any amount of Native land that the Govern- iam familiar with the property, and, although ment should road and open up for settlement before they think of purchasing land in the North Island. I do not say as far as Canter- bury is concerned that land for settlement should not be purchased. Their circumstances differ from ours, and, as far as roading is concerned, their necessities are not as great. We have spent something like a million and a half in the purchase of land for settlement, and I notice by the state of the Land for Settle- ments Account this year that there is only some $93,000 left in it, notwithstanding the fact that during the last twelve months very little land has been purchased. Why is this ? Because the Government cannot raise the i more than that. I am rather afraid it is going money. The local loan raised last year cost 4 per cent. If we are going to raise money at 4 per cent. for the purchase of land for settle- ment I think the speculation will be a very poor one for the colony. It is time we recog- nised the fact that the London market is not available for New Zealand Icans, and it strikes me it will be a long time to come before money can be borrowed by New Zealand in the Lon- don market at 3 per cent. ; and if borrowed at any rate higher than 3 per cent. the result will not be satisfactory, at any rate at the price paid for land in many districts. Under these circumstances, it is wise to call a halt in some of the experiments we are making. Personally, I have always supported the land- for-settlement policy, and I have no sympathy with the attitude of the honcurable member for Hawke's Bay in regard to the purchase of land for settlement : and there are a number of mem- bers on this side of the House, I am sure, who wish the taking.of-land-for-settlement policy every success, and who desire that it should not be hampered and handicapped by bad purchases. At the same time we think that the interests of the North Island are in another direction, and I trust that those who are anxious to see land purchased for settlement in the South Island will not think for one moment that we are against the system, or that we do not wish it success, simply because we say that our neces- sities differ from those of the South Island. It is bad policy to buy land in the North Island when there are millions of acres of Crown and Native land that should be made fit for settle- ment. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I had not intended taking part in this debate until I listened to several of the speeches. I then felt it incumbent upon me to say something in con- nection with the important question now before the House. Before going into the general policy of the Bill I will refer briefly to some of the remarks that have fallen from different mom- bers. The honourable member who has just sat down has referred to the Moa Flat Estate as being unsuitable for settlement. Mr. PIRANI .-- No: for agricultural purposes. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - " For agricultural purposes " ; and in that connection the honour- alle member for Wallace alluded to the propriety of purchasing that property and constructing a railway to connect with it. Now, I may say I the honourable member was perfectly correct in saying there is not much Hat property in the country, there is a great deal of useful agri- cultural land to be met with there, and a pro- perty that may not all be suitable for ploughing is eminently suitable for grazing purposes ; and, as there is a large settled district in the vicinity. the farmers there say they can take up the grazing land and work it with their winter country, and thereby employ their own and their sons' time more profitably. The Moa Flat Estate is one that offers peculiar inducements for the consideration of the Government at this juncture. It is an impediment in that district to settlement and railway-construction. It is to be the cause of the construction of a gross political railway job in that particular part fo the Otago Provincial District. I say the time has arrived in the history of this country when we should sternly set our faces against any political railway job in the future. We know 