country constituency, and who spoke so much sisted in this House to establish and foster to the point. Indeed, I could not see any differ- ence in the remarks of those two gentlemen I have just mentioned. Although they viewed the question from different standpoints they both arrived at the same conclusion. I think, Sir, that the heading of this Bill is wrong. It is called an " Eight Hours Bill," but that is a misnomer. It should have been entitled " a Bill to cripple certain industries in this colony." I have the honour to have in my electorate a variety of interests : the sawmilling, dairying -including butter factories, creameries, and cheese factories-the stock and pastoral indus- try, and the farming industry, which is also a very large and important one. I represent the great Amuri district, which produces the finest sheep in the colony, so that I am fairly compe- tent to give an opinion on those matters. Clause 4 of this Bill applies to these in- dustries ; and I would point out to honourable members that if the provisions of the Bill were carried out it would kill the goose that lays the golden eggs, and it would mean that we should have to drop the curtain, put up the shutters, and suspend all these industries. Take. in the first place, the dairy industry, which has established itself throughout the length and breadth of this country, particu- larly so in the Provincial Districts of Taranaki and Wellington, to the settlers of which it has been a perfect godsend. Had it not been for the dairy industry the lands in those dis- tricts would have had to be abandoned, and thousands of families would have had to go into the towns ; the condition of labour in the large https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 centres of population would have been con- gested ; and New Zealand would have been in a deplorable condition. These settlers took up land in the back blocks, and by perseverance and incessant labour have succeeded in clearing and laving the land down in grass. It is no use to them, even for sheep, or for growing grass-seed, and the only thing they could fall back on was cattle. Now, if they had gone in to fatten cattle the latter would have become a drug in the market, and. instead of being sold at £1 and £1 2s. per head, fat cattle would have been down to 10s., or even 7s. 6d., per head. These people, however, went into the dairy industry, and, thanks to the fostering care of the late Minister of Lands, Sir John Mckenzie, during the past ten years this industry has gone ahead. When I came to this House ten years ago the dairy industry was in a feeble con- dition. Now, the value of the industry has reached practically a million of money. Ac- cording to the latest return for the 31st Decem- ber. 1900, the export value of butter sent from this colony reached the enormous sum of $740,620, and the value of cheese #229,111, totalling 2069,731, or, in round numbers, a million of money. Now, is it the intention of the honourable gentleman who introduced this Bill, and honourable gentlemen who see with him, to destroy this industry ? I say, No, it is cient, perhaps, to house more than fifteen hun- not. The honourable member who introduced this Bill, and every honourable member who days rain comes on, and perhaps they have to has spoken partly in favour of it, have as- these industries and other industries in the colony ; and I believe it is their intention, as much as it is the intention of any member who opposes the provisions of this Bill, that it is in the interests of the colony that these industries should continue to be fostered, and that we should endeavour to establish new industries and find more employment for our people. How- ever, I feel that if the Bill were allowed to go unopposed in this House it would be disastrous to the industries to which I have referred. Sir, in dealing with those engaged in the dairy in- dustry, the terms " employer " and " employé" have been used. Now, in respect to the dairy industry, to a very large extent, the terms "employer " and "employe" are synony- mous, because the employer and the employé simply mean the farmer and his wife and children. They work the industry, and they rise early and toil late ; and whatever they get from their labour they are richly entitled to. It is absolutely necessary for them to rise early and toil late, as otherwise they would make nothing out of it. I have known men in Canterbury who, at the time when there was no Crown lands to be procured, and when there was no land for settlements established, or when it was in the early stages of its exist- ence, left my own district, went to Taranaki and took up sections in the back blocks, went in for cows, and established homes for them- selves. Most of them, I am happy to say, have done remarkably well. Such people ought to be encouraged as much as possible ; and I hope to see the day when the export of dairy produce will not reach a million of money, but will reach four or five millions of money, and when the quality of the butter and cheese produced in this colony will capture the British market to a very much greater extent than at the present time. Sir, in respect to the stock and pastoral industry, it would be impossible to apply eight hours to that industry. I can easily imagine a run containing about two hundred thousand acres, such as the St. Helen's Station, in the Amuri district, which has a carrying-capacity of about sixty thousand sheep. The musterers must go out to the huts right away in the moun- tainous regions. They have to go right to the mountain-tops with their dogs and muster the sheep, and have to camp in the bush wherever they happen to be. They even cannot always go back to their huts and spend the night. When the sun rises the following morning they must rise too, and this continues day after day. Sometimes perhaps a rain-storm sets in, and the rivers become swollen, and they cannot get their sheep across, and they have to look after the sheep sometimes for days before they can get them down to the station. We all know that sheep must be mustered two or three times a year. In sheep-shearing on back stations the hands start work at six o'clock in the morning. The accommodation is not suffi- dred sheep and keep them dry and under cover. After the men have been shearing for some 