regard thereto. The experiment of connecting these trains as suggested was made at the desire of some of the residents in 1889, but roused such opposition from a portion of the people who used the train that the connection had to be abandoned, and the former service, similar to the present, was reverted to. If it could be shown that there was a unanimous desire on the part of the residents along the line from Kurow to Pukeuri for the evening train from Oamaru to be detained so as to make a connec- tion with the express from Christchurch, the matter would be arranged. FAIRLIE RAILWAY-PLATFORM. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether, in view of the great inconvenience to passengers consequent on the unprotected state of the railway-platform at Fairlie, he will give directions that the erec- tion of a verandah (promised last session) be immediately proceeded with? A similar ques- tion had been put to the honourable gentleman last year, when he was good enough to promise that this shelter should be erected. The locality was greatly exposed in the middle of winter, and for several days past the railway-platform had been under snow. As the Hon. the Minis- ter might know, the weather at Fairlie was often very severe in the winter-time, and it was highly necessary that some protection should be accorded to passengers. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that the verandah at Fairlie had been pro- mised last year conditionally. In reply to a question by the Hon. Major Steward in the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 House on the 13th July last year, he had stated that "the work was included in the depart- ment's list of works, and if the House gave sufficient appropriation to enable this work to be done it would be carried out." This work, in common with many others, aggregating a cost of over £200,000, had to stand over, and give way to more pressing requirements. He could only tell the honourable member that if he could get authority for this work, among others to be gone on with this year, he should be only too glad to have it done. # RAILWAY SPARK-ARRESTER. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will consider the advisability of offering a bonus or reward for an efficient spark-arrester to be used on the rail- ways of the colony? He thought the Minister would admit the importance of this question, because there were hundreds -he might say thousands-of settlers throughout the colony whose properties were situated close to the line of railway, and who during the dry summer months were subject to constant annoyance and anxiety, and even to loss, on account of fires caused by sparks from the railway-engines. The matter was a very serious one, and he thought, if people with an inventive turn of mind could be induced to take this matter up, the result might be an invention which would overcome this very serious difficulty. Sir J. G. Ward the question was a very important one, and the department was fully alive to the necessity for fitting its locomotives with the best-known ap- pliance for the suppression of sparks, and at the present time was about to make exhaustive experiments. The Grand Trunk Railway Com- pany of Canada were now using a spark-arrester which was said to be satisfactory, and parti- culars were being obtained of the same. The Locomotive Superintendent was also in cor- respondence with the chief mechanical engi- neers of the sister-States upon the same subject. and it was considered that no good purpose would be served by offering a bonus. About eighteen months ago & statement was made in one of the English papers that the department was offering a bonus for a spark-arrester, and the result was that they were inundated with the most crude and unworkable proposals from a large number of amateurs in England. Aus- tralia, and New Zealand, but not a single pro- posal was received from any reputable engineer- ing firm. He could assure the honourable member the engineers were very anxious to have an efficient spark-arrester, and it was felt that the only way to get an effective one was by making experiments by the depar :- ment, and ascertaining what was done in other countries, and so adopting the best spark- arrester that could be got. There had been experiments made with spark-arresters in the colony, and in every case they had proved unsatisfactory. The department was doing its best, and hoped to have before very long the best and most up-to-date spark-arrester that could be got. PETONE STATION AND HUTT RAILWAY. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Minister for Railways, When Petone may expect a start to be made in the erection of a railway-station there ; and when may the resi- dents of Petone, Hutt, and Wairarapa expect that the straightening of the line from Welling- ton to Lower Hutt will take place ? He might tell the Minister that thousands of people were interested in the answer to this question. Its importance was recognised not only by people in this part of the district, but people throughout the whole of the Wairarapa were concerned in the quick transport of goods and passengers from Wellington to their districts. He wished to say further that it seemed the Government in the past had been lax in regard to this import- ant suburb of Petone. There were over three thousand inhabitants in that suburb, and some of the principal manufactures of the colony were carried on there. There was also a general progressiveness and up-to-dated- ness about this little city which was almost conspicuous by its absence in all other country When the Hon. the Minister con- towns. sidered the advisability of erecting a palatiai railway station on the site of the present " Whareparera " he should consider the ad- visability of shifting to some other locality the cattle-yards which had been placed by the Gear Company at the head of Jackson's Creek. 