see that "County Councils and Road Boards existing at the time of the passing of this Act shall be constituted Road Boards and County Councils under this Act." I think you will find that is so. If that is so, it prevents the whole matter of reform we want to see worked out ; for I am one of those who believe that we ought to give to the local bodies-the counties of this colony - an assured finance-that it should not be incumbent on members repre- senting constituencies in this colony to come here year after year and scramble for what we can get placed on the estimates. The money should be voted to the local bodies ; they should have extended powers, and this House should not be a glorified Road Board, but a place where we should come to consider ques- tions of colonial importance, and members should not be placed in the unfair position of having to go, cap in hand, to Ministers to beg for a road here or a bridge there. The proper way would be to give us back a modified provin- cialism. It would be the best day's work for the colony that could be done if we extended the powers of local bodies and prevented this unholy scramble at the end of every session for roads and bridges by members coming and suing to Ministers for what they require. Now I want to say a word or two about the Advances to Settlers Office, and I trust during the session something will be done to reform this office very considerably. Let me give you two examples of what has occurred in my district. A man in the Wharau district applied to the Advances to Settlers Office for a $200 loan ; he had already had £200 advanced, and this would have made the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 total of the loan $400. He was absolutely re- fused ; everything was tried to get this man the money, but the Advances to Settlers Office was simply adamant, and would not listen to the man. They took his fee and dismissed his application. Now, here is the position : They told this man that they could not advance $400 on the property, yet within a year afterwards that man sold right, title, and interest in his lease in perpetuity to two brothers for $1,400, without any stock at all-simply the value of his improvements on his land. Yet this man could not get a paltry $200 over and above the amount of the original loan from the office ! There is another case of two other brothers in the same district. They have tried to get a loan and cannot, and yet I venture to state that they could get $1,600 for their improvements : vet the office will not give them a paltry $400. I say this : After making the most careful inquiries, and doing all that lay in my power to bring the office to a reasonable state of mind, I am forced to the conclusion that the settlers in the back blocks are not being fairly treated by this office. The small farmers are not being fairly treated by the office, and, if the Minister in charge of the department does not take precious good care, I tell him that the department will be- come an aid to the very men it was intended not to help when the Act was passed, and a stumbling-block to the men whom the legisla- tion was intended to benefit. Already it has forced numbers of settlers into the hands of the money-lender, who is asking them for very much higher rates than is asked by the Ad- vances to Settlers Office. Now, this state of things can no longer be tolerated. I do hope that the Minister in charge of the depart- ment will make a most searching inquiry into these statements I now make ; and I have made them purposely, so that inquiry shall be instituted. It is no use being mealy-mouthed about these matters. This is the proper place, when you have failed with the department, to thresh the matter out and call public attention to it, so that the grievance may be rectified ; and whoever is to blame-I do not know who is to blame, but, whoever it is, let the blame rest on his or their shoulders, and let the Minister be responsible to this House for the administration of this department ; and, now that he knows the facts, I feel certain he will endeavour to put matters right. I wish to say a word or two with regard to the San Francisco mail-service. I entirely and heartily agreed with every word that fell from the member for Wellington Suburbs on this matter; and I go further and say that it is a discredit to this House and to this country to perpetuate an agreement with a company which is owned by people who have put upon the British flag one of the greatest affronts ever offered to it. I say that, if we have any patriotism at all, if there is anything in all this cry about patriotism, if it is not merely lip service, and if we have any respect for the flag we have heard so much about, we must do all in our power- at any rate I, as one member of this House, will do all in my power-this session to prevent the perpetuation of the arrangement with Spreckels and Co. I want to see, as I believe every mem- ber who is a really patriotic man wants to see, an "all red " service. Whether it is to go by way of Vancouver or not matters nothing. All I want to say is that, with regard to the people who say that they will not employ British sailors and not allow British ships to trade with their ports, we are not going to put our hands in our pockets to perpetuate that sort of thing. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is all right. The Pre- mier saw Admiral Remey. Mr. HORNSBY .- Admiral Remey is a very fine man; and I notice that a reference has been made in the Governor's Speech to the visit of the "Brooklyn." I had the honour and the pleasure of meeting the officers of the " Brook- lyn " when they were in Wellington, and I never met a finer class of men. One incident is worth mentioning. I pointed to the menu card, whereon the two flags- the British and the United States-were entwined, and I said to one of the principal officers of the " Brook- lyn," "That is how we should like it to be." He said, "That is how it must be. That is how we want it, and we must have it." I believe that these two flags should be entwined, and that we should stand or fall together. I believe that that is the feeling of the American navy pretty much all round, but I am sure it is not the opinion of the American people all round. However, when we get the United States navy sympathizing heartily with us, I think we have 