wanted to begin an action for libel he was there to be "shot at." The law on the matter was simple. It was this: If he or any other member chose to reprint his speech from Han- sard, and no excision were made from it, he was at liberty to circulate it, and no law of libel and no lawyer could touch him. If he excised portions, or a portion, of that speech and left in other portions which might be directed against some person or some insti- tution-if he mutilated the speech in any way so as to make it have a particular application to some person or thing, then he was liable at law. But if he printed the speech entire as it was delivered in the House, so that it should have a general application, as intended when delivered, then no law and no lawyer could touch him. And yet because the Government or the honourable gentleman had received a letter or an intimation from some lawyer or other person that the Government Printer was to be prosecuted for libel for printing his (Mr. Fisher's) speech, then every member of this Parliament was to be deprived of the right of printing and circulating his speech as it was delivered in the House. Were they to be limited-he asked the honourable gentleman and the Government as a whole-were they to be limited to the wretched reports of Parlia- ment printed in the local newspapers? Was he to be tied down to the wretched and miserable reports which he got in these newspapers? It was his only chance during three months of the year to speak to Parliament and to his constituents by circulating his speeches by means of the Hansard report. Because of his https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 attitude in regard to the Libel Bill he could get no report of his speeches published in these local newspapers ; nor could he get a letter published-in fact, he had for a long time past http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ceased to write letters to the newspapers here. Happily, he could exist politically without the aid of newspapers. He was, as he had said, limited to three months of the year during which he had the right in Parliament to express his opinions openly and freely, and now he was to be cut off from that means of ventilating his opinions by the action of the honourable gentle- man in charge of the Government Printing Office. An Hon. MEMBER .- Shame ! Mr. FISHER did not know that there was very much shame about it ; but he would say this, in very emphatic language : that if more of these acts were perpetrated by the Government against members of this House they might look out for vendetta, for he would have revenge, and revenge was sweet. Mr. HALL,-JONES (Minister in charge of the Government Printing Office) was not aware that it was any speech of the honourable gentleman's last session which had led to the withdrawal from members of the privilege of having their speeches reprinted at the Government Printing Office. The position was not exactly as the honourable member had stated it. If a single speech by a member - an extract from a number of Hansard-was printed and circulated broad- cast throughout this colony, that person whose I vice across the strait with the North Island speech was reported and thus circulated and the Government Printer, and no doubt the Minister in charge of the Government Printing Office, were liable to an action for libel. The difference was this: that you might take a number of Hansard-not any speech by itself, but the number in which that speech was included-and as a report of the proceedings of Parliament you might circulate that number as you liked, but you must not take an extract from that number and circulate that, otherwise an action at law might follow. " A speech made by a member of the General Assembly in the House is absolutely privileged, but if he causes his speech to be printed and circulated privately among his constituents, bona fide for their information on any matter of general or local interest, a qualified privilege would attach to such report. If, however, a member publishes his speech to all the world with the malicious intention of injuring the plaintiff. he will be liable both civilly and criminally. Every one who prints or pub- lishes a libel may be sued by the person de- famed, and it is no defence to such an action that another wrote or caused it to be printed or published. And printing the libel, or causing it to be printed, is prima facie evidence of pub- lication." That was from a high legal authority. There had been times when he himself had had speeches printed at the Government Printing Office, and he could understand the complaint that honourable members made in being de- prived of a privilege to which they had been accustomed; and it seemed to him the best solution of the matter at issue would be, in case a reprint of a particular speech was re- quired. to let the honourable member be at liberty to order so many copies of the par- ticular number of Hansard containing that speech, at a price not much in excess of the single speech. That would place it beyond a doubt whether there was any breach of the law. Another remedy would be to pass an Act this session which would protect the Govern- ment Printer from being personally and officially liable for any action for libel. Either one of these two courses would be followed. COOK STRAIT FERRY-SERVICE. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will submit pro- posals to the House for the completion of the southern Main Trunk line to some point in Cook Strait, so as to join with the North Island Main Trunk line by means of a fast ferry-ser- vice across Cook Strait ? He was aware that this was a very large order, but in a few brief words he would convince the House that the subject was not new-not new to him, at all events. When Mayor of Wellington in 1883 he submitted a proposal to the people of this city in the direction of urging the Government of the day to complete the southern Main Trunk line to some point in Cook Strait, with which connection might be made by a fast ferry-ser- 