is an omission from the Governor's Speech, and who will deny them the right to unite and combine ? Why, the member for Masterton and the member for Pahiatua. I have often heard the member for Masterton prate of his Liberalism, and tell the House and the country that he was a Liberal. He told us yesterday in trumpet tones that he was a member of what he called "the great Liberal party." After the expression of opinion which he gave yesterday I do not believe he is a Liberal, be- cause he would deny to the country settlers the right to unite and combine on their own behalf which has already been taken advantage of by the people of the cities. I want to say that this movement has my sincerest sympathy. I hope that it will go on and prosper, and I hope that one of the planks in their political plat- form will be that their political support will only be given to genuine country settlers, bond sents the North ? fid. farmers, because until they are represented in the Councils of the country by men of their own class-by men whose sympathies are the same as their own-they will never be able to obtain that justice and consideration which they are entitled to, and which the import- ance of their calling demands. Now, the re- cess has been remarkable for a great many things. Among others, it has been remark- alle for the number of Roval Commissions that goes a little too far. It goes without saying that have been set up. We have had the Royal Commission to inquire into the great subject of federation, we have had the Teachers' Salaries Commission, we have had the Midland Railway Commission, we have had the Coal Commission, we have had a Royal Commission appointed in each of the four large centres to make arrange- ments for the Royal reception, we have also had https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the Rivers Commission. In spite of the increase of Ministers made last year, we seem to be developing a system of Government by Royal Commission. So far as the Federation Com- mission is concerned-the most important of them all-it has reported, and the report is decidedly against federation. Nobody expected anything else. Why, there was not a member of that Commission that was in favour of our joining the Commonwealth. I believe the work that was done by the Commission could have been done just as well by a parliamentary Com- mittee, and at a hundredth part of the cost. But these Royal Commissions serve a double purpose, and perhaps a treble purpose. They are used as rewards to political friends and sup- porters. Then, when there is a subject before the public about which there is a considerable difference of opinion, and possibly strong feeling, the Government wants to shirk their responsi- bility, and they set up a Royal Commission to make inquiries and report. But what happens ? Trunk Railway, and yet the completion of it The Premier takes care that the majority of the members of the Commission will be of his way of thinking, so that, while the Commission has all the responsibility, their report is exactly ing satisfactorily, and that everything possible what the Premier wants. I do not want to follow this point further, because I shall have better opportunities of discussing these ques- tions when the reports of the different Com- at work on the great Makohine Viaduct. I missions are placed before us. Now, coming wonder how long it will be before the train is to the Governor's Speech, or, rather, to what running through to Mangaweka; I wonder how I notice, Sir, that there was no mention in the Speech of the Cabinet appointments made during the last twelve months. Of course, so far as the appointment of the Hon. Mr. Duncan is concerned, it was made during last session, and it may not have been necessary to refer to that. But the appointment of the Hon. Mr. Mills was made during the recess. Now, in referring to those two honourable members, I do not object to them either personally or politi- cally. I believe I am at the present moment on very friendly terms with both of them. But I object to the position in which the North Island is placed in the way of representation in the Cabinet. Who are the eight members of the Cabinet? Mr. Seddon, Mr. Walker, Sir J. G. Ward, Mr. Hall-Jones, Mr. Duncan, and Mr. Mills-all southern members. Who repre- Although the recent census has shown that the population of the North Island is considerably more than that of the South Island, the North Island is only repre- sented in the Cabinet by two members, as against six who represent the South. An Hon. MEMBER .- All the brains are in the South. Mr. MASSEY .- Not quite. But I think this six men have more brains than two. Well, is that a satisfactory state of affairs? I do not think any one will say that it is. I say more. I say that the state of affairs in the Cabinet, so far as representation is concerned, is a positive insult to the people of the North Island. How long would the people of the South Island stand such a state of affairs? Not for a day ; not for an hour. And yet the people of the South would have less to complain of than we have. Now, I am sorry to have to refer to the Minister of Lands again. What are the duties of the Minister of Lands ? To increase settlement ; to increase the productiveness of the colony. The Premier told us last night that he had taken over the land-purchase business. And what is left for the Minister of Lands to do ? Why, simply to look after the settlement of the lands in the North Island, where we can place ten settlers on the Crown lands for every one that can be settled in the South. Perhaps it is owing to the fact that the Minister of Lands is a South Island member that the Crown tenants in the North have not received the rebate of } per cent. which has been granted to the Crown tenants in other parts of the colony. It is almost as bad with the portfolio of Public Works. The most important line in the colony yet remaining incomplete is the North Island depends on a South Island member. The Pre- mier told us the other day that the construc- tion of the Makohine Viaduct was proceed- was being done. Sir, I was assured yesterday by a gentleman of the most unimpeachable veracity that there were only thirteen men 