with, it may be necessary that the Government in future should buy back these leases in per- petuity, just as they are buying back freeholds now. Or it might be possible for the Govern- ment, in order to cover the position, to legislate that when transfers were made from one person to another such transfers should be subject to the condition that the land should be brought under the revaluation clauses. There are various ways of meeting the matter ; but I am of opinion that the lease in perpetuity as it exists at pre- sent is wrong, and I think it is immoral so far as future generations are concerned. I also think it is unjust to the freeholders in this colony that there should be so large an area of land in the colony that is not paying land-tax, while the frecholders and leaseholders not Crown tenants are paying a land-tax of 1d. in the pound. In regard to lands for settlement, the returns show that nearly two millions' worth of land have been obtained under the land-for-settlements law ; that is, two million pounds' worth of land which before it was purchased by the Government was paying 1d. in the pound as land-tax is not paying a penny in the shape of land-tax at the present time. Of course, there can be no wonder, under such circumstances, that the Government valuators have hardened up the valuations at every possible point, because, if the taxable land has shrunken to the extent of two millions by the purchase of lands for settle- ment, the Government are bound to keep the land-tax up as high as they can ; and the effect, I can assure the Premier- Sir J. G. WARD .- The new settlers, even https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 though they are not paying land-tax, are pay- ing a great deal more in other ways to the State than the single large landowner did under the old system. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I do not know on what principle the honourable gentleman will say that. He may say that the total amount that is coming into the Treasury is greater through the land-for-settlements system than it was under individual ownership ; but surely his mind is sufficiently logical to see that, if you have on one side of the road a settler who owns five hundred acres of land and is paying 1d. in the pound land-tax, and on the other side of the road you have a man who has a lease in per- petuity-999 years-who is not paying a copper in land-tax, the position of those two men is not just or equitable, whatever may be the total amount coming into the Treasury. But that has taken me from the point I wish to make. What I wish to say is that the effect of reducing the taxable land in the way I have mentioned is causing the Government valuators throughout the whole colony to harden up the valuations to such an extent that in Canter- bury, and throughout my electorate, there is a general feeling that the valuations are being forced up. And I tell the Government, while I do not profess to be an expert in land-values, yet I believe that a large quantity of land throughout this colony is taxed upon a value which will not be sustained, and they must expect as years go on that those valuations Mr. G. W. Russell said in the course of this debate in regard to the question of dummyism. I hold. Sir. that dummyism in land-for-settlement lands would almost entirely disappear if the Government adopted an energetic policy with regard to put- ting the land on the market. I do not wish to go over the ground which has already been traversed in connection with the previous part of this debate; but I venture to say that the returns which were laid on the table by the Premier show conclusively that although, as he claims, a number of purchases had been made which were unknown to the public. which appeared in no public document. and which could not be known or anticipated by myself or any member of this House, vet the fact that those purchases had not been paid for until after the close of the financial year was sufficient proof to my mind that the lands were not available for settlement, because, after all, the dispute between the honourable gentleman and myself is not a question so much as to whether the land has been purchased as whether the land is available for settlement. Mr. SEDDON .- That is not the question at issue. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I say it is. I do not care what lands are purchased if they are to be held over for two or three years. I want to see the lands placed on the market. If they purchases were not paid for until after the 31st March, then it is quite evident that they could not have been placed on the market. and were not available for settlement. However, I think there can be no doubt that the enormous num- ber of applications that have been sent in to the Land Boards , for every block of good land that has been placed on the market shows that the Government have not kept pace so far as purchase is concerned with the demands of the people. It is evident from the number of such applica- tions in the case of some choice spots. as in Waikakahi there were for one section, that the demand has been much greater than the supply, and that it is only by the Government placing in the market a much larger area that they will be able to dissolve that which they describe in the Governor's speech as the earth-hunger. Let me say that I agree very largely indeed with the criticism of the member for the Bay of Plenty on the action of the Assets Board as to placing land upon the market. I think it is a pity the House does not insist upon a full and de- tailed report from the Assets Board of its trans- actions, and the steps that have been taken by it during a year in connection with the selling of the various assets. The relation which the colony sustains to the Bank of New Zealand, and through the Bank of New Zealand with the Assets Board, justifies this House, I think. in insisting upon a very close supervision over the actions of the Assets Board. The country is entitled to expect from the Assets Board a fall and complete report, and I hope it will be moved for this session. We should have a fall report of the steps taken during the last year. of the quantity of land sold, and any and all 