in this case includes a bicycle ; but, if it were held in the affirmative, we might take it for granted that it applies to perambulators also. The Police Offences Act imposes a penalty not exceeding 25 on any one who ' rides or drives, or wheels any truck, barrow, or car- riage of any kind upon or along any public footpath, or carries any load on his shoul- ders or otherwise, to the danger or obstruc- tion of persons using such footpath.' Here, again, it is a nice point as to whether the quali- fying clause at the end of this section applies to ' wheeling any vehicle,' in the first part, as well as to 'carrying a load,' in the second part. The sum and substance, therefore, is that as regards riding a bicycle on a footpath outside a borough the law is as clear as-the mud on the Mile Road at the time of Professor Bicker- ton's adventure. As to the common-sense view of the matter, however, we have no doubt what- ever. We have no sympathy with the cyclist who rides along footpaths in the city or suburbs past citizens' gates, imperilling the lives and Timbs of children and others who may be issuing therefrom. On the other hand, we see no objection to a cyclist being allowed to take the path on a quiet country road when the road itself is impassable, and no danger or inconvenience is occasioned thereby to any of His Majesty's subjects." Now, that is taken from the Christchurch Press, which is usually reckoned to be a very sensible sort of a paper, more especially by a certain section of the community. It certainly is not an upholder of fads or faddists. I think, with it, that an amendment of the Police https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Offences Act is required, to some extent at least, to nullify the effect of this particular sub- section (3). One's common-sense must show one that there is absolutely no danger in wheel- ing a bicycle along a footpath ; and in the case of Christchurch, for instance, and it also ap- plies elsewhere, where there are miles of foot- path outside the city boundary, and which are seldom or never used except at certain hours of the day, where the roads are not as good as they might be, it must really be apparent that there is very little danger in even riding a bicycle along a footpath. However, I do not want to go so far as that at present. This is the amendment I shall endeavour to get embodied in this Police Offences Bill :- "Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection two of section three of the principal Act, it shall not be an offence for any person to wheel (but not to ride) a bicycle on any public footpath." I do not think there should be any difficulty in getting such a clause as that passed. Even if this is put in this Bill, the public safety is completely assured under the Public Works Act. while within the cities there are stringent by-laws which amply deal with the matter, and immediately surrounding the cities there are contiguous boroughs which have their own by- laws ; but in many cases the foot paths go outside those boroughs, and under the Police Offences Act the police have no other course open to them but to take a man's name and have him summoned and fined for even wheeling his bicycle on the footpath, when the road may be quite impassable. I own that it is seldom a policeman is indiscreet enough to take action in such a case, but I want to utterly remove the possibility by repealing the Act in so far as it may refer to bicycles. I trust when the Bill goes into Com- mittee this amendment will have the support of those members of the Council who ride bicycles, and, as to those who do not ride bicycles, I would ask them to learn, and to pass this clause in the meantime. When they do learn the art they will then realise the full benefit of my amend- ment. Bill read the second time. IMPREST SUPPLY BILL (No. 2). This Bill was read the first, the second, and the third time. The Council adjourned at ten minutes past eight o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 26th July, 1901. First Readings-Imprest Supply Bill (No. 8)-Miners' Rights Fee Reduction Bill-Shops and Shop- assistants Bill-Totalisator Abolition Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. City of Auckland Loans Consolidation and Auckland City Borrowing Bill, City of Christ- church Electric Power and Loan Empowering Bill. IMPREST SUPPLY BILL (No. 2). On the question, That the House go into Committee of Supply, Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I move, as an amendment, That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the conduct of the Police Department as administered by Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge. I move this amend- ment because of the widespread complaints which have reached me from all parts of the colony in regard to the administration of the Police Force by Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge. Before I proceed further I want to make myself very clear upon one point. It is some- times assumed by the men who compose the Police Force of the colony that this motion, of which I have given notice during two sessions, is directed against them. I wish it to be dis- tinctly understood that my proposal in no way applies to them. Its scope is limited entirely to the higher officers who act under direct instructions of Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge. Now, the beginning of this series of attacks was made by Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge, and took place two years ago, when he endeavoured by insidious means to remove Mr. Inspector Pender from his position in the Force. Now, there is no more respected officer in the whole 