without redress of grievances ; otherwise there | items of an unusual and extraordinary nature could not possibly be any supplies given at all until the very last day of the session, as in those times to which I have referred. The reason for that practice is perfectly plain : be- cause Parliament used to grant supplies on the strength of promises by the sovereign, and those promises were very often not carried out. Bills at that time, too, were not introduced in the form they are now. Petitions were presented to Parliament, and it was left for the Clerk of Parliament and the other officials to turn them into statutes after Parliament had dissolved. When that was done it was frequently found that the Bills were not at all like the petitions that had been presented. It was therefore found necessary to grant supplies only on the last day of the session, when everything that had been desired had been obtained by Parlia- ment from the Crown. When the power of the Crown to veto Bills became obsolete, the prac- tice of redressing grievances before granting supplies became unnecessary, and cannot now be said to be a principle of the Constitution. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- After what has fallen from the honourable member for Dunedin City it is unnecessary for me to say anything. I can only say we are acting in accordance with precedent. I also desire to submit that I have known the Standing Orders to be suspended with the sanction and consent of the leader of the Opposition, and of every member of the Opposition, and the Standing Orders were sus- pended to pass five millions of money in as many minutes. Captain RUSSELL .- When was that ? https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. SEDDON .- When your portmanteaux were packed, and you were ready to go home, at the end of the session. The House divided. AYES, 39. Palmer Allen, E. G. Guinness Hanan Arnold Parata Seddon Barclay Hogg Bennet Houston Stevens Steward Buddo McGowan Mckenzie, R. Carroll Symes McLachlan Colvin Tanner Thompson, R. McNab Duncan Meredith Ell Ward Field Millar Willis. Fisher Tellers. Mills Flatman Morrison Collins Gilfedder. Fraser, A. L. D. Napier Graham NOES, 12. Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. Allen, J. Hardy Rhodes Tellers. Russell, G. W. Herries Hutcheson Russell, W. R. Massey. Lang Lethbridge Majority for, 27. Motion agreed to. On the motion, That the message be referred to Committee of the Whole, Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said,-I hope I shall be in order in asking the Premier to be good enough to explain what I understand to be Mr. Barclay in the Bill now proposed to be submitted to Parliament. I am not prepared to vote for a measure in globo. If the Bill contains only ordinary items of expenditure to which the colony is committed by consent of the House I shall offer no objection ; but I understand there are some items of an unusual nature, and, such being the case, I should like to hear some explanation given to the House, so that we might know what we are about to vote for. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I will doso. There is a sum of £60,000 for railway stores which is immediately come to charge under the vote of Public Works. Mr. MEREDITH .- Is that the only item ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; there is £50,000 in- creased charges upon the consolidated revenue ; that is all-nothing more. Motion agreed to. Committed. Resolution committed, agreed to, and re- ported to the House. Bill read a first time. On the question, That the Bill be read a second time, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir, I under- stand that on the second reading of this Bill we can discuss any subjects mentioned in the Bill. I have just been looking over the ac- counts of the balances of the liabilities due on the 31st March, as laid on the table of the House this afternoon, and I notice that in the vote for roads and bridges there was no less a sum than £437,000 as a liability on the 31st March ; and I take it that that means that the country settlers are being defrauded of the money voted last year by the sum of £437,000, as it has not been spent. Now, Sir, I would say, on behalf of the local bodies, that the greatest difficulty is always found in getting the Government to spend before the 31st March the money that is voted on the estimates. The Treasury seems to be a sort of Tite Barnacle in regard to that money, and the very fact that the sum of £437,000 was not ex- pended on the 31st March shows that the local bodies have great cause of complaint. In my own district we have year after year sums voted that are never spent. An Hon. MEMBER .- What district ? Mr. HERRIES .- The Bay of Plenty ; and I wish the honourable gentleman would come and visit that district, and he would see that what I say is a fact. It applies to all country districts, and I say that the circumstance of having this sum as a liability on the 31st March does not reflect credit on the Govern- ment. Mr. SEDDON .- It is a liability in connec- tion with work that the colony is committed to, and the expenditure is going on. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes, that is so, in some instances ; but in others the spending has not commenced, and the honourable gentleman knows that on the next year's estimates the amount has to be revoted. We know that when we go to the Hon. the Minister of Lands it is just as hard to get these unexpondod moneys re- voted as it is to get new sums voted. Every 