who does not try to carry out his duties impar- tially ; and I believe, taking them as a whole, we have men on the Magisterial bench in this colony who do their best to deal out even-handed justice. So far as the other Court is concerned, it can be said without any fear of contradiction that the District Judges of the colony perform their duties faithfully and well. Now, that being the case, I want to know why, at any rate, the Judges of the District Court should be kept in their present anomalous posi- tion ? Why is it ? Is there any good and suf- ficient reason why Judges of the District Court should not be appointed during good behaviour? If good and sufficient reasons can be given let them be stated. I confess I have never heard any, and if there is any reason I, for one, should like to hear it. I know there are a hundred reasons against a Judge being placed in the anomalous position that Judges of the District Court occupy at the present time. There are many good and sufficient reasons why they should not be at the beck and call of any Go- vernment, no matter what that Government may be, because, as a matter of fact, Judge Kettle or Judge anybody else who has the status of a District Court Judge can be removed to- morrow if it so please any one who has charge of that department of the Government. He is simply a Civil servant, and may be dismissed as an ordinary Civil servant. I say that is a wrong position to place a man in who has to adjudi- cate upon the affairs of the men and women of this country and to hold the balance of justice even. I say I would appoint them all during good behaviour. If you exalt a man to the Magisterial or District Court bench, you ought https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to be persuaded in your own mind that he is a man fit to occupy that position before he goes there, and you ought to place in him every con- fidence that he will carry out his duties as they ought to be carried out. An Hon. MEMBER .- But suppose he is not fit ? Mr. HORNSBY .- " Suppose he is not fit ?" Then, there is a way of dealing with him. " How would you deal with a man who falls from grace ? " asks the honourable member for Ric- carton. Well, when a Judge falls from grace he falls like Lucifer, and he gets out of the colony as quickly as he can-though sometimes he comes back again. But I am contending for what I believe to be a right principle, and I wish to emphasize before I sit down the desire I have personally, and as a member of this House, to see the whole Judiciary of New Zea- land entirely independent of any Government that may be in power-that is to say, that every one of them, both Magistrates and District Court Judges, shall be appointed during good behaviour. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- Sir, I agree with the suggestion that has been made that the status of our District Court Judges should be placed beyond the reach of any Ministry or person, and should be the same as that of the Supreme Court Judges. The position should be retained subject to good behaviour. But I would remind the Premier that the Government have become exceedingly lax in these matters. To my astonishment, Sir. last session we passed a sum on the estimates of $500 as a bonus to a Judge of the Supreme Court. That was an attack on the fundamental principle that is inherent in the Judiciary of Great Britain at the present time -- that no Parliament can invidiously raise or lower the salary of a Judge. The excuse offered at the time when the $500 was given was that it was for having sat upon a Court that was not stipulated for at the time when he received his appointment ; but while attending to the duties on the Arbitration Court he could not be rendering service elsewhere, and his work would be lighter, and therefore, Mr. Speaker. it was no excuse for such a violation of what is a great principle in the eyes of the British people at the present time -- that a Judge's salary shall not be increased by a special bonus from the Ministry. That principle was seriously interfered with in giving Judge Edwards the sum of $500 on the estimates of last year. I should heartily support. Sir, a proposition that the salary and the position of District Court Judges shall be unassailable, and that they shall believe that Parliament has no power ordinarily to reduce or increase their salaries- that they shall retain their position solely upon their good behaviour, and that they came: possibly be influenced in any decision or aly action they may take in their official position. I quite agree with the statement of Judy Kettle, that a Judge who felt that his salan could be affected or challenged by a member of Parliament is not as free an agent as he ourbt to be. For instance, suppose that I or any member of Parliament had to be brought before him. In his adjudication on any matter be should feel that he is perfectly independent of any power possessed by reason of my officisi position in this Chamber. An Hon. MEMBER .- So he is. Mr. MONK .- No. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not ? Mr. MONK -I can attack him. I can affect his salary, or he can be interfered with finan- cially at the instance of any member of the House. On a former occasion was not a violet attack made upon Judge Kettle which might have seriously affected his position ? Did i .- not feel that his position was jeopardized. and that he was in danger of being even dismissed or disrated ? An Hon. MEMBER .- NO Mr. MONK .- Most certainly. I think the honourable member knows nothing about the case, or else he has not given the matter in :- partial consideration. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- Sir, I think the necessary corollary of this Bill will be at increase to the salaries of the District Cor Judges, because there can be no doubt in the mind of any person who considers the previ: remuneration of those Judges that it is mot inadequate. The salaries paid to the Distro Court Judges are the smallest in the Empire paid for such services. The County Court Judges at Home in most of the County Court 