in the House is desirable; but seeing it is so far-reaching, and interests so many, I think it would be wise that it should be circulated to the Councils before it is adopted by the House. It is a progressive measure, and should receive every consideration and encouragement. With regard to the mail arrangements, I have some sympathy with the remarks of the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, when he spoke on this question the other night. It is undoubtedly the duty of this colony to patron- iso the local company-the Union Steamship Company. That is a company which has done an enormous amount of good here, and, while they themselves have done very well, they have not sent their money out of the colony-only for the purpose of building new ships with the profits of the company-and we are getting the benefit of an honest, well-kept line of steamers. The amount of wages paid, and the amount of produce of our soil consumed by this company, are very great, and are surely factors that should induce every consideration being given to this company. My honourable friend the member for Auckland City, Mr. Napier, being an Auckland member, would naturally like to see the San Francisco service patronised. But what benefit would a foreign line be to Auckland ? It would expend little money, and take very small supplies. The ships would not refit at Auckland, neither would the families of their crews reside there. I noticed the other day with regard to the mail contract that the Commonwealth Parliament has absolutely refused to subsidise the San Francisco mail-service, but is willing to sub- sidise the Vancouver service. Now, I wish to say, as I have said before on the floor of this House, that the Federal Government and the New Zealand Government together could afford to give a handsome subsidy to a fast line of steamers to carry New Zealand mails to Vancouver vid Sydney. It would be an all- red service. I thank the House for listening to my remarks. In conclusion, I wish to express pleasure at the general tenor of the political programme laid down in the Governor's Speech. It is one of progression, and there are very few references in it that I cannot support. One or two I cannot promise to support fully, but, generally speaking, the business of the session, as foreshadowed in the Speech, will have my cordial support. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .- Sir, I should like to preface the few remarks I am about to make with a quotation from "Julius Caesar," slightly altered. The lines are applicable to the present position of the Opposition party : "There is but one mind in all these men, and it is bent against Seddon. If thou be'est not im- mortal, look about you : Security gives way to conspiracy." It causes me great sorrow, Sir, when I look at the Opposition benches, and miss many of the notable characters in the persons of the honourable gentlemen who took part in the debates of previous sessions. Where is my old friend the member for Waitemata, who was so often filled with indignation when Mr. E. G. Allen Where are the others who should be in their places on that side of the House? Their absence, and the presence of others, downcast and dispirited members, reminds me of a pic- ture I once saw in the Bulletin. In a certain town the price of beer had been raised to 3d. a glass, owing to increased duty. The boozers decided to go out on strike, and not drink until their demands were satisfied. They stretched themselves on the grass, and, said Jack to Jim, "If we can only hold out for an hour the publicans will have to give in." The position of the Opposition party at the present time is very similar. They say, " If we keep quiet we will cause disruption and disorganization in the Government ranks; we shall then put them out of power." Sir, I warn the followers of the Liberal party to be careful. I warn the members who have associated them- selves with the Farmers' Union to inquire care- fully into every platform and not be misled by platitudes. If not, that union will try by every means in its power to dislodge the present Liberal party in power from the Ministerial benches ; but they will not succeed. This new and aspiring party has been originated by a few Auckland members. An Hon. MEMBER .- North of Auckland. Mr. O'MEARA .- Yes, perhaps they are from the North of Auckland. If the member for Waitemata, the member for Franklin, and the member for the Bay of Plenty only state their minds on the floor of the House to-day, they will say they are the originators of the New Zealand Farmers' Union. A man has been travelling about my district calling himself the repre- sentative of the Farmers' Union - I should say self-appointed, or probably by " the dead Ass."-and although I have been in the colony many years I have never before come across such a philanthropic man as this one is. He says that all he has to live on is the pit- tance he receives from the members of the union -6d., I think, from every member. He held a meeting at Pahiatua, and about fifteen persons attended it. A branch of the union was formed, and some business was done. Then he went to another part of the district. Here he tried to engage a sub-emissary. He said to him, " You go out into the back blocks and gather in all and sundry and make them members of the association and I will pay your expenses and the expenses of your horse." He was, indeed, a true philanthropist ; but what are his interests -- what his object? Sir, I ask the members of the Opposition-I ask the mem- ber for Franklin-who will pay the expenses of this man ? Who is it, I ask, that is so good to the settlers in the bush districts, far, far away Whoever from the seat of the organization ? he may be, Sir, I tell members that unless the Government pay more attention to the country districts the Opposition, with their tactics of intrigue and misrepresentation, will mislead the small farmers and will make headway, and the Government, unless they adopt precautionary measures, may be put off these benches, and a gradual reversion will take place-perhaps 