ought to be more candid in the statements he makes before this House. Now, Sir, it seems to me that in a country like this it should be the boast of the young people of the colony that the land of the Moa, like the home of their ancestors, is ocean-girt, and one of the charms of that home is that one cannot go many miles to the right hand or to the left but the vista of ocean either gladdens the senses with the rippling beauty of a gentle sea. or the spirits are stirred in sympathetic excitement at the turbulent frolic of the storm-driven waves, these feelings revealing the atavism of Viking blood still lurking in our veins : and there is nothing more natural than that one of the foremost of the national aspira- tions of the young people of New Zealand is that they should be a maritime people. Have you got one young man in this country who is now practising and endeavouring to acquire the maritime profession for his permanent occupa- tion in life? Not one. And vet I remember the time when they were abounding from one end of the country to the other. I can mention the names of many who are now-not in New Zealand, but in other parts of the world -- occu- let us stick to one point at a time. The settlers pying prominent positions in the maritime in- dustry of our country with credit to themselves and to the land of their birth. . It is a great pity colony last year, large as they were, and he does nothing but legislate for about two-tenths that that state of things no longer exists. The Premier may look, but this is true. Now, Sir, before I go further I will say that one of the natural aspirations of New Zealand is that it should be a maritime State. It should be the you say that where we legislate we harm them. ultimate desire of the citizens that they shall https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 participate in the maritime commerce of the right honourable gentleman is not very appo- world, and that their manufactures shall be site in his remarks. distributed to every port, carried by New Zea- land bottoms, manned and controlled by its must have dulled the honourable gentleman's native-born. Now, furthermore, with regard comprehension. to the industrial culture of the country, does is sound sense. I am not talking for talking's not the Premier remember that last session we voted a large sum of money for technical sake. but to draw honourable members' atten- education ? I believe in technical education. tion to what is springing up by legislation for a There is nothing more important that we can certain section of the community at the sacri- tice of another : not but what I wish the people foster than technical education ; and of that sum which we voted last year the bulk of it is in the cities to get the highest possible rate of contributed by the settlers of New Zealand, or wages, but as the result of natural influences. the toilers on the soil. And the Premier knows muneration ; but I believe above all things in right well that from the North Cape to the liberty- - in individual freedom. I want to place Bluff not a single settler's son will receive one farthing of benefit from it, and that possibly the young people of the colony breast to breast, and I do not want the people in the country- not one of them will be allowed to learn a the toiling settlers, who have to work long hours trade as the result of our legislation. Talk about fostering the industries of the colony from which they cannot get any immunity or relief -- to be subject to the plundering or unjust when you have brought in regulations enabling regulations imposed by unions in the cities. It Judges of the Supreme Court-right and left is not that the working-men in the cities are throughout the colony -to decide that not more getting any special advantage, but you cannot than one bov to every three or four journeymen shall be taught a trade. Who ever gave a go into a shop and ask to buy anything that has been produced for the settlers by the towns community the right to prohibit against its but what you find that far more is placed upon own children the industries of the common- them as the charge of the middleman than wealth ? Whoever, I ask, gave them such a they are entitled to make, by reason of the in- right ? It is tyrannical in the extreme. It is creased rate of wages which is presumed to be illiberal in the extreme. Mr. Laurenson has consequent upon the unions, and the buyer makes complained of the shrinkage of our birth-rate. remark. What is the answer ? "Oh, there is Why should he complain when, Sir, we tolerate the union." By this system of legislating for such a regulation as this, that is inflicting an guide the State : that its youth should have the opportunity of acquiring a knowledge of any industrial pursuit for which they may have a bent. We are quickening their natures by our national system of education, and as soon as they become old enough to acquire a pro- fession which they may practise for the re- mainder of their lives we say to them, " You cannot have this or that, but you must take something else, or more probably nothing at all " A remark has been made by the Premier that the feeling through which the best settlers of this country are uniting for the promotion of their farming interests is but a revival of the National Association. It is a revival of com- It is a revival of that desire for mon-sense. protection which is innate in our natures. It is in harmony with that spirit of self-preserva- tion which caused us to send our contingents to the assistance of the Mother-country in her struggle in the Transvaal. An Hon. MEMBER. - Free-trade in Native lands. Mr. MONK. -- I can answer the honourable gentleman's interjection on that subject, but have provided the Premier with nine- 11.0. tenths of the exports which left the of the productions of New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON .- According to your arguments the others are better off by being left alone ; Mr. MONK .- I do not quite understand ; the Mr. SEDDON .- I am afraid this early rising Mr. MONK .-- I know that what I am saying I believe in a high rate of wages in ample re- 