into force in 1894-the only one the honourable ! that he is not there to set one side against the gentleman objects to. Does the honourable gentleman know that under the old English shipping law it used to be two men and a boy to every hundred tons. But what took place ? With every patent brought in there were so many knocked off, so that if you took the old shipping law now, with the modern vessels with all their patents, you would find them going to sea without a soul on board. Follow the position out logically. I say all that has gone : and the honourable gentleman knows it. The honourable gentleman has seen vessels entering Auckland Harbour with only a handful of men on board. However, I hope the Bill will go through. It is, I think, a very necessary amendment, and, as I have said, there is no new principle in the Bill. In fact, the whole of the labour Bills introduced so far in the House this session have been nothing more or less than consolidating Bills, and this one I believe to be absolutely necessary, for there is really no new movement contained in it in any shape or form. Mr. MONK .- Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The Premier remarked that I had not contradicted the statement that I had nothing to do with the formation of farmers' unions. He is quite inaccurate in that respect. I have advocated the formation of unions, but the honour in regard to the formation of a farmers' union belongs to others. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not wish to do the honourable gentleman any injustice. I was informed that he had advocated the formation of farmers' unions. Mr. LAURENSON ( Lyttelton) .- I intend to support the second reading of this Bill. I be- lieve if there is one thing more important than another that we have done this session it is the arranging to meet at this early hour, and as a result I do not think that we have had any de- bate during this session which has been more free from personalities, and in which a measure has been discussed in a more intelligent man- ner, than the debate which has taken place this morning. There is one amendment which I would like to see of the old Act, and that is to clause 35, which provides that members of Con- ciliation Boards shall consist of men elected by the unions, who shall sit on these Conciliation Boards for three years. Now, under that clause a man who gets an appointment actually has an interest in promoting disputes between em- plovers and employés. If an amendment was proposed which would provide that when unpleasantness arises the union so affected should appoint an expert to sit in the Court, then I believe it would be a very important stop in the right direction. I know of one instance where a member of a Conciliation Board used to go to the union meetings, and take part in those union meetings, and try to inflame the mon against their employers. Mr. HUTCHESON .- It is regularly done here. Mr. LAURENSON .- Well, I think whoever does it has a very poor opinion of the import- : a corresponding increase in the number of men ance of his position, and he ought to realise other, but to try and promote industrial peace. But as the Act stands at present it is all in the interest of that man not to promote industrial peace, but to promote industrial war ; and I would be very pleased to see an amendment in the original Act to provide that men who sit on the Conciliation Boards should be men elected by the unions at the time the dispute took place, and men who understood something about the question in dispute. I believe if that were done the Conciliation Act would go a very much further step than it has hitherto done in the direction of promoting pleasant relations be- tween employers and employed. I was very much struck by the speech of the honourable member for Waitemata, and I wish to say, as one of the newer members of this House, that there are few members I listen to with greater pleasure than the honourable member for Wai- temata, and when I hear his polished diction and beautiful and poetical language I cannot but help being impressed by his earnest- ness and power of delivery, and I cannot fail to be impressed with the desirability of seeing more of us copying his style when addressing the House. We never hear the honourable member for Waitemata descending to coarseness of language or personalities, things which are sometimes too much in evidence in the speeches of other honourable members. I know there are a lot of members on this side of the House who believe in radical measures, who consider that men like the honourable member for Waitemata are obstacles in the path of progress. I look at this thing- - if 1 may say so without being egotistical-from a higher standpoint. I believe that instead of being obstacles in the path of progress an honest Conservative influence is as necessary to progress as the Radicals themselves. It seems to me to be the law of nature that you can only get progress with resistance, and I think if it were not for men standing up and arguing on the other side we should not have had the progress we have made. The honourable member for Waitemata expressed a great desire that this country should occupy the place which it is fitted to occupy -- namely, that of a strong maritime country-and inferred that we were lagging sadly behind in this direction. While the honourable member was speaking I looked up two sets of figures, and here they are : Great Britain has one ship to every 2,600 of her population, whereas New Zealand has one ship to everv 1,600 of her population. An Hon. MEMBER .--- British ships ? Mr. LAURENSON .- I am dealing with ships registered and owned in New Zealand. I admit that in many cases they may have been built outside New Zealand, but they are owned in the colony, and to a very large extent, if not altogether, they are manned by men domiciled in New Zealand. Those acquainted with nau- tical matters know that during the past few years, although there has been a great increase in the tonnage of shipping, there has not been employed in proportion to the tonnage of the 