on the money-market here, and farmers and others requiring money will have to pay an increased rate of interest. I say that with a knowledge of what recently happened, and I say that immediately a large sum is raised by the Government in the colony a hardship is done to the small settlers. There is another question to be considered also in this direction by those who blame the Government for ac- quiring land slowly. I am as anxious to see settlement as any other member; but I do not wish the colony to take on responsi- bilities which it will have to pay for dearly, in the experience of those who have had any- thing to do with pastoral lands in the colony. The market value of land of that description has during the last eighteen months or two years advanced as much as 15 per cent., and in many cases a great deal more. In that case if there is any fall in the price of our produce in English and European markets it is very evi- dent that small settlers taking up land pur- chased under such conditions will be loaded with considerably more rent than they can pay. Under these circumstances, I think that no great injustice has been done to the colony or to land-settlement by the care the Government has exercised during the past year, and the somewhat slow method of acquiring land for settlement. It is true the previous year shows a considerable amount purchased for land for settlement, but last year shows a much more restricted area acquired. Now, Sir, before I sit down I wish shortly to refer to those lands which are held by the Assets Board, and I think that on a question of land-settlement https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 they may be referred to in this House. am informed, I do not know whether rightly or wrongly, that there is, at least, almost a quarter of a million of acres of this Assets Board's lands in the North Island. I am also informed that a considerable area would do for dairy-farming purposes. I consider that the Assets Board are not at all to be commended on their management of these lands. At the present time, considering the high value of pastoral lands, it would be better to sell the land. The demand for pastoral land is good, but I see no effort on the part of the Board to do that. I see no advertisement that the lands are open for sale. I believe that some offers have been made, and excuses have been given that these particular estates are returning good interest on the money invested in them, and that the Board had not yet decided to put them on the market. If that is so, I feel that the policy adopted by the Board is not only not in the interest of the settlement of the land in the colony, but will reflect on the financial position of the Bank of New Zealand, as well as the responsibility of the colony to the bank. In the future we cannot expect that the prices of produce in the London market will continue at the present high rate. It is true that the Argentine, which has always been a competitor with the Australasian Colonies, has been pre- vented from putting dead meat on the London market by reason of disease to the extent that it did previously ; but every member who knows Mr. Buddo anything about the subject knows that in the near future the South American States must cultivate their land and put more produce on the London market, and we must look for a much larger supply from South America, which will cause a decrease in the price of frozen meat on the London market. I cannot see that the outlook at the present time is against the in- terest of the New Zealand farmer ; but, at all events, we ought to conserve his interests to the utmost, and, if the Government propose to pur- chase land for settlement, I wish to point out that it should not be done in extended areas under the grazing-run system. When we see that one single settler costs the colony under this system from £3,000 to $6,000 to put on the land, it is evident that the colony, in the near future, will have a very great responsibility for a very small result. The Government have in- dicated that they are considering the advisable- . ness of assisting producers by purchase of steam- ships to carry produce to the United Kingdom. There is another question of equal importance- the question of storing produce in London or Liverpool, or any other port. This would be largely in the interests of the settlers, perhaps even more to the benefit of settlers than shipping. Shipping at times is, of course, naturally costiv, for reasons over which the shipping companies themselves have no control ; but, while we must as far as possible guard against any monopoly of shipping interests to British markets, we must look to the benefit of our settlers. and provide for them more storage-room, and have New Zealand produce sold as such by cone - trating trade into as few channels as possi le. I and not allow traders to sell produce from the Argentine and elsewhere as New Zealand, and thus defraud the colonial producer of his jusily earned profit. If the Government would make an effort in this direction the result would be satisfactory. With regard to the provisions of the Bill, there are only two clauses which I take exception to-clauses 6 and 8. 1 am strongly in favour of small settlement. and the land for - settlements policy, which will benefit the small settlers. At the same time I deprecate the large expenditure to settle small grazing-runs, which is altogether too costly, and which is no material benefit to settlers who have only small amounts of money at their disposal. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- This de- bate has resolved itself into a general debate on the land-for-settlement policy. I thought that that question was quite settled. As far as the enlightened members of the House are con- concerned, I think we are all agreed that that is a good policy-that is, to break up big estatis. The majority of the settlements, I believe, base been a success so far ; but, of course, there are some that have not been a success ; in every ex. periment there must be mistakes. To go into this Bill, it seems to me that it gives to the Minister considerable powers, and it is for .he House to consider whether the powers given to the Minister are such powers as should be ever. cised by him, or whether it would not be opring the door to arbitrary interference on the part of 