allowed out, as I had sold it. I then got the manager of these works and he agreed to do it, but in view of the representation of the other side he afterwards declined. I then said, " As manager of the insurance company that has to pay the damage I claim to have it out." After a considerable discussion I at last succeeded, but not until I had said that in my analysis some time previously of the results of storing meat in the different cool stores in London I had shown the Victoria Docks to come out well, and Damage when Consignment went into One Store only. Date of Ship. Cold-store. Arrival. 1897. New Hibernia Tongariro May 31 Duke of Sutherland June 11 .. .. Ruahine June 12 .. West India .. June 30 Mamari .. .. June 10 Nairnshire . New Hibernia .. .. Waikato Aug. 7 .. .. Damage when One Ship's Consignment sent to One or more Stores. Date of Ship. Cold-store. Arrival. New Hibernia May 10 .. Aotea Victoria Dock May 24 .. New Hibernia Tekoa .. Victoria Dock May 1 .. New Hibernia Maori .. Victoria Dock Rangatira New Hibernia June 21 .. Victoria Dock June 28 Rimutaka New Hibernia .. West India July 15 .. New Hibernia Mataura .. Viotoria Dock \* Average of 2s. 4d. per stone, all-round price for sheep and lambs. Consignments where no Damage occurred. 1897. May 12 Gothic .. Banffshire August 27 Damage was surveyed before going into Store. Date of Arrival. Ship. 1897. Ionic\* August 5 .. . On eight carcases damaged in over 1,000 carcases. I would like to say before leaving this table that it is my opinion that the stores themselves were not responsible altogether-that I believe awards were made for damage to these cargoes when to a large extent they were not damaged at that if he refused to permit that meat to come out I would consider he was in league with the man, and he knew the meat was sound ; and I asked if he would allow it to come out to see if it was damaged or not. I will now quote a re- turn. as I want to hansardise something show- ing the results of different shipments that passed through various cool-stores. It is a table show- ing the damage in the case of a certain ship- ment that went into one or more stores :- Percentage Percentage paid Equivalent to of Sheep for Damage. per Pound .. damaged. 47.12 (about) 3d. 11.58 62.61 14.63 4d. 44.32 8.52 5-16d. 7.00 Įd. 45.14 40.00 9.84 jd. Not yet complete. 36.11 Percentage Percentage Percentage Equivalent to of Sheep paid for sent to each per Pound." damaged. Damage. Store.   30.92 7.17 21.85 Nil Nil. 41.85 7.25 90.00 Nil Nil. 10.00 7.97  40.37 81.00 Nil Nil. 19.00 70.51 75.63 10.78 Nil Nil. 24.37 . 16.81 84.41 80.00 . . - @d. 15.59 40.28 19.86 . 15.51 46-23 42.9 jd. .. Nil. 57.1 Nil .. Victoria Dock Stores. Percentage of Percentage paid Equivalent to Damage. for Damage. ¿d. per pound. 0.59 7.69 . . all, and that the damage claims on meat are \- frequently contingent rather on the purchaser of the meat than upon the store into which it goes, owing to the wretched system of adjust- ment and the demands that may be made. 