out of tune. These things are all very well in under the finger-nails. I do not think that their way, but they are worn threadbare, and is democracy. I think that a democrat may have become almost a nuisance. Then, these also be a gentleman, and there is no reason displays of Volunteers-they do not appear, by on earth why he should not be a gentle- the way, to have been very well treated. more man. I say that the true democrat is the best especially in Wellington, nor the cadets in of gentlemen, for the reason that he is unselfish, Christchurch. Of course, I know it is no use and does not desire everything for himself, but is getting up to say anything on the subject, ex- desirous of an equal distribution of it through- cept to pay greasy compliments and pour out out the country. That is my conception of extravagant praise. Englishmen will be Eng- democracy. And then there is this screaming about militarism ; but is there a country on lishmen and go to extremes in everything, and I believe if any Royal personages from England earth that does not make some provision for came here again in a week's time the same non- its own protection ? Self-preservation is the sense would be repeated. That is all I have to first law of nature, and, if an individual protects av. I would rather have got up to praise the himself, surely aggregations of individuals may people of Auckland or the colony for their loyal provide for their self-protection also. Now, that being so, is it not right that we should demonstrations on this occasion, but I really could not conscientiously do so. train our young men for the purpose of render- The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I should have ing them fit to protect us in the day of danger. very much regretted this debate only for the It is to be hoped, and it is my fervent wish, diversion created by the ever-recurring Oamaru that we may never see the day when we shall picnic. It is a very pitiable position Oamaru be called upon to fight, but if we are to be called is in, according to the Hon. Mr. Shrimski, but upon to fight it is only right and proper that we should be fully prepared, and that preparation I do not know how my honourable friend cannot be obtained unless we train our young men Mr. Jones contributed to that. So far as I know land settlement has gone on in Oamaru, to bear arms. For my part, I am entirely opposed to this colony having a standing army, for I and this settlement has been greatly fostered and promoted by the Hon. Mr. Jones. It ought see no necessity for it. We have seen that we have men willing and able to bear arms while to have increased the population there, and the increase of population ought to improve the following at the same time their ordinary condition of the town. But it appears the re- avocations, and thus prepare themselves for defending the colony. That has been proved sult has been in an inverse ratio. I regret the beyond a question of a doubt, and I think utterances very much which have fallen from honourable gentlemen on this subject. I think that to promote Volunteering for self-protec- the Hon. Mr. Jones is too utilitarian in his tion or for the protection of the colony is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 right, and that to call that militarism is a views. I think on the occasion of the visit misuse of the English language, and it is a of the King's son, the Heir-Apparent to the Throne. our future King, we may be pardoned word that is not properly understood. I do if we tried to put our right foot forward and not think there was anything improper done on the occasion of the Royal visit. I think appeared as well as possible before him. We that what was done redounded greatly to our must bear in mind that we are a part of a credit, and will repay us tenfold. There ac- great Empire; and it is only fitting that we companied the Royal visitors here journalists should show that. as a part of that Empire, from England-not only from England, but we are worthy of it. I am very sorry-and representative journalists of all the world. I have tried to impress it upon others- There were present representatives of Reu- that these questions have been raised, and a ter's Agency and the Central News. These splendid thing partially spoiled in this way. gentlemen were every day cabling Home We gave the Royal visitors a magnificent re- to their journals an account of New Zealand. ception, and it is a great pity that anything and what will the effect of that be ? It will should be done or said to mar its splendour. There has been a great deal said about de- be this: that we have got the greatest adver- tisement we ever could get for the colony. Now mocracy, so much that I am not sure that I Zealand is painted by these gentlemen as a know what democracy is. I am beginning to perfect paradise, and we shall before long have think that I know nothing at all about the a flood of tourists and others coming in here meaning of democracy, and that it is something that will recoup us for the money spent on the altogether foreign to my conception of it. One occasion of the Royal visit. person tells me that if I wear a dress suit the same as worn at a ball, which has been the fashion to wear from time immemorial, then I that. am undemocratic. If I wear clean clothes, and that a gentleman so highly cultured and so brush my coat, and am neat in my apparel, imaginative as my honourable friend Mr. Jones then I am undemocratic. I suppose I will be should be so deficient in artistic taste as to told that I must not clean my finger-nails, be- deery that which was so ornamental and so cause if I do so I shall be deemed undemo- well calculated to beautify our cities and the cratic. Well, my conception of democracy is places through which the Roval visitors passed. that it is that which elevates and gives equal I do not think that even that expenditure was advantages to all, but that it does not mean wasted. that one must be rude and uncultured, wear try. It showed it was a land flowing with milk bad clothes, and allow dirt to accumulate The Hon. Mr. JONES .- The arches could do The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I am surprised It showed the prosperity of the coun- 