nature. If this Bill has done no other good it nation should cry " Halt " ; that it is time to stop has benefited us in this way : it has had the this lease-in-perpetuity system, and to entirely stop any further sale of freehold in this country. effect of giving us some good speeches- speeches The honourable gentleman who re- mostly reasonable and moderate in tone, and 1.30. which showed that a majority of the members presents Waitemata, Mr. Monk, quoted me as having said that the Government had of the House are inclined to do justice to the raised the price of butter. Now, I said nothing of the sort. I said the Government system of on the second reading of the Bill, I stated insisting on having the State grading of butter, that the most serious objection I had to this and going in for the State regulating the arrange- ments in connection with the dairy industry, had had a very material effect in increasing the price of our dairy productions. I pointed out that while ten years ago the price of butter in the London market was as high as it is to-day, vet that the producers were then only getting 4d. and 5d. a pound for it ; while to-day, with the price no higher in London, they are getting 10d. and 11d. These are incontrovertible facts, and cannot be gainsaid. Now we see that every progressive country under the sun recognises the value of grading its productions, and putting them on the market under an efficient system of inspection, and, Sir, in doing that the present Government has conferred a boon on the pro- ducers of the country. The honourable gentle- man also went on to say that the love of the freehold pervaded our race. He said it was the ambition of every British-born man and woman to hold a piece of freehold. He said it was a love that we all inherited from our forefathers. men, I am glad that clause was struck out, as Sir, what, after all, does experience sav in this connection ? I am astonished at an honour- able gentleman like the honourable member not knowing how ridiculous is such an asser- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 tion. Why, out of the whole population of Great Britain not 1 per cent. ever possessed the consideration from the Committee. With re- freehold, or ever had the slightest chance of possessing a freehold. Almost every man and woman in New Zealand are directly descended from people who were either tenants at will or else leaseholders. It was one of the abomina- tions of the Old Country that it allowed the freeholds to be the monopoly of a certain small number of individuals, who rack-rented their tenants, and reduced them to a state of bondage. That is what we want to see stopped, and that is what the Government land system and the Government land-for-settlements policy is intended to prevent. I am proud to see that the Premier has had the courage to bring down a measure like this to still further enlarge the scope of that beneficent legislation, and I hope he will not allow himself to be stopped by the clamour raised by interested people from going further, by increasing the land-tax, and putting bis foot down and saying that for the future the fee-simple of not another acre shall be sold and not another lease in perpetuity will be granted. In doing that, he will find behind him the solid support of every right-thinking and justice-loving man and woman in the country. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I expressed my- self fully on the second reading of the Bill, and therefore I do not think it necessary to say very much now. However, I wish to deal with a few points before the debate closes, pioneer settlers of the country. While speaking measure was contained, I think, in clause 6. According to clause 6, as it was brought down, when once the Government had opened negotia- tions with a landowner-when once they had asked him whether he was prepared to sell his land, and what price he was willing to sell at -- that then for an indefinite period he could not sell it, or lease it, or cut it up. or even divide it among his children. He was compelled to hold it until the Govern- ment were pleased to say that the negotiations had concluded. I am pleased, therefore, that an amendment has been inserted which pro- vides that if the Government do not complete the purchase within twelve months from the time they have expressed their intention of taking the land, then the owner may consider the negotiations have come to an end, and he will have the opportunity of disposing of it in any way he thinks proper. Coming to clause 8, which proposed to give preference to married it really meant that married men coming from some other country or colony would have the preference over even natives of this country, over the sons of our own settlers ; and I con- sidered the proposal was not worthy a moment's gard to clause 9, the clause dealing with regula- tions, this clause has been amended but I hardly think improved, because subsection (2) still re- mains. Subsection (2) is that part of the clause which deals with regulations - which validates regulations even though they may be inconsistent with statute law, even though they may over- ride statute law. Such regulations will be validated by the second part of this clause. I am sorry that it has not been struck out, and I am very much afraid that it is intended to cover up some illegal practices in connection with the Land for Settlements Department. With regard to the new clauses which were moved by the Premier, and which were in- serted in the Bill almost without any amend- ment, the clauses are so ill thought-out, and so crude, that if they go on the statute-book in their present form I am sure they will prove almost unworkable. Still, I am willing to admit that the underlying idea is good; and if the Premier will only have the points which are expressed in these clauses " licked into shape " in another place I believe the effect will be to greatly lessen, even if it does not do away with, the land speculation which exists in connection with the ballot system. Ican hardly say, though, that I approve of the clause which makes it necessary for an applicant to reside continuously on a section he has drawn, or that I can ap- prove of the clause which provides that a settler 