Bill gets before the Committee, where I suppose it has to go, it will be put into a shape that will be more satisfactory than it is now. The new English Act, as I have said, is considered to be faulty. Probably the British Government has been too busy dealing with more important things, and therefore it has been standing over. We are not tied to time, and I believe it will be perfectly easy for us to frame such a Bill as is needed by the country. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I suppose that we can say that this Bill is an improvement on our present law; but, Sir, I am very much dis- appointed that the Government did not take into consideration the whole of the Companies Act, and bring down a consolidating measure dealing with the whole matter in a comprehen- sive way. It is an absolute necessity. Sir, that the Act should be dealt with and brought up to date, and I am quite sure that this Bill does not go nearly far enough even in the way it is intended to go. As has been stated, we had a boom in dredging in the South. Companies have been floated that never intended to have a dredge. All that was thought about was getting the promotion-money. What is the result ? People, unfortunately, took shares thinking they could sell out at a profit ; but they failed in this, and then they thought they would pay up the calls; they would then have a dredge, and, if the claim proved a failure, they could sell the dredge and would not lose very much. That also has failed, and they find they cannot sell their dredge ; and the unfortunate people find, in some of these companies which should never have been promoted, that they are summoned before the Court every day for calls, and thus many poor people have been ruined. I do not think, under these circum- stances, and looking at the present state of things, that this Bill is effective enough. the honourable gentleman who has just spoken has said, they can get over this ; and I believe they can get over it easily; and I think the restrictions on the directors who hold shares, and those gentlemen who give their names, getting their shares for nothing, I should say they ought to be handled in a much more severe way than this Bill does : that is, people's names who are given to a company to entice the unthinking into taking shares-that should be punishable as frand. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is fraud. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Yes; but it has not been fraud within the law, and therefore they cannot be touched. The Bill, of course, is going to the Statutes Revision Committee, and I hope they will deal with the matter in a much more comprehensive way than the Bill does now, and I hope they will insert some amendment into the Companies Act, and especi- ally I would commend their attention to the winding up of companies under the old Act. It is an extraordinary thing that nowadays a winding-up can take place and the shareholders have no share whatever in the winding-up, and they cannot even for years get a statement of what is going on. Surely you must have some- thing in the Act that will give shareholders some little power. It is all very well to say it is in the hands of the Supreme Court. Some one has to move the Supreme Court, and that is not easily done at times. I think there should be some clauses in the Act giving the shareholders power to move, and to demand a statement of accounts, and a statement of what is being done and how certain things were done. I think it would be proper to put such provisions in this Bill. I do not see why liquidators should not give an ac- count of the transactions they do, and their reasons for so doing. If they were amenable to the shareholders that would be the result. I hope there will be proper looking after the liquidation of these companies. As to putting the power in the hands of the Official Assignee. I believe that would be worse than the present evil. What we want is the power over the liquidator ; and if the liquidator be a Govern- ment officer the shareholders will lose power over him, and will have no control over him. That is why I object to the Official Assignee acting. I think the shareholders should be the masters of the liquidators. I do not wish to take up further time just now, but. even accepting this small modicum, I would still plead with the Government to take up the Companies Act and let us have a consolidating measure up to date. It is far behind the times now. I shall feel obliged if my honourable friend will bring that before the Government. and that before next session the Government will bring forward a consolidating and compre- hensive measure. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I have listened with great interest to the whole of what has been said on this Bill. With regard to liquida- tion, I may say that I am an unfortunate share- holder in a certain bank which is under liquida- tion now, and which has been in that unlucky As position for many years. Only a few weeks ago we were promised a second and final divi- dend within, I believe, six weeks of that time- a dividend amounting to the magnificent sum of something like 1s. a share, we having received already only about 10s. as the first dividend upon £2 paid up. And some of the shareholders, by-the-bye, have paid a good deal more for their shares, because they bought them at a considerable premium many years ago. I can only say in my case. I wish I may see this second and final dividend. and 1 s110- pose I may then congratulate myself that then was anything at all to receive. At one time 1 thought I would find myself in the position of Miss Flite, the little old lady in one of Dickens's stories, who was an unfortunate victim in a long-drawn-out Chancery suit. She said she expected a judgment at the day of judgment. At one time I really thought I might look for a dividend about the same time. I wish this Bill was a great deal more stringent in some of its clauses. As to those directors who recklessly lend their names to a bogus scheme-a " wild- cat " affair-in consideration of a number of shares allotted to them gratis, they ought. as the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith said, to be compelled to pay for them in hard cash and nothing less. 