largely provided for, was going to continue to increase. He considered he had no grounds for coming to the House and asking that an extra- ordinary sum of money should be given him. Who will tell what is going to happen in the next five years ? And if I said now that we would require five thousand extra wagons in two years' time, is there any member in this House who will say that, because I came before you and made the statement that it was necessary to provide the money for those wagons, that you would do so? We must, while not afraid of being progressive, be guided by prudence, and rightly so. My own belief, however, is that before another fifteen years are passed by there will be fifty thousand men employed on the railways and in the workshops of the colony itself. That is a sanguine anticipation as to the future to make ; but I make it, realising what is going on now. During the last two years, with a country only partially developed, and with enormous potentialities before it, with State railways in New Zealand we have in five years put on three thousand men ; and I say that the increase of business in the future will be greater than it has been in the past, and the increase of workmen employed, both in the workshops and on the railways, will be much greater in proportion than it has been. Yet, if the Go- vernment asked the House to grant three or four millions of money to provide for a pro- gramme for five or ten years ahead, there are not many members who would agree to do that. They would ask us to wait for a year or two to see whether the assumption as to the increased traffic was correct. I do not blame them for this. I want to refer now to another matter that was referred to by the honourable member for Riccarton. I want to say one word first with reference to a remark made by the honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), to the effect that representations have been made that the whole of the Railway service of the State should be brought under the Concilia- tion and Arbitration Act. I think if you at- tempted to do that you would be doing a very unjust thing to the men who are now classified under the Classification Act ; and, what is more, that should not be done without their consent. They should have an opportunity of saying whether they are willing to give up the position which they now occupy or not. The men in the workshops are to some extent in a different position from the other railway employés. The Government has considered the matter care- fully, and, if the men in the workshops would prefer to come entirely out of the classification scheme and be dealt with under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Government have no objection to that. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That is an advance. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member says, " That is an advance"; possibly it may be considered so, but I would advise the men in the workshops to go very carefully into the matter before they decide to change. And I will tell the honourable member why. The honour- able member and other members have urged that these men should come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Let me point out that practically the only employer in the railways in this country is the State. There is no other class of employer for them to make a com- parison with as to the rate of wages. In the event of bad times occurring in this country, which even the most sanguine of us fully re- cognise is possible, what are you going to do in settling the rates of wages, or disputes in this department ? It is most likely that if a fall of wages occurred it would not be in the workshops, but in private employment outside. Well, are the railway men to be subject to the ruling outside rates or the Government ones ? My opinion is they are safer as they are; but those honourable members who suggest placing these men under the Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act have a perfect right to do so, and, as I say, we are quite willing to do so, but it is the men themselves who are most concerned, and in their own interest they ought to be careful and consider the position thoroughly before doing anything in the matter. Mr SEDDON .- And the men themselves. should be consulted. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes; as I have already said, the men themselves should be consulted. I was going to refer to a number of other matters, but it seems to me that I will have some diffi- culty in doing so, as my time is nearly up. But before I sit down I want to say a word or two on a personal matter. While the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was good enough to compliment me on the honour conferred upon me, I am not so devoid of discernment as not to have noticed that there was some sarcasm in his remarks. The honourable gentleman has himself worn a military uniform, and in his observations I think he went out of his way, perhaps in order to crack a joke, to insult that uniform, and to say what should not be said by even the leader of the Opposition, or any other member of this House. Now, Sir, regarding this uniform. My right honourable friend and colleague the Premier did not refer to this at length, and time will not allow me to do so, but I will say this : that any man occupying a responsible position who goes to the Old Country receives invitations to go to many important functions in high State places, which, if he did not accept, would reflect upon his own country ; and the honourable gentleman knows perfectly well that if he does accept those invitations he cannot attend any of those functions unless he goes in that uniform which my honourable friend has taken such a decided objection to, and attempts to turn into a subject for ridicule. Sir, he knows that it is not only the usual thing to wear the uniform on occasions of that sort, but that unless one wore it he could not attend. He knows it is a uniform which is worn by men occupying the highest positions in England-both Tories and Radicals alike-and that any side in politics entitled to wear it does and must wear it on certain occasions. I have been informed that at least one of his own former colleagues in the Atkinson Government has worn the same uniform on certain occasions. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who was that ? Sir J. G. WARD. -- Sir Frederick Whitaker. 