of the cyclists concerned. The evelists will then tax themselves for the making of cycle- tracks ; that they can only proceed to the making and maintaining of these tracks by acting in harmony and concord with the local authority having jurisdiction over the roads. am sure the Bill has been drafted to secure the maximum of efficiency in the way of cycle- tracks with the minimum of friction with either cyclists or local authorities. I have therefore much pleasure in moving, That the Bill be now read a second time. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- I compliment the honourable member upon having introduced a Bill which, if it passes into law, even though it may be in some form amended in Committee, will do an incalculable amount of good to a large number of people in the country. A few years ago, at the request of Mr. T. G. Russell, of Christchurch, a gentle- man who took a very deep interest in the matter of providing some better means for the use of roads for cyclists, I introduced a Bill very similar to the one now before the House. which was intended to be in the interests of eyelists throughout the colony. I am sorry to say that at that time the object of the Bill was not properly understood among eyelists themselves : they erroneously believed it was inimical to their interests that legislation was proposed under which a small tax was to be expended in the making of cycle roads and tracks, and as a result of the opposition of the cyclists to the Bill i did not attempt to get it beyond its second reading in the House. But public opinion in the interval has favourably changed, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 and the objects of the Bill I introduced then are now supported by many thousands of people who are constantly using this wonder- fully easy and pleasant means of convey- ing themselves from place to place. Why, then, we should not have, both in the towns and country, proper tracks made for them under proper conditions I am unable to under- stand. On the contrary, I think it is the duty of public bodies and public men to assist people in all walks of life who now are using cycles, whether for business purposes or for recreation, to avail themselves of this means of conveyance to the best advantage. It seems to me that . local public bodies ought to hail with satisfac- tion this proposal-which is permissive in its character-to put the cyclists of the colony in a better position. I shall cordially assist the honourable member to put this legislation on the statute-book. I believe it to be necessary for and beneficial to cyclists, and useful in so far as it proposes to give improved means of locomotion for the people. It will place the matter upon a footing that is both desirable and necessary. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I regret that I cannot accord entire support to the Bill now before the House, although I am quite aware that from the City of Auckland there has emanated a very strong agitation in favour of the measure. In the first place, I would like to ask, Why should cyclists be required to Mr Foulis their vehicles ? You do not call upon persons who own buggies, or carriages, or any other class of vehicle, to tax themselves for the pur- pose of providing proper and convenient way- for their machines. Why, then, I ask, should cyclists do this ? I Sir J. G. WARD .- Because cyclists want a special portion of the road set aside for them. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. I shall probably deal with that point later. So far as I understand the definition of "cycle," even the owner of a child's bicycle or cycle is to be brought under the provisions of this Act. Now, I notice that under section 4, which is said to be a permissive clause, no number is fixed as being the number of persons who are to bring this Act into opera- tion. It is quite true in the latter part of clause 4 it is provided that one-half the number of the petitioners to bring the Act into operation can stop the progress of its being brought in : but let me point out in this connection what is the magnitude of the districts that are being created. Let honourable members understand what is implied in the whole of the Auckland Province being a Cycle Board district. I: means that under this Bill, we will say, two or three thousand evelists, resident in and about the City of Auckland, are to be entitled to bring the Cvele Board into existence. It will probably not be difficult in the City of Auck- land, or in the City of Christchurch. where bicycles, of course, are more common than in any other part of the colony - it will not be difficult in any of these large centres to obtain, perhaps, a couple of thousand signa- tures. But what happens when they have set these Boards in operation ? Then, every eyelist in the most remote parts of that particular district, in, say, Gisborne, or Waikato, and in every other part of the Province of Auckland. is compelled to register his bicycle and pay the sum of 5s. per year to the Auckland Cycle Board. The Boards, of course, will naturaly spend the funds at their disposal in the locali- ties which have provided most of the money and in the neighbourhood where they would render the greatest service to the largest number of cyclists. Take, for example, the Province of Canterbury. Can anybody conceive anything more absurd than that cyclists in the Culverden district in the north, or Timaru in the south. should be required to pay 5s. for every bievele in the district in order to contribute to the convenience of the population in and around Christchurch. The expenditure would be en- tirely in the hands of the Central Board, and would probably be devoted to making cycle-tracks to Sumner or some other suburt These are objections I have taken to the Bill. I say it is setting up too large a machine t' accomplish what you really want. I believe in the principle of cyclists having power within restricted localities to voluntarily subserio and, in conjunction with local bodies, im- prove the bicycle-tracks in the neighbour- hood ; but I venture to say that the power given under this Bill, by which one central Board can cover a huge province and from every 