<!-- PageHeader="Imperial Honours. <!-- PageNumber="1901.]" --> they selected you in the end, and placed you said on this point, but I do not think this is in the position which you now occupy. I do the time or place to do it. But if any word or not think, Sir, that to place the stamp of action of mine could put down this prejudice approval on the selection thus made by the against titles I would willingly put it down, for I do think it is altogether wrong. The people Council by bestowing Royal favours on you will injure the people of this colony, but who have rendered splendid service, like the that the very fact that there is such a reward in store for good public service must make the have a perfect right to these distinctions, and I colony brighter and happier. My honourable think the world will be the happier because friend the Minister of Education, in his own provincial district, had his name written amongst its law-makers half a lifetime ago. He worked through the other Chamber and effect: I think the honours conferred on the came in here, and finally reached the position four gentlemen have been fairly well dealt with, he now occupies; and, as my honourable friend put it, I think no man could discharge the and they all deserve them. They have been duties of that position with greater courtesy and greater urbanity to all than the honourable gentleman, while at the same time his services have been of a distinct advantage to the people as a whole. There, again, the stamp of public approval has been placed upon the honourable gentleman by his King, and I do not think any one will be injured by it. Then, we have two honourable gentlemen who are absent, on whom honours have been conferred after their day's work has been done. It is the evening of their lives. and practically what has been said to them is, " Well done, thou good and faithful servant." I should be tedious perhaps were I to say anything with regard to the services those two honourable gentlemen have rendered to the State ; but I think none can gainsay that they have been services which very well entitle them honourable members very much indeed for the to this recognition. There are in this colony https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 many smiling homesteads created by the honourable gentleman who, down'in Otago, is lying on a bed of sickness, brought on by his devotion to duty. There are thousands upon thousands of prayers going up for the well-being of that honourable gentleman, but all human skill and aid apparently cannot avail; and if in the evening of his life his King confers upon him this distinction, which is well deserved, no man, I think, who has the love of the colony at heart will grudge it him. I regard these titles as the Victoria Cross of civil life. Young men who fight our battles get crosses and deco- rations and distinctions for services rendered ; and that is, without doubt, an incentive to them to deeds of daring-those deeds that have made the Empire. Surely, if honourable gentle- men render great services in civil life, they, too, may well be decorated for the services they have rendered. People who call themselves socialists-and I should not quarrel with any- body who called me one-ought to remember that there is nothing antagonistic to their doctrines in conferring distinctions of this kind upon people who render service to the State. If you bring people-and this is the aim of the socialist-to a common level, you must give come scope for human ambition. Human am- bition must have some scope ; no money can be given, and there is no means of giving scope to human ambition under the socialistic con- dition except by giving men some decoration which they will covet, and for which they will Imperial Honours. <!-- PageNumber="177" --> honourable recipients of these royal favours, men have such an incentive to work for their fellow-men. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- I should like to add one word to what has been said, to this well earned, and I hope the Council will pass the resolution unanimously. And I would go further and say that, apart from the honour conferred upon the gentlemen named and the work they have done, which we all recognise, we shall also feel that the Council has been honoured by the honour conferred on them. It may be true that Sir John McKenzie has not yet taken his seat; but I think the work he has done in connection with the whole of New Zealand in the other House-work that has conferred a lasting benefit on the community at large, and for our struggling settlers especially -has been at last suitably recognised by his King and country. I hope the motion will be passed unanimously. Motion agreed to. The Hon. the SPEAKER .-- I beg to thank congratulations they have offered me, and also for the extremely gratifying and cordial way in which they have expressed their approval of the distinction which has been conferred upon me. When first the intention of submitting my name to Her late Majesty Queen Victoria was conveyed to me, I, of course, felt a certain amount of surprise, for I had no idea that it was coming ; and I need hardly say I had never, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatever taken any steps to obtain such a distinction. But when the intention was conveyed to me that this distinction was to be conferred upon me, I very soon convinced myself that not only was it my duty to accept the distinction- because there could be no doubt whatever it was only conferred upon me in connection with my position in the Legislative Council ; but, further than that, I very soon came to feel that it would be a serious discourtesy on my part if I refused it. I therefore had no difficulty what- ever in accepting it ; and I feel, as the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton said, that it is an honour, in reality, which has been conferred upon this Council. I am well aware that I owe every- thing to the Council, and I am quite sure there never will be any occupant of this chair who feels more kindly towards the members of the Conncil than I do: I have every reason for feeling so. I beg to thank honourable members for the manner in which they have congratu- lated me. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I might be 