honourable member to give me the assurance asked for. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .-- I think the honourable member should give more informa- tion about this matter. The Bill raises a very large question. In the early days of the colony large areas of public and Native lands were granted by the Crown and the Native race for certain specific trusts to the various religious bodies, and the time has now probably arrived when the Government should institute a Royal , than to clear up matters, respecting titles to Commission for the purpose of inquiring into the management of those lands, in order that it may be seen if the trusts are being carried out as was intended by the original grantors. If this be merely a machinery Bill to continue the state of things that exists at present, and which will not in any way prejudice the position, 1, of course, will not offer any ob- ; to in this Bill that is not included in the jection. There are some expressions in the : 144,600 acres sold by the New Zealand 3rd section of the Bill which seem to me to revest the trust lands, without any in- formation being given to the House. 1 would ask the honourable member to explain why it is necessary to put these words into sec- tion 3 : "and such property shall continue for all time to be held exclusively for the purposes and by or on behalf of the persons respectively now or for the time being entitled thereto in the Provincial District of Otago." We are practically in the dark as to the manner in which the funds accruing from those lands are to be applied. I should be very sorry to offer opposition to a legitimate machinery measure which may enable the business of this religious denomination to be carried on in a proper man- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ner. I am speaking without information with regard to the particular lands referred to in this Bill, but I do think, with regard to many public trusts of lands, large sums of money have been diverted from their original pur- pose. Some years ago, Sir, I was instructed by the late Sir George Grey to search certain titles of properties in the colony which had been granted by him when he was Governor in the early days upon certain trusts, and I found upon investigation that a great portion of the income arising out of the lands was applied to purposes which were not men- tioned in the Crown grants at all. I think this fact shows that in some cases there has been laxity. Of course, honourable members may say that if we inquire into this matter we may bring a hornets' nest about our ears ; but this House is elected to do that which is just and right to the general public, and. no matter how many religious bodies are involved in this matter, I feel sure that Parliament will take steps to see that the trusts are properly carried out. I hope the honourable member will explain a little more fully than he has done the portion of the Bill to which I have briefly referred, and I hope also that the Government will see their way at an early date to have some inquiry made into the administration of all the early trusts which were created by the Crown and the Native race affecting lands. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- It struck me, Sir, that probably an attempt was being made here by a private Bill to set aside the decision of the Supreme Court respecting lands which have been granted by the Maoris to early denomina tions, and by that means make good their title to Maori lands ceded to them, but in connection therewith the terms of the trusts had not been complied with. If I have the assurance of the honourable member that there is no intention of that in the Bill, and that these words are intended for no purpose other land legally held and occupied, and that we are not being asked to legalise an omission-if it has no bearing on that point I have no objection to offer. Mr. McNAB ( Mataura) .- Regarding the point that has been raised by the Right Hon. the Premier, I may say there is no land referred Land Company to the Association of the Lay Members of the Free Church of Scot- land, formed in Glasgow about 1847 to purchase and establish a city in the southern part of New Zealand. In regard to how they came to have possession of these lands, the lands were purchased from the com- pany by funds which were obtained by this association through a loading of 5s. per acre placed upon all the land which was sold by the company in this southern part of the 144,600 acres between the years 1847 and 1852. A portion of this money was paid in actual cash by the company to trustees to be held by them for religious and educational purposes, and the balance was paid to them by allowing them to select, as sales went on, pieces of land equal in value to the amount of money which had to be paid by the company to the association. Now, with regard to the point referred to by the honourable member for Bruce, this Bill does not affect the point in the slightest. The posi- tion under which the trustees who hold the funds for educational purposes pay over to the Otago University a sum of money annually for the salaries of three professors is provided for by legislation passed in the year 1866. I will read clause 8 :- "The said trustees shall set apart the re- maining one-third of the said clear proceeds for the purpose of forming a fund for educational purposes, and shall from time to time invest the same in their own names in any Govern- ment or real securities of the Colony of New Zealand, and shall also vary the said securities at their discretion, and shall receive the divi- dends, interest, and annual produce of the said securities, and reinvest the same in or upon like securities, so that the proceeds, securities, dividends, interest, and annual pro- duce may accumulate, and the said fund so formed shall be called 'the Educational Fund."" And clause 9 says, " The said trustees shall from time to time apply the said 'Education Fund' (in ac- cordance with regulations to be made by the said Synod in manner hereinafter men- tioned) in the erection or endowment of a literary chair or chairs in any college or uni- 