electorate in the colony. Now, Sir, what happened in my district with regard to the ballot ? My election was fought out at the as a large Registrar's office, inasmuch persons were struck off the number of roll previous to the election. I had good reason to believe that the greater number of them were my supporters, although, of course, a few Government supporters were struck off also in order to show that it was not one-sided." But the fact remains that a large number of persons who during the three years had never changed their residence and were qualified to be on the roll were struck off without getting any notice to that effect. Now, these persons in due course sent in claims to the Registrar to vote, and they fully expected they would be placed upon the supplementary roll. The elec- tion took place on Wednesday, and we never saw the supplementary roll till the Monday pre- vious to the election. Mr. SPEAKER .-- This seems quite foreign to the subject of the Bill. Mr. BOLLARD. I am speaking about the ballot as compared with electoral rights; I hope I am in order in showing the irregularities of the ballot. Mr. SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman must discuss either the Bill or the amendment ; his remarks seem to refer to something affect- ing his own election. Mr. BOLLARD .- Shall I be in order in show- ing how the ballot was worked in my district ? Mr. SPEAKER. - The honourable gentle- man's remarks must bear on the subject before the House. Mr. BOLLARD). - I was endeavouring to show https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the working of the ballot as compared with that of electoral rights or voting by post. I was saying, in connection with voting by ballot in my district, that the elections were held on the 6th December, and within three months a roll was prepared for the next election-a new roll. Would honourable members believe that seven hundred persons who voted at the pre- vious election were struck off by the Registrar ? Can honourable members conceive that seven hundred people could be disfranchised in so short a time? These are the reasons why I am pre- pared to vote for the amendment, because it is an attempt in the direction of having electoral rights; and although I believe the ballot if fairly carried out by men of integrity is a very good system, it is an unfortunate fact that men of integrity whom the people can trust to place them honestly on the roll are not always in evidence. For the reasons I have just stated I shall vote for the amendment. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .-- I do not care to allow this amendment to pass without saving a very few words, because I might be accused of inconsistency, owing to my remarks on a similar subject last year. On that occasion I advocated limited electoral rights. My views are recorded in Hansard, I believe, but I would briefly refer to them again. I approved of electoral rights when they were given to sea- men, and again when they were given to com- mercial travellers, because formerly they had Mr Bollard been disfranchised ; and no man or woman- - at liberty-in the colony should be disfranchised. Now, what is the present position ? Why should you. Sir, or I be disfranchised because owing to some private business we, at the time of a general election, are compelled to be in some other part of the colony ? If a member of our family is dangerously ill in another part of the colony, why should we not be able to record a vote in the electorate in which we reside? That is where I say we should have limited electoral rights. But I cannot go so far as the honourable member for Palmerston suggests ; I think very grave dangers are to le contemplated and reviewed before we take a step that, to my mind. would be an innovation. ou which the people of the colony want to be edu- cated before such power is placed in their hands. We have heard a great deal about Mr. Edward -. The honourable member for Waihemo has on several occasions abused and maligned that gentleman. He is blaming Mr. Edwards for going to electorates and using his influence in elections. i should like to ask Mr. Mackenzie who helped to put him in. Mr. Edwards, in his own argument, because he says that he has simply damaged the cause he has advo- cated ; and yet Mr. Mackenzie on the floor of this House over and over again maligns Mr. Edwards. I say that the honourable gentle man ought to go down on his knees every night and thank God that he was sent there. I say, with a full sense of recognizing the ro sponsibility of what I am saving- - I say it with- out qualification and reservation - - that the Government have no more to do with Mr. Edwards than Mr. Mackenzie has. I repeat that the Government have nothing whatever to do with Mr. Edwards. I have been informed by Ministers, and I also judge so by the papr> circulated by Mr. Edwards. An Hon. MEMBER. The Premier appointed him. He admitted so in the House. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. --- Of comse, I cannot contradict the honourable gentleman. I mast accept his word ; but this is the first occasion I have been aware of the Premier misleading int. But what I was about to say was that Mr. Edwards sent me papers asking me to form at association in my electorate to help to return me and to collect subscriptions to pay the expenses. That proves my statement that he is not a Government officer. If he were a Government officer, as has been suggested by the honourable gentleman, or a Ministerial nominee, the money would have been temed. probably from the colonial coffers, for his work. With reference to what the member for Fra !~ lin said-that Mr. Edwards has been promisin. billets and paying for liquid refreshment al over the country for every one who goes near i hotel --. Mr. Edwards must have had the meues to do it, and the inference suggested was that that money had come from the Government. I say that that money has not come from the Government. It is collected, probably, and 1 regret to say it, from a few childish, indiscret people on the Liberal side, who will put their hands in their pockets for any loud-mouthed 