a result of the honourable gentleman's consist- ent and persistent applications in regard to this matter, he desired to inform him that he intended to ask the House to pass a sufficient sum to enable a new lock-up and stable to be erected at Invercargill. POLICE REGULATIONS. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If Rule No. 10 of the Police Regu- lations of 1887 is carried out ; and, if not, will the Government take steps to repeal the rule? The regulation referred to was to the effect that the men should retire at a certain age-sixty years, he thought, in one case, and sixty-five years in another. Apparently the rule had been re- pealed by Order in Council, but nevertheless it appeared in the police books issued to members of the Force. He desired to know what the position of the matter was, and to ascertain whether the Government intended to deal with the question of superannuation, now that there was a super- annuation fund from which those retiring could draw. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the regulation referred to was revoked in 1888. For himself, he believed it was a wise provision in regard to the whole of the public service, be- cause, although there were many gentlemen filling positions in the service who though of great age were very useful and estimable offi- cers, there were others who could not be so con- sidered, and a regulation of the kind would be advisable, so that when a man was retired it could not be said a hardship had been done to the individual. When men had served a long time and were getting well up in years there was no doubt they prevented younger men from getting promotion, and the younger men in the different departments probably considered this a hardship. The matter was one that was now engaging the attention of the Government. POLICE PROTECTION AT ST. ANDREW'S. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether provision will be made for police protection for the Township of St. Andrew's by stationing a constable there and providing a lock-up? Owing to the in- creased population of the district there was a necessity for a constable and for the erection of a lock-up at this township. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said Chat, in reply to the honourable gentleman, he would give him the facts of the case. During the last twelve months there had been three offences reported to the police from St. An- drew's. In two cases prosecutions resulted, and in the third there was no prosecution. The population of the Lower Pareora Riding, Wai- mate County, within which St. Andrew's was situate, on the 31st March last was 642, while the general average throughout the colony of police to population was one policeman to every 1,381 of the population. St. Andrew's was purely a farming district, and the resident population orderly and law-abiding, but during harvest- and threshing-time the floating popu- ters, was considerable, and during that period additional police protection was no doubt re- quired, and would in future be provided. He was sorry to think the honourable member should hold the opinion that his constituents were of such a class that they required greater police protection than any other part of the colony. Major STEWARD did not think it was right that the suggestion should come from the Government benches that a member of the House had traduced his constituents. He de- sired to say that he had brought the matter up at the request of a number of his consti- tuents. WAIMATE COURTHOUSE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether the attention of his department has been called by the Inspector of Works and Buildings to the necessity for painting and other works, including the erec- tion of a new fence, at the Courthouse, Wai- mate; and, if so, whether the necessary pro- vision for these works will be made this session ? The Courthouse was a very valuable and handsome public building. It was not built by the Government, but came to them at the time of the abolition of the provinces twenty-five years ago. Nothing, or very little. had been done to it since, and as it was in need of repair he trusted that the Minister would He was see his way to put the work in hand. aware that the question had been brought under the notice of the department by the Inspector of Works. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said he was pleased to be able to inform the honouralle gentleman that inquiries had been made in reference to this matter, and that he would bring the subject before the Government with a view to placing a sum on the estimates to carry out the necessary repairs, et cetera. BOATMAN'S COAL-MINE FIRE. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Minister of Mines, If he will take steps to extinguish a fire which has been burning for some time in a coal-mine near Boatman's, in Inangabua County. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said the fire, which had been burning for a number of years, was not in a coal-mine, but in a small seam of indifferent coal. The Government was approached on the matter some years ago, but when the department wrote to the County Cour- cil on the subject that body declined to bear any proportion of the cost of extinguishing the fire. as the land was only poor quality Crown land. That the seam was small was proved by the fact that portions of it had been burning for som- years and the dead ashes remained as the fire proceeded. The acute attention given to the coal question for some time past had caused him to look into this matter. He had obtained a report from the Inspector with regard to this fire and the best means of suppressing it, and he in- tended to have a more exhaustive report prepared 