the Minister would be that he intended to metal the roads before putting up the land for occupa- tion. . If done at the utmost possible speed this would take at least two years, and at the rate in which they had been going on in the past it would take ten or twelve years. Settlers were unable to wait even for a period of two years. So great was the demand for settlement in the country that if the Minister would load the land with a sufficient sum to metal the road right through he would find that settlers were willing to take up the land at once, instead of going elsewhere to seek land. Then, if this money were put aside for that special purpose, and the work begun at both ends of the road, there would soon be a metalled road through the country. He would guarantee if that was done the country would be settled at once ; and the probability was that, if the Government did not open the land for settlement until the road was finished, the demand for land would not be as great as at the present time. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he had no intention of waiting until the roads were metalled before opening up the land. Wherever the honourable gentleman got that information from it was not from him (the Minister). He might say that the lands of the Rohe-Potae, or King-country, as it was called, would be opened for settlement towards the beginning of next year-that was, towards the middle of the summer. They were now being surveyed, and as it was bush country it took a considerable time to get them ready. He thought it was a good thing to open them up early in the summer, so that those who were https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 energetic might have time to knock down a little bush in order to get a house up and a garden laid down for a start while the weather was favourable. They were hurrying up with the preliminaries, for they did not want to keep land back so long as there were men willing to take it up. He thought that generally the settlers had been very faithful, because they were at a very great disadvantage in taking up land as regarded roads and other conveniences. Mr. MASSEY asked what arca would be opened up. Mr. DUNCAN said the area was not yet stated, only that there were about four thousand acres in one block, as far as he knew. Mr. SEDDON said he thought there were 80,000 acres. Mr. DUNCAN said the surveyor had been continually at it, and whatever was ready would be put up for application as soon as con- venient-about the middle of the summer. Mr. LANG asked if it included the land lying between Kawhia and Awakino. Mr. DUNCAN said, Yes ; he understood the bulk of it was in that direction. # FAIR RENT BILL. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Lands, If it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Fair Rent Bill early this session ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands), said the Government had already introduced this Bill. Mr. Lang WANGAMOMONA-OHURA ROAD. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Minister of Lands, When he intends to make the road be- tween Wangamomona and Ohura fit for horse traffic? He might state that a small portion of the road between Stratford and Ohura was practically impossible for horse traffic. It was a great inconvenience to the settlers to have to go on foot through this country. He hoped the Minister would give an answer that the road would, at any rate, be made suitable for pack and horse traffic as soon as possible. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this referred to a part of the main road between Stratford and Te Kawakawa, in the Ongaruhe Valley. It was called the Ohura Main Road. The work on this particular section was in hand. At the end of last month there were four co-operative contracts in hand in the Tanga- rakau Gorge, and one in the Paparata Valley. It was intended to push the bridle-track through as soon as the side-cuttings on the steep faces of the Tangarakau Gorge were passable. This would probably be next sum- mer. STRATFORD-KAWAKAWA RAILWAY. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Minister for Public Works, If, in view of the more speedy construction of the railway from Stratford to Kawakawa, he will proceed with the construc- tion of the railway at the Auckland end as well as at the Stratford end ? The Minister for Public Works, when he visited the Waikato, said he intended to make the railway through from Stratford to Kawakawa ; and he wished to ask the Minister whether he would start work at the Auckland end as well as at the Stratford end. He wished it to be distinctly understood that he did not desire the Minister to reduce the work at the Stratford end, but, in fairness to Auckland, the work should be carried on at the Kawakawa end as well as the other end. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said this matter was known in the Public Works Department as the Stratford- Wangamomona Railway, and the authorisation last year only included that extent. He had expressed the opinion that there was no doubt of that line being carried through to Kawakawa, Kawakawa being on the main trunk line. They had not, however, reached that point from Auckland yet, and it would be unwise to start works from Kawakawa, involving the cartage of a large amount of material, until the main trunk line was completed to that point. The time was near at hand when the promise made by the Premier and himself in the House would be fulfilled-namely, the rails being laid down as far as Kawakawa; but at the present time the line had only been authorised from Strat- ford. He was sure the honourable member would be the very last man in the House to create a difficulty by inducing him, by his suave manner, to go beyond the authority of Parlia- ment and start work at the Kawakawa end. This was one and the same route as that re- ferred to in the previous question, and the honourable member not only wanted the rail- 