money has to be revoted. The Premier the , market for oats for many years to come. So other night, in connection with this very mat- ter, said, in answer to some honourable gentle- man on the Opposition benches, that contracts were entered into and the money that was un- expended was carried forward as a liability. I think the fact will be found to be, in a very I better class of sheep in this country ; but the large number of instances, that no contract is entered into, that nothing whatever has been done, and what is put down as a liability is simply the reiteration of the vote of last year, which is regarded as a liability because it was voted. Mr. PIRANI .- That is not the law. Major STEWARD .- Well, I have found it to be the practice, whether it is the law or not. At any rate, it is the case that session after session money is voted for roads and bridges, which money, it is found, has not been ex- pended when the House meets again; and I do think some scheme should be devised whereby when votes are passed the money should be placed to the credit of the local governing bodies to carry out the works autho- rised by this House. I find in the Speech a paragraph which admits that the necessity for the extension of the commerce of the country, and for the granting of facilities for the trans- mission of our products to other markets, still continues ; and then follows a reference to the efforts of the Government to - obtain cheap freights for our produce to other markets. These efforts are very praiseworthy, and, though at present they do not appear to have led to very much, I hope they will be persisted in until we obtain the cheapest possible means of transmitting our produce to other markets. I should like to point out to the House and the country that there is a greater necessity than many people apprehend for opening up new markets. The farmers of New Zealand are going to lose the London market for their cereals. When it is known that the Argentine can produce, and does produce, wheat in enormous quantities, and can land it in London and sell it at a profit at 1s. 7d. per bushel-this fact came before us during our recent investigations-it will be seen that it will be impossible for New Zea- land, with the price of labour here, to compete. We shall still continue to grow a large amount of wheat ; we must do so in connection with the rotation of crops and our mixed farming ; and we must get rid of that wheat somewhere. I be- lieve we shall have to send it eastwards and sell it in other markets than those that have already been exploited, and the Government have done well to appoint a Trade Commissioner to find out where markets are available for us. For oats there will be a large market for some time to come in South Africa ; and in this connection I may mention that it is a notable fact that, of the large amount of oats-two hundred thou- sand pounds' worth-which was sent from this country last year to New South Wales, not more than about 8 per cent. was consumed in New South Wales itself, all the rest being transhipped to South Africa. We could have sent it equally well ourselves direct to South Africa, where I believe we shall have a also with regard to our frozen meat. The frozen meat which has been sent from the River Plate of recent years has been very much inferior to New Zealand, or even to Australian mutton. That was owing to the fact that we have a much sheep-owners in that part of the world are now doing their very utmost to improve their sheep. They are paying large sums of money for the very best blood they can get, and at a not very distant date I believe that an equally good article will be shipped from the Plate to the English market as can be sent from New Zea- land, and as it can be sent much cheaper from there than from here we shall be heavily handi- capped. Then, Sir, it is evident that we must look for another market for our frozen meat also ; and. fortunately, I believe there are large markets available in the East and in Africa. But it is not merely a question of cheap freight to these places, but it is also a question of having proper cold storage available for placing the car- cases in when they arrive there, so that our mutton will not have to be put on to a flooded market and sold for what it will fetch, as in a warm climate is now inevitable, as it must be sold almost immediately on being discharged from the ship. If we had cool-storage belonging to the Government at the Cape and other places, which could be used at a small charge by con- signors of frozen meat, we could place our pro- duce on the market at the proper time, and we should derive very large benefit therefrom ; and I hope, therefore, that one of the instructions to the Trade Commissioner who has gone to the Cape will be to secure on behalf of our colony suitable sites for the purpose of putting And I think this up frozen-meat stores. House could not do better than vote this session the necessary sum of money to establish such cool-stores, so that we might be able to send our produce with safety to a very large and profitable market. Then, there is one other matter to which I would like to call the atten- tion of the Minister for Railways as forcibly as I can. It is that, in connection with or as a result of the large amount of settlement that has gone on under the Land for Settlements Act, the amount of grain that is coming forward for railway freight is enormously greater than it was two or three years ago. The honourable gentleman promised me that during last recess he would accompany me through my district- that is, through a part of South Canterbury and part of North Otago, where a very large amount of settlement has gone on-and see for himself the needs of the district in this respect. I absolve him for the non-performance of that promise, inasmuch as he has not had the time during the recess to fulfil it, but I rely upon his fulfilling the promise during the coming recess. In the meantime I feel sure that, travelling up and down the main line, he must have seen with his own eyes that all along the railway, at almost every station, there are piles and piles of grain which could not be taken into the sheds because the sheds are not large enough, and which have to be protected 