surveying. The total is £1,610.510, so I do not : that we had ourselves fixed as the upset price. think the honourable member has much to complain of in that respect. I will go further, and say this: In the debate that has taken place in respect to this Bill I much regret that those who are so favourable to the land-for- settlements legislation should be led away by specious arguments, and practically, as it were, abandon what they had done before. There has been an attack made during the debate on the Assets Realisation Board, and there has been an attack in respect to the administration of Native land, and the Natives holding their land. I can only say, as far as the Assets Realisation Board is concerned, that the Board is there to realise to the best interests of .the colony, the guarantors, and those con- nected with the shareholders of the Bank of New Zealand. Had the Board done what some i in one family for land. If you have twenty. members had urged, and forced the land into the market at a time when there was no de- mand, the result would have been a heavy loss ; and who is that going to fall upon ? On the contrary, if we had kept all the land and never sold an acre, the Board to-day, comparing the present prices with those when the land was sold, would have been €150,000 to the good. Those who would force the hands of those ad- ministering the estates seem to forget this ; and if you force sales it is all right enough for those who want to buy land, but it is against public policy. I have always understood that we want to get people on the land, and close settle- ment, and if we part with the land it should not be in large areas. An Hon. MEMBER. -- Cut it up. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. SEDDON .-. Then you cannot sell against the Goverment. Your land - for - settlement policy and the policy in regard to perpetual leases of Crown lands euts against the realisa- i tion of the Assets Board's property. Well. Sir, we have tried it. We cut upland into suitable- | sized farms and offered it, and we had only two or three buyers. We have sold that estate to the Government, and every farm was taken up. Why? Because we could only give a short ! lease, with the loans secured on the purchase- money. We had to have some cash, and there- fore the terms we can afford to offer as compared with the Government are such that you cannot even on equal terms dispose of the land. Then, of course, you offer it to the Government, and to say we have not done that is incorrect. We ! have offered every other estate we had to the Government, and we can only sell that which : not have gone on the Land Boards of the they were prepared to take. The total amount realised for sales of land for the period from 1895 to 1901, including stock, amounted to : $685.282, and, from the properties that are not finally realised, $387.163. On this there has been a loss as compared with the book value of $180,000- that is, taking the book value and the amount realised. Now, I can only say this : that no reasonable offer has been refused. I wish now to follow what has been stated in this debate- namely, that you must sell by auction or fix a price Take the estate which is just outside Auckland --- Williamson's Mr. Seddon We sold by sections, holding back the others as the land got built upon and taken up, and so increasing the value of the remaining sections ; and the remaining sections are exactly double now what they were when we offered them and fixed the upset price. Therefore we are dealmit with the realisation on business lines. I say. when we have disposed of land and stock ( x- ceeding $100,000 a year, you cannot say that the Assets Realisation Board have not been doing their duty. Regarding the remarks that have been made in this debate respecting the unmarried men, I want to know how you are going to deal with such cases. I say you have young men taken from different parts of the colony, with their relatives, eight or ten and as high as twenty in number, applying therefore, taking up that one piece, and you find that they can afford to pay the deposit-moms, why should the unfortunate man who has no friends and has not the deposit-money. it- cause he cannot duplicate or make himself into twenty, be unable to get the section ? You must do something. You start with the mar- ried men. I say you should not shut out the widow, but you might shut out the girls who have been put in as dummies. Any Land Board, when they have applications of thi- ' kind, must know that they are not doing their duty when they allow these people to go into the ballot. They know it as well as I do. I will go further, and I will say that, in respect to the young men who are unmarried when the land is opened for settlement, under clause S they will give the Minister the opportunity of saying in that case whether they should be accepted as applicants or not. Althotel there is this privilege proposed to be ex- ferred in the case of the married men, the intention is not to debar unmarried men as I applicants. The very objection which is taken to clause 8 is the one that ought to recommend itself to those who oppose it. I find in the Land Act that you have powers given to the Land Boards; their decision is final. It has been held by some Boards that a person with six hundred pounds' worth of land is landless. The Government have had cases brought bef ne them which disclose a shocking state of thin .- I say that if my worthy friend and late con- league Sir John Mckenzie had remained on these benches members of this House wow !! colony. Why? Because, instead of consid r- ing themselves administrators, they have !- dulged in politics and matters of policy. That has been the difficulty : but let us hope th ". whilst there has been nothing ungenerous & !! ! by me, they will understand that the 4 -.: thing to do is, as my colleague told Me. Mclachlan, to " be straight," and do their du's faithfully, and in the best interest of the cok my and the settlement of the people on the land. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton .-- I wh to make a personal explanation. The Hon. . F. Premier has stated that I have misrepresented 