His Excellency anthorising you to administer the said oath to members of the Legislative Council .- I have, &c., "J. G. WARD. "The Hon. Sir Henry John Miller, M.L.C., Speaker of the Legislative Council, Welling- ton." The enclosure was as follows :- "RANFURLY, Governor. "To all to whom these presents shall come : Greeting. "In pursuance of the authority in me vested by the Constitution Act, and of all other au- thorities me enabling in this behalf, I, Uchter John Mark, Earl of Ranfurly, Governor of the Colony of New '/ ealand, do hereby authorise the Honourable Sir Henry John Miller, Knight, Speaker of the Legislative Council of the said colony, to administer to members of the said Legislative Council the oath or affirmation of allegiance to His Majesty the King. "Given under the hand of His Excellency the Right Honourable Uchter John Mark, Earl of Ranfurly ; Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint George ; Governor and Commander-in Chief in and over His Majesty's Colony of New Zealand and its Dependencies; and issued under the seal of the said colony, at the Government House, at Wellington, this first day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one. "J. G. WARD." Members then took the oath of allegiance, and subscribed the oath. DEATH OF QUEEN VICTORIA. The Hon. the SPEAKER read the following message from His Excellency the Governor :- " RANFURLY, Governor. " It is the painful duty of the Governor to inform the Legislative Council that, amidst the lamentations of her subjects and the grief of the civilised world, our late Most Gracious Sove- reign Queen Victoria departed this life on Tues- day, the 22nd day of January, 1901, between the hours of six and seven of the clock in the even- ing, at Osborne House, in the Isle of Wight. "Her late Majesty was succeeded by her eldest son, Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, who, in England, on the 24th day of January, 1901, and in New Zealand on the 28th day of the same month, was proclaimed King by the style and title of Edward the Seventh. "The Proclamation as made in New Zealand was recorded in the Gazette of the 4th day of February, 1901, in the following terms :-- ## " PROCLAMATION. "' WHEREAS it has pleased Almighty God to call to His mercy our late Sovereign Lady Queen Victoria of Blessed and Glorious Memory, by whose decease the Imperial Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and all other Her late Majesty's dominions, is solely and Hon. the Speaker Edward : Now, therefore, We, Uchter John Mark, Earl of Ranfurly, the Governor of the Colony of New Zealand, Richard John Seddon, a Member of Her late Majesty's Privy Council, Joseph George Ward, Acting-Premier of the said colony, and the Members of the Executive Council of the said colony. assisted by Members of both Houses of the General Assembly, Judges, Magistrates, and Officers of Courts, Ministers of Religion. Mayors, Chairmen, and Members of Local Bodies, and numerous other representa- tive European and Maori citizens here present, do now hereby, with one full voice and consent of tongue and heart, publish and proclaim that the High and Mighty Prince Albert Edward is now, by the death of our late Sovereign of Happy and Glorious Memory, become our only lawful and rightful Liege Lord, Edward the Seventh, by the Grace of God, King of the United King- dom of Great Britain and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India, Supreme Lord in and over the Colony of New Zealand and its Dependencies, to whom we do acknowledge all ... . faith and constant obedience with all hearty and humble affection, beseeching God, by whom kings and queens do reign, to bless the Royal Prince Edward the Seventh with long and happy years to reign over us. "Given at Wellington, in the Colony of New Zealand, this twenty-eighth day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one. "' RANFURLY. ". R. J. SEDDON. 1 "'J. G. WARD. "W. C. WALKER. "' WM. HALL-JONES. "C. H. MILLS. "' DUDLEY ALEXANDER, Captain. "'GOD SAVE THE KING !' " On the day of the accession to the Throne, His Majesty the King was pleased to make a declaration in the following terms :- "' Your Royal Highnesses, My Lords, and Gentlemen, - This is the most painful occa- sion on which I shall ever be called upon to address you. "'My first and melancholy duty is to an- nounce to you the death of my beloved mother, the Queen, and I know how deeply you, the whole nation. and I think I may say the whole world, sympathize with me in the irreparable loss we have all sustained. ". I need hardly say that my constant endea- vour will be always to walk in her footsteps. In undertaking the heavy load which now devolves upon me. I am fully determined to be a Consti- tutional sovereign in the strictest sense of the word, and, as long as there is breath in my body, to work for the good and amelioration of my people. " I have resolved to be known by the name of "Edward," which has been borne by six of my ancestors. In doing so I do not undervalue the <!-- PageFooter="\-" --> name of " Albert " which I inherit from my ever- to-be-lamented great and wise father, who, by <!-- PageFooter=":" --> universal consent, is, I think, deservedly known <!-- PageFooter="!" --> 