from the remarks he made. If he does not he ought to, because I feel quite sure he would succeed. We have heard something of the roads of Christchurch, and we something about the roads in one or two other parts of New Zealand. But, surely, because there are good roads in Christchurch that is no argument against this Bill. Here in Wellington our roads are a dis- grace-we are prepared to admit they are bad- and we want some legislation passed to enable us to improve our roads so that our cyclists may use them. If we are prepared to pay for the work, surely this is a fair and reasonable measure and does not deserve carping opposi- tion. An Hon. MEMBER .- You tax the people of Wanganui. Mr. WILFORD .- Most decidedly. I have ridden a cycle from Wellington to Rotorua. I have been through some bad roads, and I know what bad roads are. I am quite sure of what I am talking, and I am sure the member for Riccarton does not know what he was talking about. The honourable member does not ride a "bike " evidently. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- - I will race you to the Hutt. Mr. WILFORD .- - The honourable member says he will race me to the Hutt. The honour- able member knows I cannot hold him answer- able for the words he uses in this House, but if he will repeat that challenge outside, and pay $5 if he loses to some charitable institution. I will quickly accept his challenge. I con- gratulate the member for Auckland City, Mr. Fowlds, on introducing this Bill. The people in this district are in favour of it. and I hope https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the second reading will be carried. If there are any objections to the measure, they can be dealt with in Committee. I believe the Bill has the support of all the eyelists. I shall sup- port the second reading. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine). - The honour- able member who has last spoken sees the matter from one side of the fence. He is not looking broadly at this Bill. If he did so he would see at once that it is in favour of the more largely inhabited districts. For instance, section 4 says,- "This Act shall come into force in any of the said cycle districts upon the receipt by the Go- vernor of a petition, signed by cyclists residing in any such district, praying that this Act be put in force in such district, and upon the Pro- clamation by the Governor in the New Zealand Gazette of the presentation of such petition, and of the fact that this Act will from the date of such Proclamation be put in operation within such district : " Provided, however, that notice of the inten- tion to present such petition to the Governor shall have first been advertised in two news- papers circulating throughout the said district for a period of four weeks before the presentation of such petition, and that the Governor shall not have received before the date of such Pro- clamation as aforesaid a counter-petition, signed by at least half the number of cyclists that signed the original petition." Mr. Wilford Outside the country districts you might not be able to find one-half the number who sign in the borough, and therefore the country districts would be outweighed. Then, clause 34 says :- "The Board, with the consent of the local body, may apply any of the moneys in its hands from time to time in and towards the laying- down of cycle-tracks on the roads or elsewhere, and in and towards the maintenance thereof generally; and also, without such consent. in and towards the acquiring by lease or purchase, or otherwise howsoever, of any real or personal property which, in the opinion of the Beard, should be acquired for the benefit of cyclists for improving curves, reducing gradients. shorten- ing distances, or otherwise howsoever, and in the laying- down of tracks thereon, and the maintenance thereof, and may sell, lease, mort- gage, or otherwise dispose of such real and per- sonal property." From that it appears the Cycle Board could interfere with the work of a local body, and I do not think it is right that the two bodies should be working on the roads at the same time and have the same powers. I do not think the power should be taken out of the hands of the local body at all. The power should always be exercised with the consent of the local body -- that is. as to whether a cycle-track shall be made in a particular district or not. Then clause 39 provides as follows :- " Power is hereby given to any local body .- "(1.) To set apart such portion of any road or footpath within its district as it may consider expedient for the use of cyclists ; and "(2.) To enter into agreements with the Board as to the laying-down of evele- tracks, and the manner and pro p r- tions in which the expenses theresy incurred be met ; "(3.) To make such payments in respect of the laving-down of such tracks, and the maintenance thereof, as to such local body may seem expedient." The local bodies might in that case actually be spending the money of ratepavers in other districts. That clause, I think, needs some amendment. Then, as to clause 35, which gives the Board borrowing powers, what is the se- curity ? The security, I suppose, is the evelists themselves. But suppose a loan is raised under the Loans to Local Bodies Act, and the number of cyclists is reduced by half. what about the security in that case ? Clause 42 provides :- " Any person who commits a breach of any of the provisions of this Act, or, not being a eyelst within the meaning of this Act, sions any ti- tion or counter-petition in connection with any of the purposes of this Act. or uses or Las attached to, or painted or otherwise inscri. . ] or displayed on any cycle a number other than that allotted to such cycle for the then current year, shall be liable to a penalty not exceedinz five pounds." I take it, from the reading of this 4.0. clause, if a district - say. the Wellington District-is declared a cycling district and . be adjoining district is not a cycling district, then 