of by the agricultural portion of my district. ' would be injured if this Bill were to become In fact. it would be impossible for farmers to ; law without being amended. Then, the dairy- work under its provisions. I quite recognise ; ing industry has been mentioned. Now, this that in the large centres of population there is , industry at the present time is exceedingly a demand for a Bill of this kind, and year after : prosperous, and we should not do anything to year attempts have been made in this House to pass it. I believe the mistake that has been made by the members in charge of those ' of the Government in encouraging it by Bills has always been that they have been too sweeping, and that the Bill has applied to all , in grading and freezing the butter before parts of the country and to all pursuits in the country alike. Time after time in Committee we have attempted to put in exemptions, and so much time has been taken up that the House ha- given up the attempt as hopeless. I am quite willing to support the honourable mem- ber in the second reading, on the under- standing that either he or the Government shall bring down a schedule, which shall be pat upon the Order Paper, so that we may exempt from the operations of the Bill agricul- tural and pastoral pursuits, and all others that require to be exempted. If that is done, the honourable gentleman will gain his object -- that is, of passing an Eight Hours Bill to apply to the populations of the cities-and it will meet the objections of members from the country districts. I therefore reserve to my- seli the absolute right of voting against the honourable gentleman's Bill on the third read- ing if the amendment I now suggest should not be embodied in it in Committee. In the meintime, I would give the honourable gentle- man the opportunity of trying to achieve that which nobody else has been able to achieve- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 namely, to prepare a satisfactory clause ex- empting from the operations of the Bill agri- cultural pursuits, and such others as it may be necessary to exempt. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) .- I do not care, Sir, to oppose the second reading of this Bill: but if I thought it would become law as it appears now I should certainly oppose it Very strongly. But, judging from the remarks of the Premier, and the greater number of the honourable members who have spoken on this Bill. it is going to be amended in Committee, and therefore I shall give my vote for the second reading. "If the objectionable features of the Bill are removed --- namely, those applying to agricultural, pastoral, and other occupations in the country -then I shall approve of the Bill. I consider the principle is quite correct. think it is very unfortunate that a schedule showing the ocenpations to which the Bill should not apply has not been added to it. If that had been done a lot of time would have been saved, and a lot of discussion also, upon this Bill. There is no one who is averse to legalising the working-hours which are at the present time customary. If this Bill were to become law in its present form there would be a gr. at number of classes of workmen who would be very much injured. For instance, the wharf labourers. It would have the effect of lessening their wages. These people after working a certain number of hours get time and a half, and then after twelve o'clock they get double wages. Well, that is one class whose position affect it prejudicially. Under the present dairying regulations, and through the action the expenditure of about €15,000 a year it is exported, the condition of the dairy farmer has been very much improved. It is considerably different from what it was before the Government took the dairying in- terest in hand. Before then the dairy farmer had to rely, practically, upon local markets for his produce, and any surplus over what would be consumed in the country was sent Home ; and what did he get? His net return was something like 2d. a pound, and now, through : the assistance of the Dairy Industry Act, dairy farmers are enabled to compete successfully in the great markets of the world with Denmark and the other butter-producing countries. I think, with other honourable gentlemen, that it is a great pity the question of regulating the hours of labour had not been taken up by the Government. The Bill as it is presented to us now is not practicable, and I shall vote for its second reading on the distinct under- standing, and in the belief, that it will be so amended in Committee that it will be a work- able and useful measure. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- I had no in- tention of speaking on this measure, but I feel it incumbent on me now to say a few words. Of all the members who have spoken to-night hardly any, if indeed one, has approved of the measure as it is brought before the House. Every one who has spoken has approved of the principle of the eight-hours working-day. Members who have announced their inten- tion of supporting or voting against this mea- sure have alike approved of that principle. Some of them have also correctly stated that the principle has been in existence in the colony for many years, and I hope there are few, if any, who would wish it otherwise. I have been in the colony for a good many years, and the principle has been in force since my boyhood. At the present time, under the exist- ing labour-laws, the working-hours per week in many trades are forty - six, which amounts to 1 less than eight hours a day on the average. In some of the trades it is not more than forty- four hours. I have not heard any general demand for any further legislation with re- gard to the length of the working-day. My own opinion is that, having passed so many labour measures during the last few years, we should be consulting the general wish and inclination of the people of the colony, both workers and employers, if we rested for a time from any labour legislation. My conviction is that Ministers, if not the Labour Department ofhcials, are also of that opinion. The Go- vernment have not brought forward this mea- sure; it has been left for a private member to do so, and it is brought forward under a 