other ways; and the cost of coal to private | was pleased to notice that, in the near future, individuals on account of the great demand the supply is likely to equal the demand. The has, of course, risen. Now, that is a question country has suffered a great deal from want of rolling-stock at various times-trucks, car- that might be taken up. I remember that there was a Coal Committee set up two riages, and engines. I further congratulate years ago, and some very useful information the Minister on finding himself in the posi- tion,-having regard to the present amount was laid before the House by that Commit- tee. Well, it was proved there that the profits of rolling-stock that has been ordered, when that arrives .- of saying that he will then be of the mine-owners were not excessively great, and it was also proved that the Union Steam- able to manufacture the requirements of the ship Company, who carried the greater portion country in the country itself. That is as it of this coal, did not receive excessive freight. should be. There is no doubt that we have The freight from the West Coast to Wellington proved by actual experience that the rolling- for coal was 5s. 6d. per ton, to Lyttelton 6s. 6d. stock made here is equal, if not superior, to per ton. and to Dunedin 7s. 6d. per ton. Now, that which is imported, and, although the cost those prices do not seem at all excessive, and may be a little more, still it is the duty of the the price of the coal at the ship's side on the Government, if it can be done, to manufacture . coast was 11s. per ton. Well, now we are pay- its rolling-stock in the colony. It is very un- ing a very large price for coal, and where is the fair to lay any blame upon the department for difference between the actual cost of the coal this shortage in rolling-stock, because no one landed, we will say, in Wellington, and the coal as could foresee-no matter how far-sighted he it is landed at the consumers' houses. There is might be-the marvellous demand that we have a great leakage somewhere, and I think it should had for rolling-stock during the last few years. be inquired into. I, with other honourable Who knew anything about the enormous de- mand that gold-dredging has created, or of our members, was very pleased to notice that it is proposed to create a superannuation and rabbit-freezing industry for export, which has occupied hundreds of trucks ? And while all classification scheme for State servants. I think that is worthy of all praise. At the this has been going on I think those in charge of the department-the Hon. Mr. Cadman and present time the State servants are not uniformly paid in the different departments. Sir Joseph Ward-may be excused for not being For instance, take a Stationmaster on a country able to grasp this contingency, and the abnormal line. We find his hours exceedingly long and demand for rolling-stock that we have fortu- his duties very heavy ; and, in addition to the nately experienced. And one of the great causes ordinary duties of Stationmaster, he has the in regard to the demand for carriages bas. been the manner in which the railways have postal arrangements to look after, and to act been appreciated-the system of taking the as telegraphist, and take charge of the money- order business, and to distribute the old age school - children from the country into the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 towns, and vice versa, and the cheap excursion pensions fund, as well as other duties, and they do not get, if I am right in saying so, above fares-the whole combination of circumstances $140 to $160 a year. Well, that is too little. which have been for the good of the country, I have heard the Minister for Railways say that this matter was going to be looked into, and I believe last year an alteration would have been made if there had been time to have under- taken this classification scheme. We recognise the necessity of a retiring-allowance or super. annuation scheme to reward these old and faithful servants in the State service. 1 re- member, last year, the case of an old man who had been twenty - seven years on the railway -he was one of the first to join the Rail- way service. He became stiff through an acci- dent, and was not able to continue his duties as shunter. He was taken into some other branch of the department- as porter, or storeman, or something of that sort-but at last he was anxious to give up the service and retire to his little home, and there end his days. I tried to get him a little compensation from the depart- ment ; but, however willing the department might have been to give some compensation, they had not the power to do it. I believe $25 is the amount I could have obtained for this man : but what was the good of $25 for a man who had, perhaps, twenty years to live, and was not in a position to earn any money. Under the new proposal that will all be altered, and I hope the Minister will put it through the House without delay. With regard to rolling-stock, 1 and has all tended to make a great demand en the rolling-stock. But I believe the Minister for Railways has now grasped the situation, and I do not think the shortage will occur again. In regard to the land-for-settlement. proposals, I think one and all must congratulate the Government on the intention of still further vigorously prosecuting this most appreciated and desirable scheme. There is no doubt it bas been a very great factor in the prosperity of the country, this and the kindred Act -- the Ad- vances to Settlers Act. I think, notwithstand- ing what some people say-that this legislation has had nothing to do with the prosperity of the colony-we all must admit that these two Acts have had a great deal to do with it. The County Councils Bill affects more than half of the population of this colony, and it is a ques- tion that I do not think should be hurried through. It is doubtful whether it will be prudent to pass the Bill this session. The con- ference on the County Councils Bill will meet in Wellington some time this month, and no doubt the new Bill -I have not yet seen it, but I presume it is very much like that pre- sented to the House last year - will be discussed by the conference ; and it will be necessary. in my opinion, that they should report to the various Councils before the Bill is finally dealt, 