that was reasonable, which we had first settled upon-namely, 3s. 2d. per stone of 8 1b., and the price paid up to June of 1897, when the market was not so promising and could not be maintained. And how was that brought about? It was attributed by many to consignments of meat from the Belfast Factory, held by certain tradesmen in the Smithfield Market. That re- duction went on until the price for lamb fell from 3s. 8d. per 8 1b., early in March, down to 2s. 7d. and 2s. 8d. in May, when the price came down to that point. The firms selling the con- signed lines from the Belfast Works operated largely on the market, buying extensively, and then they hardened prices; other vendors were only too glad to follow suit. The market steadily advanced from May until well into October, when the price then reached 3s. 6d. and 3s. 8d. per stone- a price which might have been maintained throughout the season. And the profit made after the slump doubtless en- abled the firm to buy a magnificent estate in Scotland. I wrote out to my directors in Can- terbury, indicating the reason of this slump ; but in Canterbury itself Mr. Waymouth told the people that an attempt had been made to in- crease the price of lamb in the London market. He was against the combination-probably for reasons of his own -and he said :- " Let me tell them what was the result of the effort which was made in London as to the fixing of the price of lamb. A gentleman who was concerned had a number of Australian lambs on hand which he was able to unload (sell), whilst the Canterbury lambs did not go off. Then there was another meeting, and the idea of trying to fix the price of lamb failed." This speech was made at a meeting held in Christchurch for the purpose of concentrating meat in fewer hands, and also to appoint an advisory committee in London, in order to regulate the meat trade and prices at which the ineat was being sold. A report also appears in the Lyttelton Times, in which Mr. Waymouth stated :- " :formula: combination in London was made to keep Canterbury lamb off the market for a time, and then raise it :formula: a pound. One agent had Australian lamb to sell at the time, and the result was an increase in the price of Aus- tralian lamb. His company was very averse to any attempt at regulation of prices.' We did not hold that meeting for the purpose of increasing the price, or keeping Canterbury lamb off the market. That statement is abso- lutely incorrect. We did it to save it from coming down. Lamb had been sold at 7d. per pound, and it had fallen to 6d., and then to 5d., and it was getting lower, and we endeavoured to maintain a price that was low and reason- able-namely, 4%d. per pound-a price that might easily be maintained for the whole sea- son. The meetings did some good in checking the "rot " that had set in. I will give the posi- tion of the market at the time, and compare it with previous years and prices up to that time :- Mr. T. Mackenzie 1896. 1808. 1883. 1497. New Zealand lambs 120,000 93,000 2 9.000 Australian 12,000 46,10) 74,000 34,000 Totals 142,000 139,000 163,000 253,000 New Zealand average 51d. 5d .\* prices 58.4. 'Included prices for a large quantity of old stocks. Imports for April only. 1895. 1696. 1807. 1898. 121,000 171. 00 New Zealand lambs 174,000 \*139.000 Australian 9,000 2,000 Nil 5,000 Totals 180,000 176,000 139,000 126,000 New Zealand average 5d. 5}d. 5d. prices ? ... 'Estimated, and excluding 40,000 by " Aotea" and "Indraghiri," not due before end of month. Total Imports, January to April. 1-95. 1997. 1896. New Zealand lambs 241,000 264,000 203,000 35-,000 Australiau 27.000 55,000 76,000 34.000 390.000 Totals 268,000 319,000 391,000 ... Increase, compared with previous years 73 p.c. 19 p.c. 6 p.c. 15 p.c. The increase of 130,000 lambs from New Zea- land during January to March, 1898, as com- pared with the same months in 1897, is to a certain extent counterbalanced by the decrease of 40,000 in the arrivals of Australian lambs. By the end of April, 1898, the increase in New Zealand arrivals, as compared with 1897, wilt, apparently, be no more than 95,000, and the decrease in Australians will have be- come 42,000. Taking Australian and New Zea- land lambs together, therefore, the increase in arrivals at the end of April will not be more than, say, 52,000 carcases, or 15 per cent. The lambs from New Zealand this year were pro- bably, on an average, 5 lb. per carcase lighter than last year, equivalent to a reduction of 124 per cent. in the weight available for sale. I have in my hand a diagram which shows that, instead of the quantity of lamb from Australia having increased and a better price being ob- tained for Australian lamb after our meetings in March and April. the price of Australian lamb went down rapidly from 3s. 4d. per stone in the month of February to 2s. 9d. and 2s. sd. in the months of March and April, and to 25. 6d. in May and June, whilst New Zealand was always higher during that time. It is therefore incorrect to imply that our meeting was for the purpose of holding Canterbury lamb and in- creasing the price, and that that policy enabled Australian holders to clear out theirs at a higher rate. I am exceedingly sorry, Sir, that my time is so limited. I have been quite unable to do justice to the subject at the rate I have had to rush and in the time allotted to me. I would like to have gone into the questions of shipping and marketing, et cetera. As I have said before, the grading should be insisted on by the Govern- ment if works will not do it properly them- selves. The whole of our meats sold c.i.f. should be subject to an insurance policy containing a provision that, in the event of any dispute arising regarding claims for damage, one arbi- trator, who shall be appointed by the New Zea- land Government at a permanent salary, shall 