petition I have known an estate to bring duplication of applications. Why, I could show considerably more than was offered ; and, that being the case, I think I am justified in saving that, if anything, the department has offered less in some cases than the real value of the land. In regard to clause 7, I have in my mind's eye an estate which was offered to the Government. or at least an offer was made by the Government to purchase. I may say that the amount the Government offered would not have cleared the mortgage. The mortgagees thereafter foreclosed, and they sold this same estate by public auction. I may mention that behind the offer that was made by the Govern- ment was the report of the Land Purchase Commissioners that on certain conditions an advance might be made, but there was a draw- back which they thought had not been con- sidered. But, as I said, the mortgagees fore- closed, and submitted the land, through the Registrar of the Supreme Court, to public auction. Well, that land was bought by several parties who joined together to purchase it. Now, on looking at my papers, and knowing what that land realised, I found that the Government would have given the price ; but we were not allowed by law to appoint some one with instructions to offer up to that amount. The result was that the estate was lost to the colony. Owners or mortgagees sometimes prefer to realise by public auction. But I say the Land Purchase Board, having come to a conclusion, and made a recommen- dation as to what is the value of the land and the maximum price that should be paid, and the Minister having agreed to that, should be in a position to secure the land at that price. And it is no violation or variation from what has been intended by the Legislature-namely, that the price only shall be paid which the Land Purchase Officers recommend, and which they consider the land is worth. It is only a machinery clause, and, safeguarded as the Act already safeguards the purchase of es- tates or land, I do not think that excep- tion can be taken to it. I know of estates which have been disposed of, where, if this machinery had existed, these estates would have been the property of the Crown, and would have avoided the necessity we had afterwards by having to take another estate in the same locality. Section 8 is a provision which we deem necessary. We have a regulation to this effect, but the regulation itself has been ques- tioned, and it has been urged by some members of Land Boards that it was alta ries. Some Land Boards I think, or a Land Board, has re- fused to recognise the regulation. Now, as I sav, it is a matter which could be better settled by legislation than to have members of a Land Board or the Board itself in conflict with the Crown, and I consider that the best way to re- move t e ambiguity will be by passing a clause in this Bill. As to the contention that married men should not have the preference, I do not think it will hold good at all, for this reason : that by giving married men preference, you will, to some extent, stop what is going on namely, this gambling in land, this dummyism, this many cases where boys - - Mr. McLACHLAN .- No boy under twenty- four years of age. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, you do not ask, of course, for birth certificates. Mr. MEREDITH .- Yes, we insist upon them being produced. Mr. SEDDON .- In some cases you cannot get them. Mr. MEREDITH .- Then we disqualify them. Mr. SEDDON. - The model Land Board of the colony is, of course, the Canterbury Land Board, and it is the Land Board which I believe refused to recognise that married men should have the preference. Well, when this Bill is passed I think you will have to do it. But the fact is, that I know cases where relatives have been raked up from all parts of the colony, and some of the applicants have been young men who had no idea of going upon the land, and who were following other pursuits. An Hon. MEMBER. Can you prove that ? Mr. SEDDON. . Prove it - of course I can, with any amount of cases. Some Land Boards are careful, but other Land Boards say, " Oh, well, it is a ballot ; let them take their chance. We are not here to mend the law; we are simply here to administer the Act as we like." They take that happy - go- lucky view of the situation. However, I say this: that a man who is married and is living in the locality should certainly be entitled to preference. I say, again, that a condition of this kind could be easily overcome, because the parties who want to go in for a section of land can be married, and then they get the preference. It will be conducive to matrimony. I think anything that promotes that desirable object will be appreciated by at least the ladies of the colony. However. I claim, seeing that he has a re- sponsibility, all things being equal, a married man should be given the preference over a single competitor, and I do not think any very good reason can be urged against it. In these days of dairying, in these days of close settle- ment-the land being required for close settle- ment-is an argument in favour of married couples. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Why do not you buy the land ? Mr. SEDDON .- This clause is to meet cases where we have bought it, and it is in the dis- posal of it a question as to whether the Land Board should give preference to married couples, who, all other things being equal, are the best settlers. At present, the ballot being flooded with dummies, they do not get it, and when we see applications in for so many sections, it is quite misleading. The chances are we might divide the total number by ten, and then arrive at the real number of bond pide applications. Mr. TANNER. And this, after seven years of legislation. and after so much boasting about stopping dummyism ! Mr. SEDDON .-- I say the present system of the ballot is nothing more nor less than a system of dummyism. 