sess of land administration will be always forth- coming to assist the Minister if he desires such assistance. Sir, I could not help noticing the laboured way in which the Premier spoke this afternoon, and more particularly the lengthy extracts he read. It is a most unusual practice for the Premier of the colony, because ordinarily he can speak until further orders. Contrast the speech of the Right Hon. the Premier on the second reading of this Bill -the hesitancy with which he spoke, the laboured manner of his de- livery, the copious extracts he read, showing his complete ignorance of the subject-with the ease and grace of the speech of mv honourable friend the Minister of Lands, Mr. Duncan. During the speech of the Premier one or two members of the House ejaculated now and again and interrupted the honourable gentleman, when he made use of sentiments which conveyed a sort of covert threat to those members of the House who have to administer the land-laws of the colony as members of the various Land Boards. Sir. I became a member of the Can- terbury Land Board at the distinct request of the Hon. Sir John Mckenzie. It has been no benefit to me to be a member of that Board. It would have been better for me, so far as my own interests and the welfare of my own family are concerned, if I had had nothing to do with the Canterbury Land Board. I have to go thirty miles to a meeting of the Land Board. Frequently I have to remain over-night in Christchurch, and perhaps the following day I have to go a distance of 100 miles to Timaru, or perhaps to Waimate, a distance of 135 miles, or even to Fairlie, a distance of 160 miles, on Land Board business, and we, the members of ! the Canterbury Land Board, get the magnitcent sum of 10s. a day to cover all expenses, while my honourable friend the Premier, who occu. pies a seat on the Assets Realisation Board, for sitting a couple of hours in Wellington at a meeting receives at the rate of $250 a year for perhaps ten meetings during the year. Now, Sir, the Right Hon. the Premier has depre- cated in strong terms the conduct of mem- bers who are serving on the different Boards. Every member of the House possesses the con- fidence of the electors in his district, and, there- fore, he is entited to the greatest respect. say, if members of the House are not com- petent to become members of Land Boards on account of their position as representatives of the people, they certainly are unfitted to act on the Assets Board, on Federation Commissions, School Teachers' Salaries Commissions. Mid- land Railway Commissions, and Tariff Commis- sions, and, as a matter of sequence, why should members of this House be qualited to become Ministers of the Crown, and why should a Minister of the Crown become Premier of the colony. The Premier receives $1,800 a vear, and $250 from the Assets Board, making $2,050, plus a large sum for perquisites. Why not advertise the position and run the business of the colony on commercial lines ? The member for Avon complained of the administration of the Can- terbury Land Board with reference to sites for workmen's homes. I have been eleven years a member of the Canterbury Land Board. and that honourable gentleman has been for the same length of time a member of this House ; he has shown himself to be the very incarnation of philanthropy-yes, to such an extent that he has never once come be- fore the Land Board to make inquiries as to how the Board was administering the land affairs of the district. The honourable mem- ber for Riccarton says that members of the House had no right to be there; but he knows perfectly well that the meetings of the Land Board are open to the public, and proceedings are subject to public criticism. Any member of the House has a perfect right to be present at the deliberations of the Board. An Hon. MEMBER. To take part in the pro- ceedings ? Mr. MEREDITH .- No ; but he is at liberty after the meeting is over to make suggestions to the Commissioner, or to come before the Board by appointment, when I am sure he would receive most courteous treatment from the Board. Now, what is the position ? The Commissioner of Crown Lands is a Government servant, the District Surveyor is a Government servant, and lands bought by the Land for Settlements Board are laid off by the District Surveyor. A map is prepared and sent Wellington to be lithographed, a guide-book is prepared in Wellington, and so the whole thing is cut and dried in Wellington, and the Land Board have no voice whatever in making regula- tions, or even in recommending in what size blocks the land should be cut up. The whole thing is done in Wellington. Of course, it is competent for Land Boards to make sugue- tions, but the Minister need not accept these suggestions. With reference to the acquisition of land for workmen's homes in the neichb ar- hood of Christchurch : A block of land in the neighbourhood of Christchurch, known as the Tarawahi Hamlet, has lately been acquired. The land is situated about two miles from the heart of the city. It has been suldivided into thirty-six sections. It has been stated by the honourable member for Avon that those sec- tions are quarter-acre sections. That is net correct. I will give an analysis of the size of the sections : There were twelve quarter-arte I sections, thirteen half-acres, and eleven acte. one-and-a-half, and two-acre sections. Now. this block of land was duly advertised in the public papers, and yet there were only apph u- tions for eight out of the thirty-six seenots. Why is this ? Is it the fault of the Land Board ? Is it the fault of the size of these- tions? I say No; the workmen in Chrit- church do not want large blocks : they can- not afford to pay for them. There is >> much land to be had in the neighbour hood of Christchurch that the working-mon can acquire it on reasonable terms and under whatever form of tenure they think proper; they can acquire the freehold, they can get it on deferred payment on a purchasing clause. or they can rent it. They have the utmost choice. and the consequence is- although I have no doubt there is a necessity for land to be acquired 