of such orders, in bushels; and (4) the price | per bushel at which they were invoiced : the return to be for the year ending 30th June, 1901. LAND-SALES. On the motion of Mr. FOWLDS (Auck- land City), it was ordered. That there be laid before this House a return showing the amounts received annually in respect of land-sales for the ten-year period 1881-90, both years in- clusive ; also for the ten-year period 1891-1900, both years inclusive ; and the total amount so received up to the 31st March, 1901. VISIT OF IMPERIAL TROOPS. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the expenditure in- curred by this colony in connection with the visit of the Imperial Representative Corps. ORDER OF BUSINESS. Mr. SPEAKER. - Speaking on Friday last, I stated my interpretation of the order of business with regard to morning sittings was to the effect that on the first day-that was, Friday-after the ordinary reception of peti- tions and notices of motion we should proceed to the orders of the day. That was on Friday ; but I did not construe the recent Order made by the House, as to the conduct of business on Tuesdays and Fridays, as imposing the same duty on me to-day. For transacting private business, and the other ordinary business of receiving petitions and notices of motion, the usual time will nearly be given for dealing with questions. If the House desires that I should https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 vacate the chair for luncheon from one o'clock till half-past two, it is my intention on resum- ing the chair to proceed to the Government orders of the day. If the House wishes me to retain the chair till half-past one, members would then have at the morning sitting just the same time for questions as at the ordinary sittings from half - past two to half - past five o'clock. ASHBURTON COUNTY COUNCIL EMPOWERING BILL. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it was a private Bill, and merely a machinery one to amend the Ashburton County Council Act. It was for the purpose of giving power to make by-laws under the County Council's Act which it was presumed had been given under the Water- supply Act. This local body was a very large one, and had control of many miles of water- It appeared that something was wrong, races. something imperfect in the present law, whereby they were not able to collect rates from the rate- payers under certain conditions. The passing of this Bill would enable them to compel rate- payers to cleanse the races, or to submit to a rate for cleansing such races, whether on their own land, the frontage to their land, or to the public road. That was the whole Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this might involve an alteration of the Counties Act. Mr. MCLACHLAN said the Bill was simply Mr. SEDDON asked if it was a private Bill to amend a public Act. Mr. MCLACHLAN said it was not : it was an amendment of a private Act. - Bill read a second time. MR. VAILE'S RAILWAY STAGE SYSTEM. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City), in presenting a petition from Mr. S. Vaile, of Auckland, pray- ing that a trial might be given to his rail- way stage system, said that, as it contained statements of great importance, he would beg to move, That the petition be read by the Clerk. This courtesy was extended some two years ago to Mr. Vaile, and he (Mr. Napier) asked that the same courtesy might now be extended to that gentleman. The petition was then read by the Clerk. Sir J. G. WARD asked, Might he be allowed to state, with reference to the petition which had just been presented- Mr. SPEAKER said it was irregular to dis- cuss a petition on its presentation. Sir J. G. WARD merely wished to state that some time ago he officially intimated to Mr. Vaile that the Government was quite willing to allow his proposal to be tried on the Auckland Section of railways, under certain conditions. and that offer had not been accepted. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked. Would the honourable gentleman inform the House what those conditions were ? Sir J. G. WARD would be very glad to lay the correspondence on the table of the House. Captain RUSSELL said it seemed to him that the essential element in a trial of Mr. Vaile's scheme should be its continuance for several It would not be fair to base a decision years. on the result merely of one or two vears' trial. Mr. Vaile, as he understood, claimed that one of the contributing factors to the success of his scheme was the settlement of population in the remoter districts. Mr. SPEAKER said it was very irregular to discuss a petition on its presentation. It would be quite competent to discuss it on the Com- mittee's report. Captain RUSSELL only wished that there should be two sides to the question heard. Sir J. G. WARD would be pleased to lay the correspondence dealing with the matter on the table. LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Mr. SEDDON (Premier), in moving That leave of absence be granted to the member for Tuapeka, on account of bereavement in his family, said he was voicing the feeling of mem- bers when he said they deeply sympathize with him on account of the great and irre- parable loss he and his family had sustained. Motion agreed to FIJI. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) desired to ask. without notice, whether the attention of the Government had been drawn to a recent law which had been passed by the Legislative Coure! of Fiji. It was called " An Ordinance to make further Provision for the Peace and Good Order of the Colony." The law was to the 