word " compulsory " be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, "That the word stand part of the clause." AYES, 24. Russell, G. W. Allen, E. G. Houston Russell, W. R. Bollard Lang Buddo McGowan Svmes Ward Mackenzie, T. Carneross Flatman McLachlan Willis. Guinness Monk Tellers. Fisher Palmer Hardy Heke Parata Massey. Herries NOES, 30. Allen, J. Hall-Jones Napier Hanan Arnold O'Meara Rhodes Atkinson Hogg Hutcheson Barclay Stevens Tanner Laurenson Duncan Thompson, R. Ell Lethbridge Fowlds Thomson, J. W. McGuire Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Tellers. Millar Collins Gilfedder Pirani. Graham Mills Hall Majority against, 6. Words struck out, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 2 .- " It shall be the duty of the Board of Education in each district constituted under ' The Education Act, 1877,' to cause military and physical drill to be taught to all boys and girls over the age of eight years attending the public schools in the school district." Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to strike out the words " military and." Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) moved, That the Chairman do now leave the chair. Motion negatived, and, subsequently, Mr. Millar's amendment agreed to, and words "military and " struck out. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved to add, at the end of the clause, the words " and every such Board may at its discretion cause military drill to be taught to all boys over the said age. " (2.) Section eighty-five of ' The Education Act, 1877,' is hereby amended accordingly." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be added be so added." AYES, 13. Fraser, A. L. D. Pirani. Allen, J. Barclay Hall Collins Laurenson Tellers. Atkinson Lethbridge EII Millar Hutcheson. Fowlds NOES, 34. Allen, E. G. Duncan Heke Arnold Field Herries Flatman Bollard Lang Gilfedder Buddo Lawry Graham Carncross Massey Carroll Guinness McGowan Colvin Hardy McGuire O'Meara Seddon Tellers. Palmer Stevens Rhodes Tanner Fisher Russell, G. W. Thomson, J. W. Mclachlan. Majority against, 21. Amendment negatived. Clause 6 .- " Upon the certificate in writing of the parent or guardian of any boy or girl, such boy or girl shall be exempted from being instructed in military and physical drill." Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved to strike out all the words after " Upon the." with a view of inserting the following words: " principal teacher of any school being satisted that any boy or girl is untit to undergo physical drill, such boy or girl shall be exempted from being instructed in such drill." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported. EIGHT HOURS BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .-- Now that the Eight Hours Bill is again before the House I take this opportunity of saying a few words with regard to it. We have had many Eight Hours Bills before the House since the date. very many years ago, when Mr. Bradshaich. Bradshaw first introduced an Eight Hours Bill. Eight Hours Bills in various forms have been before this House, as I have said. on many occasions -- some complicated, some simple. This Bill appears to be very complicated. It contains provisions which I think would im- peril the passage of any Eight Hours Bil through this House. Nevertheless, although there is that danger, I feel bound to say that at the second-reading stage of the Bill it is my duty to support it, as affirming the principle of an eight-hours day. It is my duty. as repre. senting the working-classes of this city, always to take that stand. I shall, therefore, vote for the second reading: but when this Bill gos into Committee I hope the Committee, in its wisdom, will expunge certain portions of it which I am sure would prevent any Fight Hours Bill becoming law. I shall say no more with regard to this Bill now, because I have a Bill of my own-the Libel Bill to come on for second reading, and I am extremely anxious to proceed with that Bill. Mr. FIELD (Otaki). - As a member repr- senting a farming constituency I cannot allow this Bill to go to a second reading without making some remarks upon it, because I fit . as I understand many farmer members who have spoken before me do-I had not the plai- sure of listening to the first portion of the daha'e on the second reading-I feel with them that i! this Bill passed it would practically paralys the whole of the farming industry. First and for- most, there is no call in any farming distri .: for such a Bill as this. At any rate. in my experience of country life I have never known any farm-labourer complain of his houn labour. It seems to me quite impossible to 