Mr. TANNER .- They must be in accordance with law. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Very well ; and what docs the law sav? The law with regard to trade- unions is different from the law with regard to industrial unions, as honourable members must know. The law of these trade - unions savs that any person under the age of twenty-one and above the age of sixteen may be a member of a trade-union, unless-and I ask the honourable gentleman to mark this . provision for the same is made in the rules thereof. What does that mean ? Mr. TANNER .- That was altered in 1896 by special Act. Mr. J. ALLEN. - By the Trades Union Act ? Mr. TANNER .- Yes. Mr. J. ALLEN .- If that is so, I beg the honourable gentleman's pardon. But I do not think it is so. Under this clause it has not been altered, and I know that in former days trade- unions imposed certain penalties upon those It is joining with respect to entrance-fees. doubtful, unless care is taken to provide for it, whether trade-unions would be subject to the award and direction of the Court in regard to the entrance-fees which are now being imposed with respect to industrial unions. Then, the Premier will most certainly have to include under this Act another clause which he has omitted. He has given trade-unions all the benefits under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but he omitted one very import- ant clause. He omitted altogether the penalty clause, and trade-unions are to receive all the benefits but do not come under the penalty clause of the Act of 1900. Now, that is absurd. I have no doubt it is an oversight, and will be rectified when the Bill is in Committee ; but it is only right that attention should be drawn to it, so that when the Bill is in Committee the Premier may make provision to apply the penal- ties to the trade-unions. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I have been puzzled, like the honourable member for Bruce, with regard to the insertion of the word " trade-unions " in certain sections only of the Act we passed last session. The Right Hon. the Premier gave no explanation at all of the matter. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, I did. Mr. ATKINSON .- Well, at any rate, he passed the matter over very lightly, and I did not gather the purport of what he said. But from what he has said since I understand it is on account of a decision of the Arbitration Court, which had ruled that certain trade- unions which were not directly engaged in any industrial pursuit were unable to register as industrial unions under the Act. Mr. SEDDON .- I will tell you what I said. I said that, whilst an award would bind an in- dustrial union, a trade-union which had failed to join an industrial union could not be brought under the law or be subject to the award, the intention being to bring trade-unions under the same provisions and the same penalties as you would the industrial unions. Mr. ATKINSON .- If that is the right honourable gentleman's idea, the last remark of the honourable member for Bruce is a very complete and conclusive answer to him. The word "trade-union " is inserted in a certain number of the sections of the original Act, one section being taken and another left in the most arbitrary fashion, and if the right honour- able gentleman now says the main object is not that they should get the benefits of the Act, but be subject to the penalties of the Act if they do not register- Mr. SEDDON .- I say trade-unions are not liable to the award unless they form part of an industrial union. Mr. ATKINSON .-- Yes : and you said this was to make them subject to the penalties in the Act. The honourable member for Bruce re- ferred to section 94, which contains a provision for the enforcement of an award. Now, the Bill inserts the words "trade-union or " in sec- tion 24, and therefore makes the provisions of section 94 with regard to the enforcement of an award applicable to any trade-union that is a party to an industrial agreement. A trade- union, therefore, which is a party to an indus- trial agreement becomes liable with regard to its obligations under that agreement to the pro- visions of section 94. But supposing a trade- union is not a party to an industrial agreement, it is not then subject to the liabilities imposed by section 94. Why is it that the Right Hon. the Premier has omitted altogether from his Bill any amendment which would add the word " trade-union " to section 94? Subsection (6) is the section best worth quoting :- " All property belonging to the judgment debtor (including therein, in the case of an in- dustrial union or industrial association, all pro- perty held by trustees for the judgment debtor) shall be available in or towards satisfaction of the judgment debt, and if the judgment debtor is an industrial union or an industrial associa- tion, and its property is insufficient to fully satisfy the judgment debt, its members shall be liable for the deficiency." It is perfectly clear-from the fact that "trade union " is not inserted before " indus- trial union " in the same way as proposed by the Bill to be inserted in section 34-the trade- unions will be exempt from the enforcement of the provisions of this section, both as regards the property of the union and as regards the individual liability of members. So that the only sanction for the award of the Court given under this Act would be omitted from the powers that the Court will have in regard to trade-unions. Now, it is perfectly clear, from the Premier's explanation to me a few minutes ago, that he had not contemplated that for a moment, and that his draftsman must have inadvertently omitted to insert the word " trade-union " in section 94, subsection (6), which is really the most important place for it to have gone in according to the Right Hon. the Premier's own argument. Because if there are recalcitrant trade-unions. if there are unions who are reluctant to register under the Act, it is quite clear that they can evade any liability at all under the Act by refusing to be 