chance for the Government to show that they wished to conserve the timber, and use it to the best purpose rather than allow it to be destroyed. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was sorry to say that the use of red-birch for sleepers had been so unsatisfactory that it was not intended to use it again. There appeared to be a prevalent impression that anything was considered good enough for sleepers for our rail- ways in the colony. Well, the Railway De- partment had great responsibilities upon them in the way of safely carrying a very large num- ber of human beings, and, taking into considera- tion the heavy class of rolling-stock and the large engines now used all over the railways, it would be apparent that what would have answered ten or fifteen years ago, so far as sleepers were concerned, could not be allowed to-day. While it was desirable to use local sleepers to the fullest extent wherever possible, no class of timber should be used on the rail- ways in the colony if there was the slightest danger or risk in using them. An Hon. MEMBER asked what was the fault of the red-birch sleepers. Sir J. G. WARD said the timber was not good, and did not last, and when a much better class could be got it should be used. It was not wise to run any risk on lines on which heavy engines and heavy trains were running, and to use an inferior class of timber or any other material would be a responsibility that one in authority would not take upon himself. It was advisable to use the very best material they could get in the colony. # CLASSIFICATION OF INMATES OF LUNATIC ASYLUMS. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Minister having control of lunatic asylums, Whether it is the intention of the Government to make provision during the present session of Parlia- ment for the grading or classing of the inmates of the lunatic asylums of the colony, with the view of better curative treatment than at pre- present obtains being adopted and put into operation ? He might direct the attention of the Government to the fact that Dr. McGregor in his annual reports referred to the necessity for the classification of the inmates of the lunatic asylums. He (Mr. Meredith) had been in the habit of visiting these institutions since he had been a member of the House, and in his visits he had noticed the number of imbecile children in them. Those children, he said, had no right there. According to the census of 1896, there were 146 such children in the colony, the majority of whom were in the lunatic asylums. It was in the interests of these poor afflicted children that a separate institution should be provided for their treat- ment. Then, there were some persons in the asylum who were only occasionally insane. They were respectable and well-behaved, and vet in their sane moments they had to listen to language that was far from conducive to their well-being-language used by those who were, unfortunately, not answerable for their actions. Mr. Hall cation in the asylums was not creditable to the colony. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) thought it would be admitted that in recent years a great improvement had been made in the position of those who, unfor- tunately, had to be placed in the lunatic asylums of the colony. If the honourable member for Ashley had paid a visit to the Seacliff Asylum he would have noticed the im- provements. Mr. MEREDITH said he had only been in the habit of visiting the Lincoln Road. Mount View, and Porirua Asylums. He had not had an opportunity of visiting the other asylums of the colony, and his remarks only applied to what he saw in the institutions he had named. Mr. HALL-JONES was glad the honourable member had qualified his statement. If he had visited the Seacliff Asylum he would have seer. there evidence of progress which could not but be extremely beneficial to all the inmates. The method of classification, he thought, was about the best that they could work upon for the care of the patients. Of course, it was only a begin- ning, and each year sums of money would be spent to provide further accommodation that would result in a still better classification than what had so far been attained. No doubt there were some imbeciles in the asylums who should not be there at all. For such patients a proper home should be provided elsewhere, and if they were removed a larger scope would be provided for classifying those who were really insane. # FEDERATION COMMISSION REPORT. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Govern- ment, Whether they will give the House an opportunity to discuss the report of the Federation Commission, by setting apart a day for the purpose? The Commission had cost the colony an enormous sum of money, and. from whatever point of view it might be looked at, the question of federation was one of the 1 most important - probably the most important -before the public at the present time, con- sequently it should be freely discussed and ventilated in the interests of the people generally. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) wished members to read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest the Federation Commission Report and evidence. Each member should go through the evidence. and after they had fully digested it, which he presumed would be this time next year, they would be in a position to discuss it. If mem- bers were prepared to discuss it, and if there was time this session, he had no objection to its being discussed. His own opinion was that the Commission, taking into consideration the evidence they had heard and the feeling of the people generally, had come to a decision in accordance with the views of the majority of the people. Mr. MASSEY said that remained to be seen. Mr. SEDDON said there was no doubt about it. There might be some individuals who, for a particular reason, desired federation ; but the 