to their complaint, that it would be absolutely useless to get a larger supply of wagons unless some more expeditious method of unloading wagons was adopted or more stores were available, so that wagons could be returned promptly. In order to get their share of the wagons farmers frequently loaded them up at night ; but this made little difference, as they could be loaded and sent on much faster than they could be unloaded and returned. If the farmer does not desire to ship he certainly requires to store, and, the rates being against him for storing at any intermediate station, the result is that practically every wagon of grain [ occasion, because there will presently be an is sent to Lyttelton, and a congested state of affairs occurs. This causes great delay to the rolling-stock, and disappointment and loss of time to the farmers. I have suggested to the Minister for Railways-and I again offer the suggestion-that a through rate only should be charged on grain for shipment, notwithstanding the fact that the grain is stored at some siding. If a declaration was made by the sender of the grain that it was ultimately intended to be shipped, that ought to be sufficient to insure that only a through rate shall be charged. The result would be that a large quantity of grain would be unloaded at Addington, at Christchurch, and elsewhere, thus allowing the trucks to return earlier to country stations, and no extra charge would be made to the farmer for breaking the journey. I do not believe there would be any extra haulage or cost to the Rail- way Department, because the grain has, in any case, to be taken to the wharf for shipment, and it might just as well be drawn from a siding at https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Addington or Christchurch as from a siding at Lyttelton. I put this matter rather pointedly to the Minister, because I feel certain there is not a body of people, either industrial or com- mercial, in the colony who would put up with these inconveniences as the farmers have done ; and they deserve better treatment, considering that broken weather prevents the cartage of grain, and in many cases leads to damage and loss of time. There is only one other matter I wish to refer to, and that is the County Councils Bill, and I desire to say that, however much I may wish a reform of local government, I trust there will be no effort on the part of the House to make our local government bodies large and unwieldy. There is a limit to everything, and there is certainly a limit to economy in the matter of making large local bodies. There may be some local bodies that may not fulfil their whole functions and economise the rates, yet there are a large number of moderate-sized local bodies which are doing their work economically, and in a manner which, I think, cannot be im- proved upon. My impression is that, while the County Councils Bill is necessary, it should go in the direction of making reasonable-sized local bodies, and not unwieldy ones. I have no- thing further to add with regard to the Address in Reply that has not been referred to by other honourable members, except to state that, while I make these criticisms on the management of our railways, I do not think for a moment that tion ; in fact, I can compliment them on many things. The railways have been run as cheaply as possible, the penny postage has also been inaugurated, and in a great many ways the settlers have been benefited, and there has been very general prosperity and little poverty in comparison with the number of the popula- tion. I trust that the House will do all that is possible during the present session to pass carefully - thought - out legislation in the in- terests of the settlers and of the colony. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- I only propose to address a few words to the House on this opportunity more fully to discuss the Govern- ment and its policy when we have before us the Financial Statement ; but, Sir, I will take this opportunity, as there is time this evening, to allude to two or three matters which have been to some extent touched upon by previous speakers, and in which I myself and my con- stituents take a very great interest. Before proceeding to deal with these I should like to refer, however, to one or two remarks made by the honourablo member for Wairarapa. If he will permit me to do so, I must take exception to his attitude with regard to the charge made against Colonel Pole-Penton. It is a good and safe doctrine that we should hear the other side before recording a judgment. In this matter we have heard only one side up to the present, and I protest against this House, or any mem- ber of it, proceeding to the condemnation of any particular officer until the whole case has been inquired into, and until the full merits of the case are known. It may be that Colonel Pole-Penton is to blame for what has occurred, or it may be that some other officer is to blame for that which we all so much deplore ; but until we are satisfied on indubitable evidence as to who is the person blameworthy I think it ill becomes us to pre- judge the case. Now, Sir, I wish to congratu- late, as other members who preceded me have done, the Hon. the Postmaster-General and other members of the Ministry who have re- ceived recognition from the Crown for the services they have rendered in their capacity of Ministers in this colony. I congratulate the honourable gentleman in particular, because I think he has made for himself a name in con- nection with penny postage in New Zealand which alone would have well entitled him to the honour which has been bestowed upon him I wish also just to say that I never myself subscribed, though I am a Liberal, to the ex- treme Radical doctrine that no titles should be accepted by a Liberal member, and I am glad to see that the Government have come round to my way of thinking, although they were not of that way of thinking in 1891, 1892, and 1893. But, Sir, the matters to which I particularly wish to direct attention are, first, in connection with the Land for Settle- ments Act, in my opinion the most important measure that has ever been brought forward in this House. It has done a great deal more to promote the prosperity of New Zealand than 