[HOUSE.] Waiau River Bridge. 390 plans and specifications ready, and when tenders were likely to be invited. He had to thank the Minister for Public Works for the interest he had shown in expediting the Waipoua-Cheviot Railway, and for what he had done for it so far as circumstances would allow. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he recognised the importance of this bridge being constructed at an early date. Plans were prepared and were being litho- graphed, and the specifications were being prepared and would be printed. He hoped that tenders would be invited by the Govern- ment for this work during the present month. The tenders would take some time, and as the bridge was to be of steel, it would necessarily take some time to complete, so that the sooner it was begun the better. WAIAU RIVER BRIDGE. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Minister for Public Works, Whether the Public Works Department has in preparation plans and speci- fications for a traffic-bridge or a combined traffic- and railway-bridge over the Waiau River at Cheviot, and on the main arterial road via the East Coast between Christchurch and Blenheim ; and, if so, when are tenders likely to be invited for the construction of the bridge ? In reference to this bridge he would point out to the Minister that during the sessions of 1898 and 1899 he had brought the question of bridging this river under the notice of the Government, and during the session of 1899 had received an assurance from the Minister that the site for a bridge would be reported upon. That had been done; a report was made by Engineer Johnston to the department, and the sum of $2.000 had been placed upon the estimates for this work. Some time had elapsed since then, and he was at a loss to know why the bridge had not been gone on with. This river was most dangerous. It was on the great north arterial road, and several narrow escapes from drowning had occurred. Quite recently one of the most prominent settlers in Cheviot had a very narrow escape, and it was only his great swimming-power that enabled him to reach one of the sand-beds in the river and so escape drowning. Later still a coach and horses had been swept down the river. The Hon. the Minister had had a very narrow escape, and His Excellency the Go- vernor had rather an unpleasant experience. Taking all things into consideration, and seeing that valuable lives might be lost for want of this bridge, he asked the honourable gentleman to give him an assurance that the bridge would be gone on with, either as a traffic- or a combined traffic- and railway-bridge. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the sum of $2.000 referred to by the honourable member had been placed upon the Land estimates as a contribution towards this bridge, which was to be a road- and rail- way-bridge. There was no sum on the esti- mates for the railway-bridge-in fact, the site Marine Charts. [JULY 16 stances, he could not put the matter in hand. He was informed there was a difference of opinion in the district as to whether the money voted for the railway should be expended upon the railway to Mackenzie, or whether a part of the money should be spent on the bridge : he believed there were many who wished to see the railway completed, deeming it a more important work than the bridge. He himself had some experience of the river, and it was an ex- perience that was not singular, as other tra- vellers in the same locality had had narrow escapes in crossing the river. He thought the bridge was necessary, but it could not be pro- ceeded with until sanctioned by the House. He thought the best course would be to proceed as speedily as possible with the railway to Mac- kenzie, keeping in view that when the rails were laid as far as the bridge-site the bridge should be so far advanced that it could be used for all traffic purposes. Of course, if the rail- way was sufficiently advanced it could be utilised when the time came for the conveyance of the bridge material to the site of the bridge. thus economising in the cost of construction. MARINE CHARTS. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Minister of Marine, Whether he will make arrangements for the Marine or Customs De- partments to keep a full supply of all charts likely to be required by vessels trading to other parts of the world from New Zealand : or, if not, will he arrange for some private firm to supply these charts ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said it was the practice of the department to obtain annually a supply of charts for each of the prin- cipal ports of the colony, and so far they were not aware that the supply was deficient. If the honourable member knew of any defi- ciency, he (Mr. Hall-Jones) would take steps at once to remedy the matter. PURCHASE BY GOVERNMENT OF HIS- TORICAL RELICS, ETC. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If they will take steps to legislate, as is done in other countries, to prevent valu- able historical, artistic, or scientifie relies, docu- ments, articles, or things being disposed of out- side New Zealand without first being offered to the Government for purchase ? He felt sure that the Native Minister, with his well-known artistic and literary instincts, would be in full sympathy with the request implied in the ques- tion. The fact of the matter was that at pre- sent very considerable shipments of articles of historical and scientific value were being taken away from the colony to other countries. Ger- many apparently secured the bulk of these valuable things: and, of course. there was nothing to prevent that or any other country from coming in and taking away these articles of archaeological and historical interest. The consequence was that later on. if they wished to make researches into the early history of New 