without notice shall not be entertained unless there be forty members present at the time such motion is made," et cetera. Now, my reading of that portion of the Standing Order is that it is perfectly clear that when this Parliament framed this Standing Order it never for one instant contemplated such an extraordinary position as the Standing Orders being suspended without very consider- able notice, and Parliament having the oppor- tunity of saying " aye " or " no" in the matter. Again, with reference to this " musty precedent," there has been an endeavour to confuse the minds of honourable members with regard to the question of Supply and the question of the Financial Statement. That may have been done possibly because I argued that the House ought to have been called together carlier-that, as our financial year ends on the 31st March, there was no reason, I argued, why Parliament should not be called together, at any rate, by the middle of May, and I quoted the example of the Mother-country, where Parliament is called together always within a period of one month after the end of the financial year. But the whole question is the great constitutional question of the granting of sup- plies before the redress of grievances has been agreed to, and that redress of grievances, honourable members can see, is one of the bulwarks of our liberties; and unless we are to be dominated, as I maintain we are now, not by the Crown, as was the case in former days, but by a mere autocratic Minister, we must insist that the Standing Orders shall be observed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 on every possible occasion. If any one will consult May, edition 1863, he will find the fol- lowing laid down, on page 660 : - "The ancient constitutional doctrine, that the redress of grievances is to be considered before the granting of supplies, is now repre- sented by the practice of permitting every de- scription of amendment to be moved on the question for the Speaker leaving the chair before going into Committee of Supply or Ways and Means." The ancient constitutional practice has been, before the going into Committee of Supply and the Committee of Ways and Means, to debate the Address from the Throne ; and we are now invited before we attempt to have a redress of grievances- absolutely before the House knows anything whatever as to the expenditure that it is asked to vote - to pass an Imprest Supply Bill on the very first day of the session ; and I main- tain it is the duty of every honourable member who believes that the Standing Orders ought to be preserved in their integrity, in order to safe- guard the rights of the minority and in order to maintain the welfare of our country, to vote against the suspension of the Standing Orders on this occasion. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- I have often been very much amused to hear the honourable member for Hawke's Bay complain about the autocratic power and conduct of the Premier. Whoever may be the Prime Minister of this country for the time being-whether it be the honourable member for Hawke's Bay or the honourable member for Westland-we find that the Prime Minister for the time being gathers about himself on those benches anybody he thinks fit. He does not consult members of this House. The Government are the Executive of this House, but we have no power over them. The Prime Minister may select the weakest men in the House, and we have to calmly sub- mit to it. Does the honourable member for Hawke's Bay propose to help us out of this difficulty ? No. Captain RUSSELL .- Bring down a decent Bill. Mr. ELL .- Let the honourable gentleman assist us to pass a decent Bill. But on every opportunity that presents itself he is one of the most vigorous opponents to the Bill in this House. An Hon. MEMBER .- What sort of Bill ? Mr. ELL .- I mean a Bill to give members of this House the power of saying who shall sit on the Treasury benches of this Chamber. It seems to me that, instead of devoting an hour this afternoon to discussing the question as to what the existing powers are, had we devoted the time to discussing measures to give more power to the Chamber over its Executive, and to take power out of the hands of the Executive, we should, perhaps. have done more good. The power in the hands of the Executive-and they have considerable power-should be taken out of their hands and placed in the hands of the members of this House. Who has a better right to say who is to be Minister for Railways, who is to be Minister for Public Works, who shall be Minister of Mines, who shall be Minister of Education, and who shall be Minister of Lands than the members of this House ? But, Sir, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay is so much attached to ancient precedent that he is not prepared to help us out of that difficulty. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City). - Mr. Speaker, I shall not detain the House at any great length, and, indeed, I should not have risen at all except for a remark which fell from the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. 1 understand the honourable member for Wai- hemo made some reference to me while I was temporarily absent from the Chamber, and I am accordingly not very clear as to what he actually said. What the honourable gentleman says, however, is generally of no very great im- portance, so that there will be no necessity for me to take any particular notice of it. I should like, however, to say a word as to what the honourable member for Hawke's Bay states is the constitutional doctrine : that there should be no supplies before redress of grievances. Well, Sir, it is quite true that at one time it was found necessary that the supplies should be given only on the last day of the session of Parliament. That became the practice at a time when the Crown had the power of vetoing at its will any measures which were put forward by Parliament. That was mainly done in the time of the Plantagenets. But the times have very greatly changed, and it is not now correct to say that it is a principle of the Consti- tution that there shall be no supplies granted 