Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Land for Settlements Bill. BILL DISCHARGED. District Courts Bill. WELLINGTON HARBOUR BOARD BILL. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Sir, I beg to move the second reading of this Bill, which has been reported to the House without amendment by the Local Bills Com- mittee. The Wellington Harbour Board is constituted under "The Wellington Harbour Board Act, 1899," and there are ten members, of whom two represent country districts .the County of Hutt and the adjoining Counties of Wairarapa and Wairarapa South. In 1879 there were no direct means of communication between Wellington and Manawatu ; but since that date the Manawatu Railway had been established, with the result that the Manawatu district is now in close communication with Wellington, and it is desired to allow represen- tation on the Harbour Board by these people, who were directly interested in its welfare and operations. In 1879 there were no suburban townships near Wellington, and the member for the Hutt County represented the interests then existing; but since then the Boroughs of Petone, Karori, Hua. Onslow, and others have been formed, and the result is that direct https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 representation on the Board has been with- drawn from the inhabitants of these townships, and the member for the Hutt County is now elected only by the representatives of the country districts, leaving out the populous townships. Since 1879 the Wairarapa North County has been subdivided, and the new Counties of Pa- hiatua, Akitio, Eketahuna, Mauriceville, and Castlepoint have been formed. It is proposed in the Bill to give representation to these counties, to provide for any further subdivision that may be made, and to give representation to the various boroughs in the country districts. I may say that Mr. J. G. Wilson, who has been acting as Chairman of one of the County Coun- cils up the line, was present during the passing of a resolution adverse to the Bill, believing that the Harbour Board would have the power to rate his locality. Mr. Wilson, who has been taking some interest against the measure on that account, met the secretary of the Harbour Board this morning, and has withdrawn his op- position to the Bill, as has also Mr. John Ste- vens, who represents part of the Manawatu dis. trict The Bill only proposes to do two things. It introduces no new change at all, int only ex- tends the power of representation. There is also a general desire to alter the date of the annual meeting. At present, in common with all other Harbour Boards in New Zealand, the financial year of the Wellington Harbour Board closes on the 31st December. Section 55 of the Harbour Board Act of 1878 provides for the annual meet- ing being held on the third Monday of January each year to receive the audit of accounts, which, under section 181, have to be in print seven days prior to that date. There is pro- vision, however, in "The Local Bodies' Audit Act, 1858." to enable the meeting to be held on a later date if the accounts are not ready. In the case of the Wellington Harbour Board, the election of chairman is held on the first Tuesday after the 20th February, and it has never yet happened that the accounts have been audited and printed in time for the chairman to ded with the accounts of the year before vacating office. I trust that this Bill will receive the support of honourable members. The fact that it has been reported to the House from the Local Bills Committee without amendment is a guarante. that it is in order. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - I second the motion for the second reading of this Bill. The Bill has the unanimous approval of the members of the Wellington Harbour Bard, and, as the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs explains, the opposition entertained by the country members affected by the Bill has been removed by the fact that the objections are imaginary, and not real. The Bill. as I understand, now meets with the approval of those who thought it objectionable. It has been carefully drawn, and carefully considered by the Wellington Harbour Board, and I w.s very pleased to hear the member for Wellington Suburbs say that the country members con- cerned have withdrawn their opposition. The Bill therefore stands in the unique position of carrying with it the approval of every person in any way affected by it. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatw. - It was my in- tention to have opposed this Bill if it contained a provision enabling the Wellington Harbour Board to collect further rates from the country districts, but, having the assurance of the mover of the Bill to the contrary, I intend to withdraw any opposition I might have had to it, because I am led to suppose and. I believe, rightly-that this Bill mercy extends to country districts greater representation on the Harbour Board without in any way inereas. ing their rating liability. The Bill give an advantage to country districts, and, that being the case, I hope the measure will pass into law. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .-- I am not 0 easily satisfied as the honourable member for Minawatu. The local bodies in my dis.r .: who are brought under this Bill not only wat an assurance that no rating is contained in the measure, because, as a matter of fact. they knew there is no rating -- they have read the Bill. and they know the law on the subject -but they want an assurance, and the mover will po- bably have no objection to give such an as-ur- ance, so far as he knows, that there is no intention on the part of the Board in the future. so far as they can tell, to increase the pow 's of the Board so that they will be able to rate these districts. Of course, they have no rating powers now. It is nonsense for any member who pretends to be following the legislation in this House to say that there is any rating 