Mr. WILFORD said he had a plan, and he | last, on the importation of big game for New would show it to the Minister. # DENTISTS AS JURYMEN. Mr. PALMER (Ohinomuri) asked the Go- vernment, Whether, considering the great in- convenience that the public are put to by dentists being called away to serve on the juries, they will amend the law so as to ex- empt dentists from serving on juries ? He wished particularly to point out the difficulty in which country people were placed when, having made an appointment with a dentist, they found the dentist was called away to serve on a jury. The probability was that the ser- vices of a doctor had been engaged, and it was a great hardship to people coming into town if the engagement had to be broken. He thought dentists should certainly be exempted from ser- vice on a jury. A doctor was exempt because he had to alleviate pain and suffering, and a dentist should be exempt for the same reason. This calling of the doctor and dentist dis- tinguished their cases from those of the rest of the public, and gave, or ought to give, both a special exemption from serving on juries. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) did not think it would be wise to exempt dentists. The exemptions at the present time were very con- siderable, and, if they extended them to dentists, they might just as well include photographers, or any other class of experts who were accus- tomed to make appointments with the public. TERMS OF JUDICIAL APPOINTMENTS. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked the Go- vernment, If steps will be taken this session to place the whole Judiciary of this colony in the same position as the Judges of the Supreme Court with reference to their appointments? This matter had been brought before the public notice very prominently of late in connection with two members of the House ; and, even if the Government could not see their way to do this with regard to the whole Judiciary, he hoped it would, at any rate, place the District Court Judges in the same position as the Judges of the Supreme Court with regard to their appointments. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said it was not the intention of the Government to place the whole of the Judiciary of the colony in the same position as that occupied by Judges of the Supreme Court. He did not think there were any grounds for adopting that course. SMALL-BIRDS NUISANCE BILL. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he proposes to reintroduce the Birds Nuisance Bill at an early period of the present session ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that the Bill would be introduced in a short time. IMPORTATION OF BIG GAME. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Colo- nial Secretary, If the Government has received any communication relative to suggestions put forth by a Mr. Grogan, at Christchurch, in May Zealand ; and if it is the intention of the Go- vernment to place a sum on the estimates to be expended in the manner suggested-namely, for the importation of the ibex, bushbok, wapiti, and brown bear? His object for asking this question was to ascertain the mind of the Government upon this matter. He did not wish to see animals imported that were hurtful either to the human being or to domestic ani- mals. When Mr. Grogan interviewed several influential residents of Christchurch in May last, amongst the suggestions he made was one that brown bears should be introduced for the sake of sport. He (Mr. Flatman) took it that this referred to the brown bear of America. which, he believed, lived principally upon berries, but when he could not get berries he wandered into the cornfields, squatted himself down on his haunches, and collected with his out- stretched arms nearly a sheaf at a time, the ears of which he then devoured. Just fancy the havoc he would make. He did not think that these were desirable animals to introduce. Then, the ibex was mentioned as being a desirable animal to introduce. He did not know that there was much harm in this animal, but believed that when closely pursued he readily showed fight, and also displayed agility that any acrobat might be proud of. He mounted precipices 300 ft. or 400 ft. high. then threw a somersault, and alighted on his horns to save his hoofs. That might be in- teresting to some, no doubt ; but was the colony to be kept for the sole use of tourists. who probably came here once in a lifetime, or was it to be kept for pastoral, farming. and other industrial pursuits? If these animals were imported, not only would our stock be in constant danger, but we should be certain to have game-laws brought into existence, and there would be an end to all freedom in the colony. He noticed, by a report of a meeting of the Christchurch Acclimatisation Society. that no animals were to be imported from Africa for fear of bringing in the rinderpest : but if we imported animals from America no one knew what developments might take place in acclimatising them-their habits might entirely alter. He had no objection to sport, but he thought too many of these pests had been brought into the colony already. He believed it would be worth a million of money to the colony if every blackbird and thrush were ex- terminated, and he would warn the Govern- ment to be very careful as to the class of wild animals they allowed to be introduced into this valuable colony. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said it was not intended to place a sum on the esti- mates for the importation of any of the game referred to. He did not think, himself. the time had arrived when acrobatic feats such as the honourable member had described were neces- sary. Mr. FLATMAN. - Will the Government pre- vent these animals from being introduced ? Mr. WARD said the Government would pre- vent anything in the shape of bears, or any- 