he displayed weakness-did not remove the | Speaker, I rise to speak with a good deal of dif- obstacle that was causing all the trouble. Furthermore, I am informed that this officer was ordered to be removed from Wellington, and, if I am not mistaken, the member for Wellington City was one of those who came to the Minister and asked that the officer should be allowed to remain. I may be wrong in that, but I think I am fairly correct in what I sav. Mr. ATKINSON .- Which member for Wel- lington City ? Mr. MILLAR .- I refer to the honourable member for Wellington City who spoke this afternoon. Sir, I am sorry the officer is still in this city. I think if the Minister had done what I am told he intended to do namely, to remove the officer to another sphere, and had let him know that his scheming had been seen through - the Police Force in Wellington would have been on a different footing altogether to-day. I do not think it is Inspector Pender who is doing it all. I think Mr. Wright is the cause of it. At any rate, that could be easily proved by removing him to another place where his services would be better appreciated. Sir, if the member for Wellington City makes an attack on any member of the Police Force in future I hope he will give better grounds for his charges than he gave to the House to-day. when he attacked Commissioner Tunbridge and Detective McGrath. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). - Sir, I consider that the colony is fortunate in having at the head of its Police Force such an eminent man as Commissioner Tunbridge. To have an efficient head of the department is a question https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that affects not only Wellington but the whole of the colony, and, speaking for Auckland, I may say that matters were never so satisfactory as they are at the present time, which is one re- http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero sult of Commissioner Tunbridge's management. I fully concur with the sentiments that have been expressed by the Minister of Justice to-day. It is not because I am a consistent supporter of the Government that I am supporting the Government in this particular matter. It is because I consider the Minister is in the right. Sir, I remember the time when Commissioner Tunbridge rendered great service to the British Government. He possesses to an extraordi- nary extent the confidence of the British Government and also of the people of England, and it is really a matter for congratulation on our part that we have such an eminent man at the head of our Police Force. Commissioner Tunbridge's experience has not been confined to Great Britain. When matters of extreme urgency had to be carried out on behalf of the British Government -matters in connection with the Police Department-Mr. Tunbridge was selected as the ablest man in Great Britain to go to North America, to South America, to South Africa, and to the Australian Colonies to carry out most important duties on behalf of the Government. Therefore I cordially sup- port the appointment of Mr. Tunbridge, and I think we have in him the right man in the right place. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Mr. fidence on this matter, as I was counsel for Inspector Pender in the charges which were made against him, and also in the counter- charges made by Detective MeGrath against Inspector Pender. I therefore feel the respon- sibility of my position, and whatever I may say may be considered by narrow - minded indi- viduals to be to a certain extent prejudiced on behalf of the gentleman for whom I was acting. Consequently, I shall do my best to be tem- perate, and I shall not by heat or exaggeration embellish the few facts I wish to put before the House. In the first place, it will be admitted by honourable members, no matter what their views may be in this House, and no matter what their views may be with regard to my views on the matter, that I have had some experience of the Police Force in Wellington in the last ten years. When I tell the House that about four thousand criminal cases come before the Court in Wellington every year it will be seen that the number is considerable, and any one who has the fortune -or the misfortune, which- ever way you like to put it - of having to appear in the Court frequently must daily be brought into close communication not only with the local police-the Inspector, the Sub-Inspector, and the sergeants -but with Commissioner Tunbridge as well. Sir, I wish to approach this matter from a far broader basis than that from which the member for Welling- ton City approached it. I do not want to take up the attitude taken up by that honourable gentleman, because I do not want to cast re- flections on Commissioner Tunbridge; but I will say this, and I say it authoritatively : that the state of things that exists in the Wellington Police-station is against the welfare of the ad- ministration of justice in this city. I know as well as I am standing here that at the present time there are two parties in the police-station of the City of Wellington. I know that one side is headed by Chief Detective MeGrath, while on the other there is Inspector Pender. It must be an unhealthy thing in the detection of crime if you have a split in the camp of the parties who have to detect crime. What is to be the result so far as the colony is con- cerned ? Let us imagine the case of a fugitive offender arriving in the city, and his case being put into the hands of one of the "sides ' in the police - station. Why, that "side " may go out on the street, and be carrying out its duty, and the other "side " may also be on the street and may pass the offender without knowing he was wanted by the police. Sir, I am satisfied of this : that though a Royal Com- mission to inquire into the actions of Commis- sioner Tunbridge may not be the right thing, the Minister of Justice should inquire into the state of things that exists in this city as far as the constitution of the Police Force is Sir, I need not indulge in any concerned. personalities whatever. I will discuss the matter as broadly as I can. If the state of things that I say exists here actually exists, then it may be said to reflect on Commissioner Tunbridge if he is aware of it. 