Everybody knows they are not. In 1894, when details of this Bill. I am prepared to support I proposed in this House that there should be a the second reading of the Bill and to see it go revaluation of leases in perpetuity under the into Committee, and when in Committee there Land for Settlements Act, the present Minister are probably certain amendments which I my- of Lands followed that up with a notice on the self would be disposed to move. What I do Supplementary Order Paper to the effect that if support this Bill for is because I believe some periodical revaluation were granted the free- change from our present party system is abso- hold title should be given to every Crown lutely necessary for the purpose of preserving tenant in the colony. I would ask, if the Pre- the independence of members. I am one of those-and I have always been the same -- who, mier, as I shrewdly suspect, intends or proposes where I feel it is my duty to say a thing, say this session-or next, perhaps -to himself pro- pose the periodical revaluation of leases in per- it independently of the consideration whether I petuity, will he allow the Minister of Lands to give pleasure or dissatisfaction. But, Sir, if I follow that up by granting the freehold to those have a conscientious difference with Ministers -- if I feel it my duty, for example, to vote with who are now Crown tenants? That is a case those who are voting against the suspension of in point. There is no more guarantee of co- the Standing Orders of this House-I object hesion, so far as the Ministry is concerned, to- day than there would be under the elective altogether, because I cast such a vote, to being branded, as the Premier attempted to brand me Executive. But what does exist is that the master mind of the Premier, who possesses the the other night, as Judas Iscariot. Judas Isca- right of the Ministeral existence of a member riot is not a very nice figure with whom to be of the Cabinet, forces into line his Ministers. compared. That power would cease to exist under the elective Executive. At the present time, if the Premier wishes to get rid of a colleague who friend says he was a noted character, but he was is distasteful to him, or who has shown frac- a man who betrayed his Master. I would be tiousness and independence in his position, all sorry to suppose that the Premier, in describing he has to do is to send in his resignation, and myself as Judas Iscariot. was setting himself up down tumbles the Ministry. That power is as the Master whom Judas betrayed. The vested in the Premier now. Under the elective honourable gentleman has risen a good deal, Executive a single Minister could be retired but I do not think he has yet got so high as without the whole Ministry being turned out. that. Then, again, I think. if we were to abolish There is one other matter while on this ques- the system of party government in its extreme tion of cohesion. I noticed that the Premier form as it is, we might do away with some of went to Blenheim to attend a banquet given to the evil-I would even sav debasing-influences the Minister of Customs, the Hon. Mr. Mills, that arise from such creations as Government https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 and I could not help noticing, from the Premier's Whips. There are some gentlemen who have speech at that banquet, exactly what his ideas been in davs past Whips in this House. There are as to the qualities that constitute fitness for are other individuals that have been members Cabinet rank. The honourable gentleman said who only by a great stretch of imagination this was the third time of asking. On two pre- would be spoken of outside as gentlemen. Go- vious occasions Mr. Mills's claims to a seat in vernment Whips are sometimes required to do the Cabinet had been placed before him, and exceedingly unpleasant things. I suppose I he had been compelled to say the time had not should not blame them. They receive, I understand, a small remuneration for the come. But now the time had come, and the words work they perform, and probably when he used were these : " Mr. Mills had proved his they do a certain thing it is because they fitness for Cabinet rank by three things : they have to do it. One might say it is their busi- were, first of all, conscientious discharge of duty ; secondly, loyalty to party ; and, thirdly, ness to act as a kind of moral scavengers, and empty the result of their scavenging upon those self-abnegation." Sir, I have never heard members of the House who disagree with their before that the quality of self-abnegation was one of those things in a gentleman's character leader. It is not a very honourable or very nice occupation. Sometimes members, like myself, that entitled him to stand in a Cabinet where all may have time after time to feel the result of the members are presumably equal, and where he would be entitled, if the necessity arose, to it, but I do not think it injures any man in the eyes of the country, although that may be in- even contest the will and wishes of the Premier. tended by the seavenging I refer to. I believe Mr. SEDDON. - You are misrepresenting the effect of the Elective Executive Bill will be what I said. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- I have no desire to to weaken the debasing influences of parlia- misrepresent the honourable gentleman, and I mentary life, and to leave members of the am quite willing- House free to carry out their duties conscien- Mr. SEDDON. - I said he had refrained from tiously ; also, that it would leave the Govern- ment of the day what it really should be - the pressing his claims, and that was his self- exact expression of the minds of the people. abnegation. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The explanation is Nobody can deny that if you change the method of appointing your Ministry from being so remarkably lucid and clear that I shall not appointed by the Premier to being elected by endeavour to enlarge upon it. Now, Sir, my this House, you would have anything but time is drawing to a close. I should just like Mr. MCLACHLAN. --- A noted character. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - My honourable 