the whole country-should be subjected to the indignity of being elected annually by his own colleagues. What could be more humiliating than electing Ministers like a School Committee or any administrative public body ? Not only that, but there is the chance of every Minister being turned out of office every session of Parlia- ment, and turned out without reference to the country. Of course the country has that power ; but it would be absurd for members to have the power to turn out the Ministry one by one, as could be done every session under this Bill, and at the same time the Ministers may possess the confidence of the country. Under this system there would be no policy to put before the country at the general election. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not ? Mr. E. G. ALLEN .- How could there be a policy when the personnel of the Government for the next Parliament would be unknown ? They would have no measures prepared for the consideration of the House; there would be no object in doing so. There would be no policy foreshadowed in the Governor's speech, and the term " Responsible Advisers" would have no meaning at all. The House should pause before supporting such a great constitutional innova- tion as proposed in the Bill. If we want to . preserve the purity of Parliament we must ad- here to party government. Who will say that political corruption was not more rampant before government by party was practised than it has been since? That, I think is generally conceded. Party government, I should like to explain, focusses public opinion ; it places Ministers in a clear and defined light before the country ; it also enables Ministers to show an open front and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 place direct issues before Parliament. Party government may have its minor evils, but " Let us suffer the ills we have rather than fly to those we know not of." It has been said party war- fare insures eternal vigilance. If this be so, let us by all means be vigilant in conserving the people's rights, and reject this Bill. It is full of dangers, and would, if adopted, bring reproach on the Parliament of New Zealand. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- The Premier has stated that there is no need to make any change in the present system of government. would call attention to his opinion of our present system of government, and the evils attending it, in a speech he made in 1887 on the Repre. sentation Bill. He said :- " I do so simply as a protest. I do not think I shall be able to carry the amendment. " An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not ? "Mr. SEDDON .- Because there is a sub- servient majority following the honourable gentleman at the head of the Government rightly or wrongly; and, it matters not what the question may be, the honourable gentle- man will tell them that if they carry an amend- ment it will mean that he will have to retire ; and, under that threat held over them night after night and day after day, we find honour- able members going into the lobby and passing measures against which they have conscientious convictions." An Hon. MEMBER .- Who said that ? Mr. ELL .- The Premier stated that. And that is the evil we should be able to get rid of under the proposal which is now before the House. Unworthy motives have been imputed by the Premier, and by other honourable mem- bers who have spoken against the measure, towards those who have brought this forward and who strongly support it. Sir, I am one of those who strongly believe that the honourabie member for Waitaki is absolutely sincere in regard to this question, and I know there are a number of other members who are supporting the measure from their honest convictions. I may say I have supported this consistently and actively since 1892, because I believe it would rid our system of government of many of the evils attendant on that system. I never have said it would get rid of party government. You cannot do that. But it would get rid of the evils connected with the system, and that is why I, for one, support it. Sir, I think it was in 1895 that the Right Hon. the Premier called a caucus of his party, and made it perfectly clear that unless they were pre- pared to give more general support to the policy measures of the Government be might have to consider his position. Now. what did that admission involve ? That under our system of government, unless he was able to carry his policy measures, according to musty-fusty precedent he must resign bis position. Why should the position of any one Minister on those benches, or the whole of them, be involved because they are unable to carry legislative proposals which are introduced in this Chamber ? It is assumed that they are elected there because they are capable and elever administrators, not because they are able to carry their legislative proposals. That should have nothing to do with it. We have had a suggestion from the honourable member for Port Chalmers that if we get rid of our system of party government, - if we even make the simple change that instead of the Prime Mutas- ter calling to himself anybody he thinks fit we should give the power of election directly into the hands of the people through their represen- tatives, -we are going to abolish all progress so far as legislation in this country is concerned. I I say it is utter nonsense to talk in that way. Switzerland has had the system, and yet Swit- zerland had made very remarkable progres indeed. Her people are better off than they were many years ago. They have many wie laws. They have some laws, no doubt, that we do not approve of ; but we have laws also which they from their convictions perhaps do not ap- prove of. But this question must be judged fram the standpoint of the national character of the people. The national aspirations of the pe ple of Switzerland are not the same as our a-pira- tions. They are differently constituted : and according to the character of the people so w .. i follow their legislation, and their aims and objects in every matter. The Hon. Sir Jos ph Ward, speaking in Southland in 1899, made use of this statement : "Some of the Govern- ment opponents had been urging that the whole system of government should be changed " Is 