Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- I wish to ask if the representatives of Road Boards will be asked to attend the conference. Mr. SEDDON .- Road Boards are interested in this measure, and they will, I hope, be asked to attend the conference. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I would like to know whether the Counties Bill now being read a first time is identical with the long-promised Local Government Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- It is the Local Government Bill : but, as the previous legislation was called the Municipal Corporations and Counties Bill, we have simply kept to that name. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Information does not seem to have reached the Right Hon. the Premier to that effect, but information has reached me that the Counties' Conference will meet in Wellington on the 16th of this month. Leave given to bring in the Bill, and the same was read a first time and ordered to be read a second time to-morrow. ## OLD-AGE PENSIONS REGULATIONS. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) presented the regulations under the Old-age Pensions Act, and moved, That they do lie on the table, and be printed. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked whether, in accordance with the provisions of the Old-age Pensions Act, these regulations would be referred to a special Committee to be set up for that purpose. Mr. SEDDON said that the honourable gentleman was fully aware of his earnest desire https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 at all times to comply with the law. Motion agreed to. ## GOVERNOR'S SALARY AND ALLOW- ANCES BILL. Mr. SPEAKER announced that this Bill had received the Royal assent, and that the Pro- clamation of that assent would be entered on the Journals of the House. ## DECEASED HUSBAND'S BROTHER MAR- RIAGE BILL. Mr. SPEAKER announced that this Bill had received the Royal assent, and that the Pro- clamation of that assent would be entered on the Journals of the House. NEW ZEALAND ENSIGN BILL. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Hon. the Premier how it was that the New Zealand Ensign Bill was not included amongst those Bilis which had received the Royal assent. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there had been a despatch and correspondence in respect to the matter, and this would in due course, with the permission of His Excellency, be laid on the table. He might say, generally, that exception had been taken. The Royal assent had not been refused. but the Bill as passed had not yet been agreed to, on the ground that it interfered with the Admiralty's arrangements, under which it was only the Naval Reserve that could use the flag, though any one specially requiring to use it could do so on permission being first obtained from the Admiralty. The Bill as passed being general in its application, it was feared by the Admiralty that complications might ensue. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Stick to the Bill. Mr. SEDDON said they would get nothing if they did that, while if they agreed to a slight alteration they would get the Bill approved. The alteration was that it should apply to Go- vernment steamers only, in accordance with the despatch. That had been agreed to so far back as 1869. The use of the flag could be applied on land in New Zealand. With that alteration he did not think there would be any difficulty in getting the sanction of the Crown to the Bill. Mr. MONK understood that the Ensign Bill would be accepted for land purposes as we now had it. Mr. SEDDON .did not think there would be any objection whatever to that. However, the correspondence on the subject would put the matter right. EXPIRING LAWS CONTINUANCE BILL. On motion of the Right Hon. Mr. SEDDON, the Expiring Laws Continuance Bill was read a first time pro forma. GOVERNOR'S SPEECH. Mr. SPEAKER informed honourable mem- bers that when the House, in obedience to summons, attended upon His Excellency the Governor in the Legislative Council Chamber, His Excellency was pleased to make a Speech to both Houses of the General Assembly, of which, for greater accuracy, he had obtained a copy, which, in accordance with the Standing Orders, he laid upon the table. IMPREST SUPPLY BILL. On the question, That this Bill be referred to the Committee of the Whole, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said,-I desire to move, That this Bill be referred to the Com- mittee of the Whole; and I desire also to state that, as we are now two days over the end of the month, there is a necessity for passing this measure to-day. I will give the particu- lars of the Bill as soon as we get into Com- mittee. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I cer- tainly think this is creating a precedent which the House will be extremely wrong in allowing. In previous years it has been, unfortunately, impossible to disagree to the passage of an Imprest Supply Bill, contrary to all provisions of our own Standing Orders and in contra- vention of the well-known parliamentary practice of insisting that the Address in reply to His Excellency's Speech shall be debated and passed before a Supply Bill is passed. Sir, the Right Hon. the Premier has told us that the period during which the Government is allowed to expend money without vote of Parliament has already passed ; and therefore one cannot help feeling that, however wrong it may be that there should be any serious obstruction to an Imprest Supply Bill, it would be very unwise-I will not 