that we are sending away the best of our man- hood-those who are physically and morally our best men to South Africa. I approve of the Government's policy so far as the sending of the previous contingents is concerned, but I say let us send no more of our New-Zealanders to South Africa to be injured by bullets and sick- ne-s. Let us keep them here to develop the resources of the country. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - The honourable member for Waitaki is one of the most respected members of this House, and because of that he is entitled to the most honourable consideration from every member who speaks upon his Bill. I oppose his Bill most strongly, but I shall not utter one harsh word either in regard to him or his Bill. But I ask. without any impertinence, how many of the members of this House have studied the whole principle of government in Switzerland ? It may be well for the Postmaster-General to read us a speech delivered by the Hon. W. P. Reeves in this House many years ago; but does that give us sufficient and satisfactory information in regard to the principles of government in Switzerland? I say it does not. What sort of country, let me ask, is Switzerland ? I have here the Times Atlas- the very latest atlas published -- and I have looked most carefully in the map of the world for Switzerland ; but the country is so infini- tesimally small that it is impossible to find i :. And are we to follow the system of go- vernment of what one can only call at most https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 " a tov nation "? For amongst the nations of the earth it is in reality no nation at all. I could understand that we should emu- late the principles of government of some http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero of the great nations of the earth ; but of all the nations of the earth, why Switzerland ? The Swiss people- enlightened and elevated as they may be, according to the opinion of the late member for Christchurch City, Mr. W. P. Reeves - are to my mind very much behind many of the Continental nations in enlighten- ment. And. if I am asked to make a comparison, that is the comparison I should make. If the government of Switzerland be so admirable, why should we not adopt the whole system, and nost a part only ? For instance, why should we not make our women, as in Switzerland. the scavengers of the streets ? Why not make the women of New Zealand our street-scavengers ? Then again, Switzerland is a country which has no national language of its own. Its language is composed of the languages of three nations. Essentially Swiss is not a nation. It is a nation composed of many nations. The lan- guage of its Legislature is composed of many languages: and, if we are to follow the prin- ciple of the Legislature of Switzerland, why not if it be so admirable - adopt the same principle here? There are three sections of languages in the Parliament of Switzerland - French, German, and Italian : that is why they require and demand an elective Executive- because the German section demands a repre- sentative of its nation in the Executive, the French section demands one of its nation, and the Italian section demands one of its nation ; and so they have what is called the elective Executive. In this Legislature we are one people, speaking one tongue, and when guided by our better judgment we have but one desire. We have two parties with but one desire. that desire being the advancement of the material interests of the nation. In the Swiss Parliament there are three languages and no interpreter. What a jumble what chaos ! Yet we are asked to adopt a system combining so many . im- perfections. So with the referendum. I am sorry to see the Government themselves have introduced a Referendum Bill. To show how absurd the whole thing is, in the last referendum taken at Berne the people were asked to vote on the question whether the Government should supply labour to all the people of the nation. One would imagine that on so momentous and vital a question all the labouring-classes would attend to vote. But what was the fact ? Of all the people entitled to vote, only one-third voted on a ques- tion so closely affecting their personal interests. This is the value they themselves attach to this precious thing -- the referendum. So with the principle of the elective Executive. I have given, to the best of my power and belief, the reason in the Swiss Legislature for the adoption of the elective Executive principle ; I wish now to quote another example of the high intelli- genee of the Swiss people. According to the speech which the Minister for Railways quoted -the speech of Mr. W. P. Reeves-we are asked to believe that the Swiss rank amongst the most enlightened people of the carth. They certainly rank first in the number of suicides amongst the nations. Here is an extract from the London Standard :-- " Suicides in Switzerland .- A Paris corre- spondent writes that, inasmuch as the annual average number of suicides in Switzerland for the last twenty years has been 650, which in pro- portion to population is higher than in any other European country except Saxony and Denmark,- the Berne Medical Society has ap- pealed to the Press not to give so much space to reports of suicides, and thus check the tend- ency to imitation to which many of them are due." Here is a country noted for one thing more than another - the excessive, the abnormal number of suicides in that State. If we are to take part of the principle of government of Switzerland, I ask the honourable member for Waitaki, why not the whole ? Let us begin by committing suicide. But then, let us sup- pose the principle of elective Executive to be adopted by this Legislature, and suppose an Executive to be balloted for and selected by this House to be submitted to His Excellency the Governor, and suppose this to be the Ministry : Premier and Commissioner of Customs, the Hon. Major Steward, of course; Minister for Defence, Mr. Monk : Colonial Treasurer, Mr. McGuire: Attorney - General, Mr. Barclay; Minister for Agriculture, Mr. Lang ; Native Minister, Mr. Ell ; Minister of Education, Mr. Tanner ; Postmaster-General and Minister of 