worthy friend Captain Baillie has done for so mind is fully made up ; and, I say if we take a many years. I am exceedingly sorry that we vote on this question on the voices it will give a are losing Captain Baillie as Chairman, and, great deal more satisfaction-to myself, at any speaking personally. I must acknowledge the rate. I therefore shall vote against the amend- very many kindnesses and courtesies which I ment to introduce the ballot. have received from him. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, I have listened desire to point out that this is a new departure. The Chairmanship of Committees is not as it to the remarks on this subject which have been made by the honourable gentleman. In refer- is in another place, where the appointment lasts for a period of years. ence to the encomiums on the Hon. Captain Baillie. I am sure every one of us must agree annual appointment ; but the Chairman of with what he said on that point. No one Committees having been selected, and his ap- could remain in this Chamber and participate pointment having been found satisfactory, he in its deliberations and associate with the is retained from year to year. If this departure is insisted on it may possibly have this effect : honourable gentleman without feeling that he is a man who can command 'respect in that every year we shall have a ballot, and the all his dealings with his fellow-men. Sir, Council may never give any one man the train- it is painting the lily to add to the testi- ing which may be necessary to carry on the business of this Council. I think it my duty monies which have been given from time to to point out that this is a new departure, which time as to the nature of the honourable gentieman's conduct as a member of this requires to be carefully considered before taking Council, whether in the chair or out of such a step. it. I think, however, the honourable gentle- man who represents the Government discovered training, I think every honourable member in -long before some of us discovered it-that this Council should be capable of filling the the Hon. Captain Baillie was unfit for the position of either Chairman of Committees or position by reason of his advancing years. It Speaker. Any honourable member who has will be remembered that we have on this side of sat three or four years in this Council, if he the Council stood by the Hon. Captain Baillie has common-sense at all, should be quite to the very last, and I am quite certain that if capable of occupying either position ; and I the honourable gentleman were a candidate now think it should be the privilege of this Council there would be no one in this Council who to elect its own Chairman of Committees, as would stand against him, and that his election we had the privilege of electing you, Sir. We would give universal satisfaction. But, Sir, had the very great honour of placing you in that the honourable gentleman does not intend to position, and we have never regretted it. So, also, I feel sure we shall never regret having stand. An Hon. MEMBER .- How do you know ? elected whoever may be placed in the position The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I have ascertained as Chairman of Committees if a ballot is taken that for myself, and I have the highest authority on this occasion. But, as it is. I think this for stating that the honourable gentleman de- Council should have an opportunity every year of electing its own Chairman of Committees, sires now to retire on his laurels. At any rate. if that is not the case the honourable gentleman and for that reason I shall vote for the amend- will. perhaps, say so. Whatever views we may ment of the Hon. Mr. Jones, and I trust that have in regard to the possible candidates for amendment will be carried. Without any dis- this position. there can be no question, I think, respect to the honourable gentleman who has that the Council should not have forced upon it been proposed as Chairman of Committees by any gentleman to fill the position, and that the the leader of the Council, but as a matter of Council wishes to have the widest possible lati- fairness to the Council, I think we should insist tude in its choice; and therefore, holding that on that being done. view, I move, That all the words after the word " That" be omitted, with a view of inserting the objection to this being done by ballot, but I following words : "the Chairman of Committers warn members of this Council it is likely to be elected by ballot, and that such ballot be taken lead to ill-feeling afterwards. in the manner prescribed by the rules for the accused of having broken their pledges. I do election of Speaker in October, 1897, but with- not see why we should not openly vote, as we do out a call of the Council." on other occasions. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND. - I think, Sir. it and I hope other members are prepared to do would be as well that this discussion should be the same. I prefer open voting. put off for a time. There are a great many members absent from the Council at the present have quite a contrary effect, and that is one time, and in a matter of this importance mem- of the great reasons for moving in the matter. bers should be given the opportunity of coming This is not a new question ; it arose last year. up and taking their seats in the Chamber. I do It was strongly urged then, and why the Go- not think this is a question that should be dis- vernment would not give way I cannot conceive. pored of by ballot. I have seen several ballots If such a system as this is approved for elect- carried out in this Council, and I have never ing the Speaker, surely it is the best for electing known of any good resulting from them. Every the Chairman of Committees, and if it is a de- member comes into the Chamber with a perfect parture it is a departure in the right direction, knowledge of what the question is, and his and will be a precedent for next year or the The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I only Here it is an The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Sir, in regard to The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- I have no Members will be I am not afraid to do so, The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I think it would 