and local bodies which, in accordance with in- structions, could not be allowed. Some one, of course, had to tell people who might not be going the right way in their desire to do what was right -- in their desire to make the reception a success ; and the person who has the right to My "this or that cannot be allowed," or who has to say how it is to be done,-I do not care who it is,-if he were the archangel Gabriel he would be bound to have some one finding fault with him. The position held by Mr. Holmes was a most unenviable one, because he had, from his position as the Execu- tive Commissioner, to reconcile differences; he had to make recommendations ; he had to ask for changes in programme which could not be allowed, and which had been refused. Conse- quently it is not to be wondered at, under these circumstances, that he was somewhat unpopular, and hence the adverse criticism to-night. But if honourable members read Lord Wenlock's letter to Mr. Holmes in the Erening Post of to-night. it will, I think, go a long way to remove some of the misapprehension. Lord : sums of money, and the Harbour Board repre- Wenlock savs,- " Their Royal Hignesses have fully realised how arduous those duties must have been, and they wish me to intimate to you their thorough appreciation of the very efficient manner in which they have been carried out. Their Royal Highnesses have had opportunities of visiting different parts of the country, and on every occasion they have found the arrangements for their comfort and safety most perfectly carried out." I am not going to say that no one excepting Mr. Holmes must be credited with having made https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 these arrangements. I could mention many of our officers-I could mention some of my colleagues-but I say that it would be out of piace, and that it is undesirable. Suffice it to say that the arrangements were such as to bring forth commendation from Lord Wenlock, from Sir Arthur Bigge, and from His Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwall and York. I. Sir, now come to the remarks made by the member for Waitemata. He said it was quite sufficient to have sent Mr. Smith to Auckland. Sir. Mr. Smith went to Auckland a few days before their Royal Highnesses arrived simply to arrange matters in respect to the invitations. The other arrangements had to be made weeks before that. Very well. Then, the name of the worthy Mayor of Auckland has been brought into the matter; and, Sir, I am surprised to find the honourable gentleman taking all the credit for him, when really. in respect to the details, the work was practically done by Mr. Kidd, the Acting-Mayor, and the Chairman of the Harbour Board ; and it is wrong. I think, for the honourable gentle- man to give all the credit to Dr. Campbell, without giving the Acting-Mayor any credit. The honourable member took exception also to my going to Auckland - to Ministers visiting Auckland. What, Sir, has been the general cry from the Auckland Provincial District and from Auckland ? That they have not had suffi- cient visits from Ministers of the Crown. Why, Sir, they wanted a resident Minister there ; and I do not know that there is not a great deal in their contention. But when we do visit Auckland the honourable gentleman finds fault with it. I regret very much that the honourable gentleman should have taken up that attitude. Then, I was asked this ques- tion : Whose duty is it, as the head of the Government, immediately their Royal High- nesses landed in the colony, to greet them and welcome them on the part of the people? His Excellency the Governor represents the King, and, as the King's Representative, it was his duty to be there; and I say, as the first commoner in this country, it was the duty of the Right Hon. R. J. Seddon to be there. Captain RUSSELL .- I thought Mr. Speaker was the first commoner. Mr. SEDDON .- I say, as having the respon- sibility. Then, the Mayor on the occasion was not the host. Then, again. why should not the Chairman of the Harbour Board have been pre- The Harbour Board had spent large sent ? sentative was entitled to be on the wharf. I am satisfied that all that was done in that respect was in keeping with the proper order of things, and to have that found fault with now is to me astonishing. I come, then, to this question of Mahuta. The honourable member said that the Maori gathering ought to have been at Auckland -- One Tree Hill, I think, he said. I may say that I think you must on all occasions endeavour to meet the wishes of your guests ; and when your guests were their Royal High- nesses, and it was their wish, who shall inter- vene ? Mr. MONK .-- Who prompted the wish ? Mr. SEDDON .- My opinion is this: Before they came into touch with any one from this colony the desire to meet the Maoris at Rotorua on their own ground had been formed in the minds of their Royal Highnesses. That is my honest conviction. I am reminded by my colleague that they cabled from Colombo to that effect. But I wish to point out that you could not have had those Maoris in Auckland, or any other large centre of population, without serious danger to those Maoris themselves. I say it is not possible to bring large bodies of Natives from the wilds of the forests,-from the places where those Natives were brought, -into close touch with civilisation for a long time. No one knows better than the honourable gentleman what the results would be. I say, Sir, that, taking everything into consideration, no other place was better fitted for the gathering than Rotorua. Then, coming to this question of Mahuta and the canoes. I say here-notwith- standing that it may be the making of capital against the Government-that they asked the Government to bring down the canoes : and the Government said they would arrange to do so. But, when they said that special preference should be given, and a special presentation made of Mahuta, then, Sir, the Government could not agree to this proposal. I said it would not be possible to do that. After you had invited them, and after their Royal High- 