the resolution I need add very little to what has any question of difficulty that may arise fallen from the honourable member. . I might state, in complimenting you, Sir, who have sat in the Council for thirty-six years and taken an active part in the questions that, from time to time, have come before that body, that you have presided in the chair with dignity to yourself, and have controlled the Council with honour. I am sure since you have presided everything has gone on in a most amicable way. There has been little or no disturbance of any sort to call present time, you see that baronetcies and for you to come down on honourable members in reference to anything unseemly in the Coun- cil. The Hon. Mr. Walker has for some years piloted the barque through many difficulties with honour to himself and in a very creditable way to the Council. The other two honourable gentlemen are unfortunately absent through ill- health, especially Sir John McKenzie. We regret his absence ; we all know he is in very feeble health and unable to take his seat, but we hope on a future occasion he will be present. The Hon. Mr. Cadman also has been an active mem- ber, and with Sir John McKenzie has been a Why,. I remember a great dust-contractor in Minister of the Crown for many years, and he London, a Mr. Kelk, was made a baronet. has also sat in the other House. I have much pleasure in seconding the resolution. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- So far as some even peerages and baronetcies are conferred on of the honourable gentlemen alluded to in this motion are concerned, I think a congratulatory or complimentary resolution ought to have come from the other branch of the Legislature. your responsible position in this Council, and It is true the Honourable Sir John Mckenzie for the soundness of your decisions ; but I must say that I cannot think that this knighthood is now a member of this Council, but any dis- tinction that he may have earned as a legislator- has added anything to your claims to our re as a Minister-is connected rather with the other spect. It has been well said that "the King branch of the Legislature than with this Council. may make a belted knight," but he cannot https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 In respect to our honourable Speaker, I must make a gentleman. Sir, I respect you as a say that if this distinction is intended as an highly-educated gentleman who has discharged honour, it strikes me as rather strange that the his duties as Speaker of this Council in a praise- honour had not been conferred many sessions before. The honourable gentleman has honour- ably presided over this Council for some years. tion to say a single word on this matter ; but, We all look up to him with respect, and I do in view of the remarks made by the honcurable think it looks very much like a slight upon the Legislative Council that knighthood has not been conferred upon him long before this present year. Now. with regard to this word "distinction," that any such honour as the Order of St. Michael and St. George should add anything to our respect for the honourable gentleman, I deny in toto. He may confer distinction on the Order by opinion largely runs in the same lines as that accepting a knighthood, but the Order can of my honourable friend with regard to the confer none upon him. That order-I hope I shall not be considered speaking too disrespect- fuily-I remember it being instituted, and it on the present occasion have richly deserved was stigmatized in many places as the " brigand order." It was instituted, I believe, to confer dis- its approval of the manner in which they have tinction upon certain noblemen or gentlemen in comported themselves politically in this country the Ionian Isles, many of whom, I was given to understand, were of a rather shady character. I question, as my honourable friend has in- think that order had better have been confined to sinuated, as to whether or not these titles will those gentlemen in the Mediterranean. Had our adorn the recipients. The whole question, to Hon. Speaker been made a Knight Bachelor ; my mind, is as to whether the recipients will had he received the same distinction which is adorn the title. They are not conferred, I take given to our learned Judges in England-and I it, in order to adorn. The adornment has al- look upon our Hon. Speaker as in some measure ready been bestowed upon those gentlemen, in a Judge -he may be said to lay down the the public estimation, by their conduct. There law ; he is the referee in the last resort in was another question raised by the honourable in the Council-I think it would have been preferable. Therefore, I think if that order had been conferred upon him, we might have looked upon it as something of a distinction, and I, for one, should not have said anything upon the present occasion. It appears to me that we are living in an age when too much respect is paid to titles, and some of them very small titles indeed. Why, in England at the knighthoods are conferred for all. and some- times very questionable, sorts of merit-in the case of the former, principally the merit of possessing well-lined purses. We know that the order of baronetcy was considered at its very inception to be a very mercenary one. King James the First, who instituted it, did so in order to replenish the Royal Exchequer, and even forced them by threats to take up baronetcies. Of course, now-a-days men are not forced into accepting baronetcies, but they are conferred on most questionable grounds. You saw his name on the dust-carts in Lon- don. He is "Sir something " Kelk now. And whiskey-distillers, brewers, et cetera. I have entertained the highest respect for years for the manner in which you, Sir, have discharged worthy and admirable manner. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- It was not my inten- gentleman who has just sat down, I think it may be admissible for me to say one or two words on the subject. I do not think it can be charged to any honourable gentlemen who received this honour that they have well-lined purses, so that is not the reason why they have been thus honoured by His Majesty. My value of these distinctions. I believe that all the honourable gentlemen who received honours them. If the Empire can do anything to show I think they are entitled to it. It is not a 