followers will only refrain from making long- winded and acrimonious speeches when there is no necessity for them, and when they are not attacked - I do not object to them reply- ing severely when they are attacked - and set a good example to the House in this respect, answer questions properly, and give any reason- able returns that are asked for, the business of the House could be done in three months, or less than three months ; things would run more smoothly ; it would be better for members on both sides of the House, and a much less expense to the country. Mr GILFEDDER (Wallace) .- I am pleased to see that the Opposition have at last realised their responsibility, have risen to the occasion, and endeavoured to criticize the Speech from the Throne. I was coming to the conclusion that the old Opposition of a few years ago, which so adversely criticized not only the Go- vernor's Speech, but every measure brought before the House, are "Wearing awa' to the Land o' the Leal." Why, they have been as silent as the harp in Tara's hall. But the Opposition have at last wakened up to a sense of their duty not only to their constituents, but to the country at large. This has so far been a session of surprises. A few weeks ago we were surprised at the unexpected resig- nation of the member for Christchurch City, Mr. Lewis. The leader of the Opposition has sprung another surprise on us by intimating that his party, which was so fierce and formid- able a few years ago, is no longer a solid organized body, for it has no longer a leader. I sympathize with Captain Russell, who has been a courteous gentleman while a keen critic, and has been an able leader of that party for a number of years in this House. We miss now the splendidly prepared speeches of Mr. Scobie Mackenzie. Where are the Richard- sons, the Rollestons, and the Hutchisons, who gave us so much trouble two or three sessions ago ? They are no longer in the political arena. I sympathize heartily with the member for Hawke's Bay, who has at last been forced to throw up the sponge. The member for Frank- lin has just delivered a speech that was long and windy, as his dissertations usually are, but a speech that was not acrimonious. A great deal of what fell from the Whip of the Opposi- tion I most cordially agree with, and so will many members on the Ministerial side of the House. The bitterness of tone that was adopted in the past by the members of the Opposition is conspicuously absent from the speech of the honourable member, who alluded to the fact that the Ministry does not suffi- ciently represent the North Island. Why, is it not a fact that the Ministers of the Crown are for the most part resident in the North Island ? Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. GILFEDDER .- How often is the mem- her for Westland in his own electorate, or at Kumara? How often has the Minister for Rail- ways been in Southland since he has become a Minister; and how often is the Minister for Pub- Mr. Massey are resident in and travelling through the North Island, endeavouring to find out the require- ments of those districts, rather than in their respective electorates. I consider that the time has gone by when members of the Ministry should be selected according to the localities which they represent. This provincialism should be a thing of the past, and I hope the member for Franklin will support some of us who are advocating an elective Executive, and so endeavour to place in the Ministry the strongest men of the party. Sir, it cannot be gainsaid that there is a wave of prosperity passing over the colony at the present time. Ever since the advent of the present Adminis- tration the country has gone on prosperously. We have been told session after session for the last ten years by the Conservative seers and prophets that we were galloping to a deficit, that we were bringing the colony to the brink of ruin, that we were riding for a fall. Well, I can only say it has been a long ride, to which Dick Turpin's ride to York was a mere circum- stance. And, what is more than that, the Ministry of the day have been growing in the confidence of the people, until we find that the Opposition have melted away and their erst- while leader has resigned his post. I should prefer rather to see a stronger Opposition. I believe in the measures that are brought before this House by the Ministry being keenly criti- cized, and I hope that the members of the Opposition, though disorganized, will freely eriti- cize those measures, and assist us to place on the statute-book legislation that will be worthy of a Liberal Administration and worthy of this colony. Reference was made by the last speaker to the pageantry in connection with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. Sir, I am pleased to know that the people of this colony rose to the occasion and showed their loyalty to the Empire to which we are all so proud to owe allegiance, and that each large centre vicd with the other in order to give as loyal and cordial a welcome to our Royal visi- tors as they possibly could. Instead of finding fault with what has been done, as the member for Franklin has been inclined to do, I most give credit to the people of the cities, including the City of Auckland, for what they did on that great occasion. Then, Sir, reference was made in the Speech to the death of our late esteemed sovereign Queen Victoria, and also to the acces- sion of her son as King Edward the Seventh. So much reference has been made by previous speakers to those events that it is unnecessary for me to allude to them further than to remark that the reign of Her late Majesty Queen Vic- toria has been one that will be memorable in history for the great progress made in all in- dustrial arts, inventions, colonisation, and in civilisation itself ; and it is to be hoped that her son, the present King, will follow her noble example of devotion to the interests and well- being of her subjects, and that the intellectual and moral advancement so conspicuous in the past will increase with the ever-growing pro- sperity of the nation in time to come. Now. 