If he is not aware of it, it will be brought under his notice to-day, and if the matter is discussed temperately and ordinarily, and without showing heat, or venom, or spite, it will help to do good, and perhaps will also help the Minister in charge of the department to alter the state of things that exists at present. I was sorry to hear the warmth imported into the speech of the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar). That honourable gentleman and I get on very well together. On labour matters I am instructed by him at times, and I am pleased to be, as he is a man who has studied those questions thoroughly, and understands them. The honourable member is an old politi- cian, but even in an old politician I suppose at times feeling runs away with discretion ; and his friendship for a man whom he knows as a friend- Detective McGrath-caused him to make remarks which on calm reflection, and when he is correcting his Hansard proofs, he will regret having made. But he is usually generous; and were he generous to-day he should stand up in the House, as every one should who believes in discipline, and in having an honest man at the head of affairs, and say " Well done Inspector Pender, for the work you have done for New Zealand." From the time Inspector Ponder fought in the Crimea to the present day there has never been a black mark against his name; he is an honourable man, who has done his best in the interests of justice, and the only crime he can be charged with is that he is old. I read a few weeks ago of a resolution passed by a body -I forget its exact denomination-which has to do with the ad- ministration of the Police Force in England, in connection with the retirement of an old officer in the Force. It was suggested that this old officer should retire because he was past the age-limit as set out in the police regulations. He replied to the suggestion : "Why should I retire ? My brain is clear ; my intellect is the same, I hope, as ever: I am able to carry out the duties, and I am prepared to go on with my work and to do my work as I have done it in the past, and I hope the matter will not be pressed." On account of its being known that, notwithstanding his age, he was still able and ready to do his work, the members of the Police Force at Home were so pleased that the old Inspector was still ready to go on, that amongst themselves they contributed a purse of sovereigns and presented him with it, and the Board -- whatever was its constitution, I forget -- increased his salary for the remaining portion of his life of service. He died some fifteen months later ; but for the remaining fifteen months his salary was increased on account of his honourable service in the past. We know all about the Provident Fund into which members of the Police Force pay. Do honourable members know that Mr. Pender pays about $40 a year out of his salary into that fund ? If he retired he would get about #240 a year. But he prefers to work and pay in rather than retire and draw out. Earnestly, and with honesty of conviction, I believe Mr. Inspector Pender is as capable of doing his Mr. Wilford work to-day in the Court as he was ten years ago. Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear ; No, no. Mr. WILFORD .- Very well ; if honourable members say "No " I am quite prepared to let them say so, but if they were constantly de- fending criminals when Inspector Pender is prosecuting, they would very soon find out whether that gentleman has ability or not. I can assure honourable members they have no idea of the intuitive abilities of Inspector Pen- der. A young member stands up in the House and presumes-as I have no doubt it will be said I am doing - to show members who have grown grey in the House the way they must go. So the younger members intend to dictate to an old member like Mr. Pender when he comes to the Court to undertake the duties that pertain to his office. I say-and the legal profession will bear me out in this, for they know-that when you have to fight Mr. Pender you have to look out what you are doing, and to conduct your case capably if you expect to attain any good result. Mr. Pender is quite as fit to conduct prosecutions as he was when Mr. Tunbridge came here. Iu the Silverstream murder case and the Petone murder case he proved this, and he has con- ducted some of the largest criminal cases in New Zealand successfully. Mr. Tunbridge knows this also. He is a fair gentleman, and will be prepared to admit this. Let me say one word and answer the statement of the honour- able member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millari in regard to Sergeant Wright. He does not know him : I do. If he knew Sergeant Wright he would not have spoken as he did. He was tell. ing us what somebody else told him. I ask him here, has he ever seen Sergeant Wright ? Pees he know him? He does not ; he would n. t have the faintest idea if Sergeant Wright were sitting behind him now. He has merely told the House what he has been told. Would honourable members, if they were sitting as a jury, take the slightest notice of the evidence of a witness who told them what somebody else had told him ? No, they would be just. 1 am sure they will be just so far as Sergeant Wright is concerned. I know this about Sergeant Wright. Sir, I notice the honourable memter for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) interjects. I will tell you why. It is because he has a motion on the Order Paper for Inspector Pender to re- tire. It is put in these words. " Why have not the Government carried out the Police Regula- In English this is. tions No. so-and-so." " Why does not Mr. Pender retire ?" Honour- able members will understand the interjection of the honourable member. Mr. BARCLAY .- I never opened my mouth. Mr. WILFORD .- No, I know : you spoke. but you did not say anything. Let me say this in conclusion - because the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) is a worthy for. and he will be just when I tell him this : that Sergeant Wright, of the Police Force, is not only a man of more than ordinary ability, but he is a man who is fully up in criminal law : he is not a mere policeman in the style of run- 