an extension of powers and an enlargement of the liberties of the representatives of the people. Why should not those powers be enlarged and those liberties be extended ? I claim that the onus of showing that they ought not to be so extended lies on the objectors. Here is an admitted evil. Some remedy must be found. Will the objectors show a better ? Failing their being able to do so, let us try the remedy proposed. If it works well, well and good. If it does not, then our laws are not as the laws of the Medes and Persians, and we can return to the old state of things if we so wish. Let us pass this Bill. Let us have a Parliament free to vote upon every issue according to the judgment and consciences of members, and not according to the exigencies of party and party interests. I believe that if we do so we shall never desire a restoration of the present effete and unsatisfactory system, which in many cases saps the independence and destroys the efficiency of this Legislature. Let our motto be "Onward and upward." Let us strive steadily and persistently to attain to better things. Seeking the welfare of the State, United all in heart and mind, Leaving all party prejudice And all unworthy aims behind, Let us essay to purer air And up to nobler heights to climb. Ring out the bad old past! Ring in A brighter, botter, happier time! Sir, believing as I do that the passing of this Bill will be a step in that direction, I ask the House to support me in the second reading. Either those of us who believe that the people desire the change proposed by the Bill are right, or those who do not believe that the people desire it are right. Sir, I appeal to Cæsar on this question. The clause I propose to insert in Committee will refer this Bill to the arbitra- ment of the poll; and there sits the Govern- ment that asks us to agree to a Referendum Bill! The Premier stated the other day that this very question of an elective Executive was one of the measures which should be referred to the people. The Bill cannot become law unless it is so referred. Therefore, Sir, I put honour- able members who intend to oppose this Bill in this position : If the Bill is sent to a referendum either the people will approve of it or they will reject it. If honourable members believe that the people will adopt it, then, I say, they have no right, as representatives of the people, to refuse them an opportunity to do so; and if honourable members believe that the people will refuse it, then they can do no harm in voting with me. I do not wish to take up the time of the House any longer to-night, because I have spoken on this subject on many previous occasions. I simply ask honourable members to let us have a division to-night. There are ways and means of preventing it, I know. Mr. SEDDON .- Do you ask us to pass it without debate ? Major STEWARD .- No; but I ask you not to carry on the debate till twelve o'clock and then adjourn the debate without a division. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Major Steward Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- Sir, I 8.0. certainly am not going to allow this Bill to pass its second reading without some expression of opinion on my part. I had not intended to speak on the measure, but seeing there was a possibility of its passing its second reading without discussion I thought I would, at any rate, be one to prevent its passing in that way. Sir, I must say I listened with a great deal of pleasure to the speech of the honourable member for Waitaki. He certainly made the best of what I considered was a bad case. This is not the first time, Sir, that I have spoken against this measure. I have always held that to introduce an elective Executive into this colony would be a move that would not conduce to the interests or the liberties of the people. We find at the present time that party govern- ment has been very successful indeed. So suc- cessful has it been that the Opposition party have to-day utterly collapsed. Our Government exists stronger to-day than ever we have had it before. We have now a party that has been re- turned at the polls to carry out as far as possible the reforms and the proposals that have been brought forward by the present Government. Most of us have kept to our pledges, and I say the result has been that now we find a de- moralised Opposition. The honourable member for Waitaki referred to England, and said that there they had not effected the great changes we have introduced here, referring more par- ticularly to the women's franchise, conciliation and arbitration, and old-age pensions. That is quite true; but I would point out to him that we have managed to carry those measures with- out an elective Executive, so that, if the honour- able gentleman points to England as a case where these measures have not been carried into effect, I, Sir, point to New Zealand as a case where such measures have been carried into effect, and not under the conditions the honour- able member would have preferred. I think that all our liberties, all our great reforms, have been brought forward by means of party government. The people have had the opportunity pericdi- cally of expressing their opinions through their They have had the right to representatives. question them as to what they were going to de in this House, and those representatives have had to pledge themselves to certain measures. The consequence is that those representatives have been sent to this House. Now, what would have been the position if there had not been this opportunity given to the people. Let us suppose that after the House met we had to select a mixed team to form the Government. Sir, to use a simile I have used before. I say it would have been like aerated waters which at first were bright and sparkling, but after having been open for some time had lost their effer- vescence, and would after a time leave it dead and stagnant. That, Sir, would have been the position of the elective Executive. Sir, to say that members would not be likely to take up positions in the elected Ministry because they would not be able to agree with other mem- If bers of the Ministry is all nonsense. members had the opportunity they would be 