fighting with our Maori fellow-citizens on ac- count of land troubles it was from the Volun- teers that the most efficient aid came, and a termination was put to the war. Therefore in New Zealand it always struck me as exceed- ingly strange that there should be any doubt in the mind of anybody as to the efficiency of our Volunteers, and why the services which they could possibly render to their country should bo decried. Providentially, the South African war came in time to demonstrate to the full value the quality of the men we were train- ing here in our Volunteer Forces, and I can assure honourable members who were not fortunate enough to be present in Christchurch that it was a very proud spectacle that was exhibited to us there, to see so many thousand men, and so many mounted men particularly, and Volun- teers of all arms of the service, turn out and show the world the fact that the New-Zea- landers were well trained and ready to do their duty to their country. I have no doubt that our reviews of Volunteer soldiers were probably the most interesting events in connection with the Royal visit, both in Australia and here, as it showed that the Volunteer Forces of the colo- nies were able to make such a splendid exhibi- tion. As regards the cadets, their muster, too, was a very notable fact. Of course, it may be said that the same thing was witnessed in the other colonies ; but, considering the com- parative size of our colony, the display at Christ- church was a very noble one indeed, and showed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to our visitors the real character of the training that our sons are getting even in their school days. I trust that the events of the last year or two are simply the commencement of still more encouragement being given, and judicious training to our Volunteers, and that New Zealand will never again despise or deny the possible value of our citizen soldiers. The remarks that have been made by the previous speakers are mostly in the direction of agreeing with the sentiments contained in the Speech, and therefore I do not think it necessary for me to add anything further on the subject. I feel certain that the Council will, as usual, do its best to consider faithfully and carefully any measures proposed to it during the present ses sion, and that our work will be done as well and faithfully as has ever been the case in this Council. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at a quarter to four o'clock p.m. ## HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 3rd July, 1901. First Readings-Appointments to Public Depart- ments-Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act-City of Christchurch - The Patea Electorate - Sessional Committees - Counties Bill - Bush Settlers' Rent- and Taxes-Hanmer Springs- District Health Officers- Kaipara Flats-Wells- ford Railway-Waimahaka-Tokonni Railway- "Newtown Park Scandal" - Hotchkiss Guns - Licenses to Sell Guns and Ammunition-Reduc- Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker Sanatorium noar Naseby - Railway Siding between Ranfurly and Wedderburn-Address in Reply. Mr. Speaker took the chair at half-past two o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. ## FIRST READINGS. Waimarino County Bill, Miners' Rights Fee Reduction Bill, Wellington Harbour Board Bill, Workers' Right of Appeal Bill, Patea Harbour Board Bill, Elective Executive Bill, Counties Bill, (No. 2), Rabbit Nuisance Bill, Ashburton County Council Empowering Bill, State-school Children Compulsory Drill Bill, Libel Bill, Settlers' Fire Insurance Bill, Eight Hours Bill, Referendum Bill, Rating on Unimproved Values Bill, District Courts Bill (No. 2), Cycle Boards Bill, Statutes Compilation Bill, Law Amendment Bill, Cyanide Process Extension Bill, District Courts (No 1), Shops and Shop-assistants Bill, Bicycle Dealers Registration Bill, Police Offences Bill, Chinese Immigrants Bill, Fair Rent Bill, Orchard and Garden Pests Bill, Public Health Bill, Accidents. on Railways Compensation Bill, Companies Bill .. Mortgages of Land Bill, Government Railways Superannuation Bill, Young Persons Protection Bill, Exportation of Arms Bill, Factories Bill, Statutes Revision Bill, Trustee Amendment Bill, Property Law Amendment Bill, Absolute Majority Bill. ## APPOINTMENTS TO PUBLIC DEPART- MENTS. On the motion of Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return, in continuation of H .- 5A,. 1898, showing,-(1) The number of applications received during the year ended the 31st March,. 1901, for employment in (a) the Railway service, (b) the Post and Telegraph Department, and (c) the Defence Department ; (2) the number of appointments made; and (3) the number of applications now on the books. CROWN TENANTS' RENT REBATE ACT. On the motion of Mr. SYMES (Egmont), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The amount of rebate granted to Crown tenants under "The Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act, 1900" ; (2) the number of tenants in each' land district to which rebate has been granted, giving the annual rent, and the amount of rebate allowed to each ; and (3) the total amount of rebate in each land district. ## CITY OF CHRISTCHURCH. On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), it was ordered, That Mr. Speaker be directed to issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Writs to make out a new writ for the election of a mem- ber of the House of Representatives for the Electoral District of City of Christchurch, in the room of Charles Lewis, Esq., resigned. THE PATEA ELECTORATE. On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), it was ordered, That Mr. Speaker be directed to 