COPIES OF BILLS FOR PUBLIC LIBRARIES. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Government, If they will give instructions that copies of all Bills be supplied to the public libraries of the colony for public information ? What was desired was that copies of the measures discussed in the House should be sent out to libraries in different parts of the colony for the benefit of those interested in them. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister in charge of the Goverment Printing Office) said no request of the kind had come before him from any part of the colony. He recognised that it was desir- able that those people outside the House who were interested in its legislation should have an opportunity of seeing the nature of the mea- sures introduced, and any libraries that applied for copies of Bills would be supplied with them. RANGITANE AND NGATIKUIA HAPUS. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Government, Whether they will introduce legislation to enable titles to be issued to the members of the Rangitane and Ngatikuia hapus, living in the Havelock and Wairau districts. for the lands recently given them by the Government as landless Natives, and now occupied by them ? He had been requested by the parties interested to put this important question to the Government. The members of the hapus he had named were desirous that titles should be given to them for the lands they occupied, and he hoped the Minister would see his way to grant the request. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said the land for landless Natives in the Middle Island had been set aside under the provisions of sub- section (6) of section 235 of " The Land Act, 1892." It was probable that legislative autho- rity would be required to issue titles for the . lands so reserved and divided among the indi- vidual owners. Up to the present time the most that had been done was to allocate certain lands to certain tribes, and the subdivisions thereof-not to individuals but to hapus. If the Natives insisted that they should have titles to each individual's holding, then the Govern- ment were prepared to treat with the question in that respect. MINING COMPANIES LAW. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If their attention has been di- rected to three letters in the Otago Daily Times of 25th May, 4th July, and 10th July last, re- lating to defects in the law relating to mining companies, and the floating and carrying-on of worthless companies : and whether the Govern- ment will take steps during the present session to legislate on the subject ? He had been in- duced to put this question on the Order Paper because of statements and disclosures that had been made of late in the city he represented, as to the manner in which some gold-dredging companies had been floated, managed, and carried on. It was alleged, for instance, that there was one group of twelve companies floated by one firm, of which at least nine must go into liquidation. One of the chief offenders in the matter, if all statements were correct, was one W. R. Cook. It was said by the writer of the letters he alluded to :- " I joined the Boards of some of these com- panies in March last for the purpose of di- minishing the control of Messrs. Cook and Gray, whom I found to be acting as brokers, pro- moters, secretaries (and Mr. Cook as director). From an inspection of the books I am of opinion at least nine of these companies must liqui- date." The accusations were that large sums of com- mission were being obtained on derelict and more or less "paper companies," floated on air, and kept alive for the sole benefit of the promoters and vendors. It was also urged that "promoters' or bonus shares ought not to be sold until a dividend had been paid from genuine profits, and not out of capital, and any benefit accruing on such shares should not be allowed." It was also alleged that the articles of association were so worded that "dummy " shareholders could vote. It was also suggested that the directors should be prevented from receiving fees, and of striking calls, and invoking the law against shareholders at a time when the directors themselves were in arrear. He thought the Government ought to consider and probably deal with the matter. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said that some time ago the Government had paid attention to that question, and recognised that there were a number of men who endeavoured to make money in a way that many would think was not strictly honest. They were enabled to do that as the law at present stood. The Go- vernment were, however, dealing with the question in another place, and he thought the measure would meet the case of those who traded upon the credulity of the public and in- jured a legitimate and profitable industry. DISTRICT COURT FOR AUCKLAND. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Justice. If the Government will consider the desirability of re-establishing the District Court, civil jurisdiction, at Auckland ? In asking the question he would like to point out that they had had a District Court in Auck- land a few years ago, and it was highly appre- ciated. It was true that just before its abolition there was not a large number of cases heard in that Court, but at that time there was a great commercial depression, and consequently there was very little litigation. Contrary to the popu- lar notion, litigation occurred most in times of prosperity. The advantages of the District Court were that litigants could get a jury of four to try the facts. They could also get their cases heard speedily, as the Court sat once a fortnight, and the costs were small. Those were considerable advantages to people of small means. At the present time the delays of the Supreme Court were such that the ex- penses almost placed the Supreme Court be- yond the reach of the working-classes. As a matter of fact, speaking as a lawyer, he would 