District Courts Bill. 1901.1 [HOUSE.] should be supposed for a moment that any ! injustice would be done to men occupying these matter of District Court Judges is being dis- loft\ and independent positions. cussed, I should like to say that I am one of Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .--- There is those who believe that it would be a good thing another question that I would like to bring for New Zealand if the whole of its Judiciary before the Ministers in dealing with this Bill. were made entirely independent of the Govern- There has been a desire all over the colony for ment of the day, no matter what Government some years that the operations of the District might be in power. The other day, when I put Courts should be extended. District Courts a question on the Order Paper, I asked the Go- are only held in a very few places of the colony, : vernment, if they could not give a favourable and if the operations of that Court were made reply as to making the whole of the Judiciary wider a great saving would be effected in many independent, or at least to take into favourable , cases by enabling many cases which now have consideration the making of the District Court to be tried by the Supreme Court to be tried in Judges independent. I think the position taken the smaller towns, which would be a large up by Judge Kettle in Masterton recently is - saving in expense, by obviating the taking of one that is unassailable : that a Judge should 1 witnesses to large centres and keeping them not be called upon to adjudicate in a case there for a week or ten days. I am aware i where one of the men who have to vote his that the legal profession does not take this view salary from year to year is before him in the of it, and that probably it will reduce their fees, position of either plaintiff or defendant. It as the fees of the District Court are not as high is an unfair position in which to place any as those of the Supreme Court, but I think the Judge. Government should study the interest and con- Court Judge or Magistrate should think of venience of the public, and not the interest of the legal profession for a moment. This ques- himself. tion has no doubt been brought under the notice of Ministers at various times, but I hope view it. I look upon it that a man, no matter it will be considered, so that when the Bill is in who he may be, is only human; he has to think of his position and his bread-and-butter Committee a clause might be inserted to meet the object I have in view. the same as other men. Jir. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- On many occa- sions I have pointed out the insufficiency of officer ; you have to pass goods through the the payments to District Court Judges. Year Customs? You have to vote his salary. Is after year we have found that the labours of i that any reason for him not collecting his duties ? these Judges have been increased. It is neces- sary that where we have important duties is more than one instance in this colony-occu- to perform we should get the best men to perform them, but under the low salaries that ' pants of the bench were threatened in their are paid to District Court Judges there can be position by men in whose cases they had been adjudicating in the Courts of the colony. In no great incentive to seek the positions that the legal profession have the right to look any case, I say it is an improper position to forward to. Now, Sir, to show how the work place men in while we ask them to deal out of the District Court has increased. I would even-handed justice. We are talking about ex- like to point out that the jurisdiction of Dis- tending the powers of District Court Judges. Already they have very great powers. If a cri- triet Courts by the Act of 1858 was $100; in minal is brought before them for a heinous 1ses the jurisdiction was doubled-namely, 2200: in 1893 the jurisdiction was again in -. crime these Judges have power to sentence creased to more than double- namely. $500. Well. the work has been piled up in this way flogging- exactly the same powers as a Judge on District Court Judges, and one would have thought there would be some commensurate increase in their salaries. But. as a matter of that is the position he is in now, to become for fact, not only has there been no addition, but we and the salaries of some Judges are less now than in 1858 and 1588. I think these figures speak for themselves, and I think, in common justice, some effort should be made to increase honourable member for Wanganui has said, pay their salaries and make them commensurate with the work they have to perform. I draw attention to this subject. as I have done for some vears, because I think it is only my duty to do so. believing that these men who we expect to be well qualified to deal with the duties imposed on them should have something done in the direction of an increase of salary. Once more, Judge Kettle prevailed upon both parties to re- I say, I bring this matter before the attention of the House, trusting that in some way the District Courts Biil. 395 Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .-. While this Mr. SEDDON. - Nonsense. No District Mr. HORNSBY .- Well, that is the way I Mr. SEDDON .- What about a Customhouse Mr. HORNSBY .- Not so long ago-and there him to a long term of imprisonment and to of the Supreme Court. Then, Sir, take civil business : they have jurisdiction up to $500. It is a monstrous thing to ask a Magistrate, for the nonce a District Court Judge, and to do the work of the District Court for the paltry salary paid to a Stipendiary Magistrate. I think the time has come when this House should, as the the District Judges of the colony a salary com- mensurate with the work they do for the colony. And let me say that, when the Judge at Master- ton referred to the anomalous position. the very unenviable position, he was placed in, he referred to another honourable gentleman in this House whose case came before him, in which case Mr. move the action into the Supreme Court. Well, 