fair return to him for his labour and exertions and cash invested. Before I sit down I might put in a word wi h regard to a portion of my own province. In Central Otago, so far as I am aware, little or nothing whatever has been done by the Government in the way of cutting up estates or taking land under the Land for Settlements Act. Now, I admit that in Central Otago part of the land is certainly not suitable for agricultural purposes, but, on the other hand, there is some land, and a con- siderable portion too, that is suitable for settle- ment purposes. For instance, there is a run called Patearoa which is suitable for cutting up, and I should like to see the attention of the Government directed towards it, with a view to taking it over and subdividing it under this Act. Now, I do not think that I shall detain the House any longer. It was said of a famous Roman once that he always wound up his speeches by saying, "Carthage must be destroyed "; and all the speeches I make on the land question I feel inclined to wind up by saying that "the fee-simple and any tenure resembling it must be deleted from the statute- book, and from the land system of this country." Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- Sir, I under- stood the House was discussing the second reading of a short amendment of the Land for Settlements Consolidation Act of last session, but, since hearing the speech of the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, I am not sure what we are discussing. I am afraid, so far as he is concerned, we are discussing any- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 thing and everything except the Bill before the House. Mr. BARCLAY .- All have done the same. Mr. GRAHAM .- The honourable gentleman says, " All have done the same," consequently he has followed suit. It appears to me a general discussion of the land-settlement of the colony would be more appropriate to a debate on the Financial Statement, when the whole question of the administration of the Government is be- fore the House. We appear to lose sight of the special provisions of the proposed amendments in the Bill that is before us by becoming involved in a general discussion. The Premier himself was not very clear, to my mind, in his explanation of some of the clauses of this Bill. Perhaps he did not mean to be ; perhaps it was his policy not to be any clearer than would be neces- sary to effect his purpose ; and I am sure many members of the House have not tended to make more clear by their speeches those portions of the Bill which the Premier failed in making clear himself. The few remarks I shall make will be strictly in reference to the provisions of the clauses in the Bill now before the House. I do not intend to discuss the general policy of land for settlements. The Bill is a short one of six or seven operative clauses, and I am going to look at what appears to be its intention and objection-how far it appears to be justifiable and desirable in the interests of the people. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay com- plained-and, I think, justly - when he spoke Mr. Barclay of members long enough to enable them to study the questions it dealt with. That may have led the honourable gentleman perhaps into an error when he stated that under the Bill he believed if a person who owned property left the colony on a visit to Australia for a month he might come back and find himself dispossessed of his property. Captain RUSSELL. - Hear, hear. Mr. GRAHAM .- I think that is wrong. Captain RUSSELL .- Oh, no. Mr. GRAHAM. - I think the honourable gentleman is wrong ; but if I am mistaken in making the statement I hope the Premier, who ought to be possessed of special knowledge, will correct me. If the honourable member for Hawke's Bay is right, I think it would be a disgrace to the colony that such a thing should be possible. I do not think, however, that such a result is possible under the present Act. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .-- WID the honourable gentleman allow me for half a moment ? As I understand the Act, the very moment the Gazette proclamation is published the estate passes from the individual to the Government. Mr. GRAHAM .- I feel convinced such is not the legal effect of this Bill, and I will give my views with regard to absence from the colony when I come to the clause dealing with it. Clause 2 of the Bill is permissive, and provides that lessees prior to the passing of the Act of 1896 may come under the conditions that have been mandatory since then. Clause 54 of las: year's consolidating Act is simply a re- enactment of clause 7 of the Act of 1896. In clause 54 it states, -- " In every case where buildings are situate on the land at the time when it is to be disposed of by way of lease, then, notwithstanding any. thing to the contrary contained in this Act. the Minister shall cause the buildings . to be valued separately from the land, and the rental shall be computed on the capital value of the land apart from the buildings.' The next subsection goes on to state that. -- " The value of the buildings shall, together with interest thereon at the rate of five per centum per annum, be paid by the lessee by equal half-yearly instalments in advance." et cetera. That was a provision made so that tenauts should purchase any improvements on the pro- perties right out. That has been the law siuce 1896, and clause 2 of this Bill is a permissive clause which makes it optional for lessees prior to 1896 to come under conditions which bave been mandatory since that time. Clause 3 extends the Minister's power of making im- provements on lands purchased, prior to distoral for settlement. This appears to me a power that is necessary in some cases. Clau -: 65 of the Consolidating Act of last session pro- vides as follows : - " For the purpose of utilising and developing land acquired under this Act and preparing it for settlement the following special provisions shall apply :- 