way with the employment of boy labour or { the institution in New Zealand of a scheme for apprentices. I happen to represent a district which. I believe, has produced more apprentices to the shipping trade than has any other district in the colony. The small fleet of coasting-vessels emploved on the coast of the Province of Auck- land has given employment to a large number of boys. A great many boys have commenced their seafaring career on board those vessels, with the result that a large number of young men have passed on from stage to stage until they have become masters of vessels ; but owing to the provisions of the Shipping and Seamen's Act they have not been able to learn their profes- sion on our vessels for some years. They have had to go on board vessels in other countries and barn their business. A few years ago 1 endea- voured to get an amendment of the Shipping and Seamen's Act, by which shipowners would be allowed to employ two boys on each vessel, and they would be classed as one able seaman. But the honourable member for Dunedin City, Mr. Millar, opposed it, and I have no doubt the House would have passed it if it had not been for his opposition. He is regarded somewhat of an authority on shipping matters in the House, and I think it was owing to his opposi- tion that the amendment did not pass. If our vessels carried one apprentice on board each vesel I think in a few years our whole coastal fleet would be manned by our own people. I think it would be better to agree to the sugges- tion I then made than follow the course we are taking now. So long as the present law exists our boys are completely shut out from a seafaring life, which I hold is a very un- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 fortunate position for this colony to be placed in. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- I did not intend to say anything upon this Bill, inas- much as I think that every member of the House recognises that the principle of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act has been confirmed both by this House and the country. as, since its adoption, there has been more than one general election. It is recog. Lied from end to end of the colony that, if it is possible to prevent industrial strife, people on all sides of politics should endeavour to make the legislation as perfect as possible, so as to make the machinery run smoothly. Some honourail members have criticized the whole pohey of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. whereas that system is not, by the amendments proposed in this Bill, on its trial. All are surely agreed that strikes, and the inevitable disaster to those engaged in strikes, should be averted wherever possible. Sir, some honourable members oppo- 3.0. site have never been able to see any gw in the policy of the Government or in its legislation, and they ask the House, Who is re- sponsible for the success of the farmers of this country at the present moment. The Govern- ment are responsible for nothing good, accord- ing to the honourable member for Franklin. Now, I would ask the honourable member to carry his mind back to the time when it was I for Palmerston says, that it was so: and I proposed to bring about relief to the farmers by VOL. CXVI .- 23. providing cheap money for them. Where was the Opposition upon the occasion to which I refer? They were all on the side of the money- lenders, and were strenuously opposing it, and forecasting disaster to the colony as the result of the introduction of a system such as that. Yet it is now admitted that probably nothing the colony has ever done gave the farmers so much relief and assistance, and put life into their great industry. Then, again, when it was proposed to abrogate what existed for many years in this colony, a system of taxation known as the property-tax, where were the majority of the honourable members opposite when the Government were urging that this great change should be brought about in the in- terests more particularly of the farmers of New Zealand ? Sir, they were all exercising their united efforts against that measure in the Go- vernment policy intended for the relief of the settlers in that important direction. They fought determinedly to keep the property-tax alive, although it was taxing the very vitals of the farming community. Again, the honour- able member knows that during the last five years the Government has reduced the railway tariff by $369,269 per annum. The great bulk of it has been given to the farmers of the country, and the farmers of the country recog- nise it, notwithstanding what may be stated by many who now try to throw dust in their eyes. Did the Conservatives ever go for reducing the railway tariff in such a direction ? Where were the honourable members, when it was proposed by the present Government to do so ? What was their attitude? They were ever predicting failure and disaster. And yet, whenever a sug- gestion was made in regard to the Government having done any good, they immediately say the Government has done nothing in the direc- tion of assisting the farmers of the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- Very little. Sir J. G. WARD. - Exactly. The honour- able member is still labouring under that blind prejudice which has been so disastrous to him- self and to others on the opposite side of the House. The majority of the farmers know that, as a result of what was done by the Govern- ment, and always against the strenuous efforts of those opposite, very great concessions have been brought about in their interests. Then, again, when it was proposed to entirely exempt from taxation all improvements under the land- and income-tax system, where were my honourable friends on that occasion ? Mr. MASSEY. -- That was before many of us came into the House. Sir J. G. WARD. - Why, I think, from memory, it was brought down in the Financial Statement of 1894. Mr. MASSEY .- Long before that. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable gentle- man will pardon me: I think it was in 1894. Mr. PIRANI .- It was in 1894. Sir J. G. WARD .-- Yes : and if you will look at the Financial Statement of that year you, I think, will find, as the honourable member 