issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Writs to make out a new writ for the election of a mem- ber of the House of Representatives for the Electoral District of Patea, in the room of George Hutchison, Esq., resigned. SESSIONAL COMMITTEES. JOINT ON BILLS. - Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. Graham, Mr. McGuire, Mr. McNab, and Mr. Guinness. SELECTION .- Mr. Hall-Jones, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Hutcheson, Major Steward, and Mr. Guinness. JOINT STANDING ORDERS ON PRIVATE BILLS. -Mr. Hardy, Major Steward, and Mr. Guinness. NATIVE AFFAIRS .- Mr. E. G. Allen, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, Mr. Gilfedder, Mr. Hall, Mr. Heke, Mr. Houston, Mr. Kaihau, Mr. McGuire, Mr. Monk, Mr. O'Meara, Mr. Parata, Mr. Pere, Captain Russell, Mr. Stevens, Mr. Seddon, Mr. Willis, and Mr. Carroll. GOLDFIELDS AND MINES .- Mr. J. Allen, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Carncross, Mr. Colvin, Mr. Duncan, Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. Gilfedder, Mr. Guinness, Mr. Herries, Mr. Lang, Mr. R. Mckenzie, Mr. Millar, Mr. Mills, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Seddon, Mr. E. M. Smith, and Mr. McGowan. HOUSE .- Mr. Speaker, Mr. Bollard, Mr. Col- vin, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, Mr. Herries, Mr. Seddon, Mr. Wilford, Mr. Witheford, and Mr. Carroll. WASTE LANDS .- Mr. Bennet, Mr. Flatman, Mr. Gilfedder, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Hogg, Mr. Lang, Mr. Mclachlan, Mr. R. Thompson, Mr. J. W. Thomson, and Mr. Duncan. PETITIONS CLASSIFICATION. - Mr. J. Allen, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. Buddo, Mr. Fowlds, Mr. Herries, Mr. McNab, Mr. Monk, Mr. Smith, Mr. Symes, Mr. Willis, and Mr. McGowan. AGRICULTURAL AND PASTORAL .- Mr. Bollard, Mr. Buddo, Mr. Lawry, Mr. Lethbridge, Mr. Massey, Mr. Rhodes, Mr. T. Mackenzie, Major Steward, Mr. Symes, and Mr. Duncan. LIBRARY .- Mr. Speaker, Mr. J. Allen, Mr. Fisher, Mr. Gilfedder, Mr. Guinness, Mr. Her- ries, Mr. Lethbridge, Major Steward, Mr. Tan- ner, and Sir J. G. Ward. RAILWAYS .- Mr. Flatman, Mr. Lawry, Mr. Massey, Mr. Morrison, Mr. McGuire, Mr. R. Mckenzie, Mr. G. W. Russell, Mr. Tanner, Mr. J. W. Thomson, and Sir J. G. Ward. TRADE AND COMMERCE. - Mr. Bollard, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Hogg, Mr. Houston, Mr. Lauren- son, Mr. T. Mackenzie, Mr. McNab, Mr. O'Meara, Mr. Symes, Mr. Witheford, and Sir J. G. Ward. PUBLIC PETITIONS, M to Z .- Mr. Bennet, Mr. Buddo, Mr. Fowlds, Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. McGuire, Mr. Meredith, Mr. Monk, Mr. Morri. son, Mr. O'Meara, Mr. Mills. PUBLIC ACCOUNTS .- Mr. J. Allen, Mr. Fisher, Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. Graham, Mr. Guinness, Mr. Morrison, Mr. Palmer, Captain Russell, Sir . J. G. Ward, and Mr. Seddon. LAW REVISION .- Mr. Atkinson, Mr. Barclay, Mr. Field, Mr. Hanan, Mr. Palmer, Mr. McNab, Mr. Napier, Major Steward, Mr. Wilford, and Mr. Seddon. STANDING ORDERS .- Mr. Speaker, Mr. Fisher, Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. Guinness, Mr. McGuire, Mr. Palmer, Captain Russell, Major Steward, Mr. Symes, and Mr. Seddon. LABOUR BILLS .- Mr. Arnold, Mr. Bollard, Mr. Collins, Mr. Ell, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Hutcheson, Mr. Laurenson, Mr. Millar, Mr. Morrison, Mr. Palmer, Captain Russell, Mr. Tanner, and Mr. Seddon. PUBLIC PETITIONS, A to L .- Mr. Colvin, Mr. Hall, Mr. Lawry, Mr. Lethbridge, Mr. R. Mckenzie, Mr. Rhodes, Mr. Symes, Mr. J. W. Thomson, Mr. Witheford, and Mr. Hall-Jones. LOCAL BILLS .- Mr. E. G. Allen, Mr. Ell, Mr. Graham, Mr. Hall, Mr. Massey, Mr. McGuire, Mr. R. Mckenzie, Mr. Millar, Mr. Rhodes, and Mr. Hall-Jones. REPORTING DEBATES AND PRINTING. - Mr. Speaker, Mr. Carncross, Mr. Fisher, Mr. Hornsby, Mr. Lethbridge, Mr. Pirani, Mr. G. W. Russell, Major Steward, Mr. J. W. Thomson, and Mr. Hall-Jones. ## COUNTIES BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) gave notice to move, That Standing Order No. 211 be suspended, and that a Select Committee, consisting of thirty- two members, be appointed, to whom shall be referred the Counties Bill, and certain other Bills or matters more particularly referring to local administration affected by the Bill ; five to be a quorum : the Committee to consist of Mr. Bennet, Mr. Buddo, Mr. Carncross, Mr. Colvin, Mr. Field, Mr. Flatman, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. Guinness, Mr. Hall, Mr. Hardy, Mr. Herries, Mr. Hogg. Mr. Hous- ton, Mr. Lang, Mr. Lethbridge, Mr. Massey, Mr. McGuire, Mr. T. Mackenzie, Mr. R. Mc- Kenzie, Mr. McLachlan, Mr. McNab. Mr. Mere- dith, Mr. O'Meara, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Pirani, Mr. Rhodes, Captain Russell, Mr. Stevens, Mr. Symes, Mr. J. W. Thomson, and the mover. He might say that he was not acquainted with all those members who had had experience in the working of the Counties Act and the Road Boards Act. If there were any such whose names had been omitted, and if any member proposed wished to be relieved from serving on the Committee, he would be happy to add the names to the Committee of those having ex- perience in the working of the Acts referred to. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said the Premier stated yesterday that he proposed that the Road Boards should send delegates to the conference, as well as County Councils. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL desired to point out that there were nearly two hundred and fifty Road Boards. Mr. SEDDON said there was to be a con- ference of County Councils, but, as the measure affected Road Boards as well as County Coun- cils, the conference would be more complete if there were also representatives of Road Roards present. He knew there were numerous Road Boards, but there would be no necessity for each separate Road Board to send a representa- tive. The conference would be more complete if representatives of the Road Boards could attend the conference. Mr. TANNER (Avon) would point out to the 