many old colonists, representative men who | be allowed to retard settlement. There is another assisted to build up this colony and make it paragraph in the Speech, referring to the Cook what it is to-day, and who on such an occa- Islands, and expressing satisfaction at the ex- sion should have been recognised, but who were tension of the boundaries of this colony so as to include those islands. Well, Sir, it seems to ignored and passed over. In fact, it seems to me, and it must have seemed to outsiders, that me that it is much too soon to say whether the the visit of the Duke and Duchess of York was benefits received by the colony will be sufficient intended as a sort of glorification for the Pre- to compensate it for the responsibility we are mier and his followers. Now, coming back to taking up. I noticed from the Speech that it is the Governor's Speech, there is a paragraph in evidently intended to continue the present form it expressing satisfaction with the way in which of government for some time; but we cannot the Maori Land Administration Act is working ; get away from this fact : that by this extension I do not remember the exact words, but the para- of the boundaries of New Zealand the natives of graph is there. Now, what does this Act pro- the Cook Islands are now to all intents and vide? It begins by dividing the colony into six purposes citizens of our country, and conse- districts. For every district there is to be a quently we are bound sooner or later to treat Native Land Council. The members of those them exactly in the same way as our own Councils are to be partly elected by the Na- Natives. We shall be expected to educate them. to make them acquainted with our laws, and to tives and partly nominated by the Government. I believe in most districts the Natives have keep the peace amongst them. They will in elected their representatives, but the Govern- time expect to have representation in this House, and probably in the other House as well, and ment have not yet nominated a single member. These Councils have not been set up, not an I suppose by-and-by they will expect us to provide their old people with pensions. Well, acre has been disposed of under the Act since communities have duties as well as individuals, we were here last year, yet they say the Act is and it may be our duty to take up what Kipling working satisfactorily. Personally, I did not calls "the white man's burden " so far as the expect very much from the Act ; but I do want to say that if it will help to individualise titles Cook Islands are concerned ; but I believe it and give to each Native his own particular block would be very much better for us to develop cur of land, then good work will have been done. own resources, instead of interfering any more There is one thing in connection with the Act with which I agree : the provision that where the Maori owns land he shall be compelled to retain sufficient from which to make a living. But where a Native is not able to make use of his land I would allow him to dispose of it on the understanding that the money went to the Public Trustee, or into the securities of the colony, so that the Native could draw the inter- et ; but he should not be allowed to touch the principal. If the Native has more land cf his own than he can use for his own purposes, then we should allow him to do what he likes with it, only taking care to see that he Kets a fair value for the land he disposes of. But it is scarcely necessary even to do that, be- cause the Natives are now just as well able to look after their own affairs and take care of themselves as the majority of Europeans, and probably, in many cases, better able. The Native land must be settled, and there need be no trouble in settling it if we do not place un- necessary difficulties in the way. The land should be opened up in a similar way to that in which the Crown lands are opened up; and I want to say in this connection that I have no sympathy whatever with what seems to be the tendency at present-a tendency to set up a class of Maori landlords and European tenants. I think in every case the settlers should have the right to acquire the freehold of the land ; or, if not the frechold, then such a lease as will secure to every man the value of his improve- improvements. But that has been altered. ments-the increased value given to the land by such improvements. I would do the fullest jus- tice to the Natives; and, while I would give them all the advantages of Europeans, they must fully improvements -a very different thing. A great understand that they have to accept certain re- sponsibilities, and, above all, that they are not to \- than can possibly be helped with the govern- ment of islands twelve hundred or fourteen hundred miles away. There is another subject particularly affecting the country settlers to which I wish to refer, and in connection with which there was considerable friction during the recess-that is, the valuations that were made under the Government Land Valuation Act ; and I am glad to see the Minister who cca- trols that department is present, so that he may hear what I have to say. Of course, it must be admitted that during the last few years there has been a considerable increase in the land- values of the colony. Whether this increase is permanent or not remains to be seen. 1 am inclined to think it is not permanent, except in the immediate neighbourhood of the large centres of population. But there is no doubt about this : that the Government, or the Valua- tion Department-which is the same thing- have been very quick to take advantage of the in- creased values ; they have put up the values, and consequently increased the taxation. The prin- cipal objection was, however, not so much to the capital value as to the way the capital value is divided into value of improvements and unim- proved values, or, putting it another way, to the way in which the unimproved value is arrived at. Formerly the unimproved value was defined to be the capital value less the value of the improvements, and that was right, because it provided for the full exemption of The Act of last year provides that the unim- proved value is the value of the land supposing it was possible to take away all the unexhausted deal depends on what is called the unexhausted improvements, because, for instance, I am 