lation of Ministers, but, on the contrary, any feeble resistance that can be made is all they make reference to. Well, I leave the honour- able member at that, to reconcile the discre- pancy of the two speeches as best he may. Now, I cannot allow the member for Masterton, who made reference to the farmers' unions, and all those connected with farmers' unions, to pass without some remark. He inveighed against any organization of the farmers, and, Sir, his very heart was in his words if one might judge by the manner of his appeal. He solemnly warned the farmers of New Zealand not to be led aside by wolves in sheep's clothing, as he styled those who were organizing this union ; and he further stigmatized those who were ad- vocating this union in New Zealand as Tory hirelings and agents of the National Association. I ventured to remind him, by way of mild in- terjection, that his friend, the member for Otaki Was exceedingly assiduous in his campaign, organizing and solidifying the farmers of New Zealand. As an old unionist, and one who knows the benefits arising from unity, I cer- tainly think the farmers of New Zealand are at last on the right track, and I say, " What for no?" If they have interests, it is fair to as- sume that they feel those interests can be letter conserved by taking united action than by isolation from their fellows. Their condi- tions of life are such as do not permit of their having daily intercourse with most of their fellows, as is the case with tradesmen in towns. Again, there is so much that by combined action farmers might do for themselves in the way of securing better markets for their pro- duce. As was pointed out to-night by the member for Waihemo, they might even by a national union of farmers regulate the price of their exports on the London market, and also better regulate the local markets for their foodstuffs and products. And for a mem- ber who has been considered as the very embodiment of democratic Liberalism to in- veigh against such an organization surely indi- cates one or two things-either he must have been densely ignorant of the object and aims of unionism, or, on the other hand, he had a fear in his heart that it might interfere with his political aspirations, and I venture to assert that the latter assumption is the proper one. He is afraid, Sir, that the farmers may, as other organizations have done before, sell their votes and interests in the highest market, and ally themselves with those whom they believe to be their best friends. And surely they have the right. It may be that their trend will be towards the side of Liberalism, it may be that it will be towards the side of Conservatism ; but. as my gallant and honourable friend the member for Hawke's Bay said the other evening, there was no line of demarcation now between Liberals and Conservatives; and his method of proving that was a thrust that Wint very keenly home. Sir, I will now make a short reference to the honourable member for Riccarton's speech. There is no | a necessity, and he might well be pardoned for question about it that he made many a good by a member of the Liberal party is, of course, another affair, and he duly received the castiga- tion that all recalcitrant members of that great party inevitably receive when they swerve in their allegiance to the great monopolist of Libe- ralism. Fortunately, the member for Riccarton belongs to the order of Pachyderms. He has got a thick hide and is well able to stand it, and I know of no member of the House who is so well able to retaliate when the chance offers, and I shall be much mistaken if he does not seek reprisals as opportunity affords. When the Premier was speaking the other night he went exhaustively into the question of titles, armorial bearings, and other things of courtly nature. My views of titular distinction in & self-governing colony are on record in the pages of Hansard of some two or three years ago. Those views I hold as a matter of per- sonal opinion, and I do not desire to force them on any one else. From my point of view titular distinctions in these self-governing colonies are only things for courtiers and flunkevs. I have no words of reflection nor expression of regret to offer to the honourable gentleman who is the most recent recipient of such distinction. In fact, from my point of view I prefer to congratulate him on having accepted such distinction. Of course, I am actuated-and I express it candidly-by the belief that it will accomplish that which it has done for every, or nearly every, colonial states- man who has accepted a title-that is, it will ultimately effect his political obliteration. Sir, some day it will be the cause of his rejection from the favour of his constituents. If we go over the roll from Sir George Dibbs, Sir Henry Parkes, Sir George Turner, and, coming nearer home, Sir Robert Stout, we find they have all met the same fate, and for the same reason : that though with us they are no longer of us. They are no longer commoners. They have accepted a title beyond the gift of the people ; and the very first principle of our form of go- vernment is that the will of the people is supreme. But that is a matter for the re- cipient. I have no reflection, or expression of regret, or anything of the kind to offer to the honourable gentleman who has received it. Rather do I say, as the American schoolboy said when presenting the inkstand to his departing master, "Sir, we ask you to accept this mark of our esteem with the hope that you will go forth and soar, and the sorer you get the better we'll like it." It was very much in the same spirit that many people saw the honourable gentleman accept the titular distinction. Now we come to the Premier. It was truly pointed out by the member for Riccarton that, of all previous democrats who has ever led a political party in this colony, to him has been reserved the distinction of being the first to masquerade about the country in a Windsor uniform. That it was necessary for him to wear such a uniform when he approached the Royal presence I am quite willing to agree. There it may have been conforming to the custom. I would use no 