Referring back to this question of getting the the whole of the damage, except £2, that he had "Rakaia " meat out of the Victoria Dock store to awarded against my insurance company. I will see whether the damage was done as awarded : now read some of the correspondence in that connection. After I discovered that the damage after some hours' delay we succeeded in getting it out. But the meat was not in the store. was not there, I wrote,- There was only a small portion of it there ; the rest had to be brought from another place. The ' Rakaia,' amounting to over 30 per cent., I 10 per cent. on which the assessment had been went down and examined the meat, and there made was worse than the other. No doubt they was, to my mind, no justification for large per- had been specially selected, not as being a fair centage attributed." sample of the whole, but rather that portion which had been most damaged. Instead of the that the assessor he had employed had blundered. total damage being on the whole of that meat but he asked me to treat this as private and confidential. I replied that I declined to do so, that had been awarded, there was not two stating that had he discovered to me the im- pounds' worth of damage on the whole lot. I will deal with the question of the $2 damage proprieties of his assistant that would have been another thing, but as I had discovered that. and the claims presently. But I would like to he had been awarded excessive damage where say, in connection with the 10 per cent. assess- ment on the lot, that that is a most improper only trifling damage existed I could not treat the matter as confidential. Then came this way of assessing damage, for you have no statement of what had been done by his em- guarantee that the 10 per cent. is a fair sample of the whole lot. Just about that time this ploye, whose engagement in the meantime he had determined :- New-Zealander that I employed was instructed not to confine himself to 10-per-cent. lots, Mr. -- yesterday, the mark (of which you ex- but to get 20 or 30 per cent. In one lot of amined twenty-six quarters) shows eleven sound 2.500 carcases that he was sent down to assess there were only 105 carcases in the store and fifteen damaged-equivalent to about 60 per altogether. All the rest had been distributed. cent. I was surprised at the heavy percentage, and therefore surveyed the meat again to-day A few days afterwards he went down to assess on another lot of 4,500, and only 45 were in your presence, when I was unable to find any found to be left in the store. Under the old damage. You can fully appreciate that there is happy style of doing things that 105 and 45 an enormous difference between nil and 60 per would have been the basis upon which the cent., and, in giving the allowance you have, I must admit that I have no confidence what- whole was assessed, and probably they were the most inferior of the whole; but still the ever in your judgment." damage would have been awarded against the lot. Allowances were therefore made on the amount of all the awards he had made against 45 and 105 only. Now, as we wanted to have my company, to which he replied :- a guarantee from the proprietors of these cold- think there is any reason to doubt the work stores that the whole bulk of the meat was there of which a portion was to be assessed, the my representative has previously done for your following form drawn out :- company, seeing that the figures, as a rule, were not high, and it must be borne in mind "Storage Certificate, No. . that several steamers arrived with considerable , 1899. " London, damage throughout. I can only again express "I hereby certify that the under-mentioned my deep regret that it should have been neces- quantity of the following frozen produce is now sary for you to write me questioning the allow- in store :-- ances, but there evidently seems ground for your complaint. You may be doubtless aware Steamer. Original Quantity. Now in Store. Mark. that Mr. -- , who acted on my behalf, is a practical butcher, and has been connected with the frozen trade for several years, and under these circumstances I cannot feel that I was unwarranted in employing him. However, in <!-- FigureContent="Stores. future, as already advised, I will do the work " Per" --> personally." They refused to sign this. That would indicate their practice when we entered on the matter. Now, as to the assessor who refused to meet my wish to emphasize what I said to your repre- New Zealand friend. He left in the middle sentative when he called last week on me in of the delivery of meat ; and I would like to this connection - namely, that you cannot say here that a claim was allowed in connection permit the case to rest where it is. According with that meat. It was not up to the standard to your letter a fraudulent assessment has been grade, but I will deal with the question of made by your representative. You have dis- grading presently. The immediate effect, how- covered that your employé had declared that ever, of this dispute was that I insisted on damage existed on 60 per cent. of a line of meat, having a man outside Smithfield to assess for and had granted that amount against the in- me, and that the assessor who had acted for me surance association for whom you acted ; that for damage should pay out of his own pocket you, in company with your employé who " On receipt of your assessment for meat ex He then replied, saying that he had discovered " Referring to the survey at -- , held with I then claimed from this man the total "I am obliged for your memo. I do not . I replied :- "Re 'Rakaia' meat wrongly assessed: I 