unsurpassed in any other similar area. The demands for fruit and vegetable products at the mines will no doubt lead to the extension of market-gardening near these populous centres, pean cereals practically impossible during the but the development of the general agriculture of the country will be a slow process. The chances are that for a time it will go back in the two new colonies, because the Dutch popula- tion will not henceforward exercise so much control over the black people who have done this work, and the area of cultivation will A great deal has been naturally contract. written about irrigation being the probable salvation of the country. Many small local ventures have been marvellously successful in additional element of speculation, which cannot transforming what was desert into a Garden of Eden. At Douglas, for example, a prosperous community has sprung up on small plots, many of which were sold recently at over $53 per acre. Land under ordinary farm crops is held at Oudsthoorn at from $50 to $150 per acre of capital value. Fruit lands of good quality have in some instances run up to several hundreds of pounds per acre, and at Warrenton, in a report issued by Government authority, a record annual return of $100 per acre is mentioned. A good many promising irrigation schemes have been examined in various districts of Cape Colony, but most of them involve the expenditure of a large amount of capital, and will require to be worked with much skill and care to make them pay. But all the possible schemes put together would not form a scheme large enough to produce any appreciable difference on the development of the vast area of South Africa. Admitting that there are many small irrigation ventures https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that are likely to be financially successful, by bringing my remarks to a close. I wish to even with a considerable capital outlay, it is a fact that no great irrigation undertaking like attentive hearing they have given me. those of India is possible. There the cause of success of the great canal systems of northern India is that the inlets are supplied near the bases of the mountains by the never-failing drainage from their ever snow-clad summits, last baby to the visit of the future King of Eng- and most abundantly when the sun is hottest and when water is most wanted. In South lating Sir Joseph Ward on the honour bestowed Africa the conditions are quite different. There is no summer reserve of snow. The torrential young infant grows up, and when the next visit rains pass off in a few days by deep channels, from which water can only be taken in limited of the King's son takes place, we shall have a Sir Patrick. Now, I am surprised to find that quantities at few points and at great expense. other changes have taken place, in connection No deep storage dams could be contemplated with the Opposition. Personally, I may say in the mountains to supply an area of, say, that I must acknowledge the courtesy that has 100,000 acres, and the shallow dams which it is always been shown to me by the Opposition, possible to form in a flat country with an evapo- and particularly by their esteemed leader. A ration of a depth of from 5 ft. to 7 ft. of water annually become in a few years salt marshes. assure honourable members on the other side This fact has been abundantly demonstrated at that I shall always regard with satisfaction the Van Wyk's Vley, in the dry Carnarvon district presence of the present leader of the Opposition of Cape Colony. The irrigation dam at Beau- on those benches. As regards one of the fort West has also demonstrated that shallow members of the Ministry, I am surprised to dams in the Karoo rapidly fill with silt washed hear that he is just now in hot water, for I in from the drainage area. learn that he has gone to that far-famed sana- "Without irrigation, the extent of South torium Rotorua. I have felt very great pleasure Africa that is capable of cultivation with satis- at the action of the Government in one respect : factory results is an infinitesimal fraction of I am, as members know, a supporter of the Go- the whole, and even that is subjected to peri- vernment, and I shall continue to be so as long odical droughts, which at times destroy a whole are specially prevalent on the central plateau ; and to fungoid parasitic pests on the common grain-crops, which makes the growth of Euro- South Africa wet season of summer. will never be a great agricultural country capable of exporting grain. With the development of the local irrigation schemes that are possible, and better systems of management, it may more nearly produce the amount of food requisite for internal consumption. The possible develop- ment in the numbers of live-stock is for the present curtailed by the prevalence of so many diseases, which reduce profits, and introduce an fail to check the investment of capital in the industry. The common diseases and parasitic affections are nowhere better represented ; but in addition South Africa has a number of diseases peculiarly her own, for which specifics have not yet been found." Honourable members will see that 12.30. there are great opportunities for pro- curing a market in South Africa, and we should promptly take advantage of it. But in order to do so we must have shipping facilities, because if we have shipping facilities we can increase our exports; there is no doubt about that. It would pay too. If highly cultivated, New Zealand can produce enough to supply the armies of the world. If we have cool-stores established at the Cape, as suggested by the Premier, it will be a step in the right direction, and if they are managed in a proper and syste- matic manner we ought to succeed. Now, I think at this early hour of the morning I shall be consulting the wishes of honourable members thank honourable members for the kind and Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- Mr. Speaker, since 1 had the pleasure of sitting in this Chamber interesting and great events have taken place, from the arrival of Sir Joseph's land. I have very much pleasure in congratu- on him, and I have no doubt that when the thing of beauty is a joy for ever, and I can 