lation the Premier understood he was sup- one of the worst patches of Californian thistle porting when he forced that measure through there is in the whole of Canterbury. What the settlers who have earth-hunger are going to the House last year. do on a block of land which grows Californian thistle in that way I really do not understand. the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) I certainly think that, as member for the dis- says - namely, that the Premier was told that trict, I might have been asked about it, as I would be the effect ; but we all know he was know the district pretty well ; but that courtesy determined at all hazards to force the thing has not been accorded to me, and all I can hope through. Now, I should like to say something is that the land is not going to be cut up into about the railway rolling-stock which is re- quarter-acre sections. I imagine the cutting-up ferred to in the course of the Speech from the of blocks into these very small areas represents Throne. In the Speech we find this state- an intention on the part of the Government to try to lower the average cost of the land-for- ment :- settlement selections. Now, in so far as that kind am glad to say, still continues to increase, and of thing is called settlement it is simply ridicu- an increased expenditure of necessity follows. lous and absurd. The object of the Land for Settlements Act was to give landless men-that is, men who had not enough land to make a living out of it-a chance of making homes for them- selves and their families ; and it is perfectly absurd in one part of the colony to cut up land into sections that are of an average value of #3,300, as was done in the case of Elderslie, and then in another case to cut up blocks into quarter-acres-land bought at £90 an acre -and call that land for settlement. What is wanted is that there shall be some clearly defined policy underlying the operations of the Land for Settlements Department, with a view of encouraging settlement along- side of our railway - lines, so that we may promote railway traffic at the same time that we are encouraging settlement, and so that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 we may give the small yeomanry a chance to become small farmers on their own account, and gradually grow into a larger class of farmers, with the view of becoming more wealthy as they grow older. There was an Act passed last session, which has been referred to this evening, called the Rebate to Crown Tenants Act, and in connection with that Bill a promise was given by the Premier in the House that every case that came up would be considered on its merits. Honourable members will bear me out in that, and it was on that condition the Bill was allowed to pass. What happened when the 10-per- cent. rebate first came before the Govern- ment? I understand that throughout the colony the Receivers of Land Revenue applied to the Government for instructions as to how the Act should be interpreted, and the Government absolutely refused to give them any indication as to the correct reading of the law. The Premier, I suppose, not being in charge of that part of the Lands Department, had forgotten to communicate to the Hon. Mr. Duncan the promise he had given. On the other hand, in the Province of Canterbury the Receiver of Land Revenue has taken 10 per cent. off the rent of every man who paid within the prescribed time; and I will tell the Premier what has been the effect of it. I heard of a case of a block of land in the Cheviot of some 1,600 acres which a man held under lease in perpetuity at 3s. 6d. per acre. He wanted to sell his interest in the land, and the price he put on it and Mr. G. W. Russell Mr. FOWLDS .- He was told about it. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I agree with what "The traffic and revenue on our railways, I With the arrival of the extra locomotives and rolling-stock now on hand and ordered, the re- quirements of the railways will be fairly met, and at no distant date, both as regards locomo- tives and rolling-stock, my Ministers hope to have the same constructed within the colony." Sir, I was pleased to hear that the folly of this colony importing large quantities of rail- way rolling-stock is not to be continued. I sup- pose, if we consider the 120 American cars that have been or are being imported, the 1,000 rail- way-wagons that are being imported, and I do not know the exact number of locomotives, but I think it is about twenty, that are being im- ported, we shall arrive at a total expenditure for imported railway rolling-stock of nearly $400,000. Now, if we come to consider that at least one- third of that amount represents wages for labour in the manufacture of these locomotives, cars, and wagons, we shall see what a tremendous loss is being sustained by the working-classes of this colony through the importation of this rolling- stock. I will deal, in the first place, with the importation of the American cars, of which there are 123 that have either arrived or are in course of erection. I do not think, Mr. Speaker, that any one who has inspected those cars will consider them in the slightest degree an im- provement on the cars that have been turned out from Addington, Hillside, Newmarket, or An Hon. MEMPER .- They are not so good. Petone. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That, I believe, is the general opinion that is expressed-that they are not so good. Now, let me say that, in the first place, these American cars weigh 3 tons more than the largest-sized birdcage cars that are built at Addington. That means 3 tons more of drawage for the engine. They occupy 6 ft. more of platform-accommodation. They hold fourteen less people. With regard to the cost, the information I have received, although I am not in a position to verify it, is that each of those American cars costs about $300 more than the best class of cars built at Addington, which, as I have already said, hold fourteen more passengers and weigh 3 tons less. The information that has reached me is that the cost of the American cars landed in 