close settlement. That is the information I | colony, irrespective of the fact that we represent Besides, if the lands were have received. settled there would be an immediate increase in the producing-power and the wealth of the country, because stock could at once be put on them, and a speedy return in produce be obtained. As an illustration of the success that has attended the taking-over of estates in the vicinity of these lands by the Government, I would mention the case of Fencourt, which is land of similar quality to those referred to, and was in the hands of the Assets Board. I think Fencourt contains about twenty thousand acres. It is near Cambridge. Mr. BOLLARD .- Twenty-three thousand acres. Mr. NAPIER .- That land was taken up at once after it was subdivided. Mr. BOLLARD .- Not the whole of it. Mr. NAPIER .-- Practically the whole of it. There is very little left, and when it was first thrown open for settlement the number of bond fide applicants-those living in the vicinity of Cambridge-was larger than could be sup- plied with sections. If, therefore, we wish to increase the country population, -and there is no one who believes in the necessity for that more than I do, as a city member,-as I have said, I recognise that the growth and prosperity of the City of Auckland depends on the success and settlement of the Waikato and the surrounding districts. If it be a good thing to people the land, I trust that the Minister of Lands will infuse a little greater vigour into his department now that he has got fairly in the saddle, and that during the coming year we shall see a strenuous effort made to settle those lands of which I have spoken. I shall do all I can to support the Government in this great work, and I do not think the Govern- ment have anything to fear, either as to their own position or that of the Liberal party, from the progress of close settlement of the land. The vast majority of the smaller settlers are behind the Liberal party, and they recognise the great work of this party. Therefore, to my mind, the facetious suggestion of the honour- able member for the Bay of Plenty that the Government were faltering in the land-settle- ment policy because they knew that the country settlers were supporters of the country party, as he termed it, had nothing in it. regret that any honourable member should have referred to a country party as existing in the House. I do not think there is any such thing, nor do I think there is a city party. But we have seen an attempt on the part of the gentle- men opposite to form a country party to secure the support of the country electorates by mis- representing the aims and objects of the Liberal party, and alleging that it was dominated by the Labour party and the people of the cities. But I may say, speaking as a city member, that I have no desire, and I do not think that the city members of the colony have any desire, to subordinate the interests of the country to those of the cities. We ought all to work together as a united body for the prosperity of our entire urban or rural constituencies. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City). - Honour- able members, I fear, when they see me rise. will be reminded of the heading so often seen to the psalms, and they will probably say to themselves, " Here is 'another of the same." I always feel a certain amount of uneasiness in speaking to a question affecting land, because the honourable member for Hawke's Bay and some of the honourable members on the other side regard members from the city as if they were a sort of poachers on their preserves. 1 have heard it argued by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay that men returned by city constituencies cannot be expected to know much about the land question. But to that there are a great many answers indeed. In the first place, it is quite possible for a member, although he may have been returned by a city constituency, to have a knowledge of country work. I can only say, as far as I myself am concerned, that I spent a great many years of my life in the country, and know something at least of farming operations and the way in which land is worked. Again, there is ako this to be said: that it does not follow that the economie aspect of the land question cannot be dealt with by one who is not a practical farmer. The ablest authorities and the greatest writers on the subject of land and its disposition are not practical farmers. Men like Dr. Wallace and J. S. Mill, who are recognised authorities all the world over, are not and were not actual farmers. The fallacy of the argument may be 12.0. seen by an illustration. The honour- able gentleman and those who think with him might as well argue that no one ought to say anything whatever about the manage- ment of our railways except the porters and guards and engine-drivers. The fallacy of the argument is clearly seen by an illustration of that kind. There has been much criticism of the administration of the land policy and administration in this country, and some com- plaints have made been of the Government. but I think the greatest danger and the source of complaint of the most serious character is the way in which the fee-simple of our land is slipping from the hands of the people. It is. I think, an impression that is widely spread abroad that we are keeping the fee-simple of I the land in our own hands as far as possible. Looking at the figures, it seems to me that that is an entire delusion. I find that for maus years past the land has been disposed of mainly in three ways-namely, land sold for cash. of which last year there were 23.936 acres : disposed of on occupation-with-right-of-purchase system, of which last year there were 117.771 acres: disposed of under the lease-in-perpetuity system. of which last year there were 153,531 acres. Under the perpetual-lease system only 624 acres were disposed of last year : and under special-settlement improved farms only 7.393 acres. In fact, the amount disposed of under every other system is infinitesimal compared with that parted with under the lease-in-per- petuity system. Of course, the cash system 