found that the laws existing did not empower local authorities to incur the necessary expen- diture to meet the pleasurable occasion. A Bill will therefore be introduced indemnifying and making legal the expenditure of the local authorities for the purpose. A measure will be introduced giving extended powers in respect of land affected by the pro- clamation of rivers in which dredging obtains. The mining and companies laws also require amending in the direction of insuring that the directors of companies shall be liable to be pro. ceeded against for payment of calls, and that the calls of other shareholders shall be invalid unless the calls of the directors have been paid, or steps taken for the recovery thereof ; and also that in the case of gold-mines, as in that of coal-mines, a small royalty may be charged for the purpose of assisting the Sick and Bene- volent Fund of the miners engaged in the said mines. I am pleased to inform you that the constitu- tion of the Councils and Boards under the Maori Councils Act and Maori Lands Administration Act has been proceeded with, and, with the ex- ception of one part, the colony has been sub- divided into districts. The outlook is very promising, and there is reasonable expectation https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of waste lands owned by those of the Native race being thrown open ere long for settlement. The roading and settlement of the people on the lands of the colony is of paramount import- ance. My Ministers are giving this matter Proposals furthering this every attention. object will be placed before you. The energy of our sturdy settlers has in no small degree contributed to the largely increased exports of last year, which formed a record, and the trade returns warrant me in believing that our pro- sperity is based on a solid foundation, which I hope will be lasting and for the good of the people. I trust that the several matters brought under your notice may receive your careful attention and earnest consideration, and pray that, with the blessing of the Almighty God, the results of your labours may be for the good of the Empire, and to the lasting benefit of the people of this fair colony. HIS EXCELL ENCY, having handed to the Hon. the Speaker a copy of his Speech, with- drew. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair. PRAYERS. ## NEW MEMBERS. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor, notifying that the Hon. Charles Louisson, of Canterbury, and the Hon. Sir John Mckenzie, of Otago, had been summoned to the Legislative Council of New Zealand. ## RESIGNATION OF THE HON. MR. OLIVER. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor, notifying that the seat of the Hon. Richard Oliver as a member of the Council had become vacant by reason of his resignation. IMPREST SUPPLY BILL (No. 1). This Bill was read the first, the second, and the third time. The Council adjourned at five minutes past eight o'clock p.m. ## HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 2nd July, 1901. First Reading - Opening of Parliament - Counties Bill-Old-age Pensions Regulation -- Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill - Deceased Hus- band's Brother Marriage Bill - New Zealand Ensign Bill-Expiring Laws Continuance Bill- Governor's Speech-Imprest Supply Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Local Authorities' Indemnity Bill. ## OPENING OF PARLIAMENT. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor desiring the attendance of mem- bers in the Legislative Council Chamber. Mr. SPEAKER, accompanied by members and preceded by the Serjeant-at-Arms, proceeded to the Legislative Council Chamber, and, after a short absence, returned. COUNTIES BILL. On the question, That this House concurs with the Committee in recommending that leave be given to bring in this Bill, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said,-I beg to an- nounce to honourable members that we intend to take the same course in respect to this measure that was followed in regard to the Municipal Corporations Bill. I hope the County Councils and local bodies interested will meet as soon as possible in Wellington and hold a conference, at which the Bill will, no doubt, be considered. But I also beg to announce that, if that is not done, the Government intend to proceed with the Bill, first of all referring it to a Select and special Committee, to be ap- pointed by this House, of those qualified and having experience in respect to local govern- ment matters. 