He was glad to see that the Government was at last recognising the importance of the tourist traffic to New Zealand, and the possibilities which lay before them of turning to really good financial account the endowments we had in the shape of natural wonders. The object of this question was to remove some of the diffi- culties in the way of tourists who wished to visit Mount Cook, and he hoped the Government would see their way to give a favourable answer. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said, in reply to the first part of the honourable mem- ber's question. he was sorry he could not give a different answer to that which he gave last year, because he was informed that the receipts would only be $15 a year and the cost would be about $1,400. If. as he said last year, the local people and the local County Council would give a gua- rantee for five years the Government would entertain the proposal favourably. As to the second portion of the question, some proposals had been made with the view of shortening the journey. the object being to enable tourists to reach the Hermitage in one day from Timaru, or at least from Fairlie. The distance by road from Fairlie was ninety-six miles and the jour- ney took two days. It was possible to improve the present road and shorten it by two miles, at a cost of about $3,900, and if stables were built every ten or twelve miles and a fast service instituted the journey could be done in fair weather in one day; but it was presumed that the coach-proprietor would require a very con- siderable subsidy, and the journey would be so tedious that it was doubtful if it would suit tourists any better than the present arrange- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ment. It was possible to shorten the journey to about seventy-seven miles by making a new road for part of the way, but Lake Pukaki would either have to be crossed by a steam ferry or the upper part of the Tasman by a bridge. In the former case the road work would cost about $1.400 plus the cost of steam ferry and mainten- ance of same. The other route would involve a bridge across the Tasman at Braemar and im- provement of road. costing about $6,000. The honourable member would see that large figures were involved which required to be very carefully considered. While he was very anxious to develop the tourist traffic in every possible way, the difficulty was to give the necessary facilities in anything like quick time when such large sums were involved. GLENAVY, MORVEN, WILLOWBRIDGE, AND BORTON'S RAILWAY-SHEDS. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether, in view of the enormous increase of the grain traffic on the railways in South Canterbury and North Otago, consequent upon the establishment of large settlements under the Land for Settlements Act, and of the fact that the existing shed accommodation is wholly inadequate, he will make provision for the erection of new sheds, or the enlarging of the existing sheds where required, both on the main south line and on the branch lines, and in particular at the follow- ing stations and sidings, viz. : Glenavy, Morven, VOL. CXVI .- 25. Willowbridge, and Borton's? The honourable gentleman had not been able during the recess to visit these railway-stations, or at any rate to visit all of them, but he must have passed through some of them when travelling on the main trunk line. He must have passed through Glenavy, Morven, and Willowbridge several times, and must have seen evidence of the necessity for further accommodation. Last session, in answer to a question as to Glenavy, he stated that the erection of a grain-shed and the fencing-in of the station-yard would, " with other urgent works," be provided for " so soon as funds were available." With regard to the other stations referred to in the question-Mor- ven, Willowbridge, and Borton's- the first two were stations in connection with the Waikakahi Settlement, which was a large grain-producing district, and the third was the principal loading- place for the Macrewhenua Estate settlement, and it was necessary that adequate accommoda- tion should be provided at all these stations in the interest of farmers. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the provision of additional shed-accommodation at Glenavy, Morven, Willowbridge, and Borton's would be considered in conjunction with other works when funds were available. STATE SANATORIUM FOR CONSUMP. TIVES. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) asked the Go- vernment, If they will be prepared to favour- ably entertain a feasible and not too costly pro- posal to establish a State sanatorium for the treatment of consumption on the open-air prin- ciple, which is generally recognised by advanced medical men as being the best method of treat- ing this unfortunately widespread disease; the establishment of such a sanatorium to be on the basis of patients who are able to pay being charged as in ordinary hospitals, and to those who are unable to pay the benefits of the insti- tution to be given without money or payment of any kind ? He trusted he would not ap- peal in vain to the Minister of Public Health on behalf of a large number of sorely af- flicted people in New Zealand. He hoped the Minister would be able to state in his answer that the Government did in- tend to take prompt steps to have hospitals for consumptives erected. Hospitals had been established, and every care was t taken . in the treatment of ordinary cases of illness and accident, and there were also asylums for the care and proper treatment of those who were bereft of their reason, but there were no hospitals provided for the proper treatment of those who were stricken with that fell disease consumption. In many cases it was curable if taken in time. There were also cer- tain situations in New Zealand which were ideal places for the treatment of this disease, and no more philanthropic work could be under- taken by the State. He would be pleased to hear that the Government was prepared to give the matter favourable consideration. He would be glad to inform the Minister of places which had been recommended by medical men as 