selves. At the same time the right honourable gentleman sent a very long telegram to the Mayor of Dunedin, of which this is an ex- tract :- "The patriotism of your citizens in the past has evoked profound admiration, and their sterling response at the call of duty has ever given confidence; and the Government feels assured that they will rise to the present great, unique, and pleasurable occasion. We feel, fur- ther, certain that yourself and the other civic representatives will do their best to assist the people in manifesting an impressive and spon- taneous display of loyalty and unstinted hos- pitality to the beloved son of our King, and grandson of our late beloved and ever-revered Queen." Surely it is somewhat comic to see one man publicly urging another to spontaneously urge other persons to spontaneous demonstration. Honourable gentlemen who have read these words, or who look at them now, will see that no other kind of construction can be placed upon them. But the serious side of that for us, and the permanent side, is this: that this is the right honourable gentleman's role throughout. No independent authority is allowed to look after its own affairs, and the central authority- the right honourable gentle- man himself- is alone competent to do it for them. The other point I wish to touch upon may seem of a somewhat contradictory charac- ter, and that is that Ministers did not take enough upon themselves. Now, this appears to me to embody a very great constitutional ques- tion - namely, the question raised of the direct personal share taken by His Excellency the Governor in organizing and superintending the demonstrations. According to the theory of our Constitution, Ministers are responsible for whatever the Crown or its representative may do. Since Charles the First lost his head we have given up removing the head of the Sovereign of the day, but we have instituted instead the removal of the head of the Ministry. And, Sir, we find that this works much better ; it is more convenient, and it is more humane. Now, it seems to me that the Ministry lost its head in quite another sense on this occasion, and that is by allowing His Excellency to take the large share of responsibility, naturally de- volving upon the Government, which he did. I am not going to raise any question as between the citizens of Wellington and His Excellency the Governor, or as between the citizens of Christchurch or any other city and His Excel- lency, by reason of the manner in which the details were settled by His Excellency. But I put it to the right honourable gentleman that it is a very serious point in constitutional prac- tice that the Governor should be allowed to be brought into personal conflict and collision with the citizens. No doubt, in the Cabinet room it is quite right that he should exercise control and power of suggestion which properly vests in him as it does in a constitutional monarch. But it appears to me to be an utter violation of our constitutional practice-and a very serious one too-when we find that His Excellency is put forward to bear the brunt of making personal suggestions, and the responsibility for very complicated arrangements, which must in some places run counter to local feeling, and stir up both local prejudice and ill-feeling. I think the course which the right honourable gentleman and his colleagues took in permitting His Ex- cellency to take so much on his own shoulders was a most dangerous innovation, and I hope this will be the last occasion on which such a strain will be put on our Constitution. The Premier sometimes takes on himself the functions of the constitutional monarch-and an unconstitutional one, for the matter of that ; but on this particular occasion he did not push himself forward quite hard enough. He did not maintain the position of Responsible Adviser of His Excellency, and the Constitu- tion was put in a very critical position. The anomaly was brought home to me personally in a very vivid way. I was appointed in Wellington at a meeting of the citizens to go on a committee to interview His Excel- lency. and urge him to consent to some \--- alteration of the programme. The principal item was the question of route, or the question of the place where the address to the Royal visitors was to be presented-I am not sure which. At any rate, there had arisen consider- able feeling over the matter, and I was appointed one of the deputation who were to interview His Excellency. I asked myself the question when I went into the presence of vicerovalty in what attitude I should approach him. Bage- hot says that one reason why a constitutional monarch exercises such great power over his Ministers is natural deference and respect that is due to him ; he says that "a man cannot argue on his knees." So I felt myself face to face with the same problem. Was I to argue on my knees? Or was I to argue at all ? Or how was I to approach His Excellency ? Is this not an example to show honourable members that the committee was being in some way .. brought, on behalf of the citizens, into a relation with the Governor which only his Responsible Advisers-or, at any rate, that the deputation was being sent to His Excellency when it should have been sent to the Cabinet, and the Cabinet should have communicated with His Excellency, and have taken into their considera- tion, with him, the suggestions made. At any rate, a most serious constitutional question has been raised by this action, and all the gravity is due to the causes I have pointed out. I do not suggest for a moment that any great mischief has been done ; but I say we have got to recognise where we are, and to recognise that what did arise was in principle a very serious difficulty indeed. It was all the more disastrous in the present case, because it originated from the splendid display of lovalty and national pride. of which the visit of their Royal Highnesses has formed the very proper occasion. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, we have just listened to a speech of varied character ; but I will ask honourable members if there is a single member of this House who can say there was the slightest touch or tone of patriotism therein. 