the honourable gentleman is entirely wrong, and if he looks at the authorities- Captain RUSSELL .- You gave me no oppor- tunity. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I saw you reading the Standing Orders all the afternoon, and looking up the subject. An Hon. MEMBER .- What are you quoting from ? Mr SEDDON .- I am quoting from May's " Parliamentary Practice," page 42, and mem- bers will find there that it says,- " Parliament, it has been seen, can only com- mence its deliberations at the time appointed by the Queen; neither can it continue them any longer than she pleases. She may prorogue by having her command Parliament signified, in her presence, by the Lord Chan- cellor or Speaker of the House of Lords to both Houses ; by Commission, or by Proclamation. Prior to 1867 the prorogation of Parliament from the day to which it stood summoned or prorogued to any further day was effected by a writ or Commission under the great seal ; but by the 30 and 31 Victoria, c. 81, the Royal Proclamation alone prorogues the Parliament, except at the close of a session." The paragraph goes on then to give the effect of the Proclamation ; but if honourable mem- bers will read on further they will see that there have been cases where Parliament has been opened and where the King never did it at all. It was impossible for him to do it- he was sick in bed ; and they proceeded with business Captain RUSSELL. - Not to grant supplies. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. SEDDON .- Any business. I say, Sir, in reply to the argument that we cannot proceed with business or cannot grant supplies, or that it has been done before, that we claimed our privileges and they were granted last session. You cannot deny that. As the representatives of the people we claimed our privileges. One of our privileges is to grant Supply. One of the Governor's powers is to ask for Supply, and I say the Crown can ask for Supply at any time ; and, when it asks, the message of the Crown has to be dealt with the moment it is introduced, unless the House otherwise orders. Conse- quently, the prerogative of the Crown is exer- cised. The Crown has asked for supplies for simply current departmental expenditure, and We the expenditure is shown in the Bill. therefore, Sir, must perforce deal with the message. We propose to deal with it as now before the Chair. If there had been an invasion of our privileges, Mr. Speaker would be the first to protect this House against any infringement by the Crown upon those privileges; and there. fore for the leader of the Opposition to say we are not in a proper position to deal with this measure now is simply saying there has been an invasion of our privileges, and that the House is a party to that invasion. The honourable member himself admits that on former occa- sions we took the same course. In fact, I think we did it last year. Captain RUSSELL .- No ; the year before. Mr. SEDDON. - Oh, yes ; last year, of course, there was no debate on the Address. If it had | gain time and are not prepared with their Mr. Seddon not been that there was no debate on the Ad- dress last year we should have taken the same course. The practice has been for Parliament to meet at the end of June, and, where there is a prolonged debate, so as to avoid the emergency that is bound to arise we generally get the Bill through before the end of the month. I say now, this session it was impossible, owing to the extraordinary circumstances, to do so. If I had called the House together sooner, I feel satisfied there would have been exception taken. Members would not have liked to be put to the inconvenience, and the country to the expense, that would have been entailed by such a course ; and the only reason I could have given mem- bers for calling them together would have been that I wished to get Imprest Supply through. That would have been the only reason for call- ing the House together at the time the honour- able member indicates. As regards bringing down the Financial Statement, which, the honourable member states, is the controlling power of the House, if we had met in May there would have been no Financial Statement. There would simply have been the Speech from the Throne, the passing of an Imprest Supply Bill, and adjournment, so that the safeguard which the honourable member mentioned would have been entirely dispensed with. But there was more than that which I desire to bring under the notice of members. In the neigh- bouring continent there was the opening of the Commonwealth Parliament. A number of members signified to me that they were going to the opening of this Parliament. Certainly this colony, as a matter of courtesy, ought to be represented; and it was well represented by my worthy colleagues the Colonial Secretary and the Minister of Education. Now, I say, we cannot be in two places at once. The month mentioned, the beginning of May, was the time fixed for the opening of the Common- wealth Parliament, and the leader of the Legislative Council would have been away attending it, and also the Colonial Secre- tary, or otherwise the colony would not have been represented, and that would not have looked well when we desired to be neighbourly and to inculcate that nice spirit which at the present time obtains, and which I trust will be maintained. I think the honourable member has forgotten altogether the extraordinary posi- tion in which we were placed And then, if an emergency arises, it is not the rusty, fusty, musty old precedents which are hurled at us from time to time that are to be our guides. If that was the case the world would never progress at all ; we would never have had any advancement whatever. There is too much chaining and restraining people with these old precedents, and the sooner they are wiped away the better it will be, I believe, for humanity and for the good of the world. In fact, the honourable gentleman admits that his whole argument is based upon the fact that you should have this debate on the Speech from the Throne first. I have said years ago, and I repeat it now, that if the Government want to 