stamp of settlers for us to encourage to make this colony their home, and endeavour to pre- vent them from leaving us. That seems to me a further reason for giving consideration to Honour- children such as those referred to. able members are probably aware that induce- ment is being offered to the sons of our pioneers to settle in South Africa, in the Argentine, and elsewhere -- inducements more enticing than we can offer-and it behoves us to be careful not to drive any of these settlers or their families from our shores. Coming to the new clause sug- gested by the member for the Bay of Plenty, as to the granting of freehold, I would say that I am one of those who believe in the acquisition of freehold being allowed . that those Crown tenants who desire freehold should get it under certain restrictions. But, holding the views I do, it would be impossible for me to vote for the new clause of the member for the Bay of . Plenty. His clause would have the effect of giving the freehold holus-bolus to any Crown tenant without any restriction whatever. We should then have, as has happened in the case of large blocks of Crown land in Hawke's Bay, where land sold in freehold on the cash or deferred- payment system in small sections lapsed later on into the hands of one owner, and the whole land-settlement policy set at naught. That is what would have happened if the clause of the member for the Bay of Plenty had been carried. On this subject of freehold tenure, the present Minister of Lands was twitted with having given utterance to sentiments, when the Land Bill of 1887 was before the House, which were entirely https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 different from his sentiments of to-day ; but I believe that he has not changed his real opinions at all ; and I have good reason for believing it. Not long ago a Native township was cut up in a portion of my electorate. The areas were small -- from a quarter of an acre or so up to about four acres. The Natives desired that the land should be disposed of in the freehold, because it would encourage the erection of better buildings and im- provements, and they asked me to approach the Government on the subject, and I did so. saw in particular the present Minister of Lands, and he expressed entire sympathy with the de- sire of the Natives, and agreed that, in the case of small township settlements where there was no fear of the aggregation of sections so as to form a large area in the hands of one person, the freehold might well be given. That was his opinion expressed outside of the House ; but when I asked the question in the House, he turned round on me with a look almost of ferocity, and said that as long as he administered the lands of the colony not a single acre over which he had control should go into the hands of private people. Those, I am convinced, were not the sentiments of the Minister of Lands, though expressed by him, but the sentiments of some one else. It seems to me that the free- hold could be granted under restrictions which we could without difficulty frame-restrictions on something like the lines last night pro- prosed by the honourable member for Palmers- ton. On the platform, some two years ago, Mr. Field am still of the same opinion ; and if some such proposal comes before the House I shall con- sider it my duty to support it. I could not agree with the honourable member for Palmers- ton as to his suggestion for transfers to be allowed to members of families except in cases where members of families already possess land. In the first place, it is very difficult to interpret the meaning of the word "family," and it is very difficult to interpret the meaning of the word "possess." Furthermore, it seems to me that transferring from one member of a family to another might be more dangerous than anything else, because more dummyism takes place amongst members of families than in any It has been stated to-night by, I other cases. think, the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, on the question of Land Boards, that it is unfair that members of Parliament or of this House should sit on Land Boards, and one reason alleged was that it gave them an undue advantage over their opponents. It seems to me that probably the reverse is the case. It seems to me that, as a rule, the man who sits on one of these Boards makes more enemies than friends. I shall be quite willing, however, to see a rule introduced by which no member of the House shall sit on a Land Board. I am in entire concurrence with the honourable member for the Wairarapa as to the increase in the hands of individuals of the large areas already held by them. He made representations to the Government on the subject, asked questions in the House, and suggested that the evil might be remedied by adding to the graduated land-tax or by legislation. I trust the Government will take the matter seriously into consideration, and render the continuance of this state of things impossible in the future. We have had the Government Advances to Settlers Office to-night attacked in somewhat round terms by the honourable member for Wairarapa. Already in this House I have had something to say on the subject of the administration of the Government Advances to Settlers Office. I I have said that, particularly, small settlers have not got the loans to which they were entitled, and which they were led to expect they would get under this very excellent system. I can multiply instances 1.0. where I consider that settlers have been unfairly treated, and I have long ago commended this thing to the serious atten- tion of the Government. But as to saving who is to blame, I think I am quite certain that the Superintendent is not to blame. I am satisfied that the Minister at present in charge is not to blame, nor, indeed, do I think the last Minis- ter who was in charge of the department is to blame. I am not going to say that the Go vernment is to blame : but there is no question as to who will get the blame, and that is the Government. They will get the blame, and they are getting the blame every day through- out the whole colony. We have had also the Land Valuation Department discussed to night somewhat severely by the honourable member for Wairarapa, and. no doubt, there 