way made, but also a road over the same coun- try. It was a question for consideration, and it would be dealt with at the proper time. Mr. LANG said he would like the Minister to state when the railway would be finished as far as Kawakawa. Mr. HALL-JONES said the statements made by the Premier and himself would be carried out. The railway referred to would have to go ultimately as far as Kawakawa, and the House would decide later on when the work would be started beyond the point he had previously re- ferred to. # UNIFORM SCHOOL-BOOKS. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Minister of Education, If he will during this ! session introduce a measure compelling Boards of Education to adopt a uniform system of school-books in our schools? This question concerned the whole of the colony, and he hoped the Government would take some steps to bring about the reform suggested. At the present time every Education Board in the colony had a different set of books. In the Auckland Education District, for instance, they had a set of school-books which were not in use in other districts. He knew of cases in which parents with large families had had to buy a wagon-load of books, owing to the different sets of books in use, for it often transpired that the books used by the elder children were of no use for the younger ones when they had advanced a stage. He thought that this want of uniformity was injurious to the national system of educa- tion. He hoped the Government would bring about uniformity in the school-books. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he could understand the many advantages of having a uniform set of books in use in the various educational districts, but it would be unwise to lay down hard-and-fast lines which would restrict or prevent Boards from adopting the use of what were high-class works. The difficulty of children leaving one district for another he thought might be overcome by the | line which would be required when the railway- Education Boards or the School Committee re- : purchasing-of course, at a fair price-the books which had been used by the children, and selling them or giving them to children whose parents were not in a position to purchase them. But, while he admitted the disadvantages pointed out by the honourable member, he did not think it would be wise to force on the Boards one class of books when they might prefer others. He understood the difficulty was intensified by cer- tain Boards allowing within their own districts ; different classes of Readers to be used. If that were so, he thought it a great hardship to the parents of the children, who might shift from one part of an educational district to another. He would be very glad to consider the matter, ; had been prepared. As to the second part of and he would take an opportunity to discuss the matter with his colleagues. He could, how- ever, make no promise that legislation should be brought down this session to give effect to . public road-the plans in the possession of the what the honourable member asked should be : department did not disclose such. If the done. Mr. HOUSTON said there was nothing to might show it to the department. VOL. CXVI .- 13. prevent Boards of Education changing the books two or three times, and he understood that had been done in some instances. Mr. HALL-JONES was not aware that it had been done, but, if so, he thought it was very wrong, and those who elected the members of the Board should express their opinion on the matter. WELLINGTON-HUTT RAILWAY. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Government, Whether a survey has yet been made of the proposed new railway route from Wellington to the Lower Hutt, and whether the Government are aware that the present railway-line is alleged to be partly upon the originally surveyed public road from Wel- lington to the Lower Hutt? Thanks to the assistance of the Minister for Public Works, he was enabled to obtain for the district which he had the honour to represent the legal machinery for obtaining contributions for the improvement of the Lower Hutt Road-that was to say, the main arterial road leading from Wellington to the Wairarapa. The road, however, was unfortunately in a very terrible state. Any one who visited it must feel, as he felt, a kind of horror and repugnance, to say the least of it, at the existing state of things. At present there was mud on the road in places to a depth of 7 in. or 8 in., and there was no clear way of improving the road until the local contri- butions came in. The road at present was practically impassable. The Government would remember that some years ago-in fact, it was before they took office-part of the road was taken for railway purposes, and old plans showed that this was so. Machinery had now been provided to enable local bodies to make a levy on adjoining boroughs for improving roads; but the difficulty which the local bodies had to contend with was that they were not able to get : an exact survey made which would fix the line of railway. If the Government would fix the line was straightened, then the local bodies could decide what would be the width of the road which it was proposed to make from Wel- lington to the Lower Hutt. He hoped the Government would give a straightforward answer, so that he might be able to give his constituents a clear and concise statement on the subject. He was aware that a sum of money had been promised him for the survey last session, and that sum had been placed on the estimates for such survey. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he would endeavour to give a clear and decided answer. The answer to the first part of the question was that plans of the proposed survey the question, the answer was that the Railway Department was not aware that the present railway-line was upon the original surveyed honourable member knew of any other plan he 