general revenue of Australia, and we would have had doled out to this colony that which Aus- tralia might consider we were entitled to. The influence of seven members amongst forty-nine would not have been, in my opinion, sufficient to get justice or a proper or adequate return for the large sums we would contribute towards their Commonwealth funds. I am more than pleased to know that we have not one-fourth- no, not one-eighth-of the community of New Zealand who believe we are going to benefit by making an alteration in the good Constitution which we at present enjoy. It is gratifying also to know that the initiation of the Pacific cable has become a solid fact, because the greater facilities we have for communication with other countries the greater will be our pro- sperity. The Premier and Sir Joseph Ward are entitled to the thanks of the people of this country for what they have done in that matter. Although there were sneering and jeering re- marks made about those two gentlemen with respect to the positions they have attained, I think there is no one more entitled to the dis- tinctions which have been given for public ser- vices rendered than they are-men who have done so much for the advancement of the in- terests of the colony. It is deplorable that any member of the House of Representatives should have cast such opprobrious epithets as the mem- bor for Riccarton did last night against the Pre- mier. I am sorry the honourable member is not in his place; but he has lived in a glass house, and probably does so at this moment, and I think it is improper that one who lives in a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 glass house should throw stones. It does not conduce to his own safety. Let me say that the Premier has never distributed his visiting-cards to strange ladies in a railway-carriage. No, Sir, he has a higher regard and a higher respect for himself than that. The Premier has never had his respectability estimated at the value of 2d. by twelve of his fellow-countrymen as jurors. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Government Whip. Mr. STEVENS .- Does the honourable mem- ber think because I am a Government Whip that my freedom has been affected ? I am as free as any other honourable member, and I intend to be so. There is one very important question that is necessary to be dealt with in this debate, and I am very sorry indeed that a great many members have not taken the matter up, and that is the question of land settlement-the acquisition of land for settle- ment. I know there is no difficulty whatever in acquiring land. Land can be acquired in many districts. Take my own district, for example. There are large blocks of very good land indeed -some of the best land in the colony-which have been for sale for some time, and at prices which I am sure it would pay the Government to give. People are crying out for land. There are some six large schools in the electoral district which I have the honour to represent, and during the last twenty years there have been thousands and thousands of children educated there. With what result ? With the result that they have to leave the place when they Mr. Stevens because it is impossible for them to acquire land upon which to make their homes in the neigh- bourhood where they were born and educated. I hope the Government will take into considera- tion the necessity of acquiring some of those large estates for close settlement. There is no necessity for compulsion, so far as I know, and the land is most suitable for occupation in small areas. Good settlers are now compelled to leave the locality, because they cannot obtain land upon which to establish their homes. And as for the statement made by the honourable member for Riccarton about a quarter-acre being too small, why, Sir, a quarter of an acre of land is sufficient for any workman, in my opinion, if it is really good land. It is sufh- cient for a kitchen-garden for one family. And in the locality of Christchurch, of which the honourable member speaks, if you were to cut up land into five, or ten, or fifteen, or twenty-acre sections, as he has suggested as a settlement for those persons who are employed in the cities and who require nothing except fresh air, plenty of vegetables, and a healthy locality for their families to reside in, instead of being huddled up in back garrets in towns, it would be a good thing. Now, Sir, with regard to the rebate of } per cent. upon all Government leaseholds where the rent is paid regularly, I agree largely with the honour- able member for Ashburton, who says that it is the person who has been successful, and the person who has been enabled to sell out his property at a large profit, who gets the benefit of this }-per-cent. reduction. There are many instances in which the rent is not paid regularly because of sickness, and for many other reasons over which the tenant has no control. There are cases where it is because of their own personal neglect ; but I am happy to say, from my long experience on the Land Board in Wel- lington, that there are very few cases indeed where it is caused by personal neglect. I know there are instances where great hardship has arisen, and I think it is in those instances more especially that relief should be given. It is the \--------- policy of the Government to help the deserving poor, at any rate, and I am quite sure that if the Act could be altered in that direction it would be of considerable service - although I voted for and supported the Act which allows a rebate of } per cent. of rent, when regularly paid. There has been something like a slur cast upon public men of this country : because they happen to be members of the House of Representatives, or act on Land Boards, they are said not to be entitled to ex- press an opinion as to whether there should be a rebate or not. Why, Sir, is the fact of an honourable gentleman receiving £1 per diem - if he were on a Commission, or receiving his honorarium-going to influence his mind, in any degree whatever, as to the justice or other- wise of spending public money in a certain groove ? If so, then any person who would be so actuated would hardly be worthy of a seat in this Legislature. No, I think members should have that stigma taken away from them-the assertion that members are not 