ciple and State coal-mines, their action is to all intents on a par with that in regard to old- age pensions : when public opinion has been educated upon these advanced questions, and when it becomes dangerous to the Premier to ignore them, he says, "If you want old-age pensions, or if you want the betterment prin- ciple, or State coal-mines, nobody else shall have a chance of giving them to you-I will give them to you myself." That is not the position of a statesman ; that is the position of the op- portunist and the politician of the American order, who says, "Them's my sentiments, and if they don't suit they ken be altered." I wish to refer for a few moments to some of the questions which are dealt with in this very leng: hy. if not important, Speech. And, first of all, to the lands for settlement. The Speech says that "the earth-hunger continues"-and so it does. In the Province of Canterbury during last year I would like the (Government to state what lands have been opened for settle- ment. Sir, I watch the papers pretty carefully, and I remember a few months ago a speech which was delivered by the Right Hon. the Premier on the occasion of a visit he paid to the Township of Waipawa. On arriving at Waipawa a number of the lead- ing settlers waited on the right honourable gentleman and urged that lands in that dis- triet should be opened for settlement. The honourable gentleman said that he considered the Government were to blame for no land in that locality having been opened up. He gave the honourable member for Waipawa, Mr. Hall, every credit for having urged the Government https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 to open lands there, and said that he, as head of the Government, took the responsibility for say- ing that the Government were to blame. And what happened? The honourable gentleman came down to Wellington and took the whole of the Land for Settlements Department out of the hands of the Minister of Lands, and from that date the Minister has ceased to have any control over the Land for Settlements Depart- ment. I venture to say that that was a de- gradation to that Minister. I say advisedly, though I do not wish to speak harshly of the Hon. Mr. Duncan, whom every member re- spects personally, that if he is not fitted to administer the lands for settlement of this country he ought not to be Minister of Lands in this House. Mr. SEDDON. - It will perhaps surprise you if I tell you that I have had control of the Lands for Settlement in respect to purchasing lands ever since the late Minister, Sir John Mckenzie, retired. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Does the Hon. the Premier tell me that the Lands for Settlement has never been in the hands of the Hon. Mr. Duncan ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What does "No" mean ? Mr. SEDDON .- That from the time Sir John Mckenzie left the Ministry I have had the ad- ministration of the Land for Settlements De- partment as regards the purchase of estates. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Not as regards the cutting-up of the land ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Then, I say the posi- tion becomes still more conflicting. We have now this fact : that while the Hon. Mr. Duncan and his department are to be trusted with the cutting-up of the land for settlement, yet they are not fit to undertake the matter of pur- chasing the land. I venture to say that any- thing stronger for the purpose of emphasizing the po-ition I am taking up in connection with this matter could hardly be conceived. I say that down to the 31st December last, during the first three quarters of last financial year, the Government had not purchased twenty thousand pounds' worth of land for settlement in this colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- They could not get the money. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I do not know what the cause was; I merely mention the fact. And yet the Government say " the earth- hunger continues." Of course it does. But if the Government would put a block of land like Waikakahi on the market in Canterbury every month it would all be taken up with avidity. There are very large areas of land, not indivi- dually equal in size to the area of Waikakahi, but in a number of sections even that area cf terri- tory could be put on the market. What is the fact ? Canterbury all the time is losing the cream of its population, which is being drawn to the North Island. I, as a Canterbury man, say that during these past ten years it has been stated to us that we ought to vote large sums of money for the development of the North Island because Canterbury was receiving its equivalent in the way of land purchased for settlement. Now, Sir, let me refer to one or two cases where there have been purchases for settlement-and I presume that the Premier is responsible for these purchases. Two miles out- side of Christchurch there was purchased, not many months ago, thirty acres of land, at the value of $90 per acre. The land belonged to a gentleman named Freeman, who has now gone Home. I think he has made a for- tune-and no wonder, if he could sell his land at that price. Now, four acres of that land have been cut off the block for the purpose of roads. Three hundred and sixty pounds' worth of land was taken for roads. The land has been cut up into thirty-seven sections, and a number of them are quarter-acres. I believe the applica- tions were opened the other day, and I under- stand that there were eleven applications for the whole block. And this is called land for settle- This is what the Government call ment ! satisfying the earth-hunger. And yet, let me tell you, they can get equally good land on every line of railway going out of Christchurch at $30 or £40 an acre, while the whole of the traffic from the land bought at £90 an acre will go over the Christchurch tramways. Another case : I saw the other day that a block in the district which I have the honour to represent, owned by Sir Westby Perceval, was purchased. That was a block of 100 acres. I do not know whether 