An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes; and the meat goes your mode of writing that I had not gone into from Southland to Canterbury also. this question of faulty grading outside of Par- Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - That is so, as the liament as well as inside; but such is not the member for Wallace states; and the South is case. Upon one occasion one, if not two, of being deprived of its reputation as a producer of your directors were present at a meeting, and first-class meat through the best sheep all being they were not aware until I then enlightened sent from New Zealand through Canterbury. them that you were in the habit of slumping I pointed out last session the experience lots of up to a thousand sheep of various 9.30. of the farmer who divided his sheep, weights." sending half to Oamaru Works and the other hilf to Timaru, both of equal quality. Yet book that I am unable to give the concluding because the Oamaru lot bore the Otago mark I portion. He acknowledged the receipt of that, could not obtain as good a price as that obtained and says,- for the Timaru parcel, though of equal quality. I then instanced the case of the Christchurch while they appreciate your efforts towards freezing companies. I stated there were the getting an opportunity of making a further P. lfast Works there, and there were the statement in the House of Representatives, Christchurch Meat-freezing Works, and because they are of opinion that any further statement of the superior grading that prevailed in the you wish to make should be made in some Christchurch Meat - freezing Works higher place where we can have an opportunity of prices were obtained for their primest meat. either defending ourselves or of putting you to I alluded to c.i.f. sales of the Eclipse brand, the proof of your statements." it being their best. Exception was taken to that statement by the manager of the Belfast give him ample proof of my statement that the Works, Mr. Waymouth. He wrote to me as primest grading of the Belfast Works is not con- follows : -- sidered in London as good as the grading of the "I was away in Australia when the debate best meat from the other company in Christ- ! on the Slaughtering and Inspection Bill took church, and, consequently, the c.i.f. price of place. and it was not until this week that my Eclipse is higher than the c.i.f. price of primest Belfast, and that his slumping of large parcels attention was called to some statements made hy you in the debate on that Bill, which I find depreciates the Belfast reputation. I may fur- in Han-ari No. 15, page 572. You must at ther say that I have frequently dealt with the subject outside Parliament ; but, even if I had once see that the statements contained in the paragraph on page 572, which begins, ' Well, not done so, I consider that Parliament is the he freezes his meat, no doubt, in Canter- place for a member of this House to make state- bury,' are a reflection on this company, and ments, if he thinks that by making these state- I shall be pleased, such being the case, if you ments he is going to improve the condition of will supply us with the data upon which you the produce trade of this country, and thereby base these statements." bring better results to our farmers and further I replied to that as follows :- establish our reputation abroad. When this is "I am duly in receipt of yours of 30th the object, and there is no desire to injure a August, and, in reply, have to state that upon company, but rather to induce an improvement, the first opportunity occurring I will supply I say Parliament is the place to make the state- the data upon which I based the statement ment, and Parliament is the place to make the defence. Now, I will refer, first of all, to the you allude to." He again wrote, asking me to give the data as question of the price of meat. I find, on pick- ing up several copies of the Australasian Pas- soon as possible. I replied to that that an toralists' Review, the various prices stated. opportunity had not arisen while I was present in Parliament enabling me to make the state- In June, 1900, I find it alludes to the quality of ment of data necessary, although I had tried to the Eclipse meat being ad. per pound higher bring the matter into discussion. The Speaker than the Belfast brand. The quotation is :- was, however, unable to permit it. In reply to that he said :- of New Zealand mutton. " Referring to your letter wherein you C.M. Company and Belfast, 3%d. to 3gd. per promise to supply 'data upon first opportunity pound c.i.f. These are for April and May ship- occurring,' and to my letter, to which I am still ments." without reply . You must be aware that . your statements, as printed in Hansard, are a is made to the best brands of Eclipse mutton. serious reflection on this company's mode of Then we have the report of Weddell and Co., conducting its business. Are we to conclude and I may say that these copies I am quoting that your failing to give us the promised data from are the only ones I have looked up. I means that you have none, and that you have dare say that if I hunted up other papers I uttered your libel in a place where honourable would see that the standard value of Eclipse members are shielded from the consequences of mutton ranks highest. This is the reference their libellous utterances by certain parlia- Weddell makes to the Eclipse brand : " Eclipse mentary privileges ?" brand, 31d. to 4d. per pound ; for ordinary I replied to him :- Canterbury, 32d. to 33d." Again, in the May " Your favour is before me, and I note what number, this year, which is the only one I have your directors wish. One would conclude from looked at since I have been back, it refers inci- # VOL. CXVI .- 10. This letter was so badly copied in my letter- " My directors wish me to say in reply, that, I can assure this Mr. Waymouth that I can " Forward business is brisk in all descriptions Eclipse, 3§d. to 4d. ; Again, on the 15th December, 1899, reference 