tenants, whether married or single, and of allowing them to participate in the estate and pay their money, unless you offer it by public auction and the highest bidder be de- clared the purchaser. No more reasonable conclusion than this could be come to. Now, the Cabinet have done exceedingly well in Canterbury in the purchase of land. They have acquired various estates, and in almost each instance-I think in every instance -- the estates that have been acquired are well worth the money, and they have been settled, and settled with good settlers, whether single or married. There are very few of the sections contained in these estates still in the hands of the Crown. In fact. I think, though speaking without absolutely knowing the facts, they have not got one. The whole concern is taken up, and every one has been successfully settled. There is a great demand still existing for land in Canterbury. The honourable member for Riccarton said that if there was an estate equal to Waikakahi in the market there would be hundreds of applications for sections in it. Why, there is only one estate in Canterbury equal to Waikakahi. It is one of the finest estates in Canterbury that could be acquired, and probably there was every likelihood of it being acquired and settled successfully but that the Land Purchase Board is of conserva- tive bodies the most extraordinarily conserva- tive. Well, that Board declined one of the best estates in Canterbury ; it was offered at a price that would have allowed it to be settled by a class of tenantry who would have been entirely successful. What did the owner of the estate do? He sold it on terms for a small amount of money, annual payments, and with quit-rent or any other condition, and he has got more money, I am told, than the whole amount he asked for the entire estate, and he still has thousands and thousands of acres of land left. That shows the wisdom of the Land Pur- chase Board. As I said, they are of a most extra- ordinaril: conservative character. In Asbburton offers were made to thom for the purchase of an estate -- the Laymore Estate-of 30,000 acres of land. I believe, or something thereabouts, much of it the finest land on the Canterbury plains. Negotiations to purchase were started, but the Land Purchase Department said. " No. no: we cannot touch it." What did the owner do ? He sold some of the land at 960. 570, and $10 an acre, and sold in that way a small fraction of the estate, and got for that land as much as he offered the whole estate for. An example again of the wisdom of the Land Purchase Department set up by the Government, officered by the most conservative men in New Zealand, and absolutely beyond the control of the Go- Now I can come to the Bill ; but vernment. before I deal with the Bill I am going to call attention to what I believe to be the principal feature of this measure, and the reason why it was introduced. In the month of April a most extraordinary Order in Council was made. I do not know whether the Governor of his own motion made it or not-at any rate, it says in subclause 10, (a),- " When more applications than one are made for the same land, preference shall be given to the applications from married men with fami- lies, and the right to occupy the land shall, if such applications are accepted by the Land Board, be decided by ballot in accordance with the regulations under . The Land Act, 1892."" The Canterbury Land Board, whose wisdom is much greater than that of the heads of the departments in Wellington, having more dis- crimination. refused to act upon His Excel- leney's Order in Council, and attempted to separate those who were applicants within the meaning of the Act from those who were not : and yet this same Land Board has rejected any amount of people simply because they were married or single, because they had land in other assessments exceeding the amount that they should hold. Consequently, I say we should not pass this clause 8, that "in dis- 5.0. posing of land by way of lease the Board shall, unless directed to the contrary by the Minister- Good gracious, who is the Minister ? Is it the Under-Secretary, or is it the Minister of Lands for the time being, who inquires into the particulars or con- ditions of the applicant ? Who so fit as the local body-who so fit as the members of the Board, comprising five individuals, who come from the north, east, south, and west, who know every person within the province? Is the Minister for the time being or the Under- Secretary to run this department, and to say who shall not be eligible as a tenant ? Why, certainly not. Why, Sir, if the local Boards, who are appointed to administer such a large and important department as the disposal and administration of the waste lands of the colony, are not fit to do it, then abolish the Land Boards altogether, and administer the whole concern from Wellington. That is my opinion so far as I am concerned. The Premier, un- wisely I think, gave a sort of hint that if oppo- sition was offered to this Bill he might not re- appoint members of this House to Land Boards. Well, he may do as he likes so far as I am con- cerned. I snap my fingers at the Premier and at this House. As regards reappointment of members, the honourable member for Palmers- ton knows very well that he was a bad boy once. But I am not going to be controlled. and no influence is going to be brought to bear on me to compel me, under any circumstances, to aid that which I do not conceive to be right. Of course, I shall be returned to this House in spite of the Pre- mier so long as I like to stand for Ashbur- ton, and if he eliminates me from the roll of membership of the Land Board I will come up here and claim that a Bill to provide for elective Boards shall be passed, and then I will stand for Canterbury in spite of him. It is a singular thing, Sir, but it is nevertheless the truth, and I believe my learned friend the honourable member for Ashley will support me when he speaks I hope I am not going to anticipate what he intends to say --- that as against this obnoxious clause 8, providing that married people with families shall have preference, we 