head of the Government might receive from the country the indorsement of the Government policy, and vet a minority of the House could make his position untenable, and so embar- rass the whole Government. No honour- able member who has studied the politics of this or any other British country could believe that any man of spirit would remain in a Cabinet under circumstances such as those. He would not do so if he had any self-respect, or if he had any hope of being able to do any good with public measures upon which strong differences of opinion existed, or, indeed, of doing anything beneficial for the country itself. Sir, I admit that, theoretically. the policy of being able to select a Cabinet by the majority of the House sounds very fine, but in practice it is all nonsense. The strongest intellects and the most forcible men will, as in all things, prevail. Why, if you go outside the House and take the brute creation you will find that it is so there also. If it were possible to get from various parts of the colony a number of wild horses-horses that have never been together before-and turn them loose in a paddock, and then come back in a week or so, what would you find ? You would find that one horse among the number had fought his way to the front, and would be the recognised leader even in a mob of wild horses. An Hon. MEMBER .- We are not wild horses. Sir J. G. WARD .- No, honourable members are not wild horses. They are in most respects the most amiable gentlemen one could possibly meet in any assemblage in any part of the world. But still they cannot all be leaders; and the process of natural selection is better than an unnatural one, and all will admit that there must be a leader. But I say this : The elective Exective proposal is like an attempt to make water run up-hill. After all is said and done, it amounts to this : that, given the opportunity, the brainiest, strongest, most forcible, and ablest men will come to the front in spite of everything-in spite of any system the minority may try to institute to prevent this, or to further its own purposes. Now, Sir, I will read to honourable members some remarks made on this question by a gentleman whose opinions on a subject of this sort are worthy of the greastest respect. Sir, I had not intended to speak on this Bill at all. I have only read it since coming into the House to-night. In my innocence i contemplated-I admit now it was under a delusion-that this important measure, which has been talked about by its advocates a great deal, would have evoked from them an active and instructive debate, so that the views of the supporters of it might be put on record concerning it ; but I soon discovered, for some peculiar and unaccountable reason, there was an apparent prearranged conspiracy of silence regarding it. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is only wasting time. Sir J. G. WARD .- No. it is not wasting time. Some honourable members who want a change under any circumstances, by adopting a con- spiracy of silence, think that by so acting their Sir J. G. Ward are achieving their end. But the country has a right to hear the other side, and I desire to say that on such an occasion as this we should not only give expression to our own views but also put on record the views of men who have read and studied the subject, and I now propose to put on record the views of a gentle- man who was at one time a member of this House, and who certainly commanded the respect of a very great city in this country, and of a majority of the members of the House of Representatives. Mr. PIRANI .- Was he a defeated candidate ? Sir J. G. WARD .-- No, Sir, he never was a defeated candidate. He was a candidate whom the honourable member would have supported most loyally, I am sure, if he had had the op- portunity. "I supported strongly, very strongly indeed. the system of party government when I first stood for Christchurch in 1887 and was elected by a large majority. I supported it again in 1>90 just as strongly, when I never dreamed that for years to come either my party or myself would see office. The honourable member for Wel- lington City (Sir R. Stout) knows that : because in the course of a confidential conversation we had during the general election I told him I did not think our party would carry the elections. Last year I came out again as a strong upholder of party government. I have on those three occasions been returned with as good a majority as any man might reasonably hope to get. I quote that simply as an example of the fact that in perhaps the most democratie city in New Zealand -Christchurch-a man may be returned to this House who is a strong upholder of the present party system. The honoura ble member for Selwyn upholds the elective system on the ground that it will bring Ministers more closely in touch with the people, and will give the people more power over Ministers. Now, that is exactly what it will not do if we adopt the Swiss system - which is not the grotesque, hybrid system that this Bill pro. vides- for you will distinctly take away from the representatives of the people, and therefore from the people themselves, the power they have to remove any Government from office That is a very which misconducts itself. great and important constitutional right. Ai- though I do not want personally to be re- moved from the position which 1 occupy. I should be very sorry to see the representa- tives of the people give up that great and necessary public right. You should have the right to remove any Ministry that miscon- ducts itself, and loses the confidence of the majority of this House: and if you give that power up you cannot, I am sure. know what results may follow. We are told that the Swiss system gives the people greater power ; yet the honourable gentleman who introduced the Bill has stated that it would certamy make the Ministers more independent : but how can you make Ministers more indepen- dent, and yet give the people greater power over them ? I should like to deal with a few 