persons who get into the clutches of the law. We should take every care that men who are charged with any offence are properly and fairly dealt with; and it is the duty of the Crown to protect these people, and give fair justice to the man who has done wrong. Now, let me point out one other matter to the honourable member : The definition of " public place " in the Police Offences Act of 1884 is a wrong one. Under that Act, if there is a man found guilty of using obscene language in a public place, he must be imprisoned ; but, according to the by - laws passed by the Government in respect to rail- ways, if a man makes use of obscene language in a railway-carriage, he can be fined. If the offence is committed anywhere else than in a railway-carriage he must go to gaol. Now, Sir, that is a ridiculous thing. Under the statute, by the authority of which our railway by-laws are made, one particular by-law has been framed which provides that obscene language used in a railway-carriage is an offence which may be punished by the infliction of a fine ; whereas if a man stands off the platform on the street, and makes use of the very same words, he must go to gaol for it without being allowed the option of a fine. Is not the law "an ass " sometimes ? Is it not an absurdity that a man can use ob- scene language in one place and only get fined, while if he does so in walking across the street he has to go to gaol for it. If the Minister will go to work and amend the anomalies that exist in the Police Offences Act of 1884, instead of trying to create new offences to give the police more power, he will do a great deal of good. I would like to ask what is the necessity for this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Bill. The police have got power enough. Now, would the honourable gentleman or honourable members believe that such a case as this could possibly occur : We will say a policeman is walk- ing on his beat at night, and he picks up a drunken man and takes that drunken man to the station. He sets that man to sweep out the station before he goes into his cell ; but when he comes back he finds that that drunken man has gone, walked out of the front door because there has been no particular hold on him. The police- man then decides he has got to find somebody else to take the drunken man's place. He then goes along the by-ways and finds a man sleeping in a packing-case and says to him, " A drunken man has got away from me. Will you take his place and plead guilty to drunkenness in the morn- ing?" The man agrees to do that, and the case comes on in the morning. The man standing in Court is charged with being drunk, and to the great surprise of the constable he says, "Not guilty." The constable, however, goes into the witness-box and says, " I arrested the accused ; he was drunk and incapable." The result is, the man is fined 5s., with the option of twenty- four hours. The constable says to the man, " You deserved it ; you did not keep faith with me." I say the police have too much power as it is. If a policeman goes into the witness-box and says that a man has been drunk in the streets, it will take five outsiders to make a Magistrate believe the policeman is telling an untruth. I need hardly say that I know, to my own knowledge, that there are scores of men in the Police Force, headed by that estimable man Inspector Pender. who would scorn to tell an untruth, and whose word I would believe against any number of other people's oaths: but, unfortunately, there are men who are black sheep ; and I shall do by best to prevent any further power being placed in the hands of such men. I regret that there are honourable members who promised to be here to assist me in opposing this Bill, who are not in their seats to-night, and 1 say if those members are going to allow it to become law simply because it is fathered by a Minister it is a very regrettable thing. I shall speak further upon this Bill in Committee, and if I can hinder its peregrinations through this Chamber-if I can prevent this Bill passing its second reading I shall do so. I trust that the Hon. the Minister will adopt the suggestions of the honourable member for the Grey. which have gone through the Statutes Revision Com- mittee, and then he will have the support of every right - thinking man in this House. I trust that he will take a hint also, even from me, that there are anomalies and discrepancies in the present Police Offences Act which should be remedied before he starts exploiting some new field. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir. the honourable gentleman who has just spoken has pointed out a great many anomalies in the Police Offences Act, but, in my humble opinion as a layman, he has hardly touched the point in question in this Bill. What this Bill proposes has nothing to do with obscene language. It has to do with insulting language calculated to provoke a breach of the peace. Obscene lan- guage, as the honourable member will know. is treated in Part II. of the Police Offences Act, where the definition of a "public place" is a very much enlarged one. In the clause to which this amendment refers the definition of a public place is a very narrow one, and that is the reason why the honourable member for the Grey last year brought in a Bill in which the definition of a public place was enlarged. That is a matter upon which we can all agree. We can all agree that on a steamer or on a race- course, where a number of people congregate. if a man uses insulting language, or language calcu- lated to create a breach of the peace, he should be dealt with. But what I complain of is, that this amendment does not do what it proposes to effect. The definition of "public place " is still kept in the narrow sense, and the effect of the amendment will be, that any person who "uses any threatening, abusive, or insulting words or behaviour in any public place, or within the hearing or in the view of passers-by, with intent to provoke a breach of the peace, or whereby a breach of the peace may be occa- sioned, will be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds." It may be open to a great deal of doubt as to whether the words "public place " do not govern " passers-by." I should say it would be held that passers-by must be in the public place, and public place is still in the 