to him with regard to the American cars is out to the extent of about $96,000 . that is in respect to one item only, made up of sixty cars too many. The total cost of the sixty-three cars delivered in New Zealand was $102,000. With regard to these cars and the railway- wagons, the honourable member for Riccarton -and I also include with him one honourable member opposite who by interjection confirmed his statement-asked, " Was it right that large sums of the money of the people of this colony should be paid away without tenders being first called for ? Now. I desire to tell honourable members that the work was tendered for, both for the cars in America and for the wagons in England, so that upon that point those honour- able members who appear to me to be unduly anxious about the matter have my assurance with respect to it, and if they desire they can have the records to bear out the statement that that was the case. I may also state 8.0. that a responsible railway officer was sent specially from this colony to America in connection with the building of those cars, not only to invite tenders for them, but to see that the work was properly carried out. The lowest tender was accepted for the sixty-three cars in America. Now, Sir, when I tell the House what the programme was for the railway work- shops in New Zealand for 1899-1900 and 1900- 1901, and what the programme of work now being carried out is, they will then be able to realise the absolute inaccuracy and incorrect ness, to say nothing of the unfairness, of the assumptions they have, for the want of know- ledge or proper information, formed regard- ing this matter. The programme laid down in 1899-1900 and 1900-1901 made provision for the following work to be carried out in the railway workshops in New Zealand : To be built-Fourteen locomotive engines of the fol- lowing types : 5 locomotive engines of Class B, 6 Class FB, 3 Class WA ; 116 carriages, 55 bogie brake - vans, 1,817 four - wheeled and bogie wagons, and 500 four-wheeled and bogie wagons, if we could get them outside the work- shops in the colony. We also decided to order sixty-three cars from America and 1,000 four- wheeled wagons from Great Britain. Now, Sir, the increase in the number of passengers carried between 1899-1900 and 1900-1901 was 775,309 ; and I may state as a result of that increase that, if we had not, in addition to the carriages on the lines and those already in order in the work- shops of the colony, also got cars from outside, we could not have coped with the enormous increase of people using our railways in the colony. Some honourable members-the mem- ber for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) and, I think, other honourable members also-have attempted to reflect upon my predecessor in office, inas- much as they stated that he had not grasped the situation, and had not got ready for the work that was going on. Very well, then, Sir, I say that honourable members who make that statement - while they may make it with the best of intentions-have very little knowledge of what has been going on in the workshops of the colony at all. From 1895-96 up to 31st March, 1901, 3,576 vehicles, including engines, carriages, brake-vans, and wagons rebuilt to replace worn-out and con- demned rolling-stock, were made in the railway workshops in New Zealand. During that period there has been made in the railway workshops of the colony 28 locomotive engines, 203 car- Is riages, 77 brake-vans, and 3,268 wagons. that not great work? Does that bear out the statement that we had not grasped the position? Now, I gave honourable members the pro- gramme that was laid down at the beginning of the period, 1899-1900. Will any one for a moment dare to say that that was not a big programme of work, or that we are not keeping up to date in this respect ? I have indicated what it was we were trying to prepare for. Now, Sir, what is being made in the workshops at the present moment? Before I pass on to that let me give honourable members what were made in the workshops of New Zealand for over five years previous to the railways coming under the direct control of the Govern- ment. During that time there were 398 vehicles of all kinds made and 53 rebuilt, as against the numbers I have just given the House of 3,576 vehicles made in the workshops under the ad- ministration of the Government-that is, since 1895-and those vehicles were 5 new loco- motives and 10 rebuilds, 28 new carriages and 32 conversions, 14 new brake-vans and 11 re- builds, and 351 new wagons. I merely put that on record because the question has been raised as to the Railway Department not having endea- voured to provide sufficient rolling-stock to meet. the requirements of the colony. An honourable member interjects that the Commissioners could not get the money at the date I have given. I say if the growth of traffic warranted it and they had applied for the money they would have got it. I am casting no blame whatever, nor am I finding any fault with the Commis- sioners. I have no doubt they did their very best. I will show honourable members presently that there were not in the workshops of New Zealand at that time a number of men sufficient to have carried out the increased work required. Now, Sir, I have given honourable members some facts regarding the sixty-three passenger- cars, and the increase in the number of passen- gers for a brief period only. Now, what about the wagons? We ordered 1,000 wagons from England. I want to point out to honourable members that time was of the essence of the contract so far as this colony was concerned. The Agent-General was instructed to have these wagons built according to designs furnished by the colony. That was also done in respect to the carriages ordered from America ; they were all from our own designs. We accepted tenders for 1,000 wagons, and spread them over four large manufacturing firms in England ; and, not- withstanding that we took that precaution in order to get the whole 1,000 wagons within a limited period, even then they have not come to hand fast enough to meet the growing re- quirements of the department. And you may naturally ask, Why did we not get them ? Because there has been such a large demand 