That is the position under the present Act. If an Inspector now states that there are rabbits on a farm, it does not matter how much evi- dence the settler or the farmer may bring, a conviction must follow ; and I think, therefore, there should be some alteration of the Act. Whether it should be exactly on the lines of this Bill introduced by the honourable gentle- man, or by an amendment of the present Act, I am not prepared to say; but I think, at any rate, something should be done. However, I would like to see that particular argument met. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - I had intended making use of identically the same argument as has just been used by the Minister of Mines. I shall come back to that presently. I agree with what was said by the honourable member for Waipawa up to that part of his speech wherein he dwelt upon the want of appreciation on the part of the department of the necessity for protecting the outlying settlers in the Hawke's Bay District from the incursions of rabbits from the Ruahine and Kaweka Ranges. The principal part of the injury suffered by settlers in the remoter districts is caused by the infliction of having to keep the rabbits down under the penalties prescribed by the Act ; which rabbits, to a considerable extent, are bred on Crown lands. At the same time I am bound to say, while I am very strongly in favour of every man having his own freehold, and not being interfered with by the Govern- ment, I hold also that when there is conferred on a man the right of having his own freehold it is his duty to protect his own land. And all https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 this outcry about the incursions of the rabbits ought to be modified, for if a man has the free- hold of his property vested in himself he ought to be compelled to protect his own pro- perty. Before the proposed Bill should be re- stored to the lines of the Act of 1881 I think it would be as well to refer it to the Stock Committee. I realise that apparently there is a consensus of opinion in the House in favour of repealing sections 9 and 10 of the Act of 1882, and substituting something else in their place. But, before we give our consent to the repeal of these two clauses, I think there ought to be a better case made out by the opponents of these clauses than has been made out so far. The only argument I have heard to-night-and I have listened attentively to the debate-the only argument against the sections was that put forward by my honourable friend the member for Clutha with regard to some case of alleged hardship in connection with some prosecution for neglect to destroy rabbits in his own district. Now, we all know that in the case of every Act upon any statute-book there may be mistakes made, and the individual be liable to hardship ; but a solitary case of hardship should not in- duce us to repeal an Act. Now, what are the facts ? As was pointed out by the Minister of Mines, up to the year 1881 the rabbits had in- creased and increased, and had so spread in New Zealand that they were a serious menace to the principal industry of the colony. In the year 1881 a Rabbit Act was passed, and that Rabbit Act failed in its intent: it did not succeed in reducing the number of rabbits. The consequence was that in the year 1882 a more drastic Act was passed, giving powers absolutely autocratic to the Inspectors ; and it is, if I may judge from the debate we have listened to to- night, a rebellion against submission to the principle of autocracy rather than against the prosecutions which have taken place under the Act. I realise how proper it is that we should always hold sentiments and defend ourselves against autocracy. It is right to feel that men in all parts of the country should be able to produce evidence on both sides of a question, and be able to fight their battle out before an impartial Court ; but, at the same time, the circumstances connected with the administra- tion of the Rabbit Act are entirely different, or almost entirely different, from those of every other Act. To begin with, unless prompt and en- ergetic action is taken, the spread of rabbits goes on at a pace which is almost inconceivable to those who have never witnessed it. From see- ing two or three rabbits in a district, if that dis- trict is simply neglected, in the course of three or four months you will probably see ten or twenty, and in the course of another three or four months you will probably see two or three hundred. Therefore there is urgent necessity for immediate action being taken for their sup- pression. Sir, any evidence that can be pro- duced by the Inspector on. the question of rabbits is direct and positive evidence. The Inspector, more accustomed to looking for rab- bits than any one else in the district, travels through the country, and discovers, by signs which are imperceptible to all but the accus- tomed eye, that there are rabbits in the neigh- bourhood. He tells the owner of the land, "I have seen signs of rabbits on such-and-such spur or hill, and if you go there with poisoned grain, or with dogs, you will find the rabbits there, and you will be able to check them at once." Very well : it is right, as the honourable member for Masterton says, to believe that the stockowner, as a rule, is a truthful man, and naturally wishes to keep rabbits down on his property ; but, at the same time, there is no denying this fact : that some are extremely su- pine and neglectful in this respect, and, unless pressure is put upon them, will not take steps to destroy the rabbits or keep them down at an early stage in their development. The conse- quence is that when an Inspector says, " I have seen traces of rabbits in such-or-such a place," a man who has not been in that locality where the rabbits are is prepared to go into Court and swear he has not seen a rabbit on the ground. But that is merely negative evidence. He may even take his friends over that part of the coun- try in which the rabbits are and may say, " My friends did not see any rabbits there, and there- fore there are no rabbits." That, Sir, is purely negative. Rabbits were not seen, but they may have been near. The Inspector, on the other hand, says deliberately, and in so many words, "I have seen the rabbits there, and it is urgently necessary that you should take steps to keep them down." As to the argument of honourable members that this matter should 