when a country member opposes a Bill he does so because he thinks it is not in the interests of his constituents. Likewise, when city members have to oppose a country Bill, or a Bill dealing with the country-we do not as a rule do so, but when we do it is because we think it is in the interests of our constituents. It is exactly the same on both sides. It is not with any de- sire simply to oppose it, because, as my honour- able friend said, both town and country must go hand-in-hand ; and I, for one, with the excep- tion of a Bill last session, have never shown any opposition to any Bill which is for the benefit of the country, and I hope I will never have to. I opposed the Bill last session because, under the Bill that the honourable member for Egmont referred to, there were persons going to get a rebate who were not entitled to it, and that is what I object to. We were quite prepared to give those men who really required the concession-men who had gone into the back country to make homes for themselves -a much larger reduction, and I say now that if a Bill was brought down to-night by the Government or by the honourable gentleman to give those men who cannot pay their rent 50 per cent. reduction, or to wipe it out altogether, I will go into the lobby to support the honourable gentleman. But when you are going to give men such as we heard of in the Cheviot Estate, who are getting a couple of thousand pounds to clear out of the place, a rebate of 10 per cent., I do not think it is in the interests of the country that such a Bill https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 should be passed. An Hon. MEMBER .- Some in the North Island did not get anything at all. Mr. MILLAR .- Yes; I believe some in the North Island did not get any rebate at all. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero The settlers in Canterbury got 10 per cent. all through, and Otago was cut up into blocks, and the settlers were allowed a rebate of 23, 5, 73, and 10 per cent., according to the block. That is the only thing we objected to; we did not desire to help those who really do not require it, because it was simply giving public money to those who did not require it. I hope this Bill will receive a second reading, and I, for one, will endeavour to put it in such form as to benefit all those whom the honourable gentleman intends it to benefit, whilst at the same time I do not desire to do anything that will tend to injure any industry in this colony, town or country. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .- Sir, it was not my intention to speak at all to-night on this Bill, considering the great amount of debate that has already taken place upon it. When the honourable member for Riccarton was intro- ducing the measure I made a remark which I do not think the honourable gentleman under- stood, or otherwise he would not have made the answer he did. I wanted to convey to him the fact that the dairy farmers started work at six, and sometimes at four o'clock in the morning, and continued his work two or three hours. He has nothing to do with his cows then until - four, or five, or six o'clock in the afternoon. were continuous, would the eight hours count from four o'clock in the morning, and would he have to discontinue work if the eight hours expired previous to milking-time. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I beg the honourable member's pardon. I understood he was speak- ing of the ordinary eight hours in the factory. Mr. O'MEARA .- I was speaking of dairy- farming. I was rather surprised at the Pre- mier stating in his speech to-night-I am sorry I did not hear the whole of it, as I was called out by a constituent-that he was prepared to support this Bill. If the Premier were here I would tell him that if he was prepared to sup- port it he would find nearly the whole of the country members who are on this side of the House not going with him into the lobby. I think this Bill is unfair to the dairy farmers in the country. I give the honourable gentleman every credit for introducing a Bill of this de- scription, but I would have liked him to go further and provide against the way in which the children of our dairy farmers are employed. I must congratulate the honourable senior member for Wellington City on his thorough knowledge of the dairy industry. He spoke really as if he had been living in the midst of it. I have witnessed, myself, children of tender years turning out at four o'clock in the morning, as he described, to milk their cows ; but they have to do that, it is com- pulsory. Then they have attended the school during the day, and the schoolmaster has informed me that they have fallen asleep over their lessons. If this state of things continues what may we expect from our future genera- tions ? Why, we shall have a decrepid and miserable race, instead of our sons and daughters becoming a sturdy people. And if we want to benefit the children of the dairy farmers I think some provision will have to be made fixing the age at which children shall be employed in the dairy industry. We want to legislate against the inhuman father, and I am pleased to say there are very few in my electorate. If you were to do that I think you would be doing some good. I regret exceedingly to say that many settlers who are endeavouring to hew out for themselves a home in the backwoods become so discontented and miserable because the prospect of making a home for themselves seems so far off that they lose heart. No later than yesterday an announcement ap- peared in the Wellington Times-in a tele gram from Palmerston -- announcing the death of a settler who has resided in my dis- trict for many years. This unfortunate man struggled hard against many adversities at- tached to bush settlement. He had a dispute with the Lands Department, and he was not treated with great kindness. The man's labour was not confined to eight hours a day. He rose the first thing in the morning and struggled manfully on in order to try and secure a home for his wife and children. An Hon. MEMBER .-- All honour to him. Mr. O'MEARA .-.- I say all honour to the man. I intend to ask the Government to make an in- 