shadow of Ruapehu. I can understand the terms. When the honourable gentleman was speaking about Mr. MeCardle I came to the con- clusion that he had never met him, for if he had he would never have spoken in the way he did. Now, the facts are these : that Mr. MeCardle settled in that district, and he was an in- dustrious settler and one who had the respect of his fellow-settlers, as I feel sure he will have of those where he is going-in fact, I am sure he has it already. Members on the other side of the House have been proclaiming to-night that the sons of farmers are entitled to a share of the lands of the colony. What is the result ? This gentleman settles in this newly- formed district with his two adult sons. They participate in the ballot, and are fortunate in drawing three sections, and for this the honour- able member for Patea protests and denounces one of the best of settlers. The ballot was for Crown lands. Would the honourable member debar a man going there with two sons, or ten sons, the right to take part in a ballot with his fellow-settlers for land that has been thrown open ? I say that the honourable member is unfair and unreasonable, and if he had sat here for a week he would not have introduced a sub- ject of this sort on to the floor of the House. At all events, he would have made himself acquainted with the facts, which he has not done. Mr. HASELDEN .- It is all in the Hansard of last session, and in far stronger terms than I used. Mr. O'MEARA .- I was not in the House, and did not hear it, and the statements of some members as contained in Hansard are not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 always a reliable authority to quote from, more especially when that statement condemns one who has done so much for the colony as Mr. McCardle has done. Take the statements made by the honourable member to-night, for instance, and, speaking of this settler, he has not cast a reflection on him only, but also on every Go- vernment official, including the Commissioner of Crown Lands for Auckland, and those associ- ated with him in the drawing of this ballot. He has almost accused them of dishonesty in the ballot. Mr. PIRANI .- He repeated the words of the Minister of Lands. Mr. O'MEARA. - I do not care what the Minister of Lands says. I am not going to be tied down by anything he says. I am speaking of what the honourable member for Patea said in this House to-night. Then, we are told that there is no necessity to enforce this Land for Settlements Act. The honourable member says, " Why do not they go into the back blocks." Where are the back blocks? In my district there are none. There is no more Crown land to be taken up in my district. There is a land- hunger there ; and there is only one way of relieving it, and that is by the acquisition of estates. I sincerely hope that the Government will acquire some of the estates in my district. The time is ripe for it, and if they do they will have any amount of applications and they will be well settled. I am afraid the honourable gentleman has remained too long under the feeling of a new member perfectly well, because I was possessed with it myself when I came here; but when he has been here for a few weeks he will be more generous to those who are opposed to him. Sir, I was sorry to hear the honourable member for Waitemata . and I think it was uncalled for- refer to the action of the Premier in not prosecuting the sale of the estates owned by the Assets Board, so that he might draw his honorarium as member of that Board. Now, Sir, I think it was unjust ; I think it was un- kind and unfair for the honourable member to make such a charge against the Premier. Mr. MONK .-- He never made it : you cannot understand English. Mr. O'MEARA .--- Well, perhaps not. The honourable member's English is very peculiar sometimes, and so contradictory that it is exceedingly difficult to follow his arguments. At all events, I hope he will be more generous, or, if not generous, at all events fair to the Pre- mier. He takes every opportunity to upbraid the Premier for some supposed fault or another. He now supports the Land for Settlements Act, but I remember a time when the honour- able gentleman did his utmost to prevent this Act being placed on the statute-book. The honourable gentleman has protested in the loudest possible manner against the passing of every Liberal measure which has been uni- versally approved by the people of the colony. I do not think he can deny that. The honour- able member for Waihemo, in my opinion, pro- posed a very good amendment to this Land for Settlements Bill, and I supported him in it. He explained the meaning of his amend- ment and also explained the five miles distance from a city. His amendment was that sons of owners whose land has been acquired, and who are over seventeen years of age, shall have the right to acquire or take up 200 acres first-class land, or 500 acres second-class, provided they farmed it. Now, I think that is an exceedingly reasonable proposal to attach to the Land Act, and on that account I voted for it. I should like very much to see the honourable member for Hawke's Bay present, because he stated that I agreed to the passing of a statute which gave the settlers of this colony a thou- sand acres and over. He instanced the Ha- tuma Estate, and said I did not object to that. I said, "Certainly not ; if the land is second class land or third-class land he is entitled to a greater area." I believe in the area as laid down by the Land Act --- that is, 640 acres of first-class land, and the area laid down in respect to second-class land. But what I did say was this : that in my own electorate where there were a number of sections, or, rather, a block in the North Tiraumea cut up into a hundred acres of exceedingly good land, one man goes in there, and, owing to his wealth, he simply mops up the whole country. I do not blame this gentle- What I do condemn is the law that man. allows it. This land, I understand, was cut up by the Ballance Government. Well, what is the result? Instead of having thirty or forty 