like to say, while I think the member for the Suburbs has spoken with a knowledge of the criminal class gained in Court practice, there is another side to the question-what I would call the side of the general public. I sympathize with the Bill the Minister has brought in, be- cause it represents what the general public desire in connection with the vagrant classes dealt with by the Police Offences Act. Refer- ring to what the member for the Bay of Plenty said regarding " reputed thieves," I should like to draw the attention of the honourable gentle- man to the fact that the new clause that the Minister is now proposing proceeds exactly on all-fours with the Act we are now amend- ing. The 3rd section of the Bill before us pro- poses to add subsection (4) to section 26 of the Act. Now, in subsection (2) the expression " reputed thieves " is twice used. Hence, the Bill now before the House is strictly correct. Those of us who have watched cases in large cities from time to time have seen it frequently happen that Magistrates have great difficulty in convicting persons who are of notoriously bad character-who are really persons continually living on the prostitution of women. In so far as the Minister proposes to reach this class, by making men vagrants who consort with bad characters, even though they may have money in their pockets, he has my sympathy. The man may have €100 or $150 in his pocket, yet that very money may have been obtained from sources of the most immoral character. The Minister proposes that the question shall not be decided merely on the possession of money ; but it puts the law in this position : that if a man habitually consorts with persons who are reputed thieves, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 as per subsection (2) of the law now in force, and with females of bad character, that shall be an act of vagrancy, and render the person liable to imprisonment exactly as if he came under subsections (1) to (3) of section 26. While the member for the Suburbs gave us a very elo- quent address containing a great deal of mat- ter not pertinent to the question, it contained also some remarks that I regretted to hear, especially in the reference which was made to the police. My idea is that, in the position we occupy as lawmakers, we ought to be extremely careful in saving anything which may render the public less regardful of the men who are responsible for seeking to carry out the law. As regards Judges, Magistrates, and police, we ought, as far as possible, as legislators, to uphold their authority in the eyes of the public. My honourable friend the member for Wellington Suburbs, of course, from his very large professional practice, is frequently placed in opposition to the police in Court work. I can quite understand that he feels keenly at times that these men somewhat strain the powers given to them. While I would never for one moment, either in Parliament or outside, sup- port the police where they have exceeded their duty, I may say that in this Bill I think we are only giving the police what has been proved to be a necessary power to put down this most dangerous class of the community- the men who have money in their pockets and vet are the most awful scoundrels-men who are prey- ing upon the community; and so far as the Minister goes in that direction I shall support him in every possible way. With regard to the necessity of bringing the definition of "public place " into line with the proposal of the honourable member for the Grey, I agree, although I think the honourable gentleman went a little too far last year. If an amend- ment is proposed when the Bill is in Committee to enlarge the definition of " public place " \~ as to meet the objections raised, I shall be dis- posed to vote for it. I rose for the purpose of saying that I shall support the Bill, because I shall always support anything which goes to put down the dangerous criminal class who, keen of wit and in many cases men of educa- tion, live in a most diabolical manner upon the community, and yet succeed in keeping them- selves out of the clutches of the law. These proposals go a little nearer towards reaching this class, and in so far as they do that I think they deserve the support of the House. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I want to draw attention to an omission in this Bill of a somewhat important character-so im- portant that I think it far outweighs the pro- posed amendment of the Police Offences Act suggested in this Bill. Honourable members who represent city constituencies will probably know that in every city there is a class with which the law at present has entirely failed to adequately deal. The records of the Magistrate' Courts in our large cities will bear out this fact : that there is a disreputable and altogether in- corrigible class of persons who are known as habitual drunkards and lewd characters. Speak- ing for the city which I represent-and speak- ing not only as a representative but also as a Visiting Justice to our gaol-I can assure honourable members that these are the most troublesome cases we have to deal with. I will not mention names, but a number of names could be mentioned of men and women who have had a hundred, a bun- dred and fifty, or even two hundred convic- tions for drunkenness. As the law at present stands, these characters are repeatedly brought up before the Magistrate, and the severest an- tence which can be imposed upon them is three months' imprisonment. After they have served a term of three months' imprisonment they are scarcely liberated before they again come before the Court-probably within twenty-four hours of their liberation-and they are sen- tenced, perhaps, to forty-eight hours. In a few days they are again arrested, brought up, and sentenced to seven days, and then they are brought up a third time shortly after their liberation, and are sentenced to three months. An honourable member says they prefer to be in gaol. That is not so certain. They are never satisfied till they are out of gaol, and they are remarkably ill-behaved in gaol: but. unfortunately, when once out of gaol they have absolutely no command over themselves. They are absolutely lost to all sense of decency and self-respect ; they are a perpetual and con- tinuous menace to the morality of our towns: 