got what we have without the compulsion of legislation. Mr. CARNCROSS .- In some respects that is true, but eight hours' labour prevailed in many trades in this colony long before we came to the House or an Arbitration Court was thought of. Still, I am not entering into a debate as to what has happened in the past or the necessity for it, I am confining myself to the Bill before the House. I should like to give the honourable gentleman every credit for endeavouring to right what he believes to be a wrong, and endeavouring to place on the statute-book what he thinks will be of immense benefit to many people ; but I differ from him as to whether this is the best method of obtaining what he is so desirous of obtaining, and, in the interests of my constituents, I shall vote against the second reading of the Bill, because I do not think it can be made workable when it reaches the Committee stage. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- The honour- able member, in moving the second reading of the Bill, stated that he was dealing with a very big subject, and no doubt he is dealing with a subject which has puzzled many prior to his attempt, and which, I fear, will puzzle many more yet, because it is absolutely im- 9.30. possible to have an Eight Hours Bill which will apply to outdoor work. That has been admitted ; but I compliment the honour- able gentleman on having brought in the Bill so that we may discuss it, and I intend to support the second reading with the object of having it amended in Committee. I wish to show the honourable gentleman, however, one or two defects which appear, to my mind, in this Bill, and it seems to me that if we put it on the statute-book as it stands we shall take away the power of the Arbi- tration Court, because the Arbitration Court has no power to override a statute-law, and in this Bill it is laid down that forty-eight hours shall be the week's work, so that the Arbitra- tion Court would have no power to fix less than forty-eight hours as the legal number of hours per week, nor to define the hours between which such eight hours can be worked. Let us as- sume that a case came before the Court from the casual labourers on the wharf. That is work for which there is no regular hour of starting. We shall assume that work begins on the vessel at two o'clock, and that a man works on until ten o'clock before his eight hours are up. The Bill says he shall be paid time and a quarter overtime, and you also say that he shall only work forty-eight hours per week. Where does his overtime come in ? Then, that man could go on at two o'clock in the afternoon and work until two o'clock in the morning for the ordinary wage before the overtime could come in at all. In any calling like that there can be no fixing of the hours at which the man shall work if the Bill goes through as it is at present drafted. To make the Bill effective you would require to place in it certain hours within which the eight hours shall be worked. Of course, we know that where three shifts are worked through, but in regard to all questions of casual labour, or where there is only one shift working, the overtime is paid more for after a given hour. Now, the very principle which the honourable member has applied in this Bill has been asked for for the last two years by employers of labour. They have asked to be allowed to work their hands forty-eight hours in the week at any time they like, and they said no overtime should be paid until the man had worked his forty-eight hours. You can see the improbability of overtime if the Bill passes in its present form. There are trades in this country - and the honourable member for the Taieri mentioned one - who have settled the matter themselves; but I will tell you of another trade which has not settled itself so far, and that is the paper - mills. Both north and south, at Auckland and Mataura, they are working twelve hours a day now. An Hon. MEMBER. - Two shifts. Mr. MILLAR .- There is power under the Arbitration Act to settle it, and I say, although we have the eight-hours principle laid down in the Factories Act, it is erroneous to suppose that the principle is general in its application, because it only applies under the Factories Act to women and young children, and does not apply to adult labour, which can work all day and all night, so far as the law is concerned. If the Bill is to be made effective one of two things must be done. The only way to make it practicable in its working is to make a schedule of the trades to which it shall apply. You can then deal with the whole of the indoor labour, the mines, and all classes of labour of that description ; but, I for one, cannot see how you can possibly apply it to agricultural labourers. In certain times of the year it could not be applied. In harvest-time you could not apply it. Now, the Government are sinners in connection with this very same matter ; take the railway goods-sheds : Men are ordered to come down there perhaps at ten o'clock, expecting a vessel to come in. The goods do not arrive in time, and the first truck- load gets into the shed at four o'clock, and the gang is taken on and employed at 1s. per hour up to twelve or one o'clock. There is no over- time payable in that case at all. That is an object-lesson in what is done at the present time, and what will take place under this Bill. So, if the honourable gentleman in Committer will accept amendments to affirm the principie that forty-eight hours per week shall be a week's work for a weekly wage, fix the hour- betwixt these forty-eight hours that shall be worked, and then place a schedule at the back specifying all the trades to which it shall apply. I believe that will meet the whole case so far as we are concerned. The honourable mem- ber for the Taieri suggested that we might think he was opposing the Bill simply because it was a town Bill. I do not think a single member of this House belonging to the Labour party, or representing a centre of population. believes that any country member opposes a 