more important thing that our boys and girls should be healthy and well-developed than that they should be either good readers or writers. It is much more important that the girls especially should be physically well-developed than that they should be good scholars. That being so, I shall support the Bill, be- cause in it physical drill is made & compul- sory subject in the school curriculum of the colony. I was rather struck with some remarks that fell from the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier). I admire the pains he takes in getting up all the subjects that come before the House ; but I think in this case he is entirely in the wrong in his doctrine that the British Empire has not been to a large extent built up by war. I think, with the exception of Australia, he cannot name a single possession which was not originally acquired by war. I ask him one thing : If we were not prepared to defend what to a large extent has been acquired by war, how long, seeing the feeling that exists against Great Britain in Europe, would she be able to retain her position of supremacy? I should like to refer the honourable member to a re- markable book written one or two years ago by Captain Mahon-"The Influence of Sea Power on History." Mahon points out how, by being paramount at sea, Great Britain has been able to build up the most remarkable Empire the world has seen, and he also points out how she has been able to maintain it. If Bri- tain had not command over the seas, how long as a people could we exist? Not an- other twelve months. We know what envious eves the other nations are directing towards the colonies. It is only a few months since the leading papers in Germany counted the number of English people to the square mile in the Australasian Colonies, and contrasted that with the number of people to the square mile in Germany, and concluded that if Great Britain was not able to populate the Australasian Colonies Germany could, and it was high time that Germany took a hand in colonising the waste places of the earth. Only the other day one of the leading German statesmen said that if Germany had command over the sea the whole course of the history of South Africa would be altered. That being so, it is idle to lull ourselves into a state of false security and say we are not liable to attack. To say that war has not acquired the larger portion of our Empire, and is not retaining it, is, in the present position of affairs, to blind our eves to the most patent facts on the page of history. I cannot sit down, Sir, to-night without ex- pressing my regret at the heat which has been imported into this debate, for if one subject more than another might have been debated without heat to-night, or at any time in this House, it is the subject which has been intro- duced by the honourable member for the Grey. The Bill provides that our children should be trained in physical and military exercises. do not believe in the military item, and when the Bill is in Committee I shall be prepared to strike that clause out ; but why a Bill with this Mr. Laurenson so much excitement amongst certain members appears to me an extraordinary thing. Amongst the speeches which tended to provoke the most heat was that of Mr. Hutcheson. the member for Wellington City. who, in the course of the discus- sion, made use of an expression which, I trust, he will have sufficient decency to apologize for and withdraw before this debate concludes. With other members of the House, I regret the heat which has been imported into the debate, but I trust that the House will affirm the prin- ciple of this Bill, and let it go to its second reading ; then, if there are any amendments required, we shall be able to make them when it reaches the Committee stage. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- With some other members, I am surprised at the heated speeches which have been made in the course of this discussion, and I think on that account the debate has assumed an importance and mag- nitude that would not otherwise have been the case ; but, Sir, I wish to say that I intend to support the Bill on its second reading, though, in saving that, I wish it to be distinctly understood that I cannot support the whole of the details or provisions of the measure. The Bill provides that "It shall be the duty of the Board of Education in each district constituted under 'The Education Act, 1877,' to cause mili- tary and physical drill to be taught to all boys and girls over the age of eight years attending the public schools in the school district." Well, I do not object to physical drill being taught to both boys and girls; but, while I think it is the right thing to do, I think it is almost ridiculous to talk about teaching military drill to girls of eight years of age. I think, Sir, that even in the case of boys it would be well to increase the age to ten or, possibly, eleven years. Then, there is the difficulty with regard to schools in out- districts. We all know that there are many schools in out-districts with an average of ten or twelve pupils, and that such schools are in most cases in charge of female teachers. By whom is it intended that the physical and military drill should be taught in these cases ? Is it intended that we shall employ drill instructors ; and, if so, how many will be neces- Or is it intended that the female sary ? teachers shall teach the physical drill them- selves ? These are questions for the honour- able gentleman in charge of the Bill to answer. Clause 6 is one of which I strongly approve. It provides that on the certificate of the parent or guardian of any boy or girl the teacher shall have the right to exempt such bov or girl from being instructed in military and physical drill. Had that clause not been in the Bill I could not have promised to support it. With regard to the other subject which has been referred to, I do not think that any one can accuse me of being a pro-Boer. I was a lovalist and an Imperialist when many of those people who are now so fond of Jingoistic 1 utterances were truckling to the enemies of the Empire, and who would truckle to the enemies of the Empire again if it suited them to do so. 