who have been specially appealed to, that if office lends a hundred pounds or a million in they listen to these men, and endeavour to start a league such as they propose, there is a danger that it will be the worst day's work for small means, who only wants to borrow £25 themselves they ever did. An Hon. MEMBER .- Tell the honourable mem- ber for Otaki that. Mr. HOGG .- I am sorry the member for Otaki is not here now; but I will tell the mem- ber for Pahiatua that I am satisfied he sympa- thizes with every word I have spoken, and he represents a community of small settlers. Now, I will leave that subject. I will leave such men to fry in their own fat, because I do not believe the farmers will allow themselves to be betrayed Those three things welded together will make in this way. I hope they know properly how to estimate the characters I have referred to. Let us go to the next question referred to in the Governor's Speech-the Advances to Settlers Office, and the large amount of benefit derived through the introduction of the cheap-money sistem. Sir, it was predicted when that office was established as a department of the State that we were going to realise dire misfortunes : In the first place, it was said, the Government would be unable to borrow money to assist the settlers of New Zealand, because the foreign money-lender would not have sufficient confidence in the borrowers-a nice compliment to pay to the small settlers of this country. Then we were told that if we attempted it nearly all the money invested on security in New Zealand would be withdrawn. And where was it to be taken to? To South America and other parts of the world. We were assured that this money was going to be withdrawn, and that capital was going to take wings and fly away. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Well. Sir, if a few thousands have been with- drawn-and I believe some money was with- drawn at that time-millions have been re- turned in their place. We have plenty of capital ; the country is overflowing with capital at the present time. So much for the pro- suffering all the evils of privation. And what phecies that we heard about ten or twelve years have we at the present time? I said to some azo. And now, Sir, what has happened ? of these men, " Never mind, we are fighting a Capi al has not disappeared ; but the old hard battle for you in the Legislature ; we are traditional money-lender, who endeavoured to humiliate the borrowers, who exacted 10, and 12, and 15 per cent. from them, surcharged them with heavy mortgage - fees, took the of the working-man begging for employment, last cent from them very often, and assisted you will find the employer running after the in foreclosing when they could not pay the heavy rates of interest - that class of indi- ment." I have seen this revolution brought vidual - not land - sharks, but a far worse about in my own district. I have seen the species-these Shylocks have found their occu- employer haunting the street-corners looking for men to do labour he required. Is this not a pation gone, and they, and not the money, have drappeared. I think it is an excellent thing startling revolution ? Is it not a revolution of for New Zealand that they have gone. Admit- which any country might be proud ? ting that a large amount of money from time to time is not advanced by that office, I would ask you to contemplate the exceedingly valuable passed by our Parliaments during the last purpose it serves. I regard it as a lever, a screw-press, by which the State is able to regu- labourer has been improved and entirely revo- late the price of money-the price of capital. lutionised, money has flowed into the colony, The State, through the medium of this office, is our imports and exports have increased enor- able to dictate to the private money-lender how mously, and there has never been such pro- much he will be able to obtain for his money. sperity in New Zealand as what we find at the That constitutes the great usefulness of such an present time. Before I sit down I would like institution. It does not matter whether the to call attention to the desirability of conserv- the course of a year, it comes to the same thing : the office is the means of keeping down the rate of interest; so that the man of or $50, can get his money at the same rate of interest as the man who wishes to borrow ten or twenty thousand. And, Sir, what has been the effect of all this? What constitutes and brings about the true prosperity of any coun- try ? Here is a problem in political economy of a very simple character. You have the man, you have the spade, you have the soil ; there you have represented land, labour, and capital. any country on the face of the globe truly prosperous. Such a union will promote the prosperity and increase the commerce of any country. It will make the people contented and happy, keep them in their homes, give value to their produce, and make labour plenti- ful. It is the cementing, the close welding of these three factors - land, labour, and capital-that during the last decade has built up the prosperity of New Zealand, and is at present building up that of other lands which are copying our legislation. Sir, let honourable members only cast their eyes back a few years. Six or seven years ago we had men travelling all over the country-the roads almost alive with swaggers going from gate to gate, from station to station, begging for employment; we had our police-stations besieged by these wanderers, some of them almost prepared to enter our gaols because they dreaded they would be starved on the highway; we had men humiliated-sturdy working-men some of them ; I have seen them myself-willing to sell their labour for a bare pittance, and unable in many cases to get a meal when they required it. An Hon. MEMBER .- In the back blocks ? Mr. HOGG .- Yes; we had plenty of them there introducing laws that, not immediately but eventually, will be highly beneficial ; and I believe the day is not far off when, instead working-man and asking him to accept employ- Whether it is to be attributed to the Government or not, coincident with the legislation that has been ten or twelve years, the position of the 