Mr. FISHER .- I will show you directly from the report of the Commission which inves- tigated the charges laid by Inspector Pender againt Chief Detective MeGrath. May I say the honourable member for Motueka appears to be utterly ignorant of the exact facts of the case ? Chief Detective MeGirath was twice or three times reprimanded by Mr. t ommissioner Tun- bridge, not by Mr. Inspector Pender, as the honourable member for Motueka ignorantly appears to assume. It is said that "Crime goes undetected." That is the statement of the Minister of Justice. Now, will any one tell me why crime should go undetected in the City of Wellington ? About two weeks ago a burglary was committed in Cuba Street, Wel- lington, when a safe was opened and $104 stolen from the safe. Information as to the intention to commit that burglary was given to Chief Detective Melirath by detectives under his own charge a week before the burglary took place. The place was watched for one night, and then the men were detailed for other duty. When the burglars found the detectives were taken off, what easier ? The burglary was committed. And vet the Minister in charge of the department says that crime goes un- detected. He is quite correct ; but where does he place the blame ? He places the blame on Acting-Detective Nixon, who is the man who gave the information a week ahead. The man who ought to be moved from his position is Chief Detective MeGrath. And let me here say this: Mr. Commissioner Tun- bridge has said, not once but many times, to Acting-Detective Nixon, " If your conduct is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 good. if your sheet is clean, you will not be re- moved from Wellington." and upon that assur- ance Nixon has bought and partly paid for a house. And now let the honourable gentleman tell me if he can why Nixon is being removed ? His conduct is good, and his sheet is clean. We in Wellington know, and this Parliament ought to know, and the people of the country ought to know, that there is a dangerous feud existing in the head office of the police. In- spector Pender and his loyal men on the one hand. and Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge and I call them his disloyal men on the other hand ; and in consequence of the bitter differences between these two cliques the public interests are seriously suffering, and I say that a Commit- tre of this House should be at once set up to discover in what quarter the blame should be placed. Here is another verv curious thing. Before the Taylor Police Commission 3.0 Mr. Tunbridge made great complaint to the members of the Commission and to Par- liament that the department was too much subject to political influence -that he found members of Parliament recommending men for appointment to the Police Force. That he made a strong ground of complaint. Now, when Mr. Tunbridge was travelling in South- land a year ago a man applied to him for ap- pointment to the Police Force. Mr. Tunbridge said he could do nothing, but he told the man to get a recommendation from two or three mem- would be all right. If that statement is not true let Mr. Tunbridge deny it, and I will under- take to prove its truth. And then, forsooth, he complains of the political interference of members of Parliament, after recommending a man to go to members of Parliament to get a recommendation to take to a member of the Ministry. Then, take that disgraceful episode of last session -- the case of Mr. J. A. N. Salmon, a man occupying a responsible position in a law- ver's firm in this city. The police are instructed from Mr. Tunbridge's office to invade this man's premises without any warrant or any. authority whatever. And upon the informa- tion of whom ? Upon information laid at the Police Office by Lady Stout, a member of the Social Purity Society. Lady Stout, I suppose, is an influential person. Under no other cir- cumstances would Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge have moved in such a case. When the case came into Court, Mr. Salmon established his respectability as an old Thorndon resident, and proved very conclusively that no charge of cruelty could possibly rest against him. Then, when evidence was heard, Dr. Findlay, who had charge of the case for the prosecution, threw up the case, and handed his brief to the Magistrate to show how he had been misled. He was ashamed, and apologized for appearing in the case. This is the police of New Zealand as administered by Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge. Here is an- other case, reported in Christchurch Truth of the 19th August, 1900, and I ask the House to listen to this. The case is a little ancient now, because the Premier refused to allow this sub- ject to be brought before the House last session. The case is headed, "Peculiar Police Methods : What may happen to an Innocent Man," and then it goes on : " The action of the police in connection with the arrest of a young man, Thomas Chapple, who appeared at the Police Court yesterday, charged with having been illegally on premises, appeared on the face of it so peculiar that a representative of Truth made some inquiries concerning his treatment. It seems that Chapple is suffering from the effects of a severe fall from a ladder, which has interfered detrimentally with his health, and brings on fits of giddiness, to which he is occasionally subject. After dropping his stick over Jensen's fence Chapple states he went into the garden to search for it, and one of these fits came on him, his mind being occupied at the same time with some serious family trouble. When he was appre- hended by the prosecutor Jensen the latter was inclined to accept his explanation and let him go, but a man, A. J. Wilkinson, who came to Jensen's assistance, suggested that he should be taken to the lock-up for the police to deal with the matter. The watchhouse-keeper asked if the stick was in the garden, and a constable Was sent for it, and found it, and a charge of being illegally on premises was laid. There was no suggestion that considering the circumstances of the case the prosecutor should lay an information, and Chapple was locked up without further parley. Before in- 