advocate who goes to them. They have more money than sense. This Mr. Edwards sent to our district some of his papers, but they were all placed in that receptacle where I think docu- ments of that kind should be deposited-that is, the waste-paper basket. They were not even acknowledged by myself; and if every member of this House who received papers from the professional agitator treated such documents in the same way they would be getting their just due. I say this is a most improper proceeding. It is the apotheosis of colossal impertinence for Mr. Edwards, a man who is unknown in the district, or for any other man, to go to my electorate, or to any other member's electorate, and try to influence an election, and, if it can- not be stopped in any other way, we should bring down legislation to stop it. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - Who is maligning Mr. Edwards now ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The honourable member for Wellington City generally is a logical man, but sometimes he is reading and only hears half of what another honourable member is saying. I say that Mr. Mackenzie was wrong in maligning Mr. Edwards, because by his own argument Mr. Edwards helped to put the honourable gentleman into Parliament. Well, we will leave Mr. Edwards, who person- ally I do not wish to criticize, but I do wish to condemn the principle of professional canvass- ing. There was only one other matter that the honourable member for Franklin referred to, and that was with regard to the money which is being scattered about. Now, if that is so. I hope the honourable gentleman will agree with me https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that we had better let that matter drop. Let it .die with the Opposition, and with the " Na- tional Ass." That, however, is all past, and it does not do to disinter those reminiscences which are so obnoxious, because, if we are going to refer to them, the honourable gentle- man knows as well as I do that the National Association and those connected with it acted criminally. They paid their candidates so much to stand for electorates, and found That was the sole funds for their expenses. policy of the National Association. What did they pay the gentleman who opposed Mr. Car- roll? Who found the money to pay 12.0. his expenses, and so much to put into his pocket after the election was over? The National Association. Mr. MASSEY. ... How do you know ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I know it because it is public property, and you dare not deny it. Mr. MASSEY .- I say it is absolutely incor- rect. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, the honour- able gentleman does not know anything about it, and yet he says it is not correct. I speak now not in anger, but in sorrow, and I hope to-day this idiosyncrasy of an effete body will be dropped for ever. Probably these things have been done on our side. At any rate, there is no doubt they have been done on the other side. I hope that now we shall start a new era, wherein the conduct of all candidates and their supporters before and after an election shall be the personification of all that is fair and honourable. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- Sir, I am really in doubt as to the question before the House. We have just listened to a disquisition on the merits and demerits of Mr. Edwards, and also to a speech on the method of conduct- ing elections-subjects that have no bearing at all on the question we are supposed to have under consideration. I understand the motion moved by the member for Palmerston is that we should allow voting by post under the re- ferendum. I believe the honourable gentleman has moved. this motion honestly believing it will enable us to get a better expression of opinion from the people than is given at the time of the election, and therefore I give him every credit for having moved it. At the same time I regret to say I cannot support him. I believe that when we take a referendum it would be only on some burning question, and on such an occasion it is essential that the secrecy of the ballot should be observed. The day may come when we wish to take a re- ferendum as to whether we should adjust the taxation and put it on some particular item, as we might do by relieving it, say, from the Customs and putting it on the land. Now, it is quite conceivable that if a referendum were taken on a question such as that a number of men emploved by a station-holder might hold the opinion that there should be additional taxation on the land ; vet if the voting-papers were sent to them they might think there was a danger of their having to ex- hibit them to their employers. I believe we should do all we can in connection with the referendum to see that the utmost secrecy is observed with the ballot. A statement has been made that the cost of taking a vote under any Referendum Act would be $20,000. This would mean that a referendum would cost 1s. for every man and woman on the roll. I do not believe the cost would be more than a fourth of that, and if it costs even half the sum stated-$10,000-it might be worth the money to get a definite expression of opinion from the people on some important subject. Altogether, I regret to say I cannot vote for the motion that has been proposed by the honour- able member for Palmerston, although I admit there are arguments in favour of it. However, I am afraid it will infringe on a thing we should at all times hold most sacred -- the secrecy of the ballot. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City). - Mr. Speaker, I cannot support this proposition. as I stated on the last occasion on which it was before the Chamber. I now rise for another purpose. It has been stated that unless we have these facili- ties granted to the electors we will not have a good vote, and the member for Palmerston re- ferred to hat had taken place in Switzerland ; but the system is also in operation in America. In the State of Michegan, where the population is over 2,000,000, the persons of voting-age are 617,445-and we would be quite right in assum- ing that all of these are not on the roll-the 