past that the sections were too small upon which to maintain themselves and families, and they had applied to the Government some years ago that this land on the eastern side of the line should be cut up, and that they should have an opportunity to select further areas from it. Several promises had been made to them by the Lands Department that the No. 6 Block would be cut up, and that they would have an oppor. tunity of balloting for the sections. Recently, however, the Government had announced their intention of taking four hundred acres of the best portion of this land for the purposes of an industrial school ; and now they had further announced that it was possible they might take the thousand acres remaining for the purposes of a lunatic asylum. There was naturally a good deal of dissatisfac- tion and discontent among the settlers, and they had asked him to raise the question and discover what was the exact position. Then, a further reason against establishing a lunatic asylum in the vicinity was that there were already large Government institutions occupy- ing large areas of land -- - a State farm and indus- trial school, and other Government properties -- and these properties paid no rates. The local bodies on the coast were very short of funds, and if these large blocks continued to be taken by the Government they would be in still worse straits. Another reason was, it seemed to him, the site for a lunatic asylum was far too close to Porirua, and it would be better to go on the other side of the range-say, the Waipawa district-and obtain a site there. He hoped, at any rate, the Government would take the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 feeling of the settlers in the Levin district before erecting a lunatic asylum there. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the honourable gentleman assumed that a promise had been made -- written or verbal by the Land and Survey Department to the settlers that they would be permitted to hold selec- tions on this block. That assumption was unjustifiable. The Land Board had quite recently decided that a Horowhenua village settler could not add to his holding by the absorption of an adjacent section, and, that being the case, it was not likely that the Board would permit the Horowhenua village settlers to select additional land at a considerable dis- tance from their holdings. Four hundred acres of this purchase had been selected for an in- dustrial school, and a thousand acres was at present under offer to the Inspector-General of Lunatic Asylums for a central asylum. It was doubtful if the land was suitable for that purpose, but, being the only Crown lands within the limits prescribed by the Inspector-General for such an establishment, it had been placed at his disposal for a short time. The legisla- tion of the past few years effectually pre- vented the Crown acquiring other Native lands near Horowhenua; but no doubt it would enable the Natives themselves to cut up their lands for settlement in that vicinity. As had been said, the Land Board seemed to be averse to allowing these people to amal- gamate their holdings. A gentleman who VOL. CXVI .- 27. owned a small section of twenty acres had waited upon him and asked how it was that the Board would not allow him to dispose of his section to another man who owned one of similar size. He had repeatedly approached the Wellington Land Board in the matter, and they had refused on every occasion. It was not likely, unless some arrangement were come to, that they would allow them to go a long dis- tance and take up sections in Block 6. If ever the promise was made it was not a fair one, because the law itself would not permit of its being carried out. He had some doubt himself as to whether it was ever made. The legislation of recent years prevented the Government from acquiring any Native land there. If any Euro- pean land was for sale there that was another question, and they would have to set the Land Purchase Commissioner at work. For 5.0. his part, he did not think these men could make a living on twenty acres and bring up their families decently. Mr. FIELD said he would produce the letter written by the department promising that these settlers should be allowed an opportunity of acquiring a portion of this very land. It was from the Commissioner of Crown Lands. WORKMEN'S HOMES. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Minister of Lands, What action he intends to take with regard to the purchase of suitable land in the Auckland District for workmen's homes? The Premier had recently stated to the House that over nine hundred acres of land had been pur- chased for workmen's homes during the past year, and that a hundred and seventy workmen's homes had been established. Now, there had not been one acre secured in the neighbourhood of the City of Auckland, and he failed to see why Auckland, which the census proved had the largest population of any city in the colony, should be ignored, while attention was being paid to the other parts of the colony. Then, again, according to the Premier, nearly two millions had been expended in the resumption of land for close settlement, and very little indeed had been expended in the matter of providing workmen's homes. Surely the workmen of the colony, who lived in insanitary places in large centres of population, were as deserving of having homes provided for them in suitable localities as were the small farmers. Some three years ago he had brought this matter under the notice of Sir John Mckenzie, and that honourable gentleman stated that the lands in the vicinity of Auckland were too dear. He (Mr. Bollard) then stated that he could get suitable land at an average cost of £10 per acre, and the honourable gentleman challenged him to get land at that price in suitable localities. Now, although Sir John had stated that the land was too expensive, it was offered at about half the price that had been paid for land for the same purpose in the neighbourhood of Christchurch. Since then the Government Land Purchase Officer, Mr. Mckerrow, had seen the land he had selected. the Crown Lands Commissioner at Auckland had also 