complete. Any one who studies the question of our school-books-who goes through them thoroughly-must come to the conclusion, if they are not biassed, that the moral teaching that is there contained, and which is inculcated from time to time by the teachers, is quite sufficient to meet the requirements of the State schools : but. when we come to the question of physical teaching, until recently our public schools have not striven to train up our children as I think they should be to make our system of education complete. The statement made by the Premier is, of course, thoroughly correct : that those who have had military training can be recognised by their gait anywhere, and I think it matters not what age one may attain to. that person may still be recognised as having undergone military training. Physical train- ing need not necessarily be military training. and physical training will meet the same end as military training. Consequently, while I sym- pathise with this Bill as far as it meets the case of physical training, I think it oversteps the bounds when it says that every boy and every girl who attends a State school shall have a military training. I do not think it is neces- sary or right to give children of eight years of age military training. Then, as to older children, the question arises whether the whole of our children shall receive a military training, and be trained up with a military spirit -- for that will be inculcated by a mili- tary training. Personally, I do not think that it is necessary, or that it is desirable. But then there comes the difficulty we had in our colony last year, and we shall have more this year when the returns come down. There are 541 schools with an average attendance of under twenty, and each of the teachers are females. I know that in Wellington District there has been a person appointed to instruct the teachers, but I cannot imagine an instructor being sent by an Education Board to visit those various schools in the outlying districts to give lessons in military drill, and training the female teachers so that they may be able to drill their eight. or nine, or ten children that they each have under them. And then there comes the question of the scholars. If military drill is to be imparted to them it should be done perfectly. It is all very well for the Premier to tell us that eight, or nine, or twenty rifles are sufficient for a set of schools, but what are you going to do with the small schools of the country? Give them none at all ? Then, with regard to supply- ing pieces of stick to our boys, as is done in some cities -- I am glad to say, not in Dunedin, and I hope we shall not receive them-but to give these wooden rifles to boys is worse than a farce, because it causes them to treat the whole thing with contempt. Now, Sir, we must recognise that the time may come when we shall have to train our boys to fight ; the time may come when it will be necessary to send others to South Africa or to other places, and that time may come when it will be neces- gary that some of us should be able to defend our own country ; but I hope and believe that when the time does arrive a small portion of VOL. CXVI .- 19. our inhabitants will be quite sufficient to do so, and to make them able to do so and fit them for that position, the cadet corps and Volun- teer corps we have had in the past-perhaps multiplied a little in the future-should, I think, be quite sufficient for anything that may arise. The question of shooting has been touched upon by the Premier. Why, Sir, we know this : that the greatest number of those who went to South Africa were young fellows who were absolutely undrilled until a few months previous to leaving, and yet they did justice to the colony, and were a credit to them- selves. But. Sir, a man cannot learn to shoot in five or six weeks; and that has been the one weakness of our own people and of others. Very well, then, let the Government encou- rage cadets; let them not only give the cadets their rifles, so that they may learn to shoot : let them not only give the Volunteers fair capitation, so that they may be enabled to practise, and ammunition, so that they may have plenty of it, but let them also encourage the rifle-clubs, so that ex-Volunteers and others may continue to practise that which they have learned and which they love, and which may be useful in the future. I intend to vote for the second reading of this Bill, but at the same time I think there are other things quite as necessary as physical drill. I believe, for instance, the Government should encourage to a large extent the formation of swimming-clubs in connection with our schools. I know that a small amount was placed on the estimates two years ago, and the whole of that amount has been given to a swimming-club in Auckland, which has not up to the present time expended it. Last year it was divided between the various Education Boards, and they are pausing because the amount is so small that they do not know how to allocate it between the various schools which have swimming-clubs. Then, there is the ques- tion that is continually mentioned in regard to one universal set of school-books. That is a question that will have to be met by the Educa- tion Department sooner or later, and I trust they will undertake it very soon, so that we may have one set of school-books for the whole colony, and those books published by the Government Printing Office. Then, as to the present corps being taken over by the Education Department from the Defence Department, I consider that is one of the greatest mistakes that could pos- sibly have been made. If they were retained by the Defence Department they would be pro- perly looked after, and we should know that those who are in those corps would be properly looked after. Now, I wish to point this out to the Minister : that the cadet corps do not know whether they belong to the Education Depart- ment or the Defence Department. The Defence Department say they have nothing further to do with them, because they have been handed over to the Education Department, and so their capitation is not forthcoming, and they are in want of uniforms. The Education Department, on the other hand, say they have not been handed over to them, and they have no desire to receive them, nor have they any intention of 