ways seems to have a personal grievance against on fifteen hundred or two thousand acres-and some one. I have had occasion to defend the Registrar of the Supreme Court against an at- of those constituents. A vacancy would arise. tack by the honourable gentleman. We have had on one occasion an attack made by the honourable gentleman on an old member of this House, Mr. Buchanan, and we saw as the result of that attack on Mr. Buchanan that idiotic ad- vertising fulsome measure which was bustled along in the House for a time and then dropped, called the " Limitation of Protits Bill." Now the Valuation Department is attacked. Why. forsooth ? I will tell honourable members the reason : the reason is because the Valuation Department has not seen fit to adopt the sug- gestion of the honourable gentleman in regard to the appointment of a particular man. I say the honourable member recommended a Mr. Bennett for a valuator of property, but Mr. Ben- nett has not been accepted, though the sugges- tion was made that he should value property in Mr. O'Meara's district. The honourable mem- ber for Wairarapa considers that the Valua- tion Department treated him unjustly, and therefore he is quite ready to tell honour- able members that that department does not know how to conduct its own business. It is a shame that that department should not see the way in which it ought to go. And what do we next find? That the honourable gentleman says that the Valuation Department is a rotten department of the Government, and one that does not carry on its business in a proper manner. Why. forsooth ? Because the valner who goes to value a certain property " rides to the top of a hill," he says, "stops there, and has a look around," and then goes https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 away and makes his report without going over the whole property. I need only tell honour- able members that you do not require to eat a whole cake in order to find out that it is un- palatable. One bite may be quite sufficient to satisfy you that it is not good to go further ; and I suggest to the honourable gentleman that the valuer who went to see this property pro- bably got into those rubble-beds about Feather- ston and Greytown. So far as that property of Mr. Cotter's is concerned-a property in regard to which they tried to dig the big stones into the ground -- the property that some individual desired the Government to acquire in the honourable member's constituency-we know that individuals in that district wrote to the Government and forcibly suggested that no such acquisition should take place ; and they said it would be wrong that such property should be purchased. Anybody who travels through those stony wastes in the direction of Greytown and Featherston will discover that, if the Govern- ment had been induced under the Land for Settlements Act to acquire land there, the result would be that the honourable gentleman himself would never be returned to this House again. Just think of that. A crowd of tenants would spring up in that part of the country where the land had been acquired and sub- divided, families would populate the district and curse the Government for acquiring land i going to the Court. We have therefore the upon which a living could not be made-whether the honourable gentleman would feel the loss and I would ask honourable members if we would be able to fill it. Why those hard words with regard to the Valuation Department ? There is no necessity whatever for them. Then, the honourable member says that the member for Wellington Suburbs knows nothing what- ever about land-values. That may be the honourable member's opinion, and he is en- titled to it. His opinion is worth a good deal -- to him. He must remember, however, that probably no individual gets a more general smat- tering of the values of property, or, rather, an idea of the relative value of property, than those concerned in land transactions ; in fact, they get a better idea than even the member for a par- ticular district. The honourable gentleman's reflections upon the department were quite un- called for. It has excellent officers, who carry out their duties in a fair and impartial manner ; and I do not think there is any necessity to make personal attacks upon the valuers, who are doing able work for the colony. I propose now to deal with the question as to why the Government do not purchase land in that par- ticular district. The reason is that under the Land for Settlements Act it is the duty of the Government to acquire properties that will be reproductive. There would be nothing gained otherwise. What is the position as far as the Wairarapa is concerned ? There they had land to offer owned either by Mr. Riddiford or land such as I have already described at Greytown and Featherston, and if the Government purchased the latter land the transaction would result in a dead loss to the colony. I refer to those stony pieces. I do not know how many hun- dred acres go to the sheep, but a good many, I think. Again, there are other blocks of land in the honourable member's district which, I am prepared to admit, are good properties. He refers to those which are owned by Mr. Riddiford, whom I have known for a long time. Mr. Riddiford is absolutely opposed to me in polities, but he is a shrewd, capable business- man. When the Government go to him to acquire his properties he says the value is so- and-so. and he knows that if they will not pay what he asks the Government must go to the Court. Knowing how much Hatuma cost to acquire, however, the Government are wary of taking any proceedings like that if they can agree otherwise. Therefore if you look into the alleged grievances of the honourable gentle- man you find that there is the poor land, which is not worth having, and the rich land, which you cannot get without tremen- I know the Government has dous expense. tried to acquire property from Mr. Riddiford. He has also land in the Lower Hutt, and there is no finer land than that. The Hutt is not in my district. excepting a small part of it. Mr. Riddiford is prepared to sell his excellent pro- perty to the Government when the Government treat with him for it, but the prohibitive price absolutely prevents them doing so without 