minds of people from colonial politics. We are all very proud of the doings of our sons, and of their courage and daring in the face of the enemy, and we are proud of the high praises they have received from the generals command- ing, and from the Commander-in-Chief. I am perfectly certain that the British people will never forget the services rendered to the Empire by her over-sea sons. Again, our attention has been drawn to the inauguration of the Austra- lian Commonwealth. There was also the death of Queen Victoria, a sovereign whose memory will be for ever enshrined in the hearts of the people of this country. Then we had the opening of the Federal Parliament by the King's son ; and after that the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of York to New Zealand. I think His Excellency, the Countess of Ranfurly, the Government, the members of both Houses, and the people of this country rose to the occasion and received their Royal Highnesses in a suitable way. I was pleased at the consideration and attention shown to the veterans, both Imperial and colonial. It was a suitable recognition for the services they had rendered the Empire on many a bloody field. In my opinion, the veterans have in the past been treated shamefully. Many hundreds of them have gone to their graves with grievances unredressed, and it is a blot on the fair fame of the colony that such should have been the case. For years I have fought their battle on the floor of this House and also on Committees, but this was the first time that they were properly recognised by the Government, and it was very pleasing to notice that they received that kindness and attention which they so well deserved. In the early days these men were re- 12.0. garded as the saviours of this country, and they were respected and admired accord- ingly: but latterly they seem to have been forgotten, and many of them have never even received the land-grants they were entitled to. I was also pleased to see at the luncheons given to the veterans the younger New Zealand veterans from South Africa. They have, I am very glad to say, been treated in an altogether different way from those who served the Em- pire in the past. On this occasion, however, it was pleasing to see that all were treated alike. I was also glad to see that the Natives of this country were given a prominent place, and made such a creditable display at Rotorua, because I am perfectly satisfied that there is no people in the British Empire more loyal or true than the Maoris, and none are more brave. I have been a witness of their courage on many a well-contested field. Another thing which was worth seeing was the gallant bearing of our Volunteers as they paraded the streets on the occasion of the Royal reception in Wellington ; and I am satisfied that they are the right stamp, and if this country should be called upon to defend itself against an enemy invading our shores, all I can say is I pity the enemy. They will have a very poor chance of regaining their ships. Our Volunteers, rifle- clubs, and cadets have not, up to the present time, received the consideration they deserve. They should, in my opinion, receive more en- couragement, and they should be served out with the very best weapons. But although I am in favour of spending money upon our Volun- teers and cadets, and improving them so that they may become thoroughly efficient, I am, nevertheless, opposed to any wasteful extrava- gance at Auckland, Wellington, Lyttelton, Port Chalmers, and Westport. We should take the advice of that distinguished soldier Lord Roberts, and encourage our Volunteers and rifle-clubs, in order to make them efficient soldiers and good marksmen. It would be more prudent than spending enormous sums to fortify towns with armaments which go out of date, and which in a few years will become obsolete. I consider it a wilful waste of public money to expend the funds of the colony in that direction. I would rather see the colony more substanti- ally subsidising, if necessary, the Imperial navy, which is our first line of defence. We should improve the conditions of the settlers in the back blocks, who are manfully fighting the virgin bush, so that they can carve out homes for themselves and their families. We should also consider the little children, who are unable to attend our public schools on account of the absence of roads and bridges, before spend- ing large sums in the direction I have men- tioned. Now, with regard to the war in South Africa, I think we have every reason to be proud of our contingents. Their gallantry in front of the enemy is, I consider, one of the best advertisements New Zealand has ever re- ceived. Many of those who went in the First Contingent came from my own electorate and provincial district, and amongst the number was Captain Davis, of the Hawera Mounted Rifle Volunteers, who, I am pleased to observe, has received his majority, and also his lieutenant-colonelcy and a C.B. He won these distinctions in the face of the enemy, in the van of the battles. Again, there is Sub- Lieutenant Bartlett, who is now a captain. Young Coutts, who won the Queen's sash, worked by her own hands, is again in South Africa, and has, I am pleased to know, won his captaincy by his dash and bravery. Mitchell and Morrison, after serving their term, have again taken the field, and are now serving in South Africa as lieutenants. Sergeant Palmer, Morgan, and many others whom I cannot at the present moment call to mind, have won dis- tinction in the field, and all these I have named were members of the Hawera Mounted Rifles. But enough has already been said and written in respect to the South African War ; in any case, time will not permit further reference to this interesting subject. I notice, from the applause of honourable members, that you are all proud of the Taranaki boys. Now, just a few words on federated Australia. The Commonwealth of Australia is not a federa- tion begot of fear, but a federation of a free people who voted on the great question in peaceful fashion. There was no hostile army at their gates to make them combine against a common foe, nor had they armed guards at 