respect. Consequently, I think that the Bill is very necessary. Remember that the child is under fourteen years of age, though, for my own part, I would make it sixteen, to come even with the age of consent. But, remember, it is only a little child of fourteen that will ever be interfered with. An Hon. MEMBER. - The age is seventeen in clause 11, which refers to gambling. . The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Under this Bill a young person means a boy er girl not over the age of fourteen years. Clause 11 refers to boys gambling, and that is not so serious a matter as the question affecting girls. I do not think that the liberty of the subject is at all involved in this Bill, and I think it is very desirable the Bill should pass. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- My honour- able friend has told us that this is an old friend come back. Well, I am an old opponent of the Bill. and I intend to continue to oppose it, for reasons I have already given. I do not intend to speak at any length on the Bill ; nearly all the arguments that have been used to-day have been used before, and I do not see that there is much good in repeating them. But I wish to say that I regret very much that the Govern- ment see the necessity of advertising to the world that our towns are so immoral that young persons are not to be trusted in the streets after nine o'clock at night. I have not seen that immorality myself, although I have had occa- sion in more than one town in the colony to be out as late as most, and I have never yet met with it. You meet fallen women, of course, in all large towns in every part of the world : but to say that our young people are terribly immoral, or that our old people are so terribly immoral that young children should not be trusted out after nine o'clock, is to tell me something that I refuse to believe. There is another point : it may be a Committee objection, but I should like to refer to it. We have heard a good deal about the Protection Officers-policemen in petticoats, the "discreet woman," and all that sort of thing ; but in sub- section (21 of clause 5, if a detective officer sees the necessity of taking into custody a young woman it may be he questions her, and if the answers to the questions are satisfactory he may take her home. If the answers are satisfactory, why should she be interfered with, and not be allowed to go her own way ? It may be that she is very likely sent on some message by her pa- rents or employer ; she may have met a friend and she might stand for a few minutes convers- ing - that may have happened more than once, and the policeman or "discreet woman " may have seen it and may put their own interpreta- tion on it and say that she is loitering. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- " Habitually loiter- ing." The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- There is no- thing to show what "habitually loitering " is ; it is left to the discretion of the petticoated policeman. Well, if the answers are satis- factory she should not be interfered with. them over to their parents and guardians, which Surely we are not so horribly wicked that any conditions? We have been told by the Hon. Mr. Twomey that the police do their work very well. But not all of them. Some make mistakes. I think I have mentioned before a case where a policeman made a mis- take and "ran in " a young woman for being drunk. In less than ten minutes after she was locked up she saw the Inspector, and asked him if she was drunk, and he said "No," and sent her away. Of course, she appeared at the Court in the morning, and the Magistrate refused to convict. The policeman saw the young woman drunk, as he said, but the reverse was the case - it was the policeman who was drunk. An Hon. MEMBER .- Perhaps the Inspector made a mistake. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- No; he gave evidence in the Court. The policeman, on being asked if he thought it possible a person could be drunk and become sober in ten minutes, said he had seen many such cases. I do not know where he did ; I never saw one. I regret the Bill has been brought forward, and, in my opinion, there is no such crime existing as to warrant it. The only good thing about it is that it is to be permissive, and if it gets on the statute-book it will never be enforced-the people will not have it. It will be like another Act-the Inebriates' Homes Act-which found its way to the statute-book only to become a dead-letter. That is the best thing that could happen in this case. I presume it will pass this Council as it did last year, but I hope in another place they will have enough sense to drop it again. I shall oppose the Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am only sorry there are no new arguments to reply to. I think, not forgetting the "discreet woman," we have had all our old friends trotted out before us-the same old bogeys about disturbing these young people and bringing them before a Magis- trate, and all the rest of it. The Bill is in- tended to prevent anything of the sort taking place. It endeavours to prevent young people from getting into such a path of life as to be brought up before a Magistrate if they will only take warning. Any one who is familiar with our ways of life must be aware that our young people all live to a certain extent in the open air, and so have become used to habitually loitering in certain places, and they get into little gangs and get into mischief. A Protection Officer, who may or may not be a policeman, gets to know these children, and has under this Bill the opportunity of giving them a warning, and, if he knows they are habitual loiterers, he can take action. It is not to be supposed that if he knows they are simply playing football he will interfere with them ; but if he knows that they are getting into mischief, and he knows the company they are drifting into, he will, if he is wise, interfere to save these children from what may be before them. If he then feels satisfied that the children mean no mischief, and can be depended upon to take the hint, he need not go any further ; but if he thinks fit he can take them home and hand 