absence of a consolidating measure, the Bill before the Council is a very desirable one so far as it goes. As the Minister said in introducing it. it brings the company law upon the matters referred to in line with the English law, and that is certainly very desirable. It is quite true that it would be an advantage to have the company law of this colony consolidated, and many other branches of law might be consoli- dated with equal advantage ; but I would like the Minister to explain something in his reply. If I am not mistaken, this Bill does not provide the amendment in the company law which was promised in the Speech which His Excellency was pleased to address to Parliament at the opening. I thought, perhaps, after the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith had referred to the companies who got in o difficulties down in the south, he would probably have said something as to what was stated in His Excellency's Speech as to the amendment which was pro- mised - namely, that shareholders of these companies should not be liable to be sued unless the directors had paid the amount of their calls. Well, now, as far as I have seen from a hasty glance at this Bill, there does not appear to me to be any provision whatever for that matter in it. The Hon. Mr. Lee Smith has suggested that a director, when applying for his shares, should pay the whole value of the shares down at the time. Now, I venture to think that probably something more reason- alle than that could be devised to show the bona fides of the directors. A director may hold a very large number of shares in a company, and it may be wholly unnecessary for the funds of the company that he should have to deposit that amount of money as a guarantee of his good faith ; and the result would be, probably, that it would be found only equitable that the director should be entitled to interest on that amount from the company, and perhaps it would not suit the finances of the company that he should be entitled to such interest. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH. - Propor- tionate dividends, according to what is paid up. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- I understand that what is suggested is that when a director ap- plies for his shares he should pay the whole value of his shares down at once, and it seems to me that something more reasonable than that ought to be devised. But this Bill is going to the Statutes Revision Committee, and, in so far as it does not meet the views of honourable members of this Chamber, I trust that they will put upon the notice paper the amendments which they think ought to be provided in the Bill, and then the Statutes Revision Committee will be able to consider them, because it is all very well to say here that this Bill does not go far enough -- that it fails to provide for this and that and a great many other matters not men- tioned. The Statutes Revision Committee will be really unaware of what is in the minds of honourable members unless some such course as I have suggested is adopted. I quite agree with members who have advocated a consolidation of the company law of the colony into one statute, advance to have this Bill, as far as it goes, in line with the law in England. I shall support the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- Like the honourable gentleman who preceded me, I expected to find in this Bill a provision which was foreshadowed in the Speech from the Throne -namely, that the directors would be required to pay their calls, as shareholders were called upon to do. I think that is a proper thing. I understand that in Dunedin there has been a gross de- parture from that principle, and I think it is a very wrong thing that directors should have the privilege of sitting on a Board and making calls on shareholders when they themselves go scot- free. That principle certainly should be em- bodied in this Bill. I take leave, however, to say that the proposal which my honourable friend Mr. Lee Smith has made-namely, that directors should be required to pay up at once the full amount of their qualification-would be absolutely unworkable, for this reason : that it is very difficult indeed to get suitable directors now to take the position. It is a very onerous position to take up ; and what do they get for it ? Only twelve guineas a year. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Pay them well. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .-- Just so ; then, you would have to take it out of capital to pay them well, but at present they only get twelve guineas a year, and it has been our experience in the South that the directors have frequently to go to great trouble and anxiety in financing a company and getting it to work. Frequently they have to give their personal security to the bank, and become responsible themselves for large sums for the purpose of financing the company, and for all this responsibility and work they have got the handsome sum of twelve guineas a year. I confess that, if you bring down a measure providing that directors shall pay up the full amount of their qualifica- tion before going on a Board, and still saddle them with this work and responsibility, there will be great difficulty in getting men to go on a Board at all. The men you would get would not be the best men, but men the least suitable, under the proposal of my honourable friend-in fact, they would be men of little or no financial stability or business capacity. Men of means engaged in general business would, under the circumstances, prefer to attend to their own business, as it pays them infinitely better : and the consequence would be that you would not get good men-men suitable to go on a Board. It is, however, a matter of regret that there should be so many amending Acts of this character in regard to the companies law since the Act of 1882 was passed, and, looking at the several amendments, it is time that we had a new consolidating measure. I think that if we passed a Bill such as was suggested the whole of the ground would certainly be covered ; but putting in an amendment here and there, as this Bill does, does not obviate the necessity there is for having a consolidating measure as soon as it is convenient to bring it down. 