him. I am particularly happy at being able to call my friend of the last ten years " Sir Henry Miller." I have to thank honourable gentlemen for the kindly hearing they have accorded me. The Hon. Colonel FELDWICK. - Sir, in speak- ing yesterday to a gentleman who is not a member of this Council, I said to him that the Address in Reply was going to be moved by my honour- able friend Mr. Kerr, and that I was perfectly certain that he would propose it in such a way as would give the utmost satisfaction to every member of this Council. I have not been de- ceived in that respect. I do not wish to make the stereotyped excuse of having " nothing to say," because the Speech from the Throne has such an enormous scope that, if I were a better speaker than I am, I might speak for an hour or more. However, I indorse everything that the Hon. Mr. Kerr said regarding the demise of Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen, and every sentiment he gave utterance to regard- ing the love and affection displayed in every part of the colony in relation to Her successor, King Edward the Seventh. As the Hon. Mr. Kerr indicated in the course of his speech, in a very kind manner, he left to me the duty of referring to those we have sent to fight for the nation, to bleed for the na- tion, and to die for the nation in South Africa. Sir, I think that a more important duty could scarcely have devolved upon any one. . We have sent men to South Africa-we have sont very efficient men to South Africa-and these men, Sir, have been the development of the Volunteer Forces of New Zealand. Many years ago it was quite customary to say of a Volunteer, or of Volunteer officers, that they were "playing at soldiers." Well, Sir, it has not turned out in that way. We were educating soldiers all the while, and we have educated and sent to South Africa men of whom all of us are very proud. Our system in New Zealand was different from that in the Old Country, inasmuch as our Volun- teers were kept in harness all the year round. They had their weekly drills, with a trifling recess about Christmastide ; but otherwise these men were very well trained, and I am pleased to know that most of the best men that we sent to South Africa had served in the New Zealand Volunteer Force. The Volunteer Force was not always treated kindly, even by Govern- ments. I remember, Sir, in the year 1879, when the branch of this Legislature which con- trois the purse embarked on what was known as the "retrenchment " scheme, one of the first things the House struck out was the Volunteer capitation. It was deliberately struck out of the estimates, and Volunteer officers, with various liabilities in the shape of providing for uniforms, and so on, were left with their signatures to promissory-notes, and so forth. However, for the following year the House of Representatives of New Zealand graciously conceded half-capi- tation. Well, Sir, after that there was a change of Government ; and what happened then ? Under the late Hon. John Ballance not only was the capitation restored, but it was made higher than it was before. From that date Hon. Mr. Kerr this colony, and of the two or three thousand men who went to South Africa, and who have conferred so much honour and credit on New Zealand. Our Volunteers, Sir, never were "playing at soldiers." I have known them in camps and at all kinds of places, and I have known trouble about food and that kind of thing; I have known of the "burial of the beet," because an instance of that sort occurred in my town of Invercargill twenty years back. I hear that a very bad copy of the incident took place here a few days ago. Of course, none of us approve of that. But there is something that I think we can all be proud of, and that is the display made by the boys-may I say the "kids "-who went down to Christchurch. Their rations did not suit them, but what did they do? They got leave and went into the city and bought their grub in the refreshment-shops, and I think in that respect they set a good example to their seniors. Well, Sir, there are only one or two other remarks I would like to make. I was here during the celebrations in connection with the Duke's visit, and I was quite astonished to see the display that was made in this town, particularly by the mounted men, a branch of the army that I suppose the colonies have peculiarly developed, especially since the Boer war. I am inclined to think that it is a develop- ment, too, that will insure the peace of the world for about five-and-twenty years, because the world will not be fit to fight until then. How- ever, I understand the mounted infantry display made here was completely eclipsed in Christ- church. At one time we used to think that we were a miserable people, unable to defend our- selves against anybody or anything. But we are now quite prepared to hold our own against anything that can be brought against us. I think I have now said all I need on this parti- cular point, except this: that what the Govern- ment did in the way of taking our share of the Empire's battles has met with the approval of every man worth calling a man in New Zea- land. The action of the Government. I am cer- tain here where I stand, meets with universal approval ; and, if there is a discordant note here and there, they are not worth considering. The other subjects alluded to in the Address I do not feel called upon to refer to at all-beyond this : I think the legislation indicated in the Speech is absolutely necessary, and particularly that alluded to by the mover of the Address in Reply -namely, as regards the safety of persons who have to live in hotels. I am glad to see the Hon. Mr. Shrimski has given notice of motion on the subject. My honourable friend was anti- cipated in the Speech from the Throne by the indication that the Government intended to legis- late in this direction. I am certain that every member of the Council will do his best to make this particular law as efficient as possible. As regards the subjects dealt with by Royal Com- missions during the recess, I trust we shall have time during the session to read, and consider, and adjudge wisely on their reports. In conclu- sion, I should like to join with the Hon. Mr. Kerr in congratulating you, Sir, on the honour 