As to the prosperity of the colony, if you take the Customs duties as the financial pulse of the colony, which are a very fair indication of the condition of a country, it will be found that there has been a steady increase year by year. It has not been spasmodic at all ; but, with the exception of one year during the past ten, we have had a growing increase in the revenue, and it has been steady. I will just quote from the figures showing the Customs duties for the last ten years :- 3 1,625,173 1892 .. . . 1,642,595 1893 . . 1,655,503 1994 .. . . 1,569,787 1895 1,649,344 1896 .. 1,818,893 1897 1,935,262 1898 . . 1,965,017 1899 . . 1900 2,107,567 2,180,862 1901 .. The gross amount of revenue collected through the Customs for the past year represented the large sum of £2,366,480. The slight decrease in the revenue in 1895 was accounted for by the change in the tariff. I think, therefore, that honourable gentlemen will realise that the pro- gress and prosperity referred to in the Speech is borne out with solid facts. I am pleased to learn that the leader of the Opposition recognises these facts, and, as he is the only one on that side who has spoken, or, I understand, intends to speak, on the Address, I must assume that all the rest are equally satisfied. Then, another departure has been made in regard to borrowing money in aid of public works. Up to last year, as honourable members know, our loans had been floated in the Home market, but the Go- vernment, in their wisdom, considered it advis- able that the money should be borrowed in our own colony. And what is the result ? It has been most satisfactory. An Hon. MEMBER .- What interest do they pay ? Mr. MILLS .- Four per cent. An Hon. MEMBER .- What did they pay in the other colonies ? Mr. SEDDON .- Another colony paid 4 per cent. in London. Mr. MILLS .- Yes, and some of them more, besides all the expenses attached to it. Now that these loans are floated in this country the only expense in connection with them is ad- vertising, and that surely points to a consider- able advantage. Then, again, the interest on such a loan will permeate through all classes of the colony, spreading its direct benefits, and it is the first start of what I consider the redemp- tion of our loans from the Old Country. At any rate, it was very pleasing to notice that when the colony was asked to subscribe our half- million loan they did so, and in no very niggardly spirit either. They offered a sum of £861.300 at a trifle over par. Well, that is another great consideration. Since I have been in this House I have seen a number of loans floated on the Home market, and the results have been very different in comparison with this loan. And not only that, but those who have tendered in a great many cases are people of small means, who have shown their confidence in the country by such investments. At any rate, there is one thing very clear on looking round all through the colony, and considering the position of affairs a few years ago, when there was weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth over many things-we have now grown into what I call a very happy family. I have come to the conclusion that the country has shown, through the last elec- tions, that they prefer making us a very happy family, and, having done so, I shall hope that we shall continue to justify their wishes. I hope that, even if we agree to differ on some questions before long in the session, we shall hear these different opinions expressed in a fair and reasonable way ; and if we are to have no Opposition or no leader of the Opposition, well, then, I can only say that we shall probably develop into a kind of guerilla warfare that will not be a credit to the House or the country, and I say that on due reflection. It is a great deal better to have a recognised leader, and work in accord with him, and show some organization. Honourable members may laugh, but at the same time I am entitled to give ex- pression to my opinion, and I do so. That has been my experience, judging from what I have seen of those who constitute the two parties; and what we call the third party, or Left Wing, in this House has always been a miserable failure. My opinion is that it is far better to have a recognised leader, and go on constitu- tional lines. Now, Sir, in conclusion, I think we may be justly proud, for not only have we converted the Opposition, but we are converting the Press every day of our lives. Why, this evening I took up an erstwhile very rabid political opponent, and was very pleased to read how fully they agreed with the policy lines of the Address, and to read how nicely the colony is getting on ; and I believe that very soon the Christchurch Press will be following in the same footsteps. An Hon. MEMBER .- It has done so now. Mr. MILLS .- I am very pleased to hear that. At any rate, judging by the past in comparison with the present, when I see the happy faces sitting opposite to me now I take it that they have recognised the error of their ways, for, after all, I believe it has been the endeavour of the Press and the Government to do what they considered the best for the largest number-the greatest good to the greatest number-and that should be the guiding star for any political party. I am not going to delay the House any longer. I have expressed what views I wished to place on record, only I am very sorry I have been unable to criticize the speech of the honourable gentleman who preceded me, owing to its brevity and there being nothing to criti- cize. I am more confirmed than ever that we have a great future before the colony, and it only requires each of us to put our shoulder to the wheel and do what we can to help, and the result must be satisfactory. 