carcerated in the cells he asked leave of | Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge in this strain ? the watchhouse-keeper to ring up his friends and let them know where he was, because his mother would be anxious. The watchhouse- keeper's reply was that the sergeant would do that. Before being finally left to himself in the lock-up Chapple again repeated his request that his friends be communicated with, and gave the address of a house on the opposite side of the street to his, whose owner is always prepared to answer the telephone, and is a friend of the Chapple's, in order not to incon- . venience the police. He was not told anything more by the watchhouse-keeper as to whether his friends had been communicated with, neither was he asked whether there were any other friends he would like to communicate with, or if he wanted to get bail. Being ignorant of the proceedure of the police-station, he was left to himself. At half-past six o'clock in the morning his father, having found that he was not at home, came to the conclusion that he had been detained by some illness, and went to the house where he had been on the previous evening. He was told that his son had gone home at the usual time. Thinking it possible that he had had a recurrence of his fainting fits he went off to the police-station, where he found the young man in the lock-up. Mr. Chapple immediately took steps to bail out his son, and they were about to leave the station when he found that his boots had been taken. Another watchhouse-keeper was on and knew nothing about any boots, and Mr. Chapple was forced to go home and procure more foot-gear before his son could leave the station." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Now, suppose the police to be justified in arresting that young man, was it not also demanded of them as a matter of justice and feeling for the lad's parents that they should have telephoned, as he requested, to let them know that he was detained at the police-station ? No ; he was kept there till the morning, and his father, as the report says, fearing his son had been attacked by one of his usual fainting fits, went to the police-station and found him there. Now, here is the information for my friend the member for Motueka in regard to Chief Detec- tive McGrath's reprimands, which he attributes to Mr. Inspector Pender, instead of to Mr. Com- missioner Tunbridge. This is taken from the Evening Star, Dunedin, of the 10th July, 1900. These are the findings of Mr. Commissioner Ponton on the charges brought by Inspector Pender against Chief Detective MeGrath :- " Charges 1, 2, and 3 .- With regard to these charges, I concur with the conclusion of the Commissioner, who had the whole correspon- dence before him. The evidence taken at the inquiry threw little further light on the matter, and the documents show, as found by the Com- missioner, that the Chief Detective had not shown the consideration, respect, and obedience due to the rank, age, and experience of the Inspector." That is putting it very mildly. He should at least have been disrated, until he learnt how to speak with respect to his superior officers. What if Acting-Detective Nixon had spoken of | that Mr. Inspector Pender is fit only to receive Mr. Fisher That is one charge proved. " Charge 5 .- ' Showing want of tact and dis- cretion in ordering acting-detectives to style themselves constables.' The Chief Detective on learning that it was the custom in Wellington to use this title to the men so acting at once revoked his order. The custom was different where he had previously served." What useful purpose could Mr. Chief Detec- tive McGrath or any other Chief Detective serve by raising such a silly objection as this. It was simply airing himself -putting on frills. "Charge 6 .- ' Making insolent and disrespect- ful remarks in his memos. of 7/10/99 re charges against McLean commenting on the Inspector's order to prosecute.' The Commissioner in this case found that the remarks were entirely out of place, and censured the Chief Detective for his want of loyalty, almost approaching hos- tility, to the Inspector. I differ from both the Inspector and Commissioner in the interpreta- tion of the Chief Detective's minute. In my opinion, his remarks were intended to show his displeasure at the conduct of his subordinates in not avoiding the trouble with McLean, and were not in any way a reflection on the In- spector's order, which, as the Commissioner says, was ' a very proper one.' " There it will be seen that Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge censured Chief Detective Melirath for " want of loyalty, almost approaching hos. tility, to the Inspector." Then, what should have happened? Suppose Acting - Detective Nixon had been guilty of such an offence? That is another charge proved. "Charge 7 .- ' Neglecting to report Detective Henderson for being absent from duty, and improperly trying to screen him.' This charge was dealt with by the Commissioner, and I concur with him in finding that the Chief Detective was to blame. He should have reported the absence from duty sooner than he did." The Chief Detective was to blame. That is another charge proved. "Charge 11. ' Insubordinate language to the Inspector in stating "I have borne with you patiently for some time." "" Here is language from a subordinate to an Inspector in charge of a city police district. Was such impertinence ever known ? I will repeat the language : "I have borne with y.] patiently for some time." How considerate of Mr. Chief Detective MeGrath, a fledgling iu the service, to speak to a veteran of the s'and- ing of Mr. Inspector Pender and say, " I have borne with you patiently for some time." The unblushing cheek of it. Mr. Poynton find -. - "These words are regrettable, and should not have been used ; but, looking at the pre- vious correspondence. and what led to thom. they can be truly said to have been written under great provocation." Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- An old-age pensioner. Mr. FISHER .- The member for Motucka seems to think, judging by his interjection. 