uniform on the " Brooklyn "? Sir J. G. WARD. No, I did not. Sir, I am only referring to this uniform business now for the purpose of pointing out to some honour- able members the position. While I am pre- pared to pay due respect to those who are entitled to wear uniforms, I have no desire to parade myself unnecessarily in any uniform. When I require to wear it I shall do so. If it should occasionally call from some thoughtless person a sneer, I can both put up with it and get over it. I do not believe that the putting on of a uniform changes a man's nature, or changes him in any way whatever ; and if it happens to create irony in my honourable friend, possibly because he has not qualified for the distinction which would entitle him to wear the uniform- Captain RUSSELL .- I have qualified ; I can wear it to-morrow. Sir J. G. WARD .- Then, all I can say is that the honourable gentleman must be afraid to show his legs. Now, Sir, many honourable members have been good enough to personally congratulate me upon the high honour which our King, through his son, has recently conferred on me. So far as I am concerned, that honour was unsolicited by me. I greatly appreciate the kindness that has prompted my comrades in Parliament in tendering their congratulations to me. I have had similar pleasant experiences from all over our own country. People of all classes have thought fit to communicate their congratulations. Local bodies, Chambers of Com- merce, Liberal associations, workers' unions, and from many thousands of people I have received similar communications, and I value them very much indeed, and I now publicly express my acknowledgments to them for their kindness in so doing. If there are any people in the colony who take exception to my acceptance of such an honour, they, of course, have a per- fect right to their own opinions. I respect them none the less because their opinions and mine do not concur. I may say that I have never decried those who, in the opinion of their Sovereign, having earned recognition, have accepted, when offered, titular distinctions. I have no hesitation in saying that, if I had refused to accept the honour offered me and conferred upon me by our future King, I should not have acted properly. What is more, it would have been greatly misunderstood ; and any one in my position who had such an honour offered to him and refused it would have acted the part of a snob, and would not have acted the part of a man occupying a high and responsible position. If there are people outside this House or in it who believe that because of the confer- ring upon me of an honour which I am proud of it is going to make any change in my nature or in my disposition in the future, they are making a very great mistake indeed. Those who imagine that as the result of this they are going to brush me aside politically will find that they misjudge public opinion, as I venture with much confidence to affirm that the future will show they have also misjudged me. I thank attentive way in which they have listened to me. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Sir, it is my intention to-night to go into rather a heavy subject. It does not afford scope for the bril- liancy of the speech we have just listened to, nor will it have the dash, probably, of the speech of our worthy Premier. I shall, how- ever, deal with matters that are of the greatest importance to the colony. I refer to our pro- duce trade. I should dearly have wished to have gone into the subject-matter of the Address in Reply, but, as you are aware, Sir, time will not permit, and we shall have a fuller opportu- nity when the Financial Statement is before us of discussing the various questions that have been raised in the Speech from the Throne. Of course, one would like to have dwelt a little more with the speeches that emanated from some of the city members, and from our social- istic friends, who urged the necessity for in- creased taxation on the lands of the country. We had that from the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), who said, whilst condemning the income-tax, that one of the most magnificent and beneficent Acts passed by the present Government was the repeal of the property-tax and the introduction of the land- and income-tax; and he attributed to the impo- sition of heavy taxation on the lands of the country our present prosperity, and advocated heavier taxation on our lands. Sir, I fail en- tirely to appreciate the logic of the honourable gentleman's position-that by increasing the cost of production by land taxation you would increase the prosperity of the colony. I would like, just before leaving the Speech from the Throne, to heartily congratulate the Ministry in connection with their promise to take action in regulating the hours of labour of bank-clerks and clerks in mercantile houses. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - What about Private Secretaries ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- When the honourable member has a Private Secretary he will probably extend greater concessions to them than do the present Ministry, and I believe that Private Secretaries are as hard worked as any bank- clerks. But it is a perfect scandal that clerks, both in banks and mercantile houses, should be called upon to work the hours they do, working frequently after midnight, and in some cases on Sunday as well. I wish now to go into some aspects of the question of the produce trade of this colony, and to preface my remarks by saying that, although I may allude to firms and com- panies, and in some instances to individuals, I do so without any desire whatever of injuring their business, but rather to direct attention to the facts with a view to remedying defects in our system, and because they ought to be con- sidered in the interests of the produce trade of New Zealand. This is the first occasion on which I have had fairly reasonable time to deal with the subject. I attempted to go into the matter last session, but, as you are aware, Sir, time would not admit of it. I will now deal with the question of faulty grading that prevails in this 