tion said, ' Put us nto power and we will carry further says "there must ere long be a recon- out your policy.' Had they not better trust the struction of the Ministry." That reconstruction men who had not only formed their policy, but has not taken place, and hence the bitterness of had carried it out ? The 'Left Wing' at the the speech of last evening. Might I say to the time of its formation "-that is, at the time honourable gentleman that with his ability it is the member for Riccarton formed it-" was a a pity there is not more stability. And he must wing of the Government, and in 1894, 1895, admit that with ability the finer feelings of and 1896 it prepared the way for the Old-age mankind are always appreciated, and those who Pensions Bill. But, he said it to their shame, possess them are generally selected and sup- the 'Left Wing' had since practically joined ported by their fellows. But, Sir, where there the Conservatives in opposing every measure is a want of those finer feelings, and where self- brought forward by the Government. He could ishness is allowed to obtrude and intrude in not possibly ally himself to the 'Left Wing.' defiance of expressed principles, then, Sir, public The Government party was not without fault, men who are so afflicted can never expect to be but when such questions as poverty and higher leaders, or to be placed on the Treasury benches education had to be faced he would go with the of this colony. I speak more in sorrow than in party that would take up reforms, and if re- anger, because I have always admired ability, turned he would vote with Mr. Seddon and the and I always like to help men along; and no Liberal Government. There were only two man can ever accuse me-not even the member lobbies "-mark that-"the Conservative and for Riccarton-of doing him a personal injury, the Liberal. There was no independent lobby or saying a word detrimental to him or to his where a vote of neither ' Aye' nor ' No' must career. be returned." What does the member for Palmerston say Whips to do it. now ? What does the senior member for Wel- lington City say now ? The member for Ric- misjudges me entirely. I did not do so-I carton says, " Their doings were their shame." have never done so ; if I cannot do a thing There was a vote taken the other day : twelve myself, I would not stoop to get any one else to members went into the "Noes" lobby -the do it. That is foreign altogether to my nature. If I have anything against a man, or there is same number as the apostles-and with that anything I dislike, or if I consider it wrong, I twelve, may I remark, it may be inferred there do not want other people to do what I would was a Judas Iscariot. Captain RUSSELL .- And you are his high not do myself. It would probably have been much better, and have rendered my path priest. Mr. SEDDON .- I think I must leave the through life much smoother, if I had taken honour to you on that occasion. that course ; but I always want to be a man, and I will do that, I hope, so long as I have "He deprecated "-mark that-"He depre- breath in my body. In looking up my com- cated the personalities and bitterness intro- duced into politics. With regard to munications, I would remind the honourable the re-election of Mr. Seddon as Premier, his gentleman of this : "I think, after all, your decision is a wise one, and trust you may be own opinion was that Mr. Seddon would con- tinue for a long time to be Premier, and he successful. I will do all in my power to help (Mr. Russell) would do his best to keep him you.". there." Note the effort he made last night to keep me private telegram ? on the Treasury benches. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- To keep you out of Court dress. ing ? Mr. SEDDON .- At the present time I am giving the honourable gentleman a dressing. It would like to remind the honourable gentleman does not finish at that. You would believe that of a time when he was in a peculiar position. after these remarks, and after being elected upon a speech such as I have read extracts from, the honourable gentleman, at all events, gentleman what I believe to be reasons that would have been slightly consistent were it his cause adverse criticism, and if one can give nature to be so. But I find that, even after last reasons for that adverse criticism it takes away session, he met his constituents, and he said the force entirely. If the criticism comes from " he would repay the honour they had conferred any unselfish or from any patriotic motives, by his conduct during his term of office." He then they have great weight ; but if under- went further, and said "there were only two lying it there is either a grievance or & sup- leaders, and those two leaders were Mr. Seddon posed grievance, then those arguments are and Mr. Ward." What was the honourable weakened. I take up that position in this gentleman trying to do last night? Was not respect, and I say it is a sound position. Then, he endeavouring to introduce a third leader ? the honourable member adversely criticized the Yes, Sir, ere the remains of the late leader of appointment of the Royal Commissions. He was the Opposition were cold we find the member not himself a member of any of those Com- for Riccarton endeavouring to force himself as missions. leader upon the benighted party opposite. But, Sir, the honourable gentleman in this speech taken it if you had offered it to me. I could not. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - You get your Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Are you reading a Mr. SEDDON .- No, I am not. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What are you read- Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, I wish to say this: I An Hon. MEMBER .- Give us some argument. Mr. SEDDON .- I am giving the honourable Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I would not have 