cations shall have been approved by the Land Board. " (2.) Persons wishing to have their names placed on the applicants' list may apply to the Commissioner of Crown Lands at any time. "(3.) At the next meeting of the Land Board of the district in which such applica- tions are made, the Board may ap- prove of any of the applications, on being satisfied, as far as possible, that such applicants will be likely to prove bona fide settlers. " (4.) In the event of more than one applica- tion being received on one day, the Land Board shall by ballot decide priority of position on the applicants' list. " (5.) An applicant may have his name placed on more than one list upon satisfying any Land Board in any district that he is likely to prove a bona fide settler. "(5A.) Every applicant shall renew his appli- cation annually, and by doing so will retain his order of priority on the ap- plicants' list. " (6.) When land is open for selection in any land district, the Land Board shall notify the first person whose name ap- pears on such list, and shall give such person the right to take up one sec- tion ; should he exercise that right or not within seven days of such notice being posted to his address the person whose name is second on the list will https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 be given a similar privilege ; and the same right shall be given in succes- sive order to each person whose name is on the applicants' list, until all the names on the list have been dealt with. "(7.) Should there be any land which is not selected, the Land Board must pub- licly notify that such land is open for selection. " (8.) After an applicant has had the option of taking up a section his name shall be removed from the applicants' list, providing that if he does not take up a section his name will remain on the list following those of the other ap- plicants. "(9.) Subsection three of section forty-nine of the principal Act is hereby repealed. " (10.) No selector of land shall be allowed to transfer his land except to a member of his own family not already pos- sessed of land: Provided that the Land Board may accept a surrender of such land, and pay the selector compensation for improvements, the amount pavable to be decided by arbitration." I regret that something has not been done in the direction I have advocated, but at the same time I trust that the proposals made by the Premier will be more satisfactory than the present system, and that they will result in the tion which takes place under the land-for- settlements system. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I do not in- tend to delay the House more than a few minutes at this hour of the morning. I have already expressed my views in regard to this Bill on the second reading, and it is unnecessary for me to repeat them now. I might, however, perhaps refer to one remark which fell from the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. He re- ferred to the policy of cutting up estates, and the policy generally adopted by the (Government, as a popularity-hunting policy. That remark might be made about every reform that has ever been effected in the political world. It might have been said of the Reform Bill of Lord John Russell : it might have been said of the Reform Bill of Mr. Gladstone ; it might have been said of the repeal of the Corn Laws; and it might have been said of every reform that is now universally agreed has been for the benefit of mankind -that they were popularity- hunting measures. As a matter of fact, they are nothing of the kind if they are genuine reforms. They are measures which give the masses of the people rights and privileges which have been withheld from them And it is time, indeed, that what the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay calls the socialist from the city should come upon the field and have something to say about the land-grabber, the "gridironer," and the land-shark. However, the main reason why I rose was to offer a per- sonal explanation to the House. Earlier in the evening I used, perhaps, some severe expres- sions in respect to the honourable member for the Suburbs, Mr. Wilford. I felt somewhat aggrieved that he had moved a motion which was on the Order Paper in my name. At the time when I spoke, it had escaped my memory that a very few words of conversation had taken place between us during the afternoon, which I need not detail. They were very brief and hur- ried words of conversation, but they were such as might have justified him in believing that it was understood I would not object that he should move the motion. That being so, I regret that I should have used the terms which now appear perhaps unduly severe; and, as those words appear in Hansard, I thought it only right to say what I have said. I have no very high opinion of the man who, having done what appears to be an injustice to another, has any hesitation in saying so. and endeavouring to repair whatever mischief he may have done. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- May I say something now in regard to what the honourable gentleman has just stated, Sir. Mr. SPEAKER .- You can signify your ac- ceptance of the honourable member's apology. Mr. WILFORD. - I had rather it was not put in the way of an apology at all. I feel quite sure the honourable gentleman was under a misapprehension when he spoke. I am per- fectly satisfied that the impression his words appeared to convey was not meant at all, and I can only add that I shall be always ready, if on any occasion I should happen to be under a 