He is the Minister under the principal Act who has had charge and control of all things under the Land for Settlements Act, and if I were the honourable gentleman I would resent any other Minister doing my work for me. I think he ought to feel that we have a right to look to him to deal with matters affecting the land settlements of the colony. The honourable member who has just sat down drew attention to the fact that the colony and Canterbury in- cluded had derived very great benefit from the land-for-settlements policy, and he seemed to { tage is not sublet as apartments, then it fre- cast some reflection on the honourable member i quently happens that the young people, long for Riccarton for the remarks he had made, as i before the time when they ought to be, are though that honourable gentleman had in any i sent to work to seek some employment. Every 1 sense disparaged the land-for-settlements policy. Sir, the member for Riccarton uttered no single word in disparagement of the land-for-settle- ments policy. Every member knows he is just as strong a supporter of that policy as there is in the House. I am willing to admit, with the member for Masterton, that the whole colony has immensely benefited by the land-for-settle- ments policy of the Liberal Government, and that Canterbury therefore has participated in all the improvements and progress which has resulted from that policy. But, Sir, if I 1 understand the member for Riccarton's speech ! aright, he feels that we are not progressing at the rate we should do with this policy. ! the House, but I wish to see it perfected and He wants to see a rate of progress that is greater ; he wants to see the land-for-settle- i tinued, and, particularly, that the Minister ment policy a real live policy ; and I go further than he went. I say the very existence of the , have drawn attention. I have repeatedly called Liberal Government depends upon its keeping https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 this a live policy. I have said before, and I repeat, that the time has gone by when the Liberal party can continue to live on its past merits ; it must have merits present and futuro if it is to continue to deserve the gratitude of the people of the colony. Now, Sir, while I of $90 an acre? If the department wished to willingly admit that Canterbury has derived great benefit from the land-for-settlements impossible of success, if the object was to show policy, I would just draw attention to the . fact that neither Canterbury nor any part of the colony has been sufficiently considered so far as that particular portion of the lands for settlement is concerned which is to provide per acre. In all earnestness and sincerity I homes for working-men. Sir, this is really a most important problem. It is all very well to discuss general economic questions on the floor of this House : it is all very well to discuss the deficiency in the increase of population, and that kind of thing; but I tell the House now that it is absolutely impossible to expect any condition of things other than which is facing us at the present time so long as the majority of the working- men of the colony are paying one-third of their income, and often more, for the little cottage in which they live. If the Minister of Lands will Settlements Act that is boing occupied, worked, honestly set himself to work to provide blocks : of land in the vicinity of the larger towns-and of all towns-where working-men can erect for themselves, or acquire for themselves, homes on ; which is lying absolutely idle. I refer to the Crown and Native lands in what is commonly a similiar basis to the rentals in the Old Coun- try, some good will be done. A working-man called the King-country. Large quantities of in the Old Country is never called on to pay ; first-class land have been lying idle for years and more than one-sixth of his income for rent, and here it is almost impossible to find a man who is not paying one-third of his income in rent. If he has a family of young children those children in many cases are cramped together, and a room or two of that small cottage must be let as apartments to help to make up the Is that a proper thing ? It leads rent. to the state of overcrowding of which many honourable members are already well aware. That ought not to be in a colony like this ; and if a room or two in a small cot- one knows the difficulty we have in finding employment for young people, and this is simply because of the intensity of the competition for employment, .which is bound to continue so long as young people have to turn out to work long before they should do so in order to help to obtain the livelihood of the family. An Hon. MEMBER. - We cannot get boys. Mr. COLLINS .- Boys cannot get situations in town, and we cannot send them all to the Taieri, though we should be glad to do so if there was work for them. I have no desire to find fault with the land-for-settlements policy ; I am as strong a supporter of it as any one in maintained. I wish to see the policy con- should be fully alive to the point to which I attention to the necessity for acquiring land for workmen's homes. We had one block of thirty acres acquired last year in the vicinity of Christ- church for this purpose, and the price it was bought for was $90 per acre. How is it possible to make a success of small allotments for work- ing-men's homes with land purchased at the rate destroy the system, if they wished to render it that it was impossible for the Government of the country to do anything adequate in pro- viding homes for the working-people, they could not do better than to buy blocks of land at $90 draw the Minister's attention to the desirable- ness of endeavouring to solve this problem. In solving this problem he will be solving miny others which have recently been referred to in this House, and which cannot be cleared up unless he first unravel the economic problem underlving them, so as to allow that a working- man's income shall not be to such an extent absorbed in finding a home for his family. Mr. LANG (Waikato). - I rise to protect, as I have done on former occasions, against the compulsory taking of land under the Land for carrying stock, and emploving labour, when we have such a large amount of land in the elony 