DENTAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOL- CHILDREN. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Go- vernment, Whether they will take steps to have a dental inspection made at regular intervals of the children attending the public schools of the colony ? He trusted that the Hon. the Minister who acted for the Education Department in the House would realise the importance of this ques- tion. He thought there were few members of the House who did not realise how fast we were becoming a toothless race. In 1881 there were thirty dentists practising in New Zealand ; in 1901, twenty years afterwards. there were 172 dentists. In other words, the dentists were in- creasing exactly twelve times as fast as the population, and, as these men found employ- ment for their energies, it was to be assumed that there was a necessity for their services. In this connection he would like to point out to the honourable gentleman, as an illustration of the necessity for getting dental inspec- tion for children's teeth, that the other day a very capable and well-built boy went on board a man-of-war to see if he could receive employ- ment in the English navy. The lad was strongly built, and respectable, and suitable in every way for the position, but when he came to be inspected he was declined because his teeth were defective. He saw that the Lancet had drawn attention to the same trouble as having occurred in connection with the army in South Africa, and a number of dentists were sent out there, who had found many of the men affected by defective teeth, and as a result ill with dyspepsia. Altogether he thought this question was more important than many mem- bers seemed to think it was, and, as the practice was being adopted by a number of Home and European Governments and by some of the States of America, he hoped this Government would see the necessity of following in their steps in this direction. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said this was a very important question. and he had no hesitation in saying that in a great many cases, if expert advice had been obtained early in the child's life, the benefits would have been felt in after-life. This form of inspection was adopted. he believed, by the London School Board and some other School Boards of the Old Country, and also in the States, as mentioned by the honourable mem- ber, and he believed that even in New Zealand some of our schoolmasters paid attention to this matter by advising the parents of any de- feets they saw in the condition of the children's teeth. In this connection the question of eye- sight and hearing were equally important with that of the care of the teeth, and they should be attended to. if only to the extent of a suggestion being made to the parents as to what was advisable to be done in regard to their children. The department would make further inquiries into the matter. MANUKAU HARBOUR. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City), for Mr. Witheford (Auckland City), asked the Govern- ment, If they will put the necessary sum on the estimates to dredge the Manukau Harbour, in order to give access to the wharf at all states of the tide ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said the matter had been receiving the attention of the Government, and last year somewhat ex- tensive dredging operations had been carried on. It had been found since that there were certain parts of the channel which required attention. Inquiry was now being made as to what was required to be done, and he hoped to have the information shortly, so that, if neces- sary, provision could be made on the estimates. NORTH ISLAND MAIN TRUNK RAIL- WAY. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City), for Mr. Witheford (Auckland City), asked the Govern- ment, If they will make arrangements for completing the Main Trunk Railway (Welling- ton to Auckland) within the period mentioned last session ? Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the Government recognised that this was one of the most important works the colony had in hand at the present time. A statement had been made to the House as to the time within which the line would be com- pleted, and the honourable gentleman might rest assured that any promise given by the Go- vernment would be given effect to. The work was proceeding satisfactorily ; good progress was being made f. om either end, and at present there were close on twelve hundred men em- ployed on the work. The honourable member would understand that it was rather late in the vear when the vote of the House was passed. Until that vote was passed he did not know how far he could extend the work then in hand, but when the vote was passed the honourabie gentleman would know from personal observa- tion that the works were extended very largely. What had been done fitted in with what was stated in the House last year, and with the statement he had made. CLASSIFICATION AT ASYLUMS. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minister for Public Works, If he will cause to be erected more detached buildings in connec- tion with the asylums at Porirua. Wellington, and Christchurch, to enable the management to carry out the classification which is acknow- ledged to be so much needed ? There was, he knew from personal knowledge, some meth. d of classification at the Seacliff Asylum, and he asked that the same facilities should be placed at the disposal of the managers of the other asylums mentioned in the question. The Sea- cliff system had proved most effectual. One case had been brought under his notice in which a young lady teacher was sent from Dunedin, and never knew she had been at an asylum at all, having been treated in a small detached cottage under special treatment. There were no such facilities in the other asylums. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public 