stanced, there is room for improvement, especi- ally in respect to the natural increase, and the falling-off in the birth-rate gives ground for reflection and anxiety. The most pleasing feature in the late enumerating of the people is that there is a marked increase in the number of those of the Maori race, and the outlook in this respect is cheering in the extreme, and exceptional in regard to aboriginals when surrounded by and brought into close contact with other races, their customs, and environ- ments. The system of advances of cheap moneys to settlers continues popular and is working very satisfactorily, and during the last few months, when there was a tendency to increase the rates of interest, the cheap-money scheme of the colony proved a great boon not only to settlers, but to all requiring to borrow. My Ministers have under their consideration an amendment of the Advances to Settlers Act to meet the cases of lessees on Education en- dowments who claim to have advances made on their improvements in excess of the amounts mentioned in their leases upon which the edu- cational authorities have agreed to pay com- pensation. Fair progress has during the year been made for the purchase of lands for closer settlement. The earth-hunger continues, and to meet the demand the acquirement of lands suitable and required will be vigorously proceeded with. The law in respect to acquiring lands within boroughs . for workmen's homes has proved to be defective : owners, on being notified to place their lands under offer, have immediately transferred por- tions to relatives so as to bring the area within the limit allowed to be retained, thus defeating the object of the Legislature. MR. SPEAKER, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, -- The estimates of the year, with a due regard to economy and the requirements of the colony, will in the ordinary course be placed before you. Until the war in South Africa is at an end a normal condition in respect to defence expendi- ture is impossible. Owing to the large demand caused by unusual conditions in the English money-markets it was not deemed advisable to follow the usual course of raising the money required under the Aid to Public Works Act in London. My Ministers deemed it desirable to raise the half-million loan locally, and the experiment has proved entirely His Excellency satisfactory. The amount asked for was almost doubly subscribed. A pleasing feature was the large number of small amounts that were offered ; and offers of £5,000 and under were allotted in full. There was no commission or payment for underwriting, the only expense being that of advertising. An important de- parture, and one which my Advisers anticipate will be followed in other colonies, was that of the interest being made payable in New Zea- land, Australia, or London. The traffic and revenue on our railways, I am glad to say, still continue to increase, and an increased expenditure of necessity follows. With the arrival of the extra locomotives and rolling- stock now on hand and ordered, the require- ments of the railways will be fairly met, and at no distant date, both as regards locomotives and rolling-stock, my Ministers hope to have the same constructed within the colony. Another matter demanding attention is that some provision should be made whereby railway servants-who through age or infirmities, or by meeting with accidents-may, when retired, re- ceive some superannuation or other allowance. To retire some of the older servants under ex- isting conditions is not, my Ministers think, a fitting reward for faithful services rendered. This lack of consideration not only applies to the railway but to other public servants, and to continue the present anomalous position is un- desirable. Some Civil servants on retirement are entitled to a pension, others are entitled to a month's salary for every year's service, and others are granted an amount equal to one month's salary, but not exceeding in the whole a sum equal to one year's salary. Very many whose pay does not enable them to save, be they ever so thrifty, are, as matters now stand, cast adrift without receiving anything. The classification of the whole of the State depart- ments, and the adoption of a superannuation scheme and fund to which all the State servants contributo, are matters worthy of grave con- sideration. Fair progress has been made with the con- struction of the main trunk lines of railway during the recess, and the vigorous prosecution of these works will be continued. There is a matter of considerable importance in connection with several of these lines of railway, namely : that lands suitable for close settlement are in- creased in value as the work of construction proceeds ; and my Ministers consider that if these lands are acquired by the State under the 