one district to another, will be compelled to register in each district. It is not as if provision were made in the Bill by which one license would give a general roving-power throughout the provincial district where the travellers, or pedlars, or hawkers, as they are called, are allowed to go. In every district, directly they pass the boundary of each local authority, they will have to lodge fresh certi- ficates of character and take out a fresh license. The whole Bill appears to be drawn on the most limited and restricted lines. It is purely a parish Bill without any breadth. The idea of saying that a man who is in a small way of business as a market gardener, and wishes to send his cart out for the purpose of turning his produce into cash, should be compelled to take out a license from every road district that he happens to pass through appears to me to be a most extraordinary proposal. I shall certainly oppose the Bill. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I desire to say that I am quite unable to understand why commercial travellers are included in this Bill in the way in which they are. According to the provisions of the Bill as it stands now, every commercial traveller - every representative of a wholesale house in the colony -would have to pay a sum of 10s. as a license-fee for every district he travelled in, so that a man going from Dunedin or from Wellington through the colony, or through the particular province, would have to pay a very considerable sum indeed, perhaps as much as $20, or $30, or $40, or 550 as license-fees for all the various districts and towns he went through. I agree. Sir, that it is no doubt right and proper that these Assyrian hawkers and pedlars should be scru- tinised and their characters looked into, and that they should take out a license; but I am unable to see why we ought to interfere with a class of commercial travellers who have been doing business in the colony for many years, and who are well known and generally respected, and oblige them to take out licenses which it has not been found necessary for them to take out in the past. No reason was advanced by the mover of the Bill, so far as I understood him, why it should be necessary to introduce it. Of course, a great many of the criticisms that have been made on the Bill appear to be very well founded. Clause 11, which has been alluded to by the honourable member for the Suburbs, is clearly an utterly impossible clause. It is a clause which practically amounts to an abrogation of the Magna Charta : it is a clause which practically suspends the Habeas Corpus Act and every other kind of Act which protects the liberty of the subject. The honourable member for Christchurch City suggests to me that it is actually an incitement to murder, because the words are :- " Any constable may, without warrant, seize and detain any person not being a licensee under this Act who is found carrying on the business of hawker or commercial traveller, and detain him till the following day for the purpose of proceeding against him for such offence, un- less the same can be sooner disposed of." If that means "unless the traveller can be sooner disposed of." it is certainly a very dangerous clause indeed. Clause 15 appears to me to be certainly a very objectionable clause. It reads :- " If any commercial traveller solicits orders from any one not engaged in trade, he shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of five pounds for the first offence, and ten pounds for every suc- ceeding offence, and his license shall be declared null and void." A commercial traveller may come through my district, and I happen to know him and tell him to send me along a couple of chests of tea. or something of that sort, and, behold, he is liable to punishment under this Act. Mr. HOUSTON. - He is not a commercial traveller : look at the definition of " commercial traveller." Mr. BARCLAY .- The interpretation clause says, "' Commercial traveller ' shall mean every person who travels through the country, either with or without goods or samples of goods, a> the representative of a wholesale house, and soliciting orders from those engaged in trade only." Well, it appears to me that the clause bear- that interpretation. I do not think it is neces- sary to say very much more. A good deal of criticism of the Bill has been made which is very true, and I suggest to the honourable mem- ber that he should confine his Bill. as I think has been already suggested, to Indian hawkers and pedlars, and leave out commercial tri- velless. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Sir. I am thoroughly in accord with the honouraki member for Ashley. I am opposed to this Bill, and I am opposed to it because it is a needless piling-up of legislation. There is ali- lutely no need for this Bill at all. Nearly every one of its provisions come into conflict with statutes we already have on our books, and which are quite ample to deal with the resper- Now, Sir, it appears to mr. tive cases. in the first place. that the Bill is badly conceived and badly drafted, and I regret to say it was very poorly explained to the House. Indeed, the honourable gentleman evidenti: does not understand his own Bill. Let us suppose, as has been suggested by the honour- able member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay .. the case of a commercial traveller who is golf through a district. He may meet a friend who may suggest to the commercial traveller thi he should send him a couple of boxes of tea- a very likely thing to happen in the case of a mat living in the country. Now, the honouralle gentleman says the Bill does not touch b .!! at all. Let me read clause 15 of his os? Bill :- " If any commercial traveller solicits order from any one not engaged in trade, he shall. on conviction, be liable to a fine of five pounds fy the first offence, and ten pounds for every su. ceeding offence, and his license shall be deciand null and void." Therefore, if a commercial traveller happen- 