for county rate prior to being purchased, and this man got notice of a valuation at $7 an acre. If that proportion of increase was imposed in Waimate, he thought the county would be able to meet the increased demand for keeping the roads in repair. Major STEWARD .- For the formation ? Mr. DUNCAN .- For the formation. When the land was cut up there was money set aside for the formation, and it had not been shown by the county that any of this had been unex- pended. The County Council had submitted a list amounting to ₺12,133, in respect to which they asked the Government to contribute two- thirds, spread over a period of three years. Considering that it was an old-settled district, he thought the demand was one which the Go- vernment could not meet. He believed the Government should give a subsidy, but not to the extent of two-thirds. Major STEWARD. - Will the honourable gentleman give a subsidy of $1 for €1 ? Mr. DUNCAN said, as far as bridges were concerned that might be fair enough -for some of the bridges, at any rate-but he did not think the claim made in respect to roads was fair. He would need to get further informa- tion before he could accede to the request. MORVEN WESLEYAN CHURCH SITE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, Whether he is prepared to accede, and, if so, upon what terms, to the application made to him by the Wesleyan Church autho- rities for the acquisition of three-quarters of an acre as a site for a church in the Township of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Morven, Waikakahi Settlement? When the Land for Settlements Act was passed provision was made to enable the sale of areas of land for sites for churches, dairy factories, and creameries. Section 64 provided .- " With the consent in each case of the Minis- ter, land may be sold in fee-simple as sites for churches, dairy factories, or creameries. The area of each site shall not exceed one acre in the case of a church and five aeres in the case of a dairy factory or creamery. The price shall in each case be fixed by the Minister, and shall be not less than the cost of the land (including in the cost all expenses incurred under this Act in connection with the land)." Morven being a rising township, the Wesleyan Church authorities had been asked to erect a church for the benefit of their co-religionists. They were willing to do so if they could obtain a site, and they made application to the Govern- ment for three-quarters of an acre of land. In the first instance the Minister asked a sum of $300. A year afterwards an offer was made to accept $100. Now, he had a letter from a gentle- man who represented the Wesleyan Church, in which he said : - " I have to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 9th, enclosing letter from the Minister of Lands, and I have to thank you for the interest you have taken in the matter. In reply, I have i affected was about twenty acres in extent, that to say that the Church authorities cannot afford to face the cost, and also to demur to the Minis- in exactly the same position as private indivi- duals, seeing that a special legislative provision has been made otherwise, of which you are aware, but which the Minister appears to ignore." He believed the intention of the House was that the land should be granted for the purpose at practically cost-price, and he hoped the Minis- ter would name a much lower price than the sum he had mentioned. Of course, it was pos- sible that the Minister's answer might be - he believed it would be - to this effect : that they had drawn up a certain scheme for the disposal of the estate, and the calculated 5-per-cent. return was based upon that scheme, and therefore he must ask #100 for this land. Well, he (Major Steward) did not think those sections would realise that price for a considerable time to come, and, under the circumstances, he hoped the Minister would see his way to meet the au- thorities in the direction he had mentioned. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said it should be understood that the valuation of this estate which had been acquired ranged from something under $3 10s. per acre to $30 per acre. The land adjacent to the Township of Morven was valued at about €15, and the valua- tion of the township section that was required was somewhat in proportion to the first amount that was asked from these people who wished to purchase this site. Well, he thought that if they reduced this by nearly two-thirds they had acted very fairly. He was of opinion that the €100 that was asked would be gladly paid by any one requiring the land. He did not see why the estate should be saddled with any further expense in this direction. He believed that it was a fair amount to give, and he believed the people had got full value for their money. KAPUA SETTLEMENT. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, Whether he will cause a report to be obtained as to the works necessary to the effectual protection of the Kapua settlers from the flooding of their holdings? A small vote had been twice passed by the House in connec- tion with this matter. The total amount spent had been about $150. From what he could gather, a very small expenditure, if the work were gone about in the right way, would do all that was necessary, and all he asked for the present was that the honourable gentleman would cause a report to be obtained to ascertain whether that was so, and then he could state afterwards what he would be able to do in the matter. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this matter had been already inquired into on the ground by Mr. Brodrick, the District Surveyor, Timaru, in company with the District Railway Engineer, Christchurch. The Railway Depart- ment stated that the proposed remedy was estimated to cost $150 to $200, but, as the land department could not see its way to expend so large an amount on the work. It appeared 