gram from the Premier notifying me that Mr. Holmes would duly appear in Christchurch to make arrangements, and I had not the foresight which the honourable member for Ashburton had to send a telegram back saying that he was not wanted in my locality. Heduly notified me of his appearance, and that he was prepared to be consulted as to what was best to be done. Mr. Holmes came to Christchurch, but con- sulted none of the local members. He sent repeated telegrams to the members of the com- mittee, but those telegrams simply consisted of messages telling us what was being done in other parts of the colony. They were quite un- necessary, as we were always well informed as to what was being done. The daily Press ren- dered it totally unnecessary that any messages should be sent notifying what was being done in other parts of the colony. An honour- able member says it was to spur up the local committees; but the local committees did not want spurring up, and I am quite sure they would have regarded the Ministry as acting in a more graceful manner had they left them free and uncontrolled by any interference on the part of any Commis- sioner. I merely mention this as suggesting that it was a mistake to send a man who had no interest in the localities to interfere with the methods and manner in which they should arrange their celebrations. Otherwise I have no complaint whatever. I think it is unfair to accuse the Premier of unduly interfering in the local celebrations. I think this House should rather return thanks to the Premier for the arduous manner in which he worked to make https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the demonstration from one end of the colony to the other the success it was; but I do re- sent the uncalled - for and unnecessary inter- ference on the part of a paid Commissioner http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero who knew nothing at all about the locality or about our intentions, and whose interference was absolutely unnecessary either to persuade us or to spur us to do our duty on that occa- sion. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Sir. the honourable member for Christchurch City says the Commissioner was of no service ; but I venture to say that if the Commissioner had not kept the whole of the leading towns of the colony in touch the success of the Royal reception would have been very much interfered with. I think that, instead of denouncing the Commissioner as some Committees have done, they should have had a little more common- sense, and if they had listened to him the demonstration in Christchurch might have been very much better than it actually turned out. Sir, it was the poorest show in the colony ; and I venture to say it was largely due to the fact that the gentlemen of this committee were so conceited in their own minds that they could not listen to a few wise suggestions by a man who was thoroughly experienced in what was required. An Hon. MEMBER. - What experience had he ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- He has had a very wide experience - an experience throughout the length and breadth of the world-in the organizing of demonstrations. As a matter of fact, the Royal party have sent him well- deserved thanks, which indicates that they, at all events, have appreciated his efforts to make their visit to this colony a success. Sir, I listened to the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). He declared that the Press representatives wired Home that Auckland was the best of all the demonstrations, and that the display was excellent. Why, they had not seen Dunedin at that time, and when they reached Dunedin they sent two and a half columns of matter representing that Dunedin came an easy first throughout the whole of the colony ; and I am sure, Sir, that the Premier, when he replies. will admit that the decorations and the display in Dunedin were not surpassed by any part of the colony. I only rose, Sir, to defend Mr. Holmes from the aspersions cast on him by the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins). An Hon. MEMBER. - Mr. Holmes had nothing to do with Dunedin. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - Yes ; he had a great deal to do with Dunedin, and the result was that Dunedin came out first. We listened to him there, and, being a Scotch people, as his advice cost nothing, we were very willing to accept it. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton). - Sir, no member of this House thinks there is any doubt about the passing of this Bill indemnifying local bodies who spent the ratepayers' money illegally. and who in many cases spent it well, and in the general interests of New Zealand. I think the Government would have been wanting in their duty if they had not brought it forward. If it had not been for the boasting of the member for Auckland City as to the excellence of the recep tion in that city, I do not think I would have spoken to-night. At any rate, I wish to say that, from my knowledge of Auckland, the people there have not the energy possessed by the people of Dunedin. No doubt they are very good people in a sleepy sort of way. They erected nice arches, and made other displays, but they were not capable of showing enthusi- asm like the people of Dunedin and Ashburton. Sir, of all the miserable displays, I never saw anything worse than the street decorations of Christchurch in all my life. When I went to Christchurch that morning after the night's rain and saw all those poles with their drooping flags across the streets, I thought they looked like a lot of dirty washing. Of course, the au- thorities were not responsible for the elements. but if Mr. John Holmes and whoever was the high genius responsible for the decorations had sent away to the Kowai Bush and got two or three cartloads of evergreens they would not have been spoiled by the rain. Now, Sir, I wit- nessed an assembly in Christchurch that has never been exceeded south of the line, and that was when tive or six thousand children, mostly from Christchurch and the immediate vicinity. sounded the National Anthem in Victoria Square. Sir, I say it was worth their Royal Highnesses going a thousand miles to see and hear. It was a most magnificent display. and. 