quated views would have been allowed to sink into oblivion. The Bill, in my opinion, is a tecessary one. It is admitted that conciliation and arbitration is better than loss and strife as the result of preventable strikes. It ought to i our duty to make the Act better by amend- ing. and I say that such amendments as are proposed in this Bill are both reasonable and necessary. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - I wish to make a personal explanation, Sir. The honourable gentleman who has just sat down, in the course of his speech. stated that I and others on this side of the House opposed the exemption of im- provements from taxation under the Land- and Income-tax Act. I stated that he was mis- taken. I have looked it up, and I find --- Sir J. G. WARD .- You said you were not in the House. Mr. MASSEY .- Quite so. I have looked the matter up, and have found that the exemption was made in 1893. I came into the House for the first time in 1894, and consequently I could not in any way have opposed the measure he referred to. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) .- Mr. Speaker. I may say I have been astounded at what I have heard. From the speeches we have listened to one might have thought that this was the first appearance of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill on the floor of this oue. But honourable members were speaking more to their constituents than to their fellow- members, and other members were endeavour- ing -and I regret to say it - to widen the gap as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 between some sections of the community and others. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Why, you have lived on it . Mr. SEDDON. - Whatever I have lived on, at all events. I am a strikingly good example of what good things will do- publicly or other- wise. I sav. Sir, however, that that is not the case. In respect of the Liberal party, the party on the Government benches now, there has al- ways been a general support from the country. This has not been a Government that has had to depend upon the towns, or upon the support of the Labour party. Our policy has been a policy of promoting the best interests of the country, a policy that, whilst helping the towns, has always been in the best interests of the pro- duerrs. We say that a change in the incidence of taxation was as much in the interests of the country, and even more in the interests of the people in the country, than it was in the interests of the people in our cities and towns. We say that the whole of our legislation has been upon broad general lines, applicable to all and beneficial to all, and that con- segmently it is only reasonable to expect that all sections of the community - all with the exception of a selfish few - would support the Government in the forward and progressive policy which has been before the country. Sir. as against that, the honourable member for Waitemata and one or two others will per- sist in their endeavour to set the country against the towns. Now, I would like to ask this ques- tion : What treatment did the farming people of the country receive at the hands of those who are opposed to us? When they were short of money, to make up that shortage they imposed increased grain rates upon the railways. That was their means and ways of meeting a de. ficiency. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Never our way. Mr. SEDDON .- I say it was your party. It was the Conservative Government when on these benches that raised the grain rates to meet the deficiency, and from that moment they lost the confidence of the farmers, and more particularly of the farmers in Canterbury. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is taking us to the "dark ages." Mr. SEDDON .- The "dark ages "! Well, it is by reminding people of the " wretched past " that we have compelled those gentlemen opposite to efface themselves and, for the time being, to come out as Government supporters. Then, there was also another way they had of helping the farmers of the country, when they found the imposition of the increased grain rate, and this throwing taxation upon the farmers, was resented by the farmers, who marked their censure at the general election which followed. The next time the Conservative party came upon these benches they said, " Well, it will not do for us to do as we have done in the past. If we want money through the railways we must not impose the increase our- selves. Oh, no; we will take the railways from the Government and hand them over to the Commissioners, and then when there is any increase of taxation through the rail- ways upon the farmers the responsibility must be upon the shoulders of the Railway Commissioners." That is the way they shirked the responsibility, and placed it upon the un- fortunate Commissioners. We know very well what the result of that was, and how that worked to the detriment of the farmers and of the country at large. I say that the conception, the appointment, and the working of the Rail- way Commissioners was the conception and the appointment of the Conservative party, and that it was done by the party in order to serew more money out of the unfortunate tillers of the soil of the country. And what. Sir, has been the result ? Why, the moment we got rid of the Railway Commissioners --- and I fought that matter as bitterly as I ever fought any- thing in my life- An Hon. MEMBER .- You supported it. Mr. SEDDON .- If honourable members will look back they will see that I stated this before -that Hansard has been produced, and that member after member has stood up in his place in the House and has apologized to me for having made the same incorrect statement. Look at Hansard and you will find that in this you are wrong. I persistently and con- sistently opposed the Commissioners I stone- walled the question. Yes, in that respect I plead guilty to having transgressed the ordinary rules of the House. You will find that in my speeches, I pointed out what would be the result. I said then that the Government 