federation, but the number in favour of an Australian nation was over 422,000. I re. gret that the Royal Commission which was set up by this House, instead of interviewing the producers from the soil of this colony, gave them a wide berth, and kept to the centres of population, and paid great attention to the tales of the manufacturers, the artisans, and mer- chants, who were for the most part opposed to federation. When the resolutions were passed giving the Government authority to appoint a Royal Commission, they were to appoint men eminently fitted for the office and conversant with the agricultural, commercial, and indus- trial interests of the colony. But the agricul- tural interest received no consideration. There are good and valid reasons, no doubt, against federation, and one of the principal reasons, to my mind, is that the Natives of this country are not to be counted in reckoning the number of the people of the Commonwealth. Now, the prosperity of this country, as honourable mem- bers know, is greatly due to our producers. Our farmers have to compete in the markets of the world, and year by year we are endeavouring to find fresh markets, and it will be a great dis- advantage to our producers if they are shut out by a prohibitive tariff from federated Australia. That this is likely to take place I think there can be no doubt. We want reciprocity, but I fear it is not likely to be accomplished. I will just read a list of the principal goods which are raised from the soil of this country that we send to Australia :- Butter 75,723 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 .. Cheese 53,914 . . Fish 14,736 . . . Gold 502,794 .. Oats 84,366 Malt 25,868 Oatmeal 16,938 . . Hides 17,296 Leather, &c. 17,617 Machinery, &c. 24,741 .. Preserved meats 26,139 . . Onions 14,457 .. Phormium 29,531 . . Potatoes 137,416 .. Seed grass, &c. 43,152 Tallow 39,026 .. Timber 147,893 Honourable members can see that the most of this produce is raised from the soil of New Zealand. Our imports, on the other hand, from Australia consist to a considerable ex- tent of re-exports of commodities of British or foreign origin. They are as follows :- Bark 33,088 .. Books (printed) 27,839 .. .. Bicycles 37.321 .. . . Coals 105.203 .. Drapery, &c. 48,234 .. Drugs, &c. 18,895 .. Fruit 47,349 Iron and ironware .. 25,497 Machinery, &c. 50,601 .. Mr. McGuire Bonedust .. 27,156 .. . . Guano 24,262 .. . Oils, various 20,993 Spirits 20,017 .. Sugar and molasses 116,910 .. Tea 34,002 Timber 60,994 .. 23,916 Tobacco and cigars, &c. . . Miscellaneous 71,212 . . The above figures show that the most of the goods are imported from other countries prior to being sent to New Zealand. The speech of the Premier was very interesting to me, and I was very much pleased with the good intention to our producers therein contained. I rejoice that he is determined to make satisfactory arrangements with regard to the question of shipping. That is a very important thing for the settlers of this country, and he says if he is unable to make satisfactory arrange- ments with the shipping companies, who have formed a combine for the purpose of fleecing our producers, he is determined to go further and get steamers to do the carrying of our pro- duce to the markets of the world. This is a bold step to take, and in case he is unable to make satisfactory arrangements he shall have my assistance, because it is all-important that the producers should get their goods shipped with regularity and despatch, and that they should be placed on the markets of the world at the lowest possible cost. At pre- sent the greatest war that is going on is the war of commerce, and we want low freights and regularity and punctuality in the despatch of our produce. Without this our producers will not be able to compete in the markets of the world, and if something on the lines indicated is done it would be a boon to our farmers. Also, if our produce could be dis- posed of without the assistance of the middle- man, that would be an advantage, as there is a leakage somewhere, and it is the duty of this House to find out where and apply a remedy, because there is no doubt that our producers are the sufferers. And if we can be relieved from the middlemen and shipping rings it will be a step in the right direction, and we will have the support of the Farmers' Union, which, I am satisfied, is bound to become one of the most powerful unions in this colony, notwithstanding the attack made by the member for Masterton. It was a most unjust and ungenerous attack. To describe those farmers who had joined the union as wolves in sheep's clothing was very strong language to use. You know, Sir, that every trade and profession has its union, and why deny the right to the farmers to combine ? I was sorry to hear the member for Masterton making such an attack upon a body of workers who are the most industrious in the country. Surely the country settlers have a right to com- bine as well as those who live in large centres. Let us turn to the exports of last year, which amount to nearly twelve millions. The farmers have exported eleven millions and a half, and all the manufacturers put together only exported about $350,000. Notwithstanding the small 