and took a lady with him, so that, if necessary, she could confirm the statement that he (Mr. Meredith) made this afternoon. He hoped it would be the means of causing the Defence Minister to ascertain who was responsible for these irregularities and the bad treatment meted out to these noble little lads, who left their homes and families to go to Christchurch to take part in the review. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was very much to be regretted that the member for Ashley should make charges such as he had just made. He (Mr. Seddon) stood there as Minister of Defence, and he said he had not had a single complaint from these lads whom the honourable member stated had been so badly treated. He had, further than that, proof positive from two medical men that everything was done in the way of providing for the comfort, cleanliness, and health of the cadets. These medical men had given their testimony, which was to the effect that nothing could have been better than the arrangements that were made. They could not have four thousand boys gathered together from all parts of the colony, under such conditions, without some of them being bound to complain. Yet, as he had just stated, he had not had one com- plaint from a single parent or boy. More than that, there were four or five members of the House who went and saw the conditions for themselves, and they had told him that they were perfectly satisfied with the arrangements. He could only say that our boys were not gingerbread. As the honourable member knew https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 himself, the schools were full of straw, and if, when the straw was lying about on the floors, they went and lit fires there, what would have been the result ? The schools might have been burnt down, and something more serious than that even might have happened. If the officer in charge had thought that, with boys like that, there was sufficient natural warmth without the fires, was it not likely that he was right ? If the floors of the school were damp, he thought it was high time the School Committee attended to the He could not understand, as it was matter. not an old school, where the dampness could have come from. There might be passages here and there where the floor would be damp with the mud which the boys brought in from the street on their boots ; but the deplorable con- dition of things which the honourable member described as having existed in Christchurch in connection with the visit of the cadets he could not at all understand. He had had reports from the officers, and letters of thanks from the parents in different parts of the colony for the treatment of their boys, and, that being so, he would not. as Minister of Defence, allow his officers to be misrepresented by the honour- able member. He said the boys were well fed and cared for, and were made as comfortable as was possible under the circumstances, and, that being the case, the complaints now made had, in his opinion, no foundation at all. With respect to their cadets, the only mistake was that made in Wellington, in keeping the boys i able. Mr. Meredith could have been put into one of the goods- sheds. Apart from that there was no com- plaint, and, as he had said, letters had arrived thanking both him and the officers for the arrangements made. He had had reports from the officers of the cadets with respect to the arrangements made, and these reports he would lay on the table of the House. The other members from the same district as the honourable gentleman had told him they were satisfied with the arrangements made, and, under these circumstances, he thought the honour- able member might have paused before launch- ing into the wholesale condemnation he had passed on the arrangements for the accommoda- tion of these boys. If the New Zealand boy was not well treated he was the first to let you know of it, and if he did not his mother would. In this case, as he had already explained, there was not a single complaint from the boys, and. with the exception of their coming to Welling- ton and going on board the boats as they were. \--- there was no complaint at all. He would show the honourable member, and lay on the table of the House, a distinct instruction sent to the officers in respect to these boys: that unless 1 they made proper provision for them, and saw that they were well cared for in every respect. i it would be his duty to deal with them after- wards. He had taken every possible care. It had not been a question of expense at all. The instructions respecting the boys were such, and the officers intrusted with them were such. that it seemed to him almost impossible there could have been the state of things mentioned, and therefore he regretted the honourable member had made the complaint he had made. Mr. MEREDITH said, What he had stated was not that the boys were uncared for, but that the floor of the gymnasium of the Normal School, where the victualling of the boys had been arranged for, was cold, wet, and comfort- less. He was prepared, if the honourable gentle- man set up a Board of inquiry, to support the statements he had made as absolutely correct : and he considered his word as good as the word of any honourable gentleman within the walls of Parliament, including that of the Premier. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganti) wished to say, in continuation of the question --- Mr. SPEAKER said there could now be no discussion on this matter. Mr. WILLIS said it was not discussion, but a continuation of the question, which was in accordance with the custom of the British House of Commons. He desired to know 1 whether the Premier was aware that the boys from Wanganui were so insufficiently provided for that a telegram had been received from the master in charge of the boys, asking the Wanga. ; nui people to send down money to make proper provision for them, and that within three or four hours the sum of $20 was raised by sub scription, and sent down to the boys, for which thanks was shortly afterwards returned, with the statement that the money had been the means of making the boys thoroughly comfort- 