any person making any encroachment or in- roads upon that land. Well, I am not going to be like King Lear, and give away everything to my family-to my boys, Sandy and Willie, and so on. and to my girls, lest they might throw me over in my old age, as King Lear's children did ; and if I see the Government are sending out their spies and their officers to spy out the land with a view of acquiring it under the compulsory clauses of the Act, I have a perfect right to make a subdivision of my estate, even though the Government has been in negotiation for its purchase. For that reason I shall oppose this clause. I shall oppose every clause in the Bill, but more especially the 8th clause. In fact, I shall oppose the Bill from beginning to end if I can do so without any serious violation of my own convictions. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- The discussion on this Bill has been upon the whole policy of the Land for Settlements Act and the general scope of its administration, and has not been confined, as the Premier probably anticipated, to the three or four points of detail which the Bill contains and which are amendments to our legislation of last year. For myself I feel physically incapable of discussing the whole field opened up at the present time, but I do not like the opportunity to pass without saying a few words on one particular phase of the subject-that is, the question of small settlements near the towns. There are many other points which have been raised in the course of the discussion which are worthy of the gravest attention, more especially the complaint of the Premier that after all the years of legislation on this subject no less than 90 per cent. of the applicants for sections on estates that are cut up for settlement are nothing more nor less than "dummies." Sir, if ever there was a condemnation of the adminis- tration of the Lands Department uttered in this House I think it is that, and that it is about the most pitiful confession ever inade. I find also that there are other mat- ters introduced which I shall not attempt to discuss. I may say from my own knowledge there is ample need for the provision which is embodied in clause 3. It deals with a matter which has suggested itself to me more than once. When an estate is bought, roaded, and surveved, cut up into sections, the intending applicants always understand the rent is based on the total cost. But in vears afterwards other expenditure is incurred on the estate, and that is paid for out of money which must necessarily come from the Consolidated Fund in some form or another. That money must in all reason be a dead loss. There is no interest being paid on it, and it has not been calculated in the total on which the rentals have been based. I know that in a particular settlement I could name votes of money have been passed from time to time by this House and expended long after the rental has been fixed, and after it has been paid for years, for carrying out works in the nature of public improvements. In this way it appears that there is a leakage of money from the Land for Settlements Account, which it would be well for the House to take some notice of. I think it is very probable that justifies the insertion of clause 3. Some of the other clauses, I believe, are necessary in order to de- feat the evasive tactics which are pursued by owners when attempts are made to enforce the compulsory clauses. But the main subject about which I rose to speak is the lethargy which seems to have overtaken the Land for Settlements Board, and the administration generally, in providing the small settlements in the neighbourhood of towns known as work- men's homes. It appears positively incredible that after seven years so little should have been done with such magnificent means placed at the disposal of the Ministry. We are told land is dear. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- The people do not apply. Mr. TANNER .- Why, years ago I pointed out in this House, in answer to the contention of the Hon. Sir John Mckenzie, that land was dear near towns, that it always would be dear near towns, and that the price of land in the vicinity of large towns was and would always be an in- creasing quantity. Nobody attempted to con- travert that assertion : and if the Minister had meant business it would have been a very good reason why the policy should have been actively pushed on at the time, but the matter has been put off until now something in the nature of a paralysis has overtaken the entire department. What has been done during the past seven years by the land-for-settlements administration in the neighbourhood of Christchurch, excluding the country districts of the Province of Canterbury, for I am not speaking of the rural population, but I am simply speaking of one special depart- ment, as I may call it, of the administration of lands ? When the Land for Settlements Act was first passed in this House the opinion was expressed, especially from the Opposition benches, that it was a Canterbury Bill ; and there is no question that the people of Canter- bury expected great things from it, for the necessity was greater in Canterbury than it was in any other portion , of the colony. I must say that during the first three or four years the Government really did attempt to put some vigour into the administration of the Act, and for a time the demand was fairly supplied ; but, Sir, that has not been the case during the three or four years immediately past. When, in 1896, an amending Act was passed by which it became possible to compulsorily ac- quire land near towns with a view of re- lieving those people who, through want of employment and other things, besieged the Treasury for money and work, only a very scanty application of the Act was permitted. In the vicinity of Christchurch, and within a radius of three or four miles of it, there has been purchased about seven small blocks of land, totalling not more than 200 acres, and the number of settlers, according to the Land for Settlement Report of last year the figures for the present year are not yet available --- is given at about 120. The Premier the other day boasted of the work which the Administration had carried out in providing workmen's homes ; 