people. I do not wish to be egotistical, but we | may be termed Liberals and Radicals, and that have only to go back to last year, and I guarantee that any number of members of the Government party would say that the Premier got no better assistance from any member of the House, even amongst his own party, in putting the Municipal Corporations Bill into shape than that which he got from myself, and especially after the Premier had put a slight on me, at the first sitting of the Com- mittee, that would have been a sufficient justifi- cation for my abstaining from giving him any assistance at all. The Opposition during this Parliament have done their best to help the Go- vernment where they thought they were right, and even where they believed them to be wrong they have not obstructed them, but have merely voted against what they thought ought not to be carried into law. I say that that proves more than anything else that those who are on this side of the House have the best interests of the country at heart, and are desirous that Parlia- ment should do the proper work of legislation, and that they should not hinder it from doing even what sometimes they think is going to be bad for the country because they were elected in opposition to the Premier himself. I think, under these circumstances, it is out of place it is not required - that the Premier should be continually attempting to keep his own sup- porters into line by casting slurs upon members of the Opposition party. I do not think that improves the tone of the House, or assists him in passing legislation, or helps him one bit. Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - I have during the past few years opposed this measure so fre- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 quently that it is hardly necessary to do so again. Owing to the persistency, however, of the honourable gentleman who is its author, it is, perhaps, desirable that instead of giving a silent vote I should briefly point out that it is a Bill of a decidedly pernicious character a Bill that should hardly emanate from a member belonging to the side of the House to which I am attached. So far from being a Radical or a Liberal Bill, it is entirely the opposite. If such a measure as this became the law of the country we would be going back to the "dark ages." The slightest consideration on the part of the honourable gentleman, who brings forward this Bill with the regularity of clockwork, only to be quietly buried every session, ought to con- vince him that, as a professing Liberal, the alterations he advocates should not receive his encouragement or support. Why, what does it aim at ? This Bill, I maintain, aims at nothing less than the destruction of representative government. That is the meaning of the Bill. Possibly certain members who are supporting the Bill, and whom I respect very much, are unable to see its character ; but that is its true character. Why, Sir, what may happen ? We are about to have a slight addition to the num- ber of members of this House. We are going to have eighty members in the next Parliament. Now, what would possibly happen is this : Sup- posing-I am not going to say the Conservative party is likely to figure prominently -- but sup- posing the next House is composed of what VOL. CXVI .- 29. the Radicals are in the majority, and out of these eighty members we have thirty Liberals and fifty Radicals. Are these Radicals going to be represented under this system ? Here is where the danger lies. The minority in the House may choose the Ministry of the day, and keep them in office for three years. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. HOGG .- Members say " No," but I will prove it. We will assume that there are thirty Liberals who constitute the Opposition. Now, we have seen some of the Opposition-and they are not to be discredited for their conduct- . session after session, going into the lobby in & solid body, voting for their side, and accentu- ating the pronounced principles of party govern- ment. If these thirty members, constituting the minority in Parliament, should put their . heads together and say, " We will select certain members who have subscribed to our programme as Ministers of the Crown to conduct the busi- ness of the country," and they can manage by active canvassing to secure eleven out of the fifty Radicals, where are the Radicals then? The minority, small as it is, thirty votes out of a House of eighty, are able to determine the fate of the country, to decide what measures are to be brought forward, and to put the men they approve of on the Treasury benches. You have thus on the Treasury benches the representatives of the minority, and that is what this Bill would achieve. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Supposing the fifty Liberals got ten Radicals ? Mr. HOGG .- If they only got eleven Radicals by bribery, corruption, or any other means- and we know that when men are determined to achieve some great object they are not always careful about : he means they adopt-if they can only get eleven out of the eighty to go along with them, they would constitute a ma jority in the House and be able to put the Con- servative party, or the Liberal party as we would then call them, on the Treasury benches. I think the subject requires no further argument than this to convince any person of ordinary reasoning power that if we adopt a Bill of this kind we are doing our utmost not merely to throw things back but to endanger the repre- sentation of the majority in the Cabinet of the country. What is the reason of this Bill? Can the honourable gentleman who has introduced it look back on the history of the last eleven years and, viewing the triumphs which have been won by this Ministry and the party supporting them, say he has no reason to be satisfied with the Government, or with the way in which the country has been represented in the House and on the Treasury benches? I am astonished that a member like the member for Waitaki, one of the most pronounced Liberals in this colony, one of the oldest members of this House, should, after all his long experience, fall into a trap of this kind and be led year after year to bring for ^ ard a Bill that the majority of this House very rightly do not approve of. I believe tha' no more calamitous thing could befall a Parliament or a country than to have a Bill of 