the honourable member is on his legs I cannot but admit he will not progress. Now, Sir, every word he has said was an argument against the Bill. It was an argument against our present voting system. It is sometimes well for us to refer to the past, because we have pleasant memories, and it is amusing to hear the honourable member at this stage of his ex- istence and with his parliamentary experi- ence asking the House to do away with the ballot system and establish the retrograde principle of the electoral right. Sir, as mem- Fers know, I am very much in favour of having the machinery provided for referring important questions to the people, and my conversion has not been, as stated, simply because I perceived there was a majority in favour of it. I make it my practice in life not to do anything until I know there is a fair chance of success, and I know it takes time to educate the public mind. To make proposals in advance and then to have them defeated means that you go back. The proper course to take is to see that the public mind is educated. When the time is ripe, and success is fairly assured, then is the time to strike. Well, Sir, that is the reason of so many progressive measures being now on the statute-book, and they have been put there during the last ten years. They were talked about and written about twenty and thirty years before, but they did not get on the statute-book until within the last ten years. And why ? Firstly, because the public mind has been educated ; secondly, be- cause the time previously was not opportune ; and. thirdly, because the people were not there to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 carry them out, or give effect to thom. Now, I say there are in this House, I should reckon, 75 per cent. of members in favour of the referendum. I will also say that there are 75 per cent. of the members who are not in favour of interfering with the ballot system or introducing the novelty and the luxury of allow- ing people to stay at home and vote. There are fully 75 per cent. of the members in favour of the referendum and there are 90 per cent. of the members opposed to the issue of elec- toral rights. More than that, the people are opposed to the electoral rights, because if you take those who voted for electoral rights at the time the Electoral Bill was before this House you will find that nearly all of them were rejected at the last general election. It is a notable fact that the large number of those who voted for electoral rights when that pro- posal was before Parliament are now missing from this Chamber. I say that the Opposi- tion were in favour of electoral rights the last time it came before this House. And where are the Opposition now? In the words of the old Scotch song, "Oh where, tell me where, are the Opposition gone !" An Hon. MEMBER .- They are coming to life, and will soon be here. Mr. SEDDON .-- And so will Christmas. We only get it once a year, and they are coming back, perhaps, some time within the next twenty years. However. Sir, I think we are going a little astray from the subject. I want t to bring the House back to this fact : that no advantage was taken of the member for Palmers- When I moved to report pro- ton. 11.30. gress, so as to give time for members to consider the amendment, he treated the House with discourtesy by not being here to give reasons for supporting it, and because he could not be here, and was not here on the night when we were to have considered it, he moved this amendment. I suppose all he wanted to do was to put his opinions on record in Hansard, and, if so, we must not treat this seriously. But I hope those who want this on the statute-book will vote against the amend- ment and let us get the Bill away to another place. I shall oppose the amendment. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- As a matter of personal explanation, I wish to say the Premier stated just now that " because Mr. Pirani could not leave home and come down here last Tues- day " he had not an opportunity of dealing with this amendment. The Premier is inter- ested in my movements I know, but in this case his information is faulty, as I was not at home on Tuesday at all. I was in Wanganui on Monday last at the Education Board meeting attending to public business, and it was no fault of mine that I was not present in the House on Tuesday. Mr. SEDDON. You should have sent a telegram. Mr. PIRANI. I must apologize for not doing that, and the next time I shall do it. I know how much the Premier likes to study my con- venience. The Premier also said he had caught me in a trap in my statement that I had brought this matter up for reconsideration at the sug- gestion of the Premier. The Premier in his speech just now admitted that on Friday last he moved the adjournment of this very question to give the House an opportunity of reconsidering it. Mr. SEDDON .-- Of considering it. Mr. PIRANI .- " Of considering it." Well, the opportunity the Premier chese to give was not the opportunity that suited me. This is the opportunity that suits me, and I have chosen it. Mr. MASSEY (Franklim) .--- Sir, there is one point on which I agree with the Right Hon. the Premier. He stated that an amendment of the Standing Orders was necessary. An amendment of the Standing Orders is neces- sary, but not in the direction indicated by the right honourable gentleman. I think we re- quire an amendment which will protect the rights of the ininority in this House, and which will prevent the Premier from manipulating the Order Paper according to his own sweet will. The Premier has had to sul mit to your ruling. Sir, that the member for Palmerston was within his rights in moving such an amendment as this, and there is nothing more to be said on that point. I support the amendment which has been moved. I supported the amendment in Committee, and I saw now what I stated then, that I think that during the year in which a general election is held the questions which 