place. The engineer had been reminded of the former instruction, that the men were to be paid on the section on which they worked, and he thanked the honourable gentleman for bringing the matter under his notice. # FISH-HATCHERIES. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Colo- nial Secretary,-(1) Whether the Government proposes to place sufficient sums on the esti- mates this session for the enlargement and further equipment of the salmon-hatchery at Hakataramea ; (2) also for the further importa- tion of salmon-ova ; and (3) to assist those accli- matisation societies which have fish-hatcheries in the breeding and distribution of trout? For a good many years past the colony had been endeavouring-so far unsuccessfully-to introduce salmon into our rivers, not only for the purposes of sport, but that they might become a means of revenue and an important item of food-supply. During the recess he had visited the salmon-hatchery at Hakataramea, in his electorate, and there seemed to be every reason to hope that on this occasion the effort would succeed. He saw no less than a hun- dred and fifty thousand fine healthy fry, and if the supply were kept up and the work properly managed-as it would be if Mr. Ayson got sufficient funds-he believed that in a few years our rivers would be well stocked with salmon. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said the hatchery established at Hakataramea had afforded him great satisfaction, inasmuch as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the ova had developed very well. Only salmon ova were being treated there at present. Ar- rangements were made last year for a supply, and a further supply would come in during the present year. He had been informed there was an opportunity of collecting trout-ova in the neighbourhood without any great expense, and he had practically made a start to get a small collection to see how it turned out. If success- ful, the operations could be extended. As re- garded the salmon-ova, no distribution 3.30. had been made yet to the different dis- tricts. In order to carry on the work successfully it had been considered better that the young fish should be kept until they were able to fight their own battles and take care of themselves. Not taking this course appeared to have been the fault in all previous experiments. As regarded the trout ova, he thought it should be obtained ; and, if the cost was not great, he thought it would be well if the colony obtained ova from this hatchery for distribution among the fish- hatcheries of the colony. Major STEWARD said that the Hon. the Minister seemed to misunderstand the first part of the question. Mr. HALL-JONES said that the arrange- ments last year were made just before the arrival of the ova, and only sufficient to meet the requirements at that time. To meet the extended requirements this vear additional pro- vision would have to be made on the estimates. Mr. Hall-Jones Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Govern- ment, If they will make full inquiry as to the probable cost, prospective traffic, and advisa- bility of constructing a loop-line between Mas- terton and Waipukurau, on the Wellington- Napier line of railway? His desire was that 1 the Government should make inquiry as to whether the time was advantageous for making a railway-line through what was now a thickly populated part of the Wellington and Hawke's Bay Districts. The line, he believed, need not be a very expensive one, and it would give assistance to Crown tenants who occupied some- thing like four thousand square miles of country. The localities to be benefited embraced Mount Baker, Alfredton, Tiraumea, Mount Cerberus, the Puketois, and Weber. The soil was rich. and was now producing an abundance of meat. wool, and hides, and some dairy produce. There was a considerable quantity of useful timber in some parts of the country, which, within a limited number of years, would be destroyed by fire in the process of settlement unless improved means were provided for bringing timber from the sawmills in the remote bush into the centres and sea-ports. But, though this country was rich in almost every other kind of material, it was extremely deficient in road-metal. It was papa country, and, though a large amount of public money had been spent in making roads. these were only available for wheel traffic during the summer. The result was that the settlers were at a great disadvantage. They could not carry on properly such a thing as the dairy industry-an industry which would be of great use to the settlers and their families. There was a necessity for giving them better means of access to the markets. The question was, whether the railway-line should not be made as soon as practicable. He did not say whether the line should be of the ordinary construction or a light line, but he did say that a railway-line of some description would be a great advantage to those people, and also to the State and the local bodies, by enabling them to make metalled roads at much less cost than at present. There had lately been efforts on the part of certain individuals to get tram-lines constructed by private enterprise, or with the aid of the resi- dent ratepayers. He thought the State was only doing its duty when it endeavoured to dis- courage such efforts. All railway-lines, he con- sidered, should be in the hands of the State. He had no wish to see district lines constructed. such as had been witnessed in the past in the South Island and other parts of the colony- lines made by a private company or corporate body, that would have to be purchased at a huge expense by the State afterwards. If the time had arrived for making this line it should be made, after due inquiry, by the State, and the risk and responsibility should not be im- posed on the settlers or intrusted to private enterprise. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he entirely agreed with the con- cluding part of the honourable gentleman's 