we know it must have been his opinion, because In the people's ignorance they revolted, and bloodshed ensued. Then, Sir, we find a leader he did contemplate taking that referendum after the Royal Commission had been set up. amongst those people rising up and saying, However, I think if the Commission were to do "The best way we can proceed is not by blood- any good at all it was unwise to submit the shed ; let power be given into our own hands matter to a referendum, because there is no to make the laws which we want for ourselves," doubt about this : that if the intention to take and so we had Parliament established. Parlia- a referendum had been carried into effect, no ment was instituted, but there was a power report would have been given to this colony by above Parliament, in the person of the King. the Royal Commission. I can say this : that When representative government was esta- blished the King and his Council withdrew, the Commission would have taken it as an insult, and this member, at any rate, would have and the Parliament had to approach the King refused to act under any such conditions. The by petition. The people revolted against that argument in favour of setting up the Commis- and strove against it for many centuries, until at last they wrested from the King and sion was that they should travel round and col- lect information, and condense the information Council that power and placed it in Parliament. so gained in a report to His Excellency, before Still the King had power to appoint the various Ministers. The people revolted against that, and the question was even discussed by the leading men of this country-the representatives of the after many centuries of struggle they succeeded people in Parliament assembled; and yet this in taking that power from the King, and they very evening the Right Hon. the Premier leads gave it into the hands of one Minister-the us to understand he would have been in favour Prime Minister; so, instead of the sovereign of taking a referendum on the question of appointing Ministers-we have one man-the federation, though he admits by setting up the Prime Minister, appointing Ministers. That is Commission that the people knew nothing the stage at which we have arrived. The people, whatever about the question. I, at any rate, after a number of years of education and owing intend to vote against the Referendum Bill : to the spread of newspapers amongst the com- I do not think it is a desirable thing that we munity, are commencing to see that their re- should submit questions to the people until presentative institutions fail to represent them. they have been properly thought out by They see that frequently what was supposed to the people. I do not think it is a desir- be a truly representative form of government able thing that we should completely change does not represent them perfectly, and that laws the Constitution of this country until the are passed which the people do not wish to be matter has been thought out, and until passed, and that it frequently happens that laws it has been submitted as a direct question which the people think are desirable are kept to the people at an election. Though I have back for years and years, so that the result has heard honourable members say that the prin- been this demand for the referendum. The ciple of the referendum was before the people at proposal for direct legislation was first brought the last election, I disagree with that assump- prominently before the people by Martin tion. The people have never considered the Rittinghausen, a great Belgian writer, and when subject, and I believe they would take exception he propounded this scheme of direct reference to the people it was scouted. The only country to some parts of the Bill. Nor do I believe there is any widespread desire to change the which took it up was Switzerland, and what do Constitution of this colony in the way that we writers say of that remarkable country ? That, should do if we passed the Referendum Bill. I though the people are divided by great ranges shall vote against it. of mountains, and divided by race and religion, Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- I, Sir, regard through the effect of the referendum and tho this Bill introduced by the Premier as one of initiative bringing the people together at fre- the most important proposals ever brought into quent intervals their religious prejudices have been broken down and they are now all fused this Chamber. The possibilities are very great indeed. The honourable member for Hawke's in one mass. They are now a united people, Bay urged that we are not proceeding in a when before they were scattered atoms. This proper and constitutional way. Now, Sir, has been the effect of the referendum and tho what is a proper and constitutional way ? I initiative there. I noticed that the honour- gather from the history of our own people, able member for Hawke's Bay seemed to think from the history of the institution of Parlia- that the referendum and the initiative only ment, that a good constitutional form of govern- existed in Switzerland. Sir, it exists in every ment shall be that form of government that State of the United States of America with the will enable the people to express their minds exception of one, and even there it will be -to express their will. The purpose we have adopted before many years. I shall give a few in establishing a Legislature is to enable the instances to show its operation in that country. people to express their opinion, and to have With regard to its overriding the power of effect given to their opinion. What caused Parliament, Sir, what is Parliament supposed the troubles amongst the people in the Old to be? It is supposed to be so constituted that Land away back in the early times ? It it will actually represent the mind of the people, was because power was withheld from them. and I say that we are proceeding on true con- In more primitive days they made their own stitutional lines according to ancient English laws. Then, we know, a sovereign rose up precedent, which is that whenever the people amongst them and took to himself that power. have found any form of government to be 