there are less than two directors, by the sole director and manager, stating- "(a.) The total number of shares allotted, distinguishing shares allotted as fully or partly paid up otherwise than in cash, and. in the case of shares partly paid up, the extent to which they are so paid up, and in either case the consideration for which they have been allotted ; " (6.) The total amount of cash received by the company in respect of such shares, distinguished as aforesaid ; " (c.) An abstract of the receipts and pay- ments of the company on capital account to the date of the report, and an account or estimate of the preliminary expenses of the company ; " (d.) The names, addresses, and descriptions of the directors, auditors (if any), manager (if any), and secretary of the company ; and "(e.) The particulars of any contract the modification of which is to be sub- mitted to the meeting for its approval, together with the particulars of the modification or proposed modification. " (3.) The report shall, so far as it relates to the shares allotted by the company, and to the cash received in respect of such shares, and to the receipts and payments of the company on capital account, be certified as correct by the auditors (if any) of the company. " (4.) The directors shall cause a copy of the report. certified as aforesaid, to be filed with the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Registrar forthwith after the sending thereof to the members of the company. "(5.) The directors shall cause a list showing the names, addresses, and descriptions of the members of the company, and the number of shares held by them respectively, to be produced at the commencement of the meeting, and to remain open and accessible to any member of the company during the continuance of the meeting.' The rest of the clause simply provides that every possible publicity shall be given to the transactions of the company for the protection of the shareholders, and through them of the investing public. Clause 15 gives power to the directors to call extraordinary general meetings. Clause 16 amends the form of summary so as to distinguish between shares issued for cash and otherwise. Clauses 18 to 21 deal with the auditing of the companies' accounts, and permit the Audit Office to be appointed auditor. Sec- tions 22 to 24 give the necessary machinery to enable section 9 of the Companies Act to be carried into effect, with regard to the registra- tion of mortgages created by companies. The remaining parts of the Bill, from section 25 onwards, deal with the winding-up of com- panies. The endeavour has been, as I said before. to bring the law up to date, and put the colony on an equal footing with the Eng- lish law in this respecs. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill, which will be re- ferred to the Statutes Revision Committee, where it will receive every attention. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Sir, I pro- pose to trouble the Council with a few remarks on this Bill, because I believe the subject with which it deals is one of great importance, and therefore it would be unfortunate if the Bill passed its second reading without discussion, and without close examination as to its prin- ciples-whether they would be effective for carrying out the objects the Bill professes to have in view. I believe there are many honourable gentlemen in the Council-there are, I know, throughout the colony-who are thoroughly convinced of the necessity for bring- ing the company law up to date. It is twenty years since the principal Act was passed, and, although there have been from time to time some amendments in the Act, they have in the main been of a trivial nature-they have been sectional, and applied to the methods of pro- cedure, and have in no way altered what I may term the vital character of the Bill. In the course of that time there have been a great many industrial changes -- there have been several new developments ; and, as a matter of course, the ingenuity of promoters and those who have been interested in the getting-up of companies has gradually-as was natural --- found out means whereby they could circumvent and evade the restrictions which the original Act imposed on those who get up companies. This has attracted attention, not only in New Zealand, but also in Great Britain, with the result that much con- sideration has been given to the question of re- form. The Hon. the Minister alluded to the new English Act. That was passed last year in rather a hurry, and it has been admitted by many of those competent to form an opinion that it is faulty. It has been found to be almost in- operative for the purpose it was brought in for. And how is this? Because it has left loopholes for promoters to get out of the impositions of the Bill. Firstly. in this way : The whole thing depends on the prospectus. That Bill said a prospectus shall set out-as does also the Bill we have before us-all the particulars of the busi- ness to be taken over. and the conditions under which it is taken, and the investments of the directors, and it is supposed to contain all such information as will enable investors of every description to understand thoroughly what they are going to enter upon. But there is one objection to that part of the Bill, in that after the lapse of one year you need not issue a prospectus at all, and the result is that at Home they are now nursing companies into existence-companies that are all ready for public subscription when the lapse of a year has taken place. That is a great flaw. As the honourable gentleman will see, a com- pany can be quietly promoted by a private syndicate and registered under the old Act, and can pass into existence, and as soon as the year is over a prospectus can be put out without being exposed to any limitations at all by the Act. Let me give the Council a few reasons why we should be particularly careful in the way we deal with this Bill, and why we should take lessons that not only I, but thousands of more experienced men than 1, think are flaws 