duct these particular cases better than lawyers. When it is necessary that they should have legal advice they will get it outside the Court. The member for the Wellington Suburbs says. " A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for his client." An Hon. MEMBER. - It was a lawyer who said so. Mr. ARNOLD. - Sir, I have only three minutes more, but I wish, in consequence of the honourable member's interjection, to make a reference to one labour dispute that was con- ducted in this colony. A labour union said, " We will certainly have a solicitor to represent us." They had meetings with that solicitor day after day, and he drew up a brief of nearly a hundred sheets of foolscap. They took him to various small factories- they were not per- mitted to take him into the bigger ones-to show him the process of manufacture in that particular trade. But at the very last moment it was found that the employers would not allow them to have a lawyer to represent them. They paid that solicitor a bill of about $60, and that solicitor, who is an ex-Judge of the Supreme Court of New Zealand and there- fore a qualified man, admitted that it would have been impossible for him or any other solicitor to conduct that case as a bona fide working-man had conducted it. An Hon. MEMBER .-- That was in Dunedin. Mr. ARNOLD .- No, that was not in Dun- edin ; but, Sir, the feeling, whether right or wrong, among workers is that they can con- duct these cases better by themselves. And they are not afraid that the solicitor should be employed on the other side. They say, " Let them all come " : but what they do feel is that if solicitors are permitted to appear before the Arbitration Court, instead of conducting a labour dispute they will have points of law continually rising, which will greatly extend the sitting of the Court, and which will weaken the cases as far as trade questions are concerned. Sir, I would not have risen but for the remarks of other members this morning. I have to thank the House for listening so attentively to me, and I trust that the second reading of the Bill will be passed without division. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .-- I had nointention of taking any part in this debate, because I was under the impression that the Bill itself was scarcely worth discussion, and I would not have spoken now had it not been for a statement made by the honourable member for Lyttelton. The honourable member told the House that whereas the price of butter a few years ago was from 4d. to Gd. per pound, it was now from 10d. to 1s., and he said that that increased price was owing to the policy of the present Government. It is quite true that the price of dairy produce is now better than it was a few years ago, but to what is the improvement owing ? Is it to the policy of the present Government ? Not a bit of it. It is owing to the invention and development of the refrigerator. That invention has enabled the dairy farmers of the colony to land their produce in good condition in the markets of Europe, so as to compete, and compete success- fully, with the produce of other countries. The prosperity has been caused by the increased facilities given for export by the development of the refrigerator and the separator. I wondered when he was speaking whether the honour- able member believed his statement himself. If he believed the statement, then I pity him : and if he did not believe it, then he has placed himself in a very unsatisfactory position. I can remember when the honourable member first came to this House that he very speedily acquired a reputation for common- sense and intelligence ; but this session, by the speeches he. has made, he is speedily losing that reputation, if, indeed, he has not lost it already. He and some other members would lead us to believe that the prosperity of the colony as a whole is altogether owing to the Government. I admit that the colony is in a prosperous con- dition. But that has been owing to the South African War, and to other factors, which have caused a steady demand for our produce. Everything almost that we have been able to produce has been saleable at satisfactory prices. The cause of our prosperity is the demand which exists in other countries for our produce. That demand has been so great that the settlers have hardly been able to cope with it. In the dairying districts the settlers have worked day and night almost, in order to take advantage of the market. The consequence is that money has been flowing into this colony, and, as most of that money is spent on dutiable goods, the revenue of the colony has increased, and the Treasurer has had a very easy time in conve- quence. But to say that the Government is responsible for the prosperous condition of the colony is ridiculous. The Government have had no more to do with the prosperity than fish have to do with making sea-water salt. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do not give them credit for anything. Mr. MASSEY .- Very little; but I give them credit for looking after themselves, and that is about all. An attempt has been made in some vague and undefined way to show that the Farmers' Union, branches of which are being formed in different parts of the colony. is a branch or offshoot of the National Association. Why, the Premier was good enough to say that another gentleman and myself were responsible for starting the union. I claim no such credit. The union was started in the district represented by the member for the Bay of Islands, and it has spread over the country until it has ex- cited the hostility and alarm of the Govern- ment and its supporters. The Premier. in his own elegant language, stated that the Farmers' Union is the "National Ass." in disguise. Whether it is so or not, it is quite evident that it is being persistently and bitterly opposed by the Liberal Donkey. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .-- I would just like to say a word or two in reply to the state- ment made by the honourable member for Dunedin, Mr. Millar, as to the effect our labour- laws have on the employment of boys on our coastal vessels. The honourable member stated that our labour-laws have not interfered in any 