seem to be placed in a false position. As I centage was too small, and therefore could not see their way to support it. If the proposed percentage had been larger I think it would have received a great deal of support. With reference to Mr. Edwards, whose name has been brought forward, it has been stated that he has nothing to do with the Government. I may point out that Mr. Edwards was formerly a school-teacher at Huntly, and he sent in his resignation to the Board of Education at Auck- land, stating that his reason for resigning was that he had been appointed Liberal organizer by the Premier. Mr. Seddon. The House divided on the question. 12.30. " That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question." AYES, 44. Allen. E. G. Palmer Hall-Jones Parata Arnold Hanan Søddon Barclay Hardy Buddo Stevens Hogg Steward Carneross Houston Symes Carroll Laurenson Tanner Collins Lawry Thompson, R. Colvin McGowan Duncan Mckenzie, R. Thomson, J. W. Ell Ward McLachlan Flatman Willis Meredith Witheford. Fowlds Millar Gilfedder Mills Te:lers. Napier Fraser, A. L. D. Graham Hall. O'Meara Guinness NOES, 13. Russell, W. R. Lethbridge Atkinson Massey Bollard Hoke Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Monk Lang Herries Pirani. Hutcheson Rhodes PAIR. For. Against. McGuire. Smith, E. M. Majority for, 31. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to. On the question, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. ELL (Christchurch City). - When the Bill was in Committee the honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay moved to strike out " ton thousand " and put in "ton per centum." The Premier, who was in charge of the Bill, stated - in the hearing, I think, of all honourable members -- that 5 per cent. would be sufficient. sion, and every opportunity was given to mem- I lost my opportunity of voting against the member for Hawke's Bay's amendment, think- ing that the Premier would challenge his pro- posal, which he did not. I propose now, there- he was not willing at the present time to forego fore, to move, That clause 14 be recommitted for the purpose of striking out the words "ten per centum " and inserting in lieu thereof " five per centum." I do not intend to take up the time of the House, but simply move that amendment. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I second the amendment. The honourable gentleman the Native Affairs Committee during the last having lost one opportunity I should not like session and not finally dealt with be again him to lose another. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I, unfortunately, ! referred to the Native Affairs Committee. brought down the Bill I put in it the provision that ten thousand persons could petition for the referendum to be taken at any time within the three years-that was 23 per cent. of the electors on the roll. The member for Hawke's Bay proposed 10 per cent. I then said I thought 5 per cent. was sufficient, and suggested making it forty thousand persons who could petition for the referendum, and the matter stood at that. There was not a single voice, not even the honourable gentleman's, against the proposal of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay ; con- sequently, as I am always in dread of defeat I did not like to challenge the House, and really it means the difference as to whether the referendum shall stand for three years or whether forty thousand people may demand another referendum. The honourable gentle- man's proposal is that twenty thousand people may demand a referendum. That is the whole question at issue now. Amendment negatived, and Bill read a third time. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) said during his temporary absence from the Chamber the member for Waihemo had stated that a man named MeLachlan had gone round his elec- torate giving whisky to the unemployed and canvassing for votes. As he (Mr. MeLachlan) was the only man in the House of that name he wished to say that, as far as he was con- cerned, the statement was absolutely without foundation. Mr. SPEAKER said that the member for Waihemo did not refer to a member of the House, but to a person of the same name. POLICE OFFENCES BILL. The amendments made in this Bill were agreed to. On the motion, That it be read a third time, Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked if the Minister of Justice would postpone the third reading until the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, who had a new clause to propose, could be present. That honourable gentleman had been unavoidably detained by urgent busi- ness, and could not be in the House for a few minutes. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the Bill was very fully discussed on a former ocea- bers to bring forward amendments. He ac- cepted a number of these amendments, which he thought were an improvement on the Bill as originally introduced. That being the position, the opportunity of passing the Bill. Bill read a third time. NATIVE AFFAIRS COMMITTEE PETITIONS. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) 2.30. moved, That all petitions referred to 