agree, they will say it is because the applicant is not of the 'right colour'; if they did agree, it would be because the applicant is of the 'right colour'; I want to keep clear of any charge of corruption of that sort, and I will put in the Commissioner of Crown Lands and the Receiver of Land Revenue." I knew both of these gentle. men to be most incapable men for such a position. Then, again, no two Land Boards interpret the Act the same; and our officer in Canterbury sent up to the Law authorities, or some other person, to ask for a free translation of this clause in the Act. They sent down to say that they were not there to make a translation ; they said, "You have to administer the Act according to your own interpretation." The Commissioner was away in Auckland, and the Receiver of Land Revenue had nobody to con- fer with. so he conferred with me, and I said, " To be safe, you had better give it to every one." This will show what a ridiculous piece of legislation we placed on the statute-book. Mr. SEDDON. - Then, you are responsible for it. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- I admit that ; but my shoulders are broad. There has been an enor- mous amount of money involved, and a return has been moved for by the honourable member for Egmont of the amount that has been given in rebate. But there are no hard-up men who get the 10 per cent. It is only the men who can sell out their good-will for a capital value, even in the case of poor land, of 30s. an acre. I know of a case in Canterbury where a man sold the good-will of his place for $1,800 ; but he got more than that- that is the amount he paid https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 duty on. Mr. SEDDON. - A very good argument in favour of periodical revaluation. An Hon. MEMBER. - The Premier is coming http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero to our side. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- The Premier is coming on, but I do not know whether he will ever reach it. I know of many such cases; and my honourable and learned friend Mr. Mere- dith also knows of such cases as well as I do. He knows that such cases are so bad and glaring that he, more especially on our Board, objects to people getting large sums for their good-will, and yet these people get 10 per cent., and capi- talised 10 per cent., and the man who walks out does so a small millionaire. I am now going to enter into a subject that contains a good deal of debatable matter in it, and that is the matter of the oat contracts. The honourable member for Geraldine says that the contract price was 1s. 9d. per bushel. Mr. FLATMAN .- I said I was given to un- derstand that. Mr. McLACHLAN .- That is a matter we have nothing to do with. If any commercial firm makes a contract in pursuit of their busi. ness, what have we to do with them ? The more they get the better ; but I know of oats having been bought at Ashburton for 1s. 4d. in large sacks, and they had to be rebagged into small sacks and railed to Christchurch and put on board. These men had to take the responsi. bility. They have to buy the oats in anticipation ; Mr. McLachlan and if it had not been for the oat contracts the farmers would have been poorer than they are, and we ought to be pleased that this contract- the largest ever given by the Imperial authori- ties-was placed in this colony. The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) wishes the benefits of free newspaper postage extended to the people of Auckland suburbs- he wishes the newspapers delivered free ; but I think he ought to go a little further than that. An Hon. MEMBER .- Deliver them also some one to read. Mr. McLACHLAN .- More than that. There is an article of daily consumption which is almost indispensable to babies, and that is milk, and I think milk ought to be delivered free also. It ought to be carried free by the railway authorities just in the same way as the postal authorities are asked to deliver the newspapers free. With regard to the down-trodden working- man, who it is stated has to pay such an enormous proportion of the duties imposed by the Customs, I am afraid the honourable gentle- man who made that remark does not know how the poor people live. Now, I contend that everything we eat and drink, and which we pay Customs duty on, ought to be free. Beef. mutton, pork, fowls, ducks, geese, turkeys, eggs, butter, cheese, milk, flour, oat- 4.30. meal, and barley, all are free. There is not a penny of duty charged on them. I think, therefore, the honourable gentleman was entirely wrong in what he said about the duties. For myself, I would like to see all duties removed, and I trust the Colonial Treasurer, when dis- tributing his surplus, will, at any rate, keep steadily in view the necessity of further reduc- ing the duties on the necessaries of life-those necessaries of life that we cannot produce for ourselves in the colony. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu). - Sir, I have to congratulate both the mover and the seconder of the Address in Reply on the speeches they made to this House. I think it is very necessary that the people of the country should know what is being done in Parliament for the benefit of the country ; and if it were not that we have that useful publication called Hansard, through which the people get their information, I am sure they would be ignorant on many points of policy which very materially affect their welfare. Before proceeding further, Sir, let me say that it affords me great pleasure to be able to congratulate the Government on the measures they have succeeded in passing during the last foy years for the benefit of the country. It also affords pleasure to be able to congratulate the Government on having passed measures which, as the honourable member for Ashburton remarked, have done much to level the Opposition party to a point from which they may see there is at least some good in the Government that for many years they have opposed. I am sure every person in the nation to which we are proud to belong will join with the people of this colony in offering their con- dolence to His Majesty the King on the death of Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, one of the best queens who has ever sat upon 