the age of eight years, should have these light wooden rifles to learn to drill with. Why not ? They are easily handled, and the whole of the movements required in the exercises could be learned by the children without tiresome effort. In that respect the photograph I have will be instructive to every member of the House, and I am sorry I have not the opportunity of put- ting it in Hansard. to show the general physical bearing of the young lads in the district which the honourable member for Rangitikei (Mr. Lethbridge) has the distinction to represent. Sir, I shall support the second reading of the Bill, and I hope that clause 6 will be retained in the Bill. I believe it is a proper clause - a conscience clause-and I consider that the remark of the member for Masterton, to the effect that the word " compulsory " should be struck out, is altogether wrong, and I in. tend at a later stage to suggest to the Govern- ment, in the event of the Bill passing. that drill-instructors be immediately appointed. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri). - Sir, this Bill was before us last year. I then deemed it to be my duty to vote against it, and I shall do the same on the present occasion. I consider the measure is some years behind time. Five or six years ago something was necessary to stimulate what might be termed the military spirit of the people, but there has been plenty of stimulation since those days, and nothing is required now to instil a love for volunteering or for military display into the minds of the public generally. The cadet movement, I may sav, is now an established fact, for the Act pro- viding for cadets is being availed of. Within the last two or three months we have had several cadet corps formed. One particularly I might mention, in the City of Dunedin, is con- nected with the company of engineers, and is a fine object-lesson. The military spirit is spread- ing all over the country, and there is no need now at all for compulsory drill in connection with our schools. There is another movement that, I dare say, has not been brought under the notice of the honourable gentleman-a move- ment that takes in what I might term the smaller boys of the country. It is a movement that was started at Home some years ago, al- though it has only recently been introduced to New Zealand. It was originated in connection with the Mission Sunday School of the Free Church College, Glasgow, and now includes eight hundred companies, three thousand offi- The move- cers, and thirty-five thousand boys. ment has now reached New Zealand, and is rapidly spreading here. It is the formation of what are known as "boys' brigades." largely taken in hand by ministers of churches in the country districts. It has been recog- nised that the drill is an attraction to the bovs. and, in addition to the moral gain that is im- parted to them. they have the military drill. They are brought together every Saturday after- noon : their numbers are rapidly increasing : and I consider that the existence of such a move- ment is alone sufficient to do away with the compulsion which the honourable member asks for in this Bill. It has been said that if we Mr. Wilford be altered in such a way that it may be ren- dered acceptable ; but, Sir, we cannot alter the one principle without destroying the Bill. The main idea of the Bill is that there shall be compulsory drill. and if we are going to alter the measure in detail in Committee we shall simply mutilate it and take the principal feature out of it. We have been told to-day that the one blot on the Bill is the final clause, the "conscience clause," as it may be called. Sir. to my mind that is the best feature of the Bill. and I congratulate the honourable mem- I trust ber upon that feature of the measure. that if the Bill should pass it will have that clause retained in it. As regards the whole principle of the Bill I think it is absolutely unnecessary, and on that ground I deem it to be my duty to record my vote against the second reading of the Bill. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- Mr. Speaker. I have no doubt the people of the colony who may read the debate on this Bill will form an impression that members of the House have been taking a very careful and serious interest in the question under discussion. I have been here during the whole of the afternoon, and the number of members present in the Chamber most of that time has ranged from twenty to thirty. frequently only a bare quorum being present ; and not more than one-third of the members of the House are in their places now. I take it. Sir, that is an indication of the in- terest that is taken in the subject. The ques- tion also, I am sorry to have observed. has not been discussed without considerable heat. There is not the slightest occasion, surely, when dis- cussing a question of whether it is necessary to have compulsory military drill in the State schools. for the display of any feeling. The member for Wellington Suburbs is the latest to show it by an uncalled-for retaliation on the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutchesom. He (Mr. Wilford) expressed great interest in the question under discussion, but I make bold to say that his interest began and ended with his speech, because no sooner had he finished than he followed the other two- thirds of the members of the House, who have been absent during the discussion on this sub- ject. Sir, I do not think there is the slightest necessity for legislation to compel school-child- ren-boys and girls from the age of eight years - to submit themselves to compulsory military drill. If such a thing were necessary I say it should not, and I believe would not. in left to a private member of this House to bring forward a Bill of this kind. We have a Minister It is of Defence who is efficient and energetic. During the last year our Volunteers, including cadets. have increased from seven thousand until they now number eighteen thousand, and there is not the slightest difficulty in getting our young people, pupils of the State schools and colleges. to join the cadet corps of the colony. If there were any difficulty about the youth of the colony voluntarily joining cadet corps it might then be a different question. This is a Bill that, to my mind, is not necessary. Some 