tion of the report, on that an amendment, and subsection (1) to meet this amendment. Then on that a second amendment. another warning is given by the member for Mr. SPEAKER .- The original motion has Palmerston, that they are going to fight the been disposed of by the omission of the words other subsection, which is quite a common " the amendments be agreed to." The position thing. now is, to add in lieu of the words omitted the words, "the Bill be recommitted for the further consideration of clause 9" ; to which a The motion proposed was to recommit the further amendment is moved, to insert after the whole clause, but the paragraph to which he word " consideration " the words, " of the first took exception was No. 1. subsection." If these words should be inserted, and the Bill be recommitted, the Committee will be debarred from dealing with the second heard. At all events, it was simply to amend subsection of clause 9. The second amendment paragraph 1. Let us get into Committee, and get on with the business, and not stay here till is in order, as the first amendment has become probably two or three in the morning. I want practically a substantive motion. Mr. SEDDON .-- I hope this is not an attempt to facilitate business, and that is why I con- to keep the Bill where it is, for if that is so I sented to the clause. I hope, therefore, that the desire to ask the House to negative both pro- House will divide now. posals, and let the Bill go to another place where it can be amended. I do not care about actually confirmed everything I have said. He doing that, but I do like to have good faith has admitted to the House that my conjecture kept. The member for Palmerston said he saw that he was consulting the honourable member me in conference with the member for Dunedin for Dunedin, Mr. Barclay, about this recom- City, and he came to the conclusion that it was mittal was absolutely correct. I knew nothing with the view of stopping the recommittal. about it, but it struck me while the Hon. the Mr. PIRANI .- No, no, but to stop me Premier's back was interposed between the Speaker and the honourable member for Dunedin moving. Mr. SEDDON .- It was nothing of the kind, City when the Speaker was putting the question, and I do not see why you have come to that that there was not much opportunity for any conclusion. I desire to do this : Objection was member in that position of being observed if he taken to subsection (1), and it was pointed out rose to move an amendment. As a matter of that great power was given to Ministers, which fact, had the honourable member for Wellington would practically enable them to set aside an Suburbs not risen, the motion to agree to the amendments would have been carried. Act of Parliament. I then said that I would see what the necessity was; but it was neither the member for Wellington Suburbs nor the member for Wellington Suburbs rose. member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) who short-he only resumed his seat afterwards. called my attention to it. The member for Wellington Suburbs explained Mr. PIRANI .- The member for Wellington http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero that one of his reasons for moving the recom- Cit v. mittal of section 9 of the Bill was in reference Mr. SEDDON .- It matters very little to me to subclause (2). If the Premier was genuine in who it was, because I desire to know how we his desire, why did he not consult the member stand. I should not like to see anything im- of the House who pointed out the defect in the perfect in the legislation, nor should I like any great constitutional change made which might clause to him. The point I wish to accentuate is that it was the member for Wellington be used wrongly. I therefore, after conference with the Law Officers, made up my mind that Suburbs who took exception to subclause (2), and this was a new departure, and decided to get it that is not the subsection that the honourable altered. After seeing the Law Officers I took member for Dunedin was objecting to at all. How then can it be said that the member for that amendment to Mr. Barclay this evening to Wellington Suburbs jumped his place ? show it to him. Mr. PIRANI .- Why Mr. Barclay ? say that the statement made by the Premier Mr. SEDDON .- Because he had this motion on the Order Paper for the recommittal of of what took place in respect to the conversa- tion he had with me is strictly correct, and the clause 1. statement made by the honourable member for Mr. PIRANI .- My conclusions were, then, Palmerston is utterly and entirely incorrect. correct. Mr. SEDDON .- I then showed the member could judge, consulting me with the object of for Dunedin City the amendment that I pro- getting me to withdraw my proposition and pre- posed, and arranged for him to move the re- vent the Bill getting into Committee. That committal, which I would not oppose. statement is entirely incorrect. I can only sav, Mr. BARCLAY .- That is so. with reference to any difficulty that might have Mr. SEDDON .-- Then, he said that the first arisen in my catching your eve, in consequence amendment proposed by the Law Officers did of the Premier intervening, that I certainly do not go far enough, and I asked him to see the not think I should be under any greater dis- Law Officers, and to let me have an amendment advantage in that respect than the honourable to meet the case, and that is the amendment member for Palmerston. now before you. I agreed to the recommittal of Mr. PIRANI .--- Mr. Wilford's. Mr. SEDDON .- That was about subsection (1). Mr. PIRANI .-- No, subsection (2). Mr. SEDDON .-- I can only speak of what I Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .---- The Premier has Mr. SEDDON .- 1 was in my place when the Mr. PIRANI .- The Premier's memory is very Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I rise to He said that the Premier was, as far as he 