gentleman, because it is since he commenced to support the Government that the circulation has begun to increase. Motion agreed to. TROOPSHIP " TAGUS." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he desired to announce to honourable members that the troopship " Tagus," with the Fourth and Fifth Contingents, had passed the Nuggets that morn- ing at ten o'clock, and was expected to reach Otago Harbour at about four o'clock in the afternoon. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is she not going to the Bluff ? Mr. SEDDON said, No, the Admiralty had not considered the Bluff suitable for a vessel with only one screw; but, considering that the "Ruapehu " and vessels very much larger than the "Tagus" went there regularly, it showed that the Admiralty knew nothing whatever about the port, and therefore a more stupid conclusion to arrive at he had never heard of. It had been the same in respect to the "Ophir." The commodore of that vessel had lost two days' pleasure to the people of this colony and to their Royal Highnesses through his refusal to take the vessel to either Port Chalmers or the Bluff in fact, he said that he would not go up to the wharf at Lyttelton, but would lie at the Heads ; but when he (Mr. Seddon) got to Lyttelton he found the vessel tied up to the wharf. Regarding the men arriving by the "Tagus," the Government had arranged that the "Te Anau," which was going to the Bluff. should take the troopers. Of course, they would have to undergo twenty- four hours' quarantine, as the vessel had arrived from Western Australia. After that they would be taken down to the Bluff, and would land there about nine o'clock on Friday morning. They would stay at the Bluff two hours, proceeding then to Invercargill, and arriving there at about half-past eleven a.m. The medals would then be presented by His Ex- celleney the Governor, and the men would leave Invercargill on the Saturday morning about half-past eight, reaching Dunedin at about half-past two p.m. on Saturday. They would | colonies were concerned had not the necessary remain in Dunedin on Sunday, and leave for Christchurch on Monday morning ; and on the way up it was intended to allow the men of the contingents to drop off at the localities to which they belonged. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) asked whether the names of the returned troopers would be tele- graphed, as there were so many friends who were anxious to know whether their sons or other relatives had returned. Mr. SEDDON said the arrangements made in connection with other contingents, to have the names of the troopers cabled from the Cape, had not been carried out in this instance, although he had cabled to Lord Kitchener to have the names of the troopers by the "Tagus " and also by the "Orient " cabled to the colony. However, as soon as he got the names from the Jr. Seddon 'communication. Members ought to have that information to-morrow morning. He thought this was very necessary, as he had been flooded with inquiries; but he could not give the in- formation as it had not been sent to him from the Cape. He was sure the honourable mem- ber for Awarua and the honourable member for Invercargill could bear out what he said. not as regarded the Bluff Harbour, but in regard to getting the vessel to go there. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said he might be allowed to state that it did appear to him a very regrettable and very extraordinary thing that those responsible for the control of steamers coming out to this colony with the returning contingents, as also with the Imperial troops, should apparently have so little know- ledge of the conditions and capacities of the harbours of this colony, which had been suit- able for the largest steamers trading to the Australasian Colonies for the last fifteen or twenty years, and whose owners would not have sent these vessels to other than first-class port>. He thought it ought to be the duty of those responsible for the upholding of the facilities which exists for the accommodation of the largest steamers trading to the colonies to make the strongest representations to the people in authority at Home, and to point out the great injury which might arise to this colony owing to the want of knowledge of some one who was responsible for the vagaries of the men who came in charge of steamers under direction of the Admiralty to this colony. In the case of the Lyttelton Harbour, it was suggested by the commodore of the " Ophir " that a steamer of her class either could not or should not go up the Lyttelton Harbour and berth at the wharf; and he was sorry to say that opinion caused him to be held in the esteem of our ex- perienced shipping-masters in this colony in a very ludicrous light. Indeed, he might state that it did more than that. It created an un- easy feeling in the minds of people familiar with the capabilities of our harbours, and who from years of experience knew what could be done with perfect safety, that men occupying high positions so far as Imperial ships visiting our knowledge compared with the men of the ordinary mercantile marine that was requisite in times of peace, to say nothing of times of war, in bringing ships to and handling them in places that were in daily use by larger vessels. Speak- ing of the two southern ports. there was no question but that any of these vessels could have entered the harbours and berthed at the wharves with the greatest case; and to have un- merited reflection cast upon them by the action of shipping-masters coming to the colony, who doubtless were acting under orders, was, to say the least of it, exceedingly uncomplimentary to those occupying responsible positions in the Old Country. They had no right to cast slurs on British harbours in this way. Regarding the Bluff Harbour, it was a matter of fact that steamers of much greater capacity and deeper 