Christchurch, and its immediately contiguous boroughs, with a populatiun of about 60,000, there has been in seven years 120 sections fur- nished, something less than twenty per year. The absolutely inadequate nature of this will be seen at once by honourable members: I have risen now more for the purpose of emphasizing the remarks of the honourable member for Riccarton, and of pressing upon the Govern- ment the necessity of doing something more than what has been done of late, unless they wish to invite a more critical feeling from the people of Canterbury. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands). . I do not wish to see this Bill go to a vote without saving a word or two upon it. I am surprised at the turn : hich the discussion has taken. It has not been on the Land for Settlements Bill. it could have been much more in place if some of the speeches had been made on the Address in reply to the Governor's Speech. As has been stated by the Premier, we have found it necessary to get these few amendments passed in order that the Act may be worked in a reasonable way. It has been found that certain provisions in last year's Act are not clear enough ; in fact, the Auditor-General would not allow any money to be expended for roads or bridges because such expenditure was not clearly specified in the Act, and there was trouble in getting the Act administered. This Bill is only to amend these defects in the Act, and it appears to me that the discussion . hich has taken place has been quite uncalled for. For instance, the member for Ashburton had no right to graft https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 on the descriptions he gave of the Canterbury Land Board. What connection had that with this Bill? The Land for Settlements Act has to be administered in a reasonable way. I would call the attention of the member for Avon to this fact : that the land purchased near Christ- church for workmen's homes was too dear, and 1 it thus lav idle for a long time. Mr. TANNER .- The sections were too small. Mr. DUNCAN. Then an effort should have been made to have them made larger. Mr. TANNER. . Application was made to the Board, but they would not alter the area. Mr. DUNCAN .- If the Board will not deal with the matter in a reasonable wav, then the Board should be altered. If you push this land- for-settlement policy too vigorously, the mem- bers being all anxious to got land for homes, you will have the scheme spoiled, and it will all drop about you. You have to take great care. You do not want to have these cases constantly cropping up in this House, and to have the tenants constantly asking for reductions. If you purchase the land at a price that the people cannot pay, then you will have these applica- tions for reductions of rent. I say that $35 as paid for workmen's homes at Christchurch is too much to pay for land : I would rather go further out from Christchurch, but I think I could got. land near Christchurch at a lower figure than 995. This Bill is simply to meet a few defects in the law. There was a lawsuit in connection with Hatuma which lasted two years, whereas Mr. Tanner lasted six months. Indeed, it is probable that case would not have come before the Courts at all. Then, we cannot get any land in Hawke's Bay unless we take it compulsorily. An Hon. MEMBER. You can get lots. Mr. DUNCAN .- The owners want far more than its value. Captain RUSSELL .- You want to buy it for less than its value. Mr. DUNCAN .- No : we want to acquire it at a fair value. If it takes two years to pur- chase an estate, such as was the case in Hawae's Bay, the Act will be a dead-letter so far as Hawke's Bay is concerned. In fact, it took nearer four years than two to acquire one estate in Hawke's Bay. Then, as to giving preference to married men. I contend that is a very reason- able and right thing to do. I say that the married man with a family is the man who settles on the land, whereas the single man generally runs about the country and tries to sell or transfer his land. A married man trics to make a home for himself and family, whereas the other man tries to make a profit out of the land. I am of opinion that the House will pass that clause. If there are sections that the married men do not apply for that is all right. the single men can get them ; but, as a rule, single men are not the best tenants. Mr. WILFORD .- What about Khandallah ? Mr. DUNCAN .- Khandallah is a place that is not the most advantageous for workich's homes at the present. Mr. WILFORD. - Oh, yes. Mr. DUNCAN .- You might get worse, but I can get better. Mr. WILFORD. - - Where ? Mr. DUNCAN. - I could tell you 7.30. where. The Bill is a very short one. and the amendments it makes in the principal Act are very necessary. We found we cou !: not agree, even with a County Council, to do any work jointly under the old Act, because the Auditor-General would not allow the money to be paid for roads and bridges or for work of the kind : he would not allow us to pay may for reading the land since the passing of :1. consolidating Act. The Solicitor-General save us a perfectly clear opinion that the Act pro- vided for roading ; but the Auditor-General is master of the situation ; if he says. " No." ... can do nothing. This was very unpla -ant. and we had to make a declaration and send i :"the Treasury to get the payment of our account- for opening the land. The expenses con not be charged to the estate, which was very unfair; we have the right to charge the expenses connected with the whole transa ton to the estate. Then, as regards section . in connection with the proceedings for taking .1. land, we found it was very easy to evade : service of notice. and the time was wastei quibbling of lawyers. It has been stated it's member for Hawke's Bay that a man might to away for a holiday, or away for a trip to th Old Country, and thereby you confiscate the property. But a man with a property like this. although he might be away always, has an 