class of all our people. Of course, it will be | said that they get the benefit of the reduction in fares. Probably they do, but it is to be re- membered that the reduction took place mostly in connection with single fares. There was little or no reduction in return fares, and, as country settlers generally require to take out return tickets, the reductions made are of very little benefit to them. Sir, what the country settlers want is that their produce should be carried at the lowest possible rate consistent with a fair rate of interest being paid on the cost of the railways. One thing wanted is an arrangement by which it will be possible for settlers who have different varie- ties of produce to dispose of to hire a wagon, and be charged for the wagon, instead of under the numerous headings connected with the present system, so long, of course, as a certain weight, which should be specified, is not exceeded. Such an arrangement would be a great con- venience to the farmers, and, I think, no loss to the community as a whole. Then, so far as the northern provincial district is concerned, mem- bers from Auckland know this : that agriculture cannot be carried on in the greater part of the Auckland Province without a literal use of bonedust or other artificial manures. And I think it would pay the department to make a substantial reduction in this class, even if not to carry artificial manures free altogether, be- causo it goes without saying that every ton of bonedust carried up the line means many tons of additional produce carried down the line. Then, there is great room for improvement in the speed of our railways. Take the train in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 which the district I represent is most inter- ested-that is, the train which leaves Mercer at about ten minutes to seven in the morning and arrives in Auckland at thirteen minutes to ten. The distance is only forty-three miles, and the time occupied being about three hours, gives as nearly as possible a fast and furious speed of fourteen miles an hour, even when up to time, which is not always the case. And this is a train used by country settlers, who go to town to do their business and want to get back the same day ; therefore time is of the utmost importance to them. I say that that journey from Mercer to Auckland ought to be done in two hours at the outside, and done in perfect safety and comfort. The line is a good one, and there is no difficulty in that way. Then, while I am talking about that train, there is another grievance in connection with it, and that is that on the occasion of holidays in Auckland, or race-meetings at Ellers- lie, the train, instead of leaving Auckland for Mercer at a quarter past four, is put back to about six o'clock, so that many of the settlers are very often put to the inconvenience of having to travel after dark long distances on bad roads to their homes. I do not object to people who . attend race - meetings or any other legitimate amusement being carried to their homes-it is quite right that they should be carried-but I sav there should be special trains for the purpose, or some better arrangement should be made than the present one. Sir, I think it Mr Massey is quite sufficient for me to mention that par- ticular grievance to the Minister for Railways, and I need not then dwell upon it further. Then, with regard to what are called work- men's tickets. The Minister knows-and he and I have had some considerable correspond- ence on this subject-they are made to apply only to trains which arrive at their destination by eight o'clock in the morning. But, as every member knows, many workers, male and female, are employed in shops, offices, and warehouses who go to work at nine o'clock, and just because they go to work at nine o'clock they are charged double the amount which those who go to work at eight o'clock are charged. That is not right. One is as much a worker as the other, and I think it is a fact that the average earnings of those who go to work at nine o'clock are less than those who go to work at eight o'clock. If there is a difficulty- and I believe there is, for it has been pointed out to me by the General Manager -it ought to be got over by issuing tickets only to wage-earners who earn under a certain wage. That, at all events, would be a more satisfactory state of things than charging one set of workers 2s. and another set 5s. for exactly the same service, and that is what is being done now. After ventilating the more important of my grievances, I want to say that I agree with the principle which has been laid down, that the railways should earn not less than 3 per cent., because there are many districts which are not tapped by railways, and if we make a loss on our railways the people living in those districts will be called upon to make up the loss by taxation, and I cannot think that would be right. I do think though that many reductions can be made and concessions given, and the rail- way revenue increased rather than diminished. Now, leaving the railways and coming to other matters, I regretted to hear yesterday afternoon, and to notice in this morning's paper, that a member of the House who represents an agri- cultural district made a most severe attack- denounced in the severest terms at his command, and that is saving a good deal -- the Farmers' Union and farmers' associations which are being formed throughout the colony. I refer to the honourable member for Masterton, Mr. Hogg. and the honourable member for Pahiatua fol- lowed his example only in a milder form. I happen to know some of the men who are taking a prominent part in connection with these organizations, and I will say this : that they are doing good and useful work, and doing it un- selfishly and well on behalf of the class to which they belong. These people see that by the legislation of recent years the country settlers are placed at serious disadvantage as compared with the city people. They see that the country settlers do not get their fair share of the earnings of the community. They see that the country settlers work harder, and longer hours, for less remuneration than any other class. They se that the country settlers are not getting a sufficient return on the capital they have it- vested. They have recognised that by union it may be possible to considerably improve the conditions of the farmers and country people ; 