fine scenery, and I admit there is magnificent was a splendid philanthropist. But what I say is this : We do not want to have these things. scenery, and that there is likely to be an im- We do not want on the one side lofty pinnacles portant tourist traffic cultivated ; but is it likely of wealth-men making millions out of their the tourists are going to travel through a tunnel fellow-creatures and amassing huge fortunes, in order to see the scenery ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The coal and timber. while alongside are the deep, low gullies- Mr. HOGG .- Well, that is an unknown the slums in our cities, the haunts of quantity, and until the value of that coal and poverty-where pestilence and destitution are ever to be found. We do not want to have timber can be clearly ascertained, and until these vivid contrasts in a country like this, and I there is undoubted evidence that that line is hope they will never be tolerated. Our greatest going to be profitable for other purposes besides merely for conveying passengers and tourists from security against the evils that are afflicting older one side of the Island to the other, I think that countries is a highly educated population. I trust the day is not very remote when not no more money should be spent on it. I cannot merely will our primary schools and our tech- say much about the coal and timber. nical schools be freely open to the children of An Hon. MEMBER .- Gold. Mr. HOGG .- I hope there is gold. I believe there is mineral wealth in those mountains ; but, all those who are fit to enter them. And when as far as agricultural and pastoral country is we have achieved such a result as that we may concerned, the less said about that the better. We have beautiful scenery there, but when you depend upon one thing : that New Zealand will dispose of that asset, as far as I can see, there be no laggard in the race amongst nations, but is very little left. Well, Sir, I am sorry to have the colony will shine resplendent before the civilised world as the brightest branch of the to speak of this line in the terms I do, but I ask British Empire. honourable members not identified with the districts concerned, who can form an impartial of all, Sir, to congratulate Captain Russell opinion such as I believe I have been able to form, if they are not convinced, to go and see on the speech that he delivered to this House for themselves what I have witnessed. If they last night, if it be not presumption on my do so, I believe they will come back with almost part to do so. Though he said some things precisely the same opinion as I hold. There is that stung pretty deeply, still one can admire another direction in which I think the Govern- when one sees the surgeon apply the scalpel, even though it be painful to " the other fellow." ment are inclined to be fairly liberal, and it is a very important direction. The work was so skilfully done, so nicely done, They have been doing what they can to assist our schools, to that even those who had to smart under some improve our system of education, and to facili- of the words must have appreciated them ; and tate technical instruction. I need hardly say if ever there was an answer to the remarks that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that. in my opinion, public money could not have been made with regard to that honourable possibly be spent in any more important direc- gentleman as to his being no "fighter," I think tion than that. The foundation, the basework, his speech last night was a complete answer to of a young nation depends almost entirely on the the charge that has been bandied about from lip quality of the education that the young receive. to lip and from newspaper to newspaper in this If you have an educated people you may depend colony. Sir, it reflects very small credit indeed on it that you will have wise laws and good legis- on the remnant of the party of which Captain lation, and that you will have every branch of Russell has been an ornament for so many years industry carefully and well cultivated. You will that they have resolved no longer to have a have the hidden resources of the country brought leader. Perhaps it is appropriate under the cir- to light, and you will have every possible means cumstances ; but I think they would have been adopted by the people to so regulate their affairs wiser if they had not listened to the clamour as to bring about universal comfort and pro- against Captain Russell on the plea that he was sperity. I do not wish, for one, to see in New "no fighter." The fact is that the honourable Zealand the state of affairs that is witnessed in gentleman has for years past supported many of the older countries of the world, where there are the best measures of the Liberal Government in huge mountains on the one hand in the form of this country. We all know he was one of the millionaires, such as you see in America, some firmest supporters of the labour-laws. of them making a very good disposition of their stands to his credit recorded in the parliament- wealth, no doubt - men like Carnegie, who de- ary history of this country, and there is no serve to be honoured, and almost deserve to be doubt that he has realised, as any thoughtful worshipped. man must have realised, that what the Govern- An Hon. MEMBER .- Ob ! ment has been doing- or, at any rate, much of Mr. HOGG .- Yes, we have men-worshippers, it - has been for the amelioration of the people and a good many too; and, I say, if any men of this colony, and has been most successfully are to be worshipped the man who should be carried out by the Government. No doubt he chiefly esteemed by his fellow-men is the man has differed from some of the methods of the who, having acquired wealth, turns it to the Government. very best practical purposes. matters are far apart ; but I dare venture to say An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Peabody ? that there has been and is a certain amount Mr. HOGG .- Well, of course, there have been of sympathy between Captain Russell and the others besides Carnegie, and Peabody, no doubt, members of the Liberal party in this colony, VOL. CXVI .- 6. rich and poor, but our secondary schools 8.0. and our universities will be available to Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I desire, first That His ideas and theirs in some 