those whom he has so faithfully led; and, | bers on that side of the House voting for a State coal-mine. How they would enjoy it ! in a great measure, if left to his own I fancy I see them voting for the prevention judgment, I have no hesitation in saying his of monopolies. How they will enjoy it ! Their party would never have been in the unfortunate faces will be a picture of merriment, and they position we find it in to-day. He has taken to his counsel and he has taken to his bosom follow ; we can follow him with confidence, and vipers who sting him. They were once upon this side of the House; but, Sir, the happiest represent the people of this country." May I day that ever happened to the Liberal party was when they left it. My honourable friend to the land-for-settlement policy,- regrets now, no doubt, that he was not careful of the company he kept. The position is not changed from last session at all. The leader of the Opposition last session officially intimated to me that his party had decided that they would not elect a leader, and that he was not the leader of the Opposition, only he did not stand up in the House and tell the House and leader of the Opposition-the honourable mem- country so. It was so; and he officially and properly intimated that to me. We got over it, capable of taking his place. The first mate and the country and the business of the House went on very well. I do not think the simple announcement that the Opposition are not able to agree amongst themselves as to who is to be leader is in the slightest degree going to inter- fere with the business of the country. And to some of my young friends on this side of Statement we say that the land-for settlement policy is to be vigorously pursued-in other the House I would say, " Do not be off your guard." The members occupying the Opposi- tion benches, by not speaking on this Address, imagined our friends would be tempted to ad- versely criticize. They have read in the papers trict has been at a standstill - that in five -those papers which, I regret to say, mislead them, and ofttimes mislead the country-that years there has only been an increase of a thousand in the population. Then, I say, Sir, there was within the great Liberal party seeth- that demands that there should be a vigorous ing discontent. "Give them the opportunity, carrying-out of the land-for-settlement policy. and you will see member after member assailing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the Government." Well, Sir, last session we that but the honourable member for Hawke's allowed this debate to go by default. This ses- Bay? But I am dubious whether the honour- sion every opportunity is being given to the able gentleman will walk into the lobby to vigor- members of the Liberal party, and I say, as ously support the land-for-settlement policy. leader of this party, that there has always There was wholesale plundering of the Natives been the greatest latitude and the greatest of their land in years gone by ; but, of course, freedom of debate allowed. We have listened to the speeches of members on this side of the that is now outside the question, and we must buy those lands and pay for them at a fair price, House who have done their duty to the country. There are matters that require to be mentioned, for no Minister and no Ministry is perfect ; and, I say, in the multitude of counsellors children may live on it; and that closer settle- there is wisdom. We, as a Ministry, are only the mouthpieces and only the representatives demand in a fair and equitable manner. Then of the members who support us, and they in we should have to have Government steamers. turn are representing the great masses of the people of this country. Under these conditions, and with that position defined, the situation at the present moment is this: colony and place the producers of the colony in the Opposition dare not challenge any single item in His Excellency's Address. If they think by not debating it they are going to creep out of their responsibility they are making a great mistake. They are not going to debate it : are they going to vote for it ? Well, I will give them the opportunity. They may, however, do as they have done be- fore-leave the Chamber. If, then, Sir, they your produce at the lowest possible rates, aiding vote for what we call the Address in Reply, they will only be equal with honourable mem- bers on this side of the House, who also will support it. But, imagine some of those mem- will say, " At last we have a man we can believe every single word he says ; and we, too, say to the leader of the Opposition, with respect An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is the leader of the Opposition ? Captain RUSSELL .- The honourable mem- ber for Riccarton. Mr. SEDDON. - What's in a name? I should think, after reading the speech of the senior member for Wellington City as to the ber for Hawke's Bay -- that he was the only one naturally expects to take the captain's position .. However, Sir, rather than there should be any difficulty in that respect, if they will only meet and unanimously agree to ask me to send them a leader, I will do so occasionally. In this words, we find, Sir, that in the Wairarapa dis- trict more land is required, and also in the Hawke's Bay District. And if you look at the census returns you will see that that dis- And who should walk into the lobby and support and continue the policy of the greatest good for the greatest number. The land is there; and our policy should be that men, women, and ment is demanded, and we should meet that It is plain to me-and it is all in this Statement -it is as plain to me as noonday that if we are to meet the requirements of the people of the a proper position we must have steamers that will carry our products to the various ports of the world. We can afford to build or pur- chase steamers ; and we can get our money as cheaply as any shipbuilding company in the world. I say that these ships can be manned and maintained by the colony equally as well as they can by private enterprise ; and if you carry and assisting your railways on the land, 9.30. the result will be that your producers will be masters of the situation, instead of, as at . 