am talking about, pointed out to the House how conservative, how prohibitive, were the ; further refer to it, except to say that, between American navigation-laws. I pointed out that while we, in our foolish magnanimity, per- mitted American vessels to come here with cargo for Wellington, Lyttelton, Dunedin-aye, and Auckland-and to peddle the various por- tions of that cargo coastwise, like any other coastal vessel, a British vessel similarly situated was compelled to discharge every ounce of her cargo at the first American port she touched at. The American said in effect, " We will do our own coastal carriage, and if you have goods for more than one American port we will carry that portion to the other ports ourselves." But we use still our national boast that " Britannia rules the waves." It is high time that lying motto was taken down, when we have got to subsidise foreign bottoms to carry British mails, goods, and passengers. The remedy was pointed out by my friend Mr. Massey, who, quoting from the words of an Australian speaker, told us what they had done in Canada. We want to play the same game as they. We want to say, " If you are going to trade from San Francisco via Honolulu to Auck- land and Sydney, or any other Australian port " -and this is a question in which we ought to ask the co-operation of our great Australian neighbours-"you shall do similarly as you compel us to do in your country." Again, in this connection, if this colony does not seek better measures for her own protection than what at present is done the alternative route for the carriage of our mails to Vancouver will also be subject to the same disabilities as at present attaches to British steamers calling at Hono- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 lulu on the route to San Francisco. Now, this is a matter that I refer to quite free from party bias or rancour, in the strong and sincere hope that Ministers will set themselves to work and, without inviting the hostility of our cousins in America, bring them to their bearings, because they are exceedingly amenable to any argument with dollars behind it. It is the dollar 1.0. that speaks in America, of all countries in the world, and if we can show them they will be at a disadvantage in dealing with us- such a disadvantage as they compel us to sub- mit to-we may treat ; but until that is done there is no doubt that, with the complexity of American politics and the far-reaching in- fluence of rings, trusts, combines, and the great moneved interests, the most friendly disposed legislators in America are absolutely impotent beside the greater influence outside their House. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay made a speech in this debate that was concise and brilliant. He put the position of those who are opposed to the Government clearly and emphatically, as he believed he had put it last year, and, although there may have been many members who did not then grasp the import of his words, there was at least one here who, according to his own admission, fully un- derstood the significance of the statement made by the honourable gentleman ; but, like the per- feet master of fence that he is, he parried it, and went on as of yore. As the member for Hawke's Bay has put the case exhaustively, I need not that honourable gentleman and every member of the Opposition who sit on this side of the House, there is the most complete trust and confidence and friendship. There is nothing of an unplea- sant nature, nothing ungracious, no bones broken, none sticking in the throat. We have taken the action we did in the interests of the country. We believed it was necessary that in the criticism of affairs some aid should be given to us. Mem- bers of the House have accepted the position, and have themselves said they felt the necessity of free and frank criticism of the legislation of the Government. As long as we were a party with cohesion in our ranks and could be used as the fulcrum under the lever of that great mover of heavy weights, the Premier. he was satisfied. His side refrained from aiding us because of the terror he raised by the crack of the party whip. But now the position is this: that the Opposition is once more resolved into its constituent parts, and the legislation of the session may be fairly debated on its merits from all parts of the House. There will be no more use for the long-handled lever. My re- spected and learned friend from Auckland, Mr. Napier, was indignant at the insinuation that his party could not, and did not, influence and control the legislation of the Ministry. That is quite a recantation of the views expressed by him in the city he represents, for, if he is correctly reported, these are the words he uttered to his constituents during the recess :-- "The first thing that struck him during bis first few weeks in Parliament was that, accord- ing to the ideas he had formed of parliamentary government, and according to what was laid down by constitutional writers, parliamentary government did not exist in New Zealand." . Strong terms, my masters. He goes on to say, - " According to the Constitution of New Zea- land, the people of New Zealand were supposed to be supreme in the government of the country. The Ministry was supposed to be a committee of the representatives of the people, to obey the representatives of the people and carry out their desires. That was a complete myth. The measures were concocted and devised by the Ministry, and members were supposed to accept them unintelligently." Is there anything more emphatic than that? "The measures were concocted and devised by the Ministry, and members were supposed to accept them unintelligently." Could I give you a greater condemnation of the sentiments so finely expressed by the honourable gentle- man here the other night ? He further says,- "The consequence was that the country was governed practically by a bureaucracy. An in- dividual member, or even a number of members, could not do much to resist the Ministry. The conditions of work were so opposed to common- sense and so much beyond physical endurance that, unless by a large body of the members, successful resistance of anything that might be bad was impossible." You see there is no question here of con- 