landlord in New Zealand! What does that mean ? It can only mean one thing, that they will dispossess everybody, whether he owns a quarter-acre section in the towns or a tract of country in a rural district. The intention of the Government, if they possibly can, is to nationalise the land, and, if it is not so, I would like to know why they are sitting upon Who was the distinguished those benches. gentleman who gave them their first standing in this colony ? Mr. Ballance. And was he not the father of land-nationalisation in New Zealand ? Were they not humble disciples of his? If it had not been for Mr. Ballance's ability we should never have heard of one of those honourable gentlemen. It was Mr. Bal- 11.0. lance's mana that first placed them on the Treasury benches, and he was esentially a land-nationaliser, and Ministers advocate the same theory. Now, I would ask, are those persons who have been induced by the Govern- ment to take up land under various leasehold tenures to remain State serfs on the land ? Are the men who have been given a lease of 999 years likely to agree to that lease, ever increas- ing in value, being subjected to a perpetual pro- cess of revaluation ? I affirm there is no single man who lives on a farm-or 1 do not know him, at any rate, if there is-who will not vote against the Government wanting to so rob him of the value of his self-denial and improvements. Do the honourable gentlemen think that the Crown tenants are going to submit for ever to being made subject to the whims of the theorists who live under the shine of the gas-lamps? I can tell them of many instances of men who are supposed to have supported the Govern- ment because they acquired their land under the leasehold tenure, but who have since said, " We are going to vote for the Opposition, be- cause they are going to give us the freehold." And the demand for freehold will grow stronger and stronger as sure as we endeavour to legis- late in this Chamber against it : and the day will come when the people resident in the country will refuse to be any longer under the domination of the theorist. Then, instead of the theoretical politician in the towns, it will be the practical country farmer who will have his say in legislation dealing with the tenure of the land, which he has created by his work, and on which the prosperity of the colony entirely rests. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - I propose, first of all. Sir, to reply to almost the last statement made by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, and I can- not help admitting that I feel distinctly sad at the attitude taken up by the honourable mem- ber, considering the speech that he made in this House a short time ago. In the first place, we heard the honourable gentleman arguing with a great deal of force: we heard him putting before the House propositions to the effect that as soon as the Government have acquired all the large estates that are still to be acquired they will then turn round and acquire the small estates that are left, and will swallow up the whole of the land, and become, as he | for Wairarapa in his speeches in this House ai- Captain Russell described them, land-nationalisers. I should like to point out to the honourable gentleman how absolutely inconsistent that remark of his is with the speech we heard him make recently. We heard him describe the absolute failure of the Government in regard to its land - for- settlements scheme in the acquisition of pro- perty. In one breath he tells us the acquisition of property by the Government is a failure, and that it was an altogether wrong principle upon which the Government are acting in acquiring land. He argued, first of all, that the acquisition of land under the land-for-settlements system has been a failure; and yet, in the very same breath, he tells honourable members that be feels quite sure the Government will go on acquiring large estates until they have eaten them all up, and then they will go on acquiring the smaller estates that are left. Does the honourable member mean tosay that the Govern- ment are going to discover at once, or very soon. that the acquisition of land for private settle- ment is a failure, and that, notwithstanding its glaring failure, therefore they are going to keep on acquiring not only large estates, but also the smaller estates as well. Which is correct? Are the Government going to be satisfied that their policy is a wrong polier? The honourable gentleman prophesies -- not Cassandra-like, because Cassandra prophesici. and was laughed at, and yet her prophesie proved to be true-the honourable member prophesies that the Government will go on ac- quiring land, and then afterwards that they will not acquire. What is the meaning of it ? Surely one statement or the other must be incorrect. I leave honourable members to say which is the incorrect statement. I want to reply new to the remarks made with a good deal of heat and vehemence by the member for Wairarapa, and I wish to show that honourable member that one or two of the statements he has made in reference to the Government land valuers are absolutely incorrect. I propose to deal shorth with his statement, first of all, in regard to land valuations, and I regret, and I am sure every member here will also regret, the statement made by him in regard to that department. One feels a kind of diffidence in discussing the way in which the honourable member puts ans grievances, or the grievances of his constitu- ency, before honourable members. Dooleysaid. " Hennessey, my man, a wet eye means a dry heart." That is to say, that when an honour- able member complains and constantly whites about the grievances of his particular district he does not carry conviction into the mines of honourable members, and his words liv the weight they would otherwise carry. Now. the honourable gentleman has a mind of his own, as every one of us has; he has his own Wonderful! right, his own power of speech. is his power of repartee and rhetoric. He has his own power of expressing his thoughts. and of finding fault, and he told the House he had got a grievance against the Valua- tion Department. Honourable members will agree with me that the honourable member 