<!-- PageNumber="1901.]" --> which we have made in this direction during amount of these exports they have the ear of the Cabinet. And why have they the ear the past twelve years :- of the Cabinet: and why have they made their power felt in the House? Because they have united on a common platform. The farmers have now found it absolutely necessary to move in the same direction, and they are determined to have the ear of the Cabinet and of members of the House. Who works harder than the farmers, their sons, wives, But Denmark still has taken £6,800,000 for and daughters? They are endeavouring to be independent, and they are self-reliant. They butter supplied in the same year to the London market. She is the smallest producing country, should be commended and encouraged for their thrift and industry. The State should lend but exports the most and commands the best price in the market. Victoria had a splendid them a helping hand. I am satisfied that, year in 1900 on account of the rain, but that although the Farmers' Union has been con- demned by two members of the House, when does not always happen ; and Canada is very they are thoroughly united we shall find the heavily handicapped by her long severe winter Premier becoming their leader and throwing months, so that we are fast overhauling Canada. Russia has become a vigorous butter-producer, some of the sickly city unions, who are always but has been unable as yet to maintain high wanting and never satisfied, overboard, and quality ; but from late returns the quality has saving to the farmers, " You are the backbone very much improved. She has, however, to of the country, you are the foundation on which contend against a very severe winter. France the prosperity of the country rests ; therefore, last year exported over two million pounds' come along my boys, I will help you all I can." worth of butter. We have no need to fear any The farmers have no objection to the unions in of these countries, however, except Denmark. the towns. The workers in the towns think We shall have to fight hard to beat the careful they are wise in their generation ; they have and industrious Danes ; and I am satisfied that unions, and why not? They have a right to look after their own interests, and they do look in the course of a few years, providing the car- riage to the port of shipment and freights to the after them. They have their conciliation and markets of the world are reasonable, we will be arbitration. Why should not the farmers unite able to come very near them. At the close of the aiso ? No honourable man, I am satisfied, year 1899 there were 152 butter-factories in New would object to them uniting. However, the Zealand, of which eighty-five were in Taranaki, farmers are the best judges of their wants and eighteen in Wellington, sixteen in Otago, and requirements. They know what they are about, fourteen in Auckland. and they do not require either advice or assist- https://hdl. handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788238 fore see that Taranaki is the great dairying ance from the honourable member for Master- district of the colony, and therefore a dairy ton or from the honourable member for Pahia- school should be established somewhere in that tua. They know by uniting they will get more district. When I learned that the Government attention paid to their wants and requirements. There is not the slightest doubt in my mind had purchased Mr. Livingston's estate in the neighbourhood of Hawera, I at once communi- that every member that represents a country district will see they have prompt attention. I cated-on the 3rd June-with the Agricultural Department, to the effect that the mansion- am sorry to see that two members who repre- house and offices, together with a sufficient sent the country have made such a violent attack on the farmer, and I am quite satisfied area of ground, should be set apart for a dairy school and a stud-stock station, and that in a short time they will change their advising the department to retain a por- opinions and advocate the Farmers' Union. tion for the purpose indicated. On the 12th Now, there is another important matter I should like to bring before the House, and that June I received an answer informing me that is in reference to the dairy industry. I think the matter would receive consideration, since which I had an interview with the Minister on the dairy industry has made great progress in this country, and we should be very proud of the subject. There is a great future for the dairying industry of New Zealand, and I am what our people have done in such a very short time. It is only a few years ago since the Danes satisfied that Taranaki will be able to maintain and Swedes had full control of the English the premier position in the future as she has market, but it is not so at the present time. In done in the past, providing that she gets fair-play. 1800 the United Kingdom produced 85,000 tons I also wish to bring before the Minister the of butter, and they imported 169,492 tons, and matter of the New Plymouth Harbour. For New Zealand supplied 6,800 tons of this ; and in some years past it has been the habit of the 1898 we only exported 4,800 tons. In the ten Government to nominate all the nominee mem- months ending October, 1900, we landed in bers of the Board at the New Plymouth end, to British ports 50 per cent. more than we did in the exclusion of the country settlers. This, I the record shipments of 1899; so that when the think, is very unjust. The Board has nine returns for 1900 are completed we shall find members, and the district is divided into six that we exported last year butter to the amount districts, each of which returns one member of over a million. You will notice by the and pays harbour-rate. figures which I will give the great advance £1,307 8s. ; Taranaki East. 21,071 10s. ; Tara- 197,170 1888 366,483 1894 .. .. 1889 213,945 1895 378,510 .. .. 1890 207,687 411,882 1896 . . .. 1891 236,933 553,122 1897 . . . . 1898 539,466 1892 318,204 .. . . 713,617 354,271 1893 1899 . . . . Members will there- Hawera Riding pays 