taxation heaped upon them, and they will form a union and say, " We will pay no more rent." That is what is going to happen. I heard some remarks in the House condemning the farmers for forming a union. There is a movement throughout New Zealand in that direction ; farmers are going to form them- selves into unions, and if we keep on taxing them in this way you will find before many years the Government will get very little Crown rent from these farms. The Premier may laugh- Mr. SEDDON .- I was only saying that the unions you refer to are only the National Asso- ciation under another name. Mr. R. THOMPSON. - The honourable gentleman is wrong. Personally, I am not con- nected with them ; but that is not the point. There is a movement in this direction, and the result will be, if things go on as they promise to do, in a very short time we shall have a strike, not against work, but against paying rent ; that will be the end of it. I say the people who have gone on the land and have been clearing bush are not going to work sixteen hours a day for a bare living, while everybody else in the towns work eight hours, draw high wages, and enjoy themselves. I intend to vote for the second reading, because I can see plainly what is going to happen ; but, depend upon it, before long the Government will find that other mea- sures will have to follow this. Sir, the more burdens that are heaped on the country settler the better ; it will simply hasten what is coming about : and I can assure the Govern- ment that. unless something is done to protect the farmers in the way I suggest, before many years the Crown tenants will take a very decided step that will astonish whatever Go- Vernment may be on those benches. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) .- Representing a country constituency as I do, I do not think I should be doing my duty if I were to record a silent vote upon the Bill under discussion. have always been in favour of the principle of " Eight hours' work, eight hours' play, eight hours' sleep, and eight bob a day "; that I believe to be fair. Now, Sir, it is not possible, in my opinion, that this Bill can serve any good purpose in its present form, unless it enables me to say that I do not think there is the slightest necessity for the interference of the legislator with the settlers, who are producing about a million and a half pounds' worth of wealth in this country in the form of butter and cheese. There is no necessity for legislative interference between the parents and their children who are working on their farms, milking the cows, and generally conducting the business of dairying. I am astonished to hear the statements made by members that children are compelled to work sixteen hours a day, and that they are being badly treated. I have heard it stated outside the House; I have seen it in public print ; I have seen words to the effect that the parents of these children were practically treating them brutally. Now, that is absolutely incorrect, and no such statement can be proved to be true, and every word that has been said against these settlers treating their children badly in the matter of making them work overtime and laboriously is not only a misstatement, but no specific case has ever been made public that I could mention on the floor of this House, and I prefer to deal with facts instead of generalities. In the dis- trict I have the honour to represent there is one of the largest and best butter-factories in the colony-that is at Rongotea ; and if honourable members wish to see what prosperity is I advise them to visit Rongotea ; to go any day of the week, at any hour of the day, and see there what I say without fear of contradiction to be the case, the finest, best, and most healthy rising population that you could find in any part of the world. An Hon. MEMBER. - There are no hotels there. Mr. STEVENS .- There are hotels within a reasonable distance ; but, be that as it may, it is certainly safe to say that the country settlers of New Zealand who are engaged in the dairy industry are not badly or harshly treated in any way whatever. There are some poor little creatures I see in the back slums of some of the larger cities who would benefit very largely if they had an opportunity to go into the country and be employed in the dairy industry. Well, Sir, with respect to limiting the labour of per- sons employed in tending horses and cattle, or in milking cows, or shearing sheep, and so forth, to my mind, it appears that it would be almost impossible, for this reason : Assuming that you require to shear your sheep, and you have a muster of two or three thousand sheep, when- ever the weather is fine, and during the long days of summer when the shearers turn out in the morning, it is their business and their pleasure, and it is also the wish of the owner of the sheep, to have the sheep shorn so that they might be turned back on to the run and not be starved to death. Wherever stock and agri- culture are to be dealt with in the matter of I labour, we ought to be very careful indeed that we do not in our kindness do an irreparable injury to those persons who are most concerned in the matter. Now, there is one other ques- tion which has arisen, and it is this : there is not a single honourable gentleman who has spoken in favour of the Bill who has offered any good reason why this Bill should apply to dairying and agriculture. There has not been an agricultural servant that I know of who has written to any one to say that he is overworked : and, that being the case, I hope the House will pause before it passes this Bill into law in its present form. I wish it to be clearly under- stood that I am as strongly in favour of the principle of eight hours, as being a fair day's work, as any other member in this House, and during the whole of the legislation that has passed through this Chamber for the ameli- oration of the working-man or the working- woman, while I have had the honour of a seat here, it has always had my most earnest support, and always will have it. At the same time, I do hope we will guard jealously indeed the rights and privileges of the small farmer, 