government. I do not approve of this constant | pared to defend the productions of their work interposition of the central authority in the af- fairs of local bodies. I believe, myself, that when the Education Act created Boards of Education the Parliament and the country had confidence in the bodies that would be elected by the votes of the School Committees, and I believe that that confidence still exists. I feel satisfied that the Boards of Education are doing work which it would be impossible for this Parliament to do ; that we have gentlemen with very detailed knowledge of local circumstances on those Boards who devote, without any fee or remuneration of any kind. a very large portion of time to the administration of the education system of this country ; and I say that to pass an Act of this kind, even though it may contain a mere empty threat, would be an insult to every Education Board in the colony. Now. the concluding remark in the Premier's speech was one with which I have great sympathy-namely, that the cadet corps attached to State schools should be under the direction of the Defence authorities. There are cadet corps in the colony at the present time doing excellent work, and I thoroughly believe in the training of cadets of a suitable age in military exercises, so that the ranks of the Volunteers may be replenished by them, and as the cadets leave school they may be drafted into the ranks of the Volunteers. But that is a very different thing from training children eight years old in military drill as this Bill proposes to do. Then, section 3 says that the Education Board of each district shall from time to time, with the approval of the Governor https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 in Council, make regulations and orders. Why should the Education Boards require the ap- proval of the Governor in Council, which means the approval of the Minister ? Why should the members of those local bodies have their re- gulations-even supposing the Bill were passed into law - subjected to the censorship of the Minister of the day? It practically deprives them of the power of administering the Act. Section 4 says that every Education Board shall furnish a quarterly report to the Minister of Education showing that the requirements of this Act and the regulations made thereunder are being complied with : but it does not say that they shall furnish a quarterly report if the regulations are not being complied with. The Bill proceeds on an assumption that the Educa- tion Boards will carry it out, and there is no compulsion from the first clause to the last. As I have said, I am quite in favour of every practical step to place our power of defence on a better footing- as honourable members are by this time probably aware- - and I have done my utmost to see that the work of perfecting our defences is not lost sight of : but, at the same time, I do say that it would not promote the best interests of this country if we allow the minds of the rising generation to be dominated with a military spirit. Nations do not live by militarism, but by work, and it is the advantage of work, and the duty of work, and the nobility of work that we ought to impress upon the minds of the rising generation. It is, of course, necessary that they should as adults be pre- and their fatherland, and I do not think that the children of this country will ever be wanting in that respect. Then. again. I object to the Bill because it suggests that the young men of the colony are incapable of defending their mothers, sisters, wives, and sweethearts. I say it will be time enough for the girls to qualify for military service when the young men show themselves incapable of doing so. I, of course, agree with that portion of the Bill referring to physical drill, but physical drill is being taught now. It is universally done in the district I come from. and I understand from honourable members that it is being done throughout the colony. There is no necessity, then, for this provision. and we should not legislate until the necessity arises. I would like to refer to one remark made by the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs in support of. I think, an argument used . by the honourable member for Kaiapoi, that the British Empire was made by war and existed by war. That is not the case. Professor Seeley, who is one of the greatest authorities on the subject of the growth of the British Empire. in the " Expansion of England." his well-known work. at page 96. refers to some of the important causes for the expansion of the British Empire. and he shows that it was not an empire created by conquest. Anybody who reads the lectures will see the system of reasoning, and the extra- ordinary fund of learning and facts he produces to support his contention. The Empire was not created by conquest. the only exception being India, and he shows that this was not really an exception, because we conquered India as much by trade as by war. He says this. -- " England has not been thus distracted le- tween two objeets. Connected but slightly with the European system since she evacuated France in the fifteenth century, she has not since then lived in chronic war with her neighbours. She has not hankered after the Imperial Crown. or guaranteed the Treaty of Westphalia. When Napoleon, by his Continental system, shut hor out from Europe, she showed that she could do without Europe. Hence her hands have always been free, while trade of itself inevitably drew !ier thoughts in the direction of the New World. In the long-run this advantage has been de- cisive. She has not had to maintain a Fu- ropean ascendancy, as Spain and France have had ; on the other hand, she has not had to withstand such an ascendancy by mortal conthet within her own territory as Holland and Por- tugal and Spain also have been forced to do. Hence, nothing has interrupted her, or inter- fered with her to draw her off from the qui t progress of her colonial settlements." Sir, the expansion of England and the growth of the British Empire have been due to the sturdy spirit of the early pioneers of coloni-i- tion, and to the fact that British citizens baxo gone out into the primeval forest - even before the flag was there, and the flag has been con- pelled to follow them-and carved out homes and developed the resources of new lands. T ... British Empire indisputably has not grown to by methods of warfare. The flag has in every 