Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not know why it should not. Sir J. G. WARD .- Because the provisions are entirely different. Mr. J. ALLEN .- But in that case malinger- ing could occur also, and so there is no reason why independent medical examination should not be ordered in all cases. I gather it is to apply only to the Government. Surely the Act should apply in cases in which claims for com- pensation are made against others as well as against the Government. Sir J. G. WARD .-- That is so. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- The objec- tion I have to the Bill is perhaps only a Com- mittee objection, but I should like to know whether the honourable gentleman introducing the Bill intends that the Bill should apply to workmen who, instead of suing for compensa- tion for an accident under the Workers' Com- pensation Act, choose to sue under common law, or under the Employers' Liability Act. I should like to know whether it is the intention of the Government that it should apply to every one except those under the Workers' Compensation Act. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is so. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I should like, before he replies, to call the Minister's at- tention to the third clause, which is very drastic The word " compensation " in its operation. runs through the body of the Bill, besides being in its title. It is hardly the technical term in an ordinary action. Usually an action is not for compensation at all, but an action for damages. But this Bill is intended to apply to any form of action founded upon accident. The term " com- pensation " may cover everything, but it is not the ordinary term, nor is it the technical term. It might be desirable to add "damages." That would cover everything. Then, supposing a patient refuses to submit to examination, this clause 3 comes in :- " If the person injured refuses to submit him- self to such examination. or in any way ob- structs the same, his right to compensation under any Act or law shall be suspended, and all proceedings brought by him in respect of such compensation shall be stayed while such refusal continues." Is not that rather a drastic provision, to say that a claimant who resists examination shall be deprived of any remedy ? Obviously, these cases being ordinarily tried before a jury, it would be almost conclusive against any claimant to refuse to submit to an examination. In a great majority of cases that would practically be conclusive against the bona fides of a claim ; but it appears to me there may well be some cases in which, even after a Judge has ordered an examination, the jury should still be allowed to say that the claimant had some good reason for refusing to submit to examination. I put that, not dogmatically, nor with con- fidence, but I suggest to the Minister . to consider if he is not going a little too far in saying that the act of refusal should absolutely, without any discretion on the part of the Court or jury, deprive the claimant of his right to recover, and that if he refuses examina- tion he shall have no remedy at all in respect of his complaint. I would ask whether i: would not be better to leave to the Judge or the jury some discretion to remedy what might be perhaps, I admit, in a small minority of cases. an injustice. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - I cannot agree with the remarks of the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkin- son). I believe this Bill is necessary, and I will give one instance which I think will prove to most honourable members the advisability of passing the Bill into law. Some two years ago an action was taken in Wellington in which a man claimed $1,000 damages against a steam- ship company for injuries he said he had ro- ceived on account of a hawser breaking which attached a steamer to the wharf. The indivi dual who claimed damages claimed that he had suffered injuries to his head on account of the rope striking across his head and knocking hin down. There was a difficulty in getting him to submit to examination by a medical man at th- defendant's desire ; but quite by accident the defendants were informed that the plaintiff was blind of one eye. The eve was apparently a good one, but the defendants were informed that the plaintiff could not really see with the eve, and they felt that perhaps that infirmity had led to the damage. When the doctor gave evidence in the Court of the injury to the man's head, he was asked by the counsel for the defend. ant company whether it was a fact that the man. was blind in the left eye, and the doctor said " Yes." It had not come out in the examina- tion-in-chief at all, and the defendants only by chance were able to discover that the individual was blind on that side-a fact which materially affected the defendant's case. If the defend- ants could have demanded that a medical man should examine the individual who was making the claim for damages, that medical man would have made a complete examination in the fire instance. It may be that it was not observed by the man who was acting on behalf of the plaintiff. Sir, I think the Bill is necessary, and I congratulate the Minister on having brough: it forward. I think the instance I have men- tioned will be some argument in favour of the measure. Sir J. G. WARD .- Sir, I would like to point out to the honourable member for Weling. ton City (Mr. Atkinson) that the necessity for clause 3 will be apparent to him when I men- tion what has occurred in our own case in New Zealand. For instance, let us take the case of a railway accident, where people go away im- mediately afterwards to their homes, and when there is no opportunity to have them medically examined at the time. Under the existing law those people might refuse to permit an ex- amination by a medical officer who was act- ally sent to examine them. even though it were under an order of the Supreme Court. and ve: their claims for compensation would have to in considered and adjusted by the officers of the department and by the Government. We have 