with another upon the question of a change of Government in Fiji was liable to be imprisoned, and the worst feature of it was that the Magis- trates-and this was a point respecting which he knew honourable members opposite would support him-the worst feature was that the Magistrates there were simply under the com- What was complained mand of the Governor. of here, as a possible grievance, was rampant there, if they were to believe what they heard, which was almost incredible. If a Magistrate did not give a decision in accordance with the Governor's views the Magistrate got called over the coals. An Hon. MEMBER .-- I do not think you ought to say that. Mr. SEDDON could only say that they had it so reported-and it was undenied - that not only a Magistrate, but the Chief Justice had been called on the carpet by the Governor, and it had been demanded of him where he had called. and whom he had seen, and with whom he had been speaking. Not only was that so, but the Acting Chief Justice had been censured because he had allowed a native to go, against whom there had been no charge. It should not be forgotten that the Hon. Mr. Edlin held a very high position in the legal profession at Home, that he had been actually appointed to the position of Attorney-General of Fiji by the King, and that this gentleman had written to the Governor and had given to the world the fact that he felt so strongly upon the matter that he had resigned his position. When they had these facts before them, it was very natural they should think there was some- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 thing in it. When the Acting Chief Justice had been treated in that way, they might take it for granted the statements as to the Magis- trates, who held quite subordinate positions, were not without foundation, and it should be remembered that the appointment of Magis- trates was a matter solely in the hands of the Governor. Far be it from him to assail lightly any one holding so exalted a position as that held by the Governor of Fiji. He thought they ought to be very careful in these matters, and he would be the last to do any- thing of the kind rashly ; but they knew positively that, so far as this Ordinance was concerned, it was aimed at New Zealand, and at Australia. It was to stop self-government, or any change in the Government of Fiji at all. There was a great country there, with great op- portunities, and they were doing nothing in the way of developing it, and federation with New Zealand would be of great assistance to them. The interests of this colony were inseparably bound up with Fiji. They took nearly four hundred thousand pounds' worth of products of those islands every year. Mr. MONK .- Mostly one thing : the item of raw sugar for the refining works, Auckland. Mr. SEDDON said they might say what they liked, but he had no hesitation in asserting that it lay in the hands of New Zealand at any time to make Fiji a success or otherwise. What he . vernment did not at present propose to acquire complained of was that. after they in a consti- | all the freehold rights to the hot springs in the tutional and proper manner had expressed their Rotorua district. views, means like this should be used to pre- vent further discussion of the question between Europeans and Europeans, and Fljians and Fijians. That was subversive of liberty, and it appeared to him that wherever the British flag was flying they were entitled to look for freedom of speech and action. Mr. SPEAKER .- Is not this anticipating the discussion on the notice of motion on this day's Order Paper in your name ? Mr. SEDDON said he had been provoked into going perhaps a little further than he had intended, which was simply to give reasons why this paper should be laid on the table. At all events, he would say nothing further than to ask that the papers lie on the table. Honour- able members would then be in a better posi- tion when they came to the motion to deal with it. He should also get the correspondence upon the subject printed, and had asked His Excellency the Governor to permit the corre- spondence also to be laid on the table. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Governor's letter to you ? Mr. SEDDON said he had not any letter from the Governor. He intended to put full infor- mation before honourable members, and to have the matter discussed. It was a large question. and he hoped it would be discussed without feeling. At all events, this information was very valuable, and he hoped it would be laid on the table. Motion, "That the paper presented do lie on the table, and be printed," agreed to. Captain RUSSELL expressed the hope that when the other documents were laid on the table they would include a letter alleged to have been written to the Right Hon. the Premier by the Acting Colonial Secretary. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member referred to this as an "alleged " letter. Would the honourable gentleman say that he had not got a copy of it ? Mr. PIRANI .- I can give a copy. Mr. SEDDON. -- Ah ! I thought so. SANATORIUM AT ROTORUA. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Government, If they will take into considera- tion the question of further necessary improve- ment to the Sanatorium at the Hot Lakes, and of acquiring all frechold rights to the hot springs in the Rotorua district ? He desired to draw the attention of the Minister for Railways to the fact that the Natives owning springs in localities of the Hot Lakes made a charge of 4s. to visitors. He thought it would be much to the advantage of the colony if the Native title to these lands was extinguished and the Govern- ment had the sole control of so important an element to the progress of this colony as these springs. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said the : question of making considerable improvements in the various Government sanatoria in the colony was now being dealt with. The Go- 