rebate without having the consent of the Com- missioner or Receiver, in that case the tenant would have to make it good. THROUGH RATE FOR GRAIN. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will consider the question of charging a through rate for grain intended for shipment at Lyttelton, notwithstanding it is stored for a time at Christchurch or Addington, in order that more facilities be given to unload grain-wagons, and thus prevent the great delay in carriage of farmers' grain from country sta- tions through the long delay in return of wagons? This question had arisen in consequence of the great difficulty farmers in Canterbury experi- enced in forwarding their grain to Lyttelton during the past grain season. The railways had been practically blocked for weeks, and great loss of time had been incurred by the farmers. It was not a question of loading, because that was frequently done at night. If the trucks came up in the evening they were loaded during the night ; but in many cases on the branch lines, such as he was concerned with, the wagons had not come back for some days. He should probably be told that on one occasion there was a block of several days owing to the vessel for South Africa being delayed ; but the block had continued for six weeks, and had caused a great deal of difficulty and irri- tation by the mixing of grain-sacks belonging to different owners. It had been suggested by him, and other gentlemen who had a thorough knowledge of the working of the port, that if greater facilities were given for unloading the grain there, there would be no difficulty at all about the loading, and that even the present supply of wagons would almost cope with the grain traffic. but that owing to the limited area at Lyttelton it was not possible to do the shunting that would allow rapid unloading. He. for one, did not see that there could be any loss to the department in hauling the grain from Addington, so long as the settler agreed to pay the through rate : there could be no further cost to the department involved in hauling the grain from a siding at Addington than from a siding at Lyttelton to the ship's side. His con- tention was that, if they opened more sidings and more sheds for the delivery of grain, it would facilitate the working of the railways during the harvest season, and he therefore mentioned the matter, hoping the Minister would favourably consider the suggestion con- tained in his question. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) might say that the matter was by no means so easily given effect to as apparently the honourable gentleman thought was the case. If it were only the matter of stopping at Ad- dington or any other place for the purpose of discharging the trucks and taking them on again at a suitable time, the trouble would be easily got over, but it meant, if the suggestion was given effect to, two terminal stoppages, which, again, meant double shunting in every case-in the interior and again at the seaport. The honourable member would see that terminal charges were made all over the world, and that the rates were invariably higher for work of this sort than for carrying goods from point to point without a terminal charge. If there were, therefore, two terminal charges, it must necessarily be a greater cost to the farmer. He could assure the honourable member that this was a matter of great difficulty, and one that would involve a great deal of extra work on the Railway Department. When a steamer or steamers were at the port loading, it would mean sending special trains from Addington or elsewhere to the steamer, instead of having the short shunting at the port between 'the stores and the steamer and returning the empty trucks quickly for reloading. It could hardly be expected that that could be carried out with despatch if the grain was some miles away from the port. The honourable gentleman could see that, if a great quantity of grain had to be carried from the interior to the steamer, it would mean very considerable delay. The only way to get out of the difficulty was, in his opinion, that they should have further storage and siding facilities at the port, to enable a wider distribution on the arrival of the wagons into the stores there. It would be very difficult to make regulations that would apply to Adding- ton or Christchurch alone ; indeed, they would be required to apply to every station from which a farmer sent his grain. That would mean in every case double handling and double terminal charges. The grain rates were now very low, and he was afraid that if the suggestion con- tained in the question were to be given effect to it would mean the imposition of a higher rate than probably farmers would care to pay. It would doubtless in some respects be very con- venient if it could be done, but in practice he did not think it was desirable to effect such a change. RIFLES FOR VOLUNTEERS AND CLUBS. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere ; per Mr. Hardy) asked the Minister of Defence, When he expects to be able to arm the Volunteers with the .303 rifle; also, when he will be able to supply members of rifle-clubs with similar weapons, and at what price ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said that, as he had told the House the other day, these rifles were on their way, and as soon as they arrived and had been branded and numbered they would be distributed. They had first armed the North Island, and were now arming the South. As soon as the rifles arrived they had to be branded and numbered, and this was in progress at present. An Hon. MEMBER .- Magazine rifles ? Mr. SEDDON replied in the affirmative, and said that as fast as they were numbered they would be issued. RAILWAY PASSENGERS. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether any four pas sengers who book at ordinary rates can use, to the exclusion of the public, a carriage known as a " birdcage " without paying extra fare? The 