TRAINING-SHIPS. The Hon. Mr. REEVES asked the Minister of Education, If it is the intention of Govern- ment to establish one or more training-ships in the colony ? He did not think he need say anything upon this at the present time, as a motion was coming before the Council on the same subject very shortly. He would ask the question. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he took the opportunity when he was on "the other side " to go and see the training-ship at Sydney, and he was very pleased indeed with what he saw there. He was unable to say to- day what was the intention of the Government, but he could assure the honourable gentleman who asked the question that he was very favour- ably impressed indeed with the beneficial effect of such a training-ship, and he would be very glad indeed if we could establish something of the same sort in our harbour. VICTORIA COLLEGE SITE. The Hon. Mr. REEVES asked the Minister of Education, If any step has been taken to locate Victoria College on a permanent site? He pre- sumed he might be allowed to say a few words on the question. It was now four years since the passing of the Victoria College Act. Since then there had been repeated squabbling and repeated divergence of opinion amongst the people in Wellington as to where the college should be erected. It would be in the recollec- tion of the Council that last session he had moved a resolution to the effect that in consequence of the large want of business capacity on the part of the Governors of the College, and others interested in it, in not housing it in a proper way, the College should be established in Nelson. Of course, it went without saying that that was the proper place for it. Time, however, had passed by ; offers had been made to the Government of very suitable sites at a very small cost ; but no reply had been received, and he presumed the matter was in abeyance. The Government had taken no steps whatever to make the Governors select a proper site, and it was only a right and proper thing that on behalf of the Governors of the College they should at once i have been for some time watching the proceed- ings in connection with the liquidation, and determine where the institution was to be : housed. It was now in a most unsatisfactory position, being a sort of a peripatetic affair. i bring the question before Parliament, because having no location - or home, which was alto- gether unsatisfactory to the people of the colony and the province which was interested in the University. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, All would no doubt admit that there had been a i certain amount of difficulty in connection with . cerned in the bank, to enable them to get a this matter during the last three years, chiefly, , grasp of what the situation really is and has he thought, because of the unreasonable nature of the demands made on the Government by the College Council. From several points of view, it was impossible to grant what they wanted -- namely, the Mount Cook site. In the first place it was wanted for another purpose ; and in the second place the site would have been a white elephant to the Council if they had got it. Out of kindness, therefore, to them, it was better that the Government should stand fast as they did, and tell them they could not have it. He thought the Council were learning wisdom, and probably very shortly proposals would be made to the Government which the Government would be glad to fall in with. He desired to see the college established on a permanent site on such conditions as would enable them to have a local habitation and a home, which was very desirable. The Government would be only too glad to help in the matter; they had made certain offers, and he trusted the governing body were beginning to see that it was better to be reasonable and accept what they could get, than -like the infant in the Pears' soap advertisement -- be always wanting to get some- thing else. COLONIAL BANK LIQUIDATION. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .-- I move, That the Government be requested to take steps to ascertain the present position of the Colonial Bank liquidation, and to lay on the table of the Council at an early date such information as may be available. Sir, this motion is in sub- stitution of the question I put on the Order Paper the other day, but which I deemed it advisable to withdraw in order that I might by this process elaborate the question with which I intend to deal. It will be remembered that last session I put a question to the Minister on this subject, and received from him a reply which was shortly to the effect that the Govern- ment had no power of getting information -that they had nothing to do with the liquidating of the bank, and therefore it was not a matter which concerned them. Now, if it is said that I am somewhat too persistent in renewing the subject, I would ask leave to state in the first place that I have no personal interest what- ever in the liquidation. I have no shares. I have no immediate friends who have any, and therefore my position is one entirely of an independent nature, and I might say that it is not at all on my own initiative that I have brought the subject forward. But there are a large number of shareholders who some few of them have approached me from time to time with a view to inducing me to its present position is considered to be somewhat of a commercial scandal, if not somewhat of a Court scandal, inasmuch as there has been up to the present time no full or satisfactory ac- count given to the shareholders, and those con- been. Let me remind the Council that this is no small matter, but that a very large property is involved. something like from $300,000 to $400,000, which property appears in the eyes of a great many people to be left regardless of its fate in the hands of the Court. This seems to be somewhat inconceivable. I do not know in my own experience that there has ever been a 