half away. The residents felt the incon- venience of not having a railway-station very greatly, and desired that a flag-station be established there. Sir J. G. WARD ( Minister for Railways) said that the General Manager of Railways had re- ported upon the matter to the effect that the departmental officers did not consider the traffic likely to be done at Kelvin Grove would be sufficient to warrant the erection of a flag- station : and. apart from this, the site was a very unsuitable one for a station, and, being in a hollow, would make the starting of trains a matter of difficulty. Kelvin Grove was only a mile and a half from Terrace End, and was also within a short distance of the Wakaronga flag-station on the Napier-Palmerston line, so that the four or five settlers resident in the vicinity of Kelvin Grove were already very well provided with railway facilities. Mr. PIRANI .- There is no road to it. CLUB CHARTERS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will consider the advisability of issuing club charters in certain very special cases? He knew that in this matter he had the bountiful sympathy of the Colonial Secretary : but, notwithstanding that bounteous sympathy, he never seemed to get nearer to the object sought to be attained. The question, he ought to explain, was put in the in- terests of the Italian Club, the Garibaldi Club of Wellington, which stood on a very different footing from that of any other club. The https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 honourable gentleman himself had twice in the House admitted that. The Italian community in Wellington was a fairly numerous one, and they desired to enjoy their leisure and relaxation in their own premises and among themselves. They did not desire to frequent publichouses or ordinary working-men's clubs. They wished to maintain their own national club and to pass their evenings in their own national way. The honourable gentleman had explained to him on many occasions that Cabinet had passed a resolution not to issue any more club charters, which, he thought, was not an excessive exercise of authority on the part of Cabinet, but the case of the Garibaldi Club was a peculiar case, differing from all other ordinary club charters. It was a national club, as dis- tinet from an ordinary club. The Italians had premises of their own, they had everything re- quisite for club purposes, but they scrupulously wished to avoid any infringement of the law. Therefore they asked for a charter. They did not desire to bring themselves into contact with the police, or to violate any of the provisions of the Licensing Act. They desired to act with perfect freedom, but with every respect for the law. He thought that, under the circum- stances. the Government ought to yield, this being one of those very special cases in which the Cabinet might, with perfeet propriety, make an exception from the decision which it had arrived at upon general grounds. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said he proposed to make the position as clear as pos- sible, so that there would be no misunderstand- ing as to the attitude of the Government on this matter. If there was any club in the colony which ought to receive a charter it was the Garibaldi Club. They had a charter for- merly, but lost it owing to not having sent in an application in time to be allowed to continue it. The honourable member would recolect that Parliament had legislated on the licensing question, and when that Bill was before the House it was decided that there should not be any increase in the licenses of New Zealand, except on certain conditions as to the growth of population which were laid down by statute. It was not an ordinary decision of Cabinet. The House having affirmed that there was to be no increase in the number of licenses except on certain conditions, the Government, in his opinion rightly, decided that they had no autho- rity for issuing new club licenses without the sanction of Parliament, and until there was fresh legislation, and the House decided in the direction of allowing further club licenses, no club license excepting in accordance with the existing law would be issued to the Garibaldi Club or to any other club in the colony. He had previously explained to the honourable member that the Garibaldi Club was not exceptional, for many clubs in the colony had made similar applica- tions, with the difference that the Garibaldi Club had had a license before and lost it through the neglect of its then secretary. It was, no doubt, a very hard case from their point of view, but, as he explained, it was not a question of a decision of the Cabinet not to issue any fresh club licenses. The question was whether the legislation put on the statute-book by Par- liament was to be respected both as to the issue of club licenses as well as hotel licenses. He thought there was only one course, and that was to carry out the law. ACCOMMODATION AT CHRISTCHURCH RAILWAY-STATION. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Minister for Railways. If the improve- ments in the accommodation for parcels, luggage, and bicycles at the Christchurch Railway-station, which he said last session were contemplated, have as yet been car- ried out : and, if not. when such improve. ments would probably be made ? Last ses- sion he put a question on the Order Paper regarding this matter, and the Minister then stated that alterations.in connection with the accommodation for parcels, luggage, and bicycles at the Christchurch Station were contemplated. He noticed, however, that no alterations had been made so far. He wished to know if the department was still contemplating. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said it was intended to provide this accommodation last year, but owing to more urgent works it had had to be deferred. The work had. how- ever, been included in this year's schedule of works. CARRIAGE OF BICYCLES. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Minister for Railways, If the inquiries of the 