principle has stood the test of time; and that there, in one of the most highly educated de- mocracies in the world, where there is un- doubtedly government by the people and for the people, no proposal has been made repeal- ing the elective-Executive principle and return- ing to the old forms of government. Now, Sir, in listening to the speech of the Right Hon. the Premier this evening, one would have thought that he himself was strongly in favour of party. His speech was a laudation of party government. But what the Premier wants is not party government as a principle, but he wants all one party, and him to be head of it. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- That is what he has got. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- But if the Premier were consistent in his allegation that all the legislative blessings we have are the result of the party system, surely it would be a part of his programme to encourage the existence of another party as a counterpoise or balance to the predominant party led by him. But what is the honourable gentleman's practice? No sooner is there the slightest move in any part of the colony for the purpose of creating any- thing that can be called a second party than he is there with his dragoons endeavouring to sweep the whole thing away. What happened only a few nights ago at Pahiatua ? In this Island a movement has been started for the purpose of combining the farmers in defence of their particular interests. But directly it is started the honourable gentleman sees in such a proposal something that may result in the creation of a stronger party than the Opposition https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 party which now exists, and which might have the effect of uniting on the other side of the House a powerful body of men. Does he want party government, then ? Not a bit of it. Yet. Sir, if the party system is to continue, 3 second and powerful party in the State is absolutely necessary as a complement. But that is not the party government the Premier wants, for no sooner does such a move as that take place than away the honourable gentleman hies himself to Pahiatua, and there makes proposals of an exceedingly taking and attractive character to prevent another party rising up : thus showing that, whatever the other side were prepared to do for the farmers, the Government and the Premier are prepared to go one better. What is his object ? It is that he wishes to prevent party government in the sense of there being two parties in the State, but he wants the whole House to be one party, as I have said already, with him as the head of it, and in a position to manipulate the political machine. I remember very well a speech that was made by the Hon. Mr. Reeves, who supplied the Minister for Railways with a very large part Mr. Reeves I re- of his speech this evening. member standing at those benches on one occasion and saying that he thought an Opposi- tion was an exceedingly good thing, provided it was not too strong ; and I think there is a great deal in that remark. Now, the Premier asked, in the course of his address, who had demanded the elective Executive. He said that the sole issue at the last election was whether the policy of the Liberal party was to be continued or not. I am prepared to admit that always at a general election the existence or the destruction of the Government of the day is the primal question that is submitted to the electors. And upon that test the Government undoubtedly swept the polls, although, to be fair and accurate, if the exact number of votes that were recorded for the two parties in the State were placed side by side and compared they do not represent the rela- tive strength of parties in this House. That must be admitted by every one who analyses and studies the statistics of the last election. To this House there was an overwhelming majority of members returned to support the Liberal policy ; but, as regards the actual number of votes recorded in the colony for Conservative and Liberal, the difference is not so great as is represented in this House. That, I think, must be admitted. Now, the Premier asked who demanded this change of the party system. I say one of the minor questions that was submitted to the country. at the last election was the question of the elective Executive, and that outside the main policy questions and the existence of the Go- vernment no question was more canvassed at the last general election, or more queries were put to candidates than with regard to the elective Executive. My profession puts me in the way of seeing more papers than many other members in this House, and I say, without any hesitation, that, next to the primary questions submitted at the general election, one of the questions on which the voice of the people was taken was this one that we have before us to-night. And I say there is hardly a political association in this country that is worth the name that has not declared in favour of the elective Executive. I do not include the political associations that exist in Wel- lington. I count those as very small affairs, and there are none of them that exercise any influence on the politics of the country outside this immediate district. As far as I know the political associations of Wellington, they are composed of the hangers-on of the Ministry, and those who have received favours or who expect them. The genuine political organizations of the colony are in favour of the principle of this measure. For example, the Trades and Labour Conference of New Zealand, which sat a few weeks ago in the City of Dunedin, passed a resolution unanimously in favour of the elective Executive: and a body like that is certainly entitled to be regarded as expressing the opinion of a very large number of the people of this colony. The member for Buller interjects that the three Dunedin mem- bers are against the elective Executive. It does not follow, because the Trades Coun- cil happened to sit in Dunedin, that it was expressing the opinions of Dunedin more than of any other part of the colony. It was a re- presentative gathering of the workers of this colony, and they expressed an opinion in favour of the elective Executive. I could go through a large number of other associations 