the Minister, and whether, at any rate, it does not open the door to a large expenditure of money which has not been approved of by the House. It seems to me that clause 4 gives the Minister power to spend money in what he may call the expenses incidental to the administration in the buying of estates over which the House has no control. It is quite possible that we may find various sums put down as amounts necessarily incurred in the administration of the Act, which really do not belong to the Act; and the Auditor- General, when he calls attention to this and objects to it, will probably be met with the opinion of the Solicitor-General-which is always in favour of the Government -- under the Public Revenues Act of last year, and the con- sequence is that this House will lose control over the expenditure under the Act In the same way, I think clauses 5 and 6, if strictly enforced, are very arbitrary in their character, and it seems to me that it is quite possible that a great injustice may be done to good settlers. who, for various reasons, do not want to sell their land, and who would be subjected to very great hardship if this clause is strictly carried out. There is one clause I particularly object to, and that is clause 9. I do not think that any set of regulations the Minister or the Governor in Council may set out should have power to override the statute-law. Clause 9 says that the regulations-as to which the members of this House never have a chance of expressing an opinion, and which are only laid on the table of the House later on- - these regu- lations may modify the provisions of " The https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Public Works Act, 1894." I do not think it is right that any regulations issued by the Gover- nor in Council should have that power, because regulations are only supposed to be an ampli- fication of the statute-law. And this House should not pass a clause which gives any regu- lations the power to override the statute-law itself. The statute-law is the law of the land, and the regulations are a sort of exerescence on it. There is at the present time far too much government by regulations, and by the Governor in Council, and it will be only in- tensifying the evil if we pass this clause, because it will enable the regulations to over- ride the statute-law of the colony. It is simply giving up your powers into the hands of the Governor in Council. Well, to address myself to the general question of lands for settlement, I am quite in accord with the buying-up of large estates and distributing them among the people ; and. Sir, I think at the same time care should be taken that in districts not congested the settlement of the country should not be retarded on that account. In the north we do not suffer as they do down south from these large estates. We are not congested ; and the greatest sinner in that respect up north is the Crown itself. and what we wish to urge upon the Government is that the Crown should cut up its own estates. In the north we have the Crown estates and the Native estates, and we have the estates of the Assets Board. Those three "social pests " are like a millstone around the neck of settlement up north. I did hope that in this Bill some amendment would be found in order to compel the Assets Board and to compel the Govern- ment and the Natives to cut up their lands just as the Government are compelling private indi- viduals to do. There is not the slightest diffi- culty about it. As far as the Assets Board are concerned, I believe they could sell nearly every acre in their hands. I know of a property close to me that has been bought up by a private in- dividual from the Assets Board. Its area is, I think, about nine thousand acres, and it is known as the Hungahunga Block. The pri- vate speculator who bought it cut it up and sold every acre of it almost before he bad paid for it, and yet the Assets Board have been try- ing to sell that ever since they have been placed in charge of the estate. I trust the Premier will bear with me for a while, because I wish to point out that the methods of the Board of which he is a member are not such as are calculated to sell a property. Mr. MEREDITH. -- They do not want to sell. Mr. HERRIES. - That is the general im- pression. For instance, there is another estate called the Locherbie Estate. When the Board wish to sell it they do not go to work in the ordinary way. They do not cut it up and put a price on it. They cut it up and call for ten- ders from individuals, so as to find out what price they will give for each section. Mr. SEDDON .- Is not that what a private individual does ? Mr. HERRIES .-. No. A private individual sets a price at the start. We know that if any one tendered for a section at $4, the Assets Board would say, " We want £5." And if the tender was $5, they would want $6. That is the kind of thing that goes on. If any one wants to buy land from the Assets Board they approach Mr. Foster ; but he does not say what he wants for the land ; he says, " What will you give?" Then, if you name a price he will always say the price is 10s. or €1 above what vou have offered. That is the regular system. Take the Karatino part of the Fencourt Estate. They arranged with an auctioneer to cut it up. The farmers were all there ready to buy ; but before the auctioneer commenced the sale a lawyer gets up and reads a whole string of con- ditions. Now. those conditions had never been published previously, and. of course, the farmers sav, " We are not going to buy a . pig in a poke.' We have never seen those conditions before." The consequence was that there were very few bids, and only two sections. I believe, were sold. The Government bought that pro- perty ; it was cut up. and, while I must confess it was badly valued, all the good land was sold at once. I want to point out that immediately the Government bought it it was all sold, because you know exactly what you are doing with the Government. You know exactly what you are doing with a private speculator, but you do not know what you are doing with the Assets Board. I speak feelingly on this subject, because I think the bulk of the estates 