tion between Auckland and Wellington. How the North Island representatives who are supporters of the Government can stand such a state of affairs I cannot imagine. I have referred to this on the public platform, and I am referring to it now, and I will refer to it on every possible occasion until what I consider is a serious injustice to the North Island is re- moved. Now, Sir, I come to the Royal visit, and here I agree with the honourable member who proposed the Address in Reply in his ex- pression of opinion that we have had too much excitement during the last twelve months, and the sooner we return to our ordinary avocations the better. During the recess there has been a long series of events of Imperial magnitude. There was the war in South Africa; the de- parture of the different Contingents ; the death of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, with all its attendant circumstances; the inauguration of the Commonwealth in Sydney ; the opening of the Commonwealth Parliament in Melbourne ; and last, and to many the most interesting of all, the visit of their Roval Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. Then, again, let me say that I agree with honourable members who have spoken, and who have referred to the visit of the Duke and Duchess of York. I am pleased that the people of this colony have risen to the occa- sion, and have extended to the Roval guests a welcome which is worthy of themselves, worthy of the visitors, and worthy of the Heir Apparent, who is the King's son, and, as I look upon him, the eldest son of the eldest branch of the great Anglo-Saxon race to which https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 we all belong. But I feel it my duty to say- . I am sorry the Right Hon. the Premier is not in his place-that, so far as Auckland is concerned, the interest and pleasure in the visit were spoiled to thousands of people by the autocracy and obstinacy of the Premier, who refused to allow Mahuta to present an address to the Duke, and who placed difficulties in the way of a Maori-canoe display in the Auckland Harbour. How different it was, as any one can see by reference to the early Auckland papers, when the Duke of Edinburgh visited these shores. Then three war-canoes, manned by two hundred sturdy Natives, went out to meet the Prince's vessel, and, singing their songs of welcome, accompanied her right up to the Auckland Wharf, where -- and this is another precedent-an address was presented to the Duke by the chief Paul Tuhaere, of Orakei. There was a precedent for all that was asked for by the Auckland people. I say, Sir, that, in- stead of the Native gathering taking place at Rotorua, it should have been held in the neighbourhood of Auckland, at one of the historic places there. It might have been held at the Native settlement of Orakei, within easy distance of the city, or at the site of the old Native settlement at One-tree Hill-the park just presented to the people of Auckland by the Mayor of that city. If the Native gather- ing had been held there I believe it would have been very much better for the Native Mr. Massey and sickness, and pleasure would have been given to a great many more European people than was the case by taking the Natives to Rotorua. Then, I have been given to under- stand that if Mahuta had been allowed to pre- sent his address at Auckland he intended to present to the Duke the great war-canoe ow ned by the Waikatos - the last canoe used in actual warfare - as an indication that the Waikato Natives had no further use for it, and were now. and would be in the future, loyal subjects of the King and faithful citizens of the Empire. What better or more appropriate gift could have been thought of? And yet to thousands of people the success of the reception was spoiled by the obstinate stupidity of those who were responsible for the arrangements. Now, Sir, in connection with the Royal visit, other speakers who have preceded me have con- gratulated the recipients upon the titles which have been recently conferred, and I follow their example. But, Sir, I have always been given to understand that titles were conferred by the sovereign, or the representatives of the sove- reign, as a mark of approval for services ran- dered to the State, and that they were given to the most deserving men, irrespective of party. Has that principle been adhered to in this instance? Why, Sir, the very silence of the Government supporters is an admission that it has not been adhered to. There are men in the colony who have done more service to the State than any man who sits on thex benches. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. MASSEY .- What about the venerable Mayor of Auckland, the public benefactor. the pioneer colonist, the man who has given the best years of his long life to the service of hi- adopted country? That gentleman has done more for this colony than all the men who sit on those benches put together. Was there a title offered to him ? I do not know if he would accept one after what has occurred, but no man deserves it more. Then, there was a gentleman who used to sit in front of me- Mr. Rollesten. A Liberal in the truest and best sense of the word, an able and, what is more, an honest man : he has been in politics for a generation. Was any title offered to him ? No; he was the "wrong colour." Then, there was the Hon. Mr. Bowen, the author of the Education Act and father of the education system. Is there a man more deserving of a title than he is ? Was there a title offered to him? No. For what reason ? Because the members of the Cabinet. who had the recommendations to make, wanted all the titles for themselves. In fact, right through the length and breadth of the colony the visit of the Duke and Duchess of York was used for party purposes. Cards and invitations were forthcoming for all the functions from Go- vernment House downwards for the followers of the Government and their friends, but those who were not followers of the Government were kept carefully in the background. I do not speak for myself, because I do not care two straws for these displays, but on behalf of 