of the Ministry always to attend the sittings of plaintiff, the widow of the deceased, on the ground of the negligence of the shipping com- the House on private members' nights, and no Bill of any importance whatever-I believe I am pany -- a verdict of $250 or $300. The case was right in saying no private member's Bill-was most keenly contested, and the time within which application for a new trial should be re- allowed to pass through the House without an expression of opinion from the Government as ceived was allowed by the defendant company to whether or not it was a desirable Bill to put to lapse without any notice for a new trial being given. Consequently, the defendants, the ship- on the statute-book. But we are past all that now. I suppose it is because of the number ping company, could not get a new trial ; but what they did was this : They moved the Court of years during which I have, unfortunately, been in opposition that I have to disagree with to set aside the verdict of the jury in favour of almost every man who has spoken on this Bill. the plaintiff, and to enter up judgment for the My honourable friend the member for Riccarton defendant, on the ground that there was no said that this was intended for the benefit of evidence of negligence, though the jury had the working-man. I think he is mistaken. I found that there was-a special jury of practical men, men in every way better qualified to decide do not think this Bill which has been intro- duced is at all in favour of the workers, or that it than the Judge was upon these particular facts. will be beneficial to the working-man in any way. The Judge, after argument, entered up judg- I do not think I need dwell upon the anomalies ment for the defendant, and set aside the verdict obtained by the plaintiff. The plaintiff of the Bill, or upon the anomaly of the high- paid artisan or skilled mechanic who goes to wished to appeal to the Court of Appeal against law with the village blacksmith or the cobbler this decision of the Judge. She was a widow who is his employer, and takes advantage of the without means, and the rules of the Court re- quired security for a large sum before she could provisions under this Bill; but I would draw appeal. She had obtained judgment with costs attention to the fact of how very few appeals in the Supreme Court, and vet before she could there are from the lower to the higher Courts in appeal to the Court of Appeal, after having won this colony which are successful; and yet here is a direct inducement for some poor wretched her case, against the decision of that single man who gets into the hands of an unscrupu- Judge, security or cash amounting to over £100 lous lawyer, or who is himself of a litigious was required of her. The consequence was that frame of mind, to go through the Magistrate's no appeal was made, and the people who lost Court to the Supreme Court, and then, because their case by the judgment of the practical men who formed the jury won their case by the he gets nothing there, thinks he can get some- decision of the Judge alone. But this Bill thing by going to the Appeal Court, and he carries his case there. After a man has carried would afford no relief in a case like that. There his case from the Magistrate's Court to the are a great many anomalies at present in the Supreme Court Code of Civil Procedure, and I Supreme Court, and thence to the Court of Appeal. he will not fail to have a solicitor close would like to see an effort made by some com- on his heels, and all the money he has left after petent person-say, the Minister of Justice - to his struggles in the law-courts will be mopped do away with these anomalies. I dissent from the proposition of the honourable member for up by the solicitor who led him from one Court to another. This is a direct blow aimed at the Hawke's Bay that no legislation should be initiated in this House except through a Minis- position of the working-man, who is induced to go on with appeals by this wretched Bill to his ter. uitimate certain misfortune. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- Sir, this is lead from the Minister, and that it was the a very crude and ill-considered Bill. I quite think that the honourable gentleman who in- custom of the House for a Minister to attend on troduced it intended it to be beneficial, but I private members' nights and tell us what was feel sure the effect of passing such a Bill would the mind of the Government on any legislation proposed by private members. What does it be disastrous to the class for whom the amend- matter to us what the mind of the Government ment of the law is proposed. There is, how- ever. some need for reform in the direction of may be if we think a thing is right and ought preventing the exaction of security before appeal to be made law? Does it matter to us a straw what the Premier or any member of the Minis- in certain cases under the Supreme Court Code. I will give an illustration of what I try may think if this House desires to reform 8.0. mean-a case that occurred in my the law ? own practice a short time ago. Reform is re- quired in consequence of the extraordinary legislation exists in this House ; and it should powers given to Judges under the existing law of reversing the verdict of juries. The case to not be necessary, though it may be a tradition, which I allude was an action brought by the for members to take what is termed a "lead " widow of a lumper against a shipping company, from a Minister, or to form their opinions as to and the shipping company obtained leave to get whether a particular measure is right or wrong a special jury. Now, the special jury in this merely because a Minister says the Government are inclined to favour it or to look upon it with case was composed of professional men, highly educated men, who brought to the consideration disfavour. Sir, I regard the right of initiation of the case a great amount of care and intelli- of legislation which is now vested in private gence. and they brought in a verdict for the members as one of the most sacred rights we .... . Captain RUSSELL .- I did not say that. Mr. NAPIER .- He said we ought to get a Captain RUSSELL .- It generally does. Mr. NAPIER .- I say, Sir, that the power of 