people at Home, and the reputation of the lately. averaging 381b., several went to 581b. ; and in 305 sheep from the same quarter, ave- colony, should not suffer. Because, let me raging 60 1b., which he handled, fifty went as say here, there is a special class to whom high as 76 1b. to 80 lb." this colony's meat is well suited-the great In a subsequent issue the same paper has the middle class of the people of Great Britain. The consumers in the Old Country may be following :- "On page 825 of the February Review the divided into three classes. There is first of all printer makes me say, with regard to Mr. C. H. the upper class, who can afford to buy at any Inglis's letter re grading, that 'his remarks are price that may be sought for meat ; and then uncalled-for and unreasonable.' I desire em- there are the lower classes, that have to be con- phatically to repudiate such an expression of tent with Argentine and other inferior meats ; opinion. I think just the opposite. [We greatly and between there is the great middle class, regret that such a misreading should have and that is the class we should strive to keep as occurred. ]" our customers, because the excellent quality of Now, I will not say that the Belfast people do our meat now satisfies them ; and if our meat not always grade ; they do grade very frequently, is allowed to deteriorate until it approximates and grade very well, but not nearly so well as in quality to the Argentine it will come down the other company do their finer lines, nor by in public favour, and consequently in price, so close weights. What they do is this, I pre- and it will be impossible to secure that trade sume : A farmer may have a parcel of 1,000 sheep and raise it again to the level which is necessary ranging from 45 lb. to 80lb. in weight, and he to make farming pay in this country. You may take them to the Belfast works and have must remember that you are competing in your agricultural products with countries that have the whole lot frozen in one lot and sent Home, facilities which you cannot approach. My and vet the shipping papers that accompany the honourable friend here, the member for Wai- shipment give no information that the weight ranges from 45 1b. to 80 lb. ; they only give the taki, told you, in regard to cereals, that the total weight - say, 1,000 sheep. 60,000 1b., Argentine would cut us out in wheat. We equal to 60 lb. per sheep-from which you get must therefore do our utmost to retain our the average, and it may work out at a 60 lb. mutton trade by careful grading and high average. Now, 601b. is the favourite weight, and quality, thus commanding the best class of patronage, which you make exclusively your if you go to a buyer with 1,000 carcases of an own ; and, in order that that may be done, it average weight of 60 lb. he will pay you the 6 lb. average value ; but when he finds that he is essential that a system of high grading and classifying should be carried out. I now wish has light sheep at 451b., and heavy sheep at to deal a little more fully with Mr. Waymouth. Solb .- weights frequently quite unsuitable to his class of trade-he is greatly annoyed, and I have a slight grievance against this particular consequently when you go back to him with gentleman : I consider he has been too un. another line from the same works he will not necessarily offensive in his reflections for me give you the same price he formerly did, because to spare him or his methods. Some time ago he went to London, presumably to put the & parcel of 60 lb. sheep always commands a higher price. This has occurred to me when meat trade on the most satisfactory footing, selling Belfast meat. It has a most pernicious and arranged consignment shipments to a Smithfield firm ; "and thereby hangs a tale." effect. It may be urged that, if all the meat is exposed for sale on the hooks at Smithfield The season of 1898 offered splendid prospects it does not signify; but this is not always for our New Zealand lamb. The previous season had seen all the lambs cleared out, and possible. A great deal has to be sold c.i.f. or after arrival in cold-store, and it has to be sold on everything was favourable, and there were pro- spects of good prices being steadily maintained a certificate from the colony ; the meat is not through increased demand, by reason of the seen, and if your grading is not of the highest class, and constantly reliable, then as a con- wider knowledge obtained by consumers of the excellent quality of our lamb. This improved sequence your brand must suffer. I know reputation was largely brought about by the people who have instructed some of the freezing-works to grade carefully receiving less series of dinners which were arranged in Lon- than those who sent carelessly graded meat ; don, at which good representative people and because that carelessly graded meat, if it journalists were present, who made the fact happened to average out at 60 1b., might get a widely known in hundreds of high-class news- Colh. price, on the assumption that the sheep papers that the quality of our meat was so ex- would be from 55 1b. to 65 1b., but not above or cellent that it could not be distinguished from below these ranges; while the man who took the very best British. The consequence was out his "unders " and " overs " had to accept that there were prospects of a largely in- 2d. a stone less for the " overs " and " unders." creased demand at steady rates ; and, although But the slumping of weights from 45 lb. to the arrivals in March had been consider- 80 lb. finally brings down the price on c.i.f. sales, ably greater in number, vet the lambs were because buvers are not sure what they may lighter in weight by 41b. or 51b. Advices sometimes be receiving. Therefore, with a view from New Zealand showed that March, April, to obviate these inequalities, I emphasize the and May shipments would be light, vet, in the necessity for the Government of the country, face of this, values began to go down at a rate if the freezing companies do not grade pro- altogether inexplicable and unjustifiable. We perly, doing it themselves, in order that the who were interested in the trade met in the Old 