the Clerk of Parliaments shall cause the same to be printed, and shall forward a copy thereof to the Speaker of each House, who shall lay the same on the table at the commencement of the next succeeding session." Now, this compilation can be enacted into statute-law, if the House so desires, by this simple method : - " Such compilation may at any time there- after be enacted in manner following, that is to sav :- " (1.) The full text shall be set out in a Schedule (A) appended to the enacting statute, and the appendix containing the list of Acts and parts of Acts com- prised in the compilation shall be appended as Schedule B. "(2.) The enacting statute shall set forth that the compilation as printed in Schedule A is thereby enacted under the title of . The (giving the Short Title), and that the Acts and parts of Acts set forth in Schedule B are thereby repealed ; and it shall not be competent to amend or alter either of the schedules other- wise than for the correction of errors of transcription or printing, or for the incorporation of any amendment which may have been made after the preparation of the compilation and before the passing of the enacting statute." This will altord the Government and the House, if it be so desired, opportunity of con- verting the compiled statutes into statute-law ; https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 but before that is done this also is possible :- " If. before the passing of an enacting statute, either House of Parliament shall by resolution direct the printing for public use of any such compilation, then in printing the same the word ' Compiled,' and figures denoting the year of compilation, shall be placed at the head of each page thereof next after the designation of the Act, as, for example, . Regulation of Elections (Compiled 19 ),' and a copy of every such compilation shall be bound up with the volume of statutes of the session in which such resolution is passed next after the statutes of such session.' Then, Sir, a copy of the compilation could be obtained at the Government Printing Office at the usual price of an Act of Parliament, which is ordinarily about 1s., and any person purchas- ing it would know that he had the whole of the statute-law on that particular subject within the one document. This would be exceedingly useful to solicitors, to local governing bodies, 10 public men, and to the public generally, and therefore probably the House will see its way i to accept this Bill. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- I rise to second this Bill which has been intro- duced by the Hon. Major Steward, and I do so with a very great deal of pleasure. I think there can be no question as to the necessity for this Bill, and any one who has at any time had to make reference to the statutes and Acts of passing this measure. I feel quite sure that, if the House decides to take this course and to allow the Bill its second reading, and it should subsequently become law, posterity will be in- debted to a very considerable extent to the Hon. Major Steward. I feel quite certain also that it will afford great help to Justices of the Peace in the administration of justice. We constantly see cases where some particular statute is produced as evidence of the law in force, while it may be that there are other statutes which absolutely conflict with it. You will often find that the law which is apparently sunned up in a statute is materially altered by amendments which have been passed later. If this Bill becomes law, there will be on the face of the statute a clear and simple explanation of the whole position of the law at the present time. I think if this had been done in regard to the Native land laws of the colony it would have been a boon indeed, and I would suggest that Act ' when this Bill becomes law, if it is passed, the first Act dealt with should be the Native Land Court Act, because, if we could have such a compilation as the honourable member sig- gests in regard to the Native land law- of the colony, that would be an immense advantage. This is a kind of codification or compilation- "compilation " is the word used -- and there is no doubt, short and comprehensive as the mea- sure is, it is impossible to do exactly what is really required by a Bill of this kind. I under- stand the Bill has been introduced some twe or three sessions, but that on each occasion it has been among the "slaughtered innocents." But I feel quite sure that honourable: members to-day will help the mover in getting it through. It requires no explanation ; the explanation given by the honourable member is quite suffi- cient. The clauses are short and concise, and I believe it has already passed the Statutes Re- vision Committee, and been approved of by them. I therefore have very much pleasure in seconding the second reading of the Bi.l. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) .- I, like the las: speaker, Sir, must compliment the gentleman who has brought this Bill in. It is a principle in our law that every one is presumed to know the law, and that ignorance of the law is ne excuse. We have, Sir, over 220 Imperial Acts in force in New Zealand, and over a thousand of our own Acts. They are like an old coat that has many patches: they are all patched up in such a way that, as one may say, you cannot tell which is the coat and which an the patches. Now, is it fair to the publie to i say that they must know the whole of thee laws-over a thousand New Zealand stanite and more than 220 Imperial Acts in force " Is it fair to the Justices of the Peac. 4.30. to say, " You must know all these laws, and you shall also administer them correctly "? The position is unfair to the people to say that we who build up statute after statute year after year should never balance our accounts by codifying our laws, What should we think of a system of boch- keeping where the different items were 