The honourable gentleman has also, I believe, been at Cheviot, and although that estate was not acquired under the Land for Settlements Act the principle is just the same. It was acquired for small settlement, and we know the difference there is now in the position of that estate as compared with what it was before it was taken over by the Government for close settlement. There are numbers of happy homes there, inhabited by a class of settlers who have enormously increased the productiveness of the soil. Then, the honourable gentleman says that the price of the land was too high, and I say that we have heard that speech many times before to-night. We were told when this policy was first initiated that land-values were too high, and that we would be placing settlers upon land many of whom would be unable to make a livelihood off their holdings. We were told that we should pause and consider carefully what we were doing-that we should wait until we had settled the available Crown lands in the North Island ; but I say that the South Island had been in such a position for some years past that all its Crown lands were sold with the exception of land only rented for pastoral pur- poses. Why, our settlers' sons have had to leave that part of the colony, either for other colonies or for other parts of this colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- Send them up north. Mr. HALL-JONES .- There is room for more first on the land in the South Island, and, in regard to the land in the North Island, that is required for the sons of the settlers who are already in this Island, and when that army of surveyors, whom we are told by the Minister of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Lands are now at work have completed their survey there will be a large area of land avail- able for settlement. And I can assure the honourable member that I am as desirous as he is of seeing these northern lands settled, and I know that my colleague the Minister of Lands is using every energy in that direction, although it may not be apparent at the present time. He is using every endeavour to get this land in the market more speedily, and I saw there myself last November, when through it with some of the Auckland members-and my friend Mr Napier, the member for Auckland City, will bear me out in this statement-land of such a quality that there is none superior in the colony, and only waiting for settlers to open it up; and I , can assure the honourable gentleman that that land will be very shortly put upon the market for settlement purposes. There is as great a demand for land in the North as in the South, and it is our duty to see that those who desire to take up land and to increase the produc- tiveness of the soil, and so increase our exports and find labour for those who need it, shall have the opportunity of obtaining land both in the North Island and in the South Island, and we should assist them as far as we possibly can in that direction. But if we take the advice of the honourable member we must pause, because he states that our land-values are too high. Then, again, the honourable gentleman told us, with his usual pessimism, what we Mr. Hall-Jones about the Argentine, and to the competition we are to expect from that country. Yes, : we have heard before of the Argentine. It was a great bugbear when our land policy was first introduced. It was stated that the Argentine would produce so much that New Zealand would be out of the race on account of its distance from a market. What has been the result? Ever since the period spoken of New Zealand has been progressing by leaps and bounds, until we are to-day one of the most prosperous colonies in the world ; while. if we had listened in 1893 to the honourable gertie- man and those who were acting with him. We should have been no further ahead than we were at that time. It is true that some of our products are falling in value, and, no doubt. circumstances are different from what they were a few years ago. Wool may be low, out wool is in many cases only a by-product. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh, oh ! Mr. HALL-JONES. - But the honouralle gentleman left out one important factor wire he made that statement. I know there are men, and the honourable member for Franklin also knows that there are men, who only grow wool. But there are others who grow w. I and mutton at the same time, and they com- bine the two. The honourable member said that all prices were low, but he did not niet to mutton, and he did not mention the price of sheep. If the honourable member had his way he would say, "Gentlemen, let us clear aws" from these Islands. We cannot compete with the Argentine, we cannot compete with Russia with its large export of butter, we cannot send our produce to the Cape. Let us all clear out of New Zealand, and leave it to what it was tifty or sixty years ago." I am sure members of this House want to make this colony what # ought to be, and what it will be, and what members on this side of the House have been making it during the last ten vear .; ard during the next ten years we shall see as great progress as has taken place in the last ten years, because those who at present occupy these benches are going to stay there for the next ten years, and they will, as in the past, act in the best interests of the colony. It is true that Russia sends enormous quantities of butter to the Old Country, and it is true that the quantity is increasing each year ; but the same remark applies to New Zealand. Tas" our export of butter ten years ago and com" de it with what it is now; and we can find a mar- ket for every pound we send away, and there is as good a market for four times the quantity we are now sending. Now, about op: ning ap new markets. The honourable member. if he has kept himself in touch with what is going on, would know that a commercial agont hes been appointed within the last few months, and it is most unfair to criticize at the present time that gentleman or the work he is engaged upe We may have made a mistake : we might have endeavoured to secure the services of some of who had had experience of the Old Country : but I am sure the gentleman appointed to the 