that there is some force in what the Hon. Mr. Reeves said yesterday-that, if we are to elect our Speaker by ballot, it almost follows as a natural consequence that we ought to have power to elect the Chairman of Committees by ballot. At the same time I can imagine a case may arise which would justify the Hon. the Minister of Education in saying what he has just said. One party in the Council may desire to elect A, another party may desire to elect B ; the A party, seeing they cannot carry their man, or the B party, seeing they cannot carry their man, may, under the circumstances, make up their minds to let C slip through, C possibly not being the best man, or the favourite candi- date of the Council. I can imagine such a contingency arising, and therefore I do not consider the ballot is an infallible test of the feelings of the Council on any particular ques- tion or with regard to any particular person. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .- I was going to say that it would be wise, I think, to post- pone this motion for a week, so that we may give full consideration to it. There are still many Councillors away, and it is quite a new proposal. If there is a majority in favour of it it will be carried, and therefore I move, That the debate be adjourned for a week The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I cannot myself see any occasion to postpone the question, be- cause it is not by this resolution finally decided : the object is simply to send it to the Standing Orders Committee for the purpose of drawing up a new Standing Order to meet the case, and that proposed Standing Order must after- wards be approved by the Council. It is not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 correct to say that this is a new departure, since the new procedure given to the Council pro- viding for the election of the Speaker is simply extended to the Chairman of Committees. The Council having resolved that the election of a Speaker should be by ballot, it is a necessary sequence that that course should be followed in the case of the election of the Chairman of Com- mittees. The principle is exactly the same. I think the mode of election can be improved. I think it is rather cumbrous myself : but as a principle I think election by ballot in personal matters is admirable. I therefore think it should go to the Committee, and the Commit- tee will have ample time to discuss the matter among themselves before it again comes before the Council for final approval. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I was myself upon the point of making that remark. This motion only goes so far as to refer the matter to the Standing Orders Committee, and they will have to bring up their report ; and that report, I pre-ume, will be adopted. Now, Sir, what do we find with regard to the ballot ? We find that for very many years past there has been a strennous fight in the Old Country for this ; and we had the same thing here, where vote by ballot was secured. and is recognised as being the proper system of voting right throughout. As to what the Hon. the Minister of Education bas said, there is nothing in it. If the Council agrees with this motion the matter will be sent to the Standing Orders Committee, who will, no doubt, study out fairly the mode of ballot that should be adopted. But I cannot, for the life of me, see why we should not carry on the same as we have done before. One honourable gentleman said that it did not show what was the feeling of the majority of the Council. Why, Sir, that is absurd. Surely nothing can be more ridiculous than to say that. What we had yesterday we had over the same question two years ago: but then one honourable gentleman withdrew from the con- test-if I might call it so-a friendly contest ; and so there was no ballot, if I remember rightly, two years ago. I think it fully showed the intention of the Council at that time that we should have a ballot, and we should have had a ballot if one gentleman had not very gracefully and very openly withdrawn from the contest. I allude to the Hon. Mr. W. C. Smith, when he withdrew in favour of my honourable friend Captain Baillie. But I think-and I hope most of the members of the Council will agree with me-that it is a most invidious position in which to place members of this Council when they may be called on to vote against the man who may be one of their personal friends. I trust, therefore, the Coun- cil will agree with me that the proper system of election, either in the case of the Speaker or the Chairman of Committees, is by a ballot. I am now speaking, Sir, to the amendment. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .-. Without going into the merits of the question at all, I think it would be well to adjourn the matter for a week. It is only fair that a serious resolution of this kind should be debated, and that all members of the Council should have an opportunity of ex- pressing their opinions on it. The Council is still small, and, that being so, I think it would be advisable to give a week's notice of the matter. I am not expressing an opinion for or against the resolution, but if such a change is to be brought about I think it would be better to fully discuss it beforehand. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Sir, out of cour- tesy to the absent members of the Council, I am willing that the matter should be adjourned for a time. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .-- Sir, the question now before us is simply one of remitting the matter to a Committee. I take it that the principle of the suggested alteration will be discussed when that Committee report, and, that being so. I do not think there is now any necessity to adjourn the subject. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Sir, I cannot see that there would be any harm in postponing the question. I will speak plainly on the matter, Sir. It seems to me there is a determination on the part of some honourable members to force the matter : and, if I am rightly informed, there is an agreement among this party that, having the ballot in the future, they will vote for some one of their own party. Sir. why do they not consent to the matter standing over for a week, unless there is a desire to take advantage of the fact that some members of the Council are absent? 