the only discordant note sounded during this debate so far has been the personal reference made by the honourable member for Riccarton to the Right Hon. the Premier. Sir, the summe captions tone was not adopted by the honourable member for Riccarton when he was seeking the suffrages of the electors a short time ago. He must remember that he was returned to this House some years ago as a supporter of the Liberal Administration, and that when he kicked over the traces and turned his back on the party that his constituents re- turned him to support they relegated him to that obscurity from which many people consider he never should have emerged. And what is the result ? There are some people who will take a lesson ; there are others who cannot. There are some who can profit by their ex- perience in the past ; but there are others whose comprehension does not allow them to do so. Well, we find the honourable member for Ric- carton, just on the eve of the last general election, endeavouring to climb into Parliament on the broad shoulders of the Premier of this colony. He did not, in his speech at Riccarton on that occasion. sneer at the dress worn by the Pre- mier when he so worthily represented this colony at the Diamond Jubilee in the Home land. At last election he was returned by the respectable majority of one-he was carried in, as I have said, on the broad shoulders of the Premier, whom he now so vehemently denounces, but whom before the election day he had pro- mised to loyally support. This exhibition that unfortunately took place a few evenings ago reflects little credit on the member for Riccar- ton, and cannot be said to redound to the credit https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of the constituency that sent him here by the majority of one. Sir, I am sorry for the honourable member. I regret that he cannot possibly be consistent; but there are men who cannot be consistent, and I fear my friend is one of these. The Premier, in his reply, alluded to the honourable gentleman as a man of ability. Well, his ability does not evidently lie in the direction of politics. He has evi- dently come here to attack the party that his constituents sent him to support. He is like the "bhoy from Ballyhooley," spoiling for a [w, and might exclaim,- We will burs' up the Seddon faction, We will sound the warlike note. So if von're up for a row or a ruction Just tread on the tail of my coat. That is the attitude adopted by the honour- able member for Riccarton towards the party he was returned to support. If presumption, arro- gince, and self-glorification, with the ordinary ciap-trap and flap-doodle of the shoddy third-rate demagogue, constitute ability, then the honour- ai le member for Riccarton is a man of recognised ability indeed. But I must say I admire con- si tency, even in a political opponent, and so I hope the honourable member for Riccarton will profit by his experience in the past, and will no longer continue to act like that noted personage of acrobatic proclivities, and to Wheel about, and turn about, and just do so. And every time he wheels about, jump Jim Crow. But weshall find the honourable member for Ric- carton as meck as a cooing dove at the next elec- tion. There is an American poem which, I think, sums up the conduct of the man who is ever ready and eager to find fault with the person who is honestly trying to do his best ; but when once that man gets to the top of the tree his carping critics let him severely alone, and even toady and scrape to him. The poem says :- The world seems inclined to be sometime unkind To the man who has "git-up-and-git"; He is jostled and jeered while he's trying to find A pla e where his talents will fit. They make comic pictures, and vow with a grin That his likeness is truly expre-sed; And the way that the gossip- will talk is a fin, Of the man who is doing his best. They'll all bow and scrape when he gets to the top, But when he is toiling to rise, The veoplo with plenty of leisure will stop To hinder whatever he tries. But it's all in the game, and'twill teach him to serve Where courage and skill meet their test; So let the crowd shout, for it braces the nerve, Of the man who is doing his best. The Premier and his Ministers are doing their best, and do it successfully. And the honour- able member for Ricccarton, with a bias which will not allow him to act consistently, is doing his best to discredit them. Reference was made by the honourable member for Franklin to the I do not setting-up of Royal Commissions. consider, Sir, that there is a great deal to be said against setting up Commissions to inquire into those subjects that are agitating the public mind and are of importance to the country. The Federation Commission has collected a great deal of evidence, and no doubt has come to a decision that the majority of the people of this colony foresaw could be the only result of their investigations. But they have satisfied the public mind that, after due and mature consideration, the feeling, not only in this colony, but, I think, in some of the other colonies, is adverse to the federation of New Zealand with the Commonwealth of Australia. Another remark made by the honourable member is to the effect that the setting up of these Commissions was simply a move on the part of the Ministry to buy political support. But the peculiar thing is this: that the mem- bers of these Commissions are about evenly balanced so far as political parties are concerned. I happened to be on a Commission upon which there were two Opposition and two Liberal members of the House .- Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Hear, hear. Mr. GILFEDDER. - And the honourable member for Riccarton was not appointed to that Commission ; and that. possibly, was the motive that prompted him to deliver the acri- monious speech he did the other evening. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am not to be bought for £1 a day. Mr. GILFEDDER .- I am sure the member for Waihemo and the member for Rangitikei, who are members of this Commission, cannot be bought for £1 a day, and I do not think the honourable member for Riccarton is justified in insinuating that they could be so won over. I wish to refer in a casual way to the Commission 