HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. | experience shows that a titled aristocracy is not an unmixed blessing-is, in fact, anything but Friday, 5th July, 1901. a blessing at all in the Old Country. The fact Address in Reply. country has been shown plainly more than once. I need hardly refer to a celebrated Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past instance which must be in the memory of two o'clock. most members of this House-the case of Sir Robert Stout. It will be remembered that PRAYERS. when that honourable gentleman was Premier of the colony he accepted a knighthood, and ADDRESS IN REPLY. his own constituency, he was defeated by a ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- It is with gentleman who had not set foot on a political mingled feelings of pleasure and regret that I platform before in his life. A striking instance rise to speak on the present occasion. I say my occurred also just within the last day or two in feelings are mingled, because I have much to a neighbouring colony. Members may have congratulate the Government upon -and I re- seen in the telegrams that Sir J. C. Graham has gret to say that it is with extreme reluctance in- been defeated in New South Wales by a gentle- deed I have something to say which may not be man well known to many members in this House, agreeable or pleasant to them. It is an exceed- Mr. Eden George, who was, I believe, on more than one occasion an unsuccessful candidate ingly difficult and hard position for one who has been a consistent supporter of the Government, for a seat in this House. Sir J. C. Graham is who was returned to the House to support the the Mayor of Sydney, and one of the gentlemen Government, and who has been extremely well who were lately knighted during the visit of the satisfied with the measures they have passed, Duke of York, and. that is the fate which has and with their administration-it is an ex- overtaken him almost immediately after he has tremely hard and difficult thing for any one accepted that titular distinction. Sir, what I contend is this: that the creation and the in that position to say, if he can avoid it, anything to give the members of the Govern- granting of titles tends to the growth of class ment pain, or which tends to reflect in any way and social distinctions in the country. The titled class are a class separated by their titles on their policy or conduct. Nevertheless it is absolutely necessary that I should say something and surroundings from the mass of the people. Of all the great names in the long roll of British of this character. My colleagues and myself in statesmen there are none greater than those of Dunedin on a late occasion sent a telegram, regretting his acceptance of a title, to the Hon. William Pitt and William Gladstone, and these https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the Minister for Railways, which was published men died as they lived, identified with and un- throughout the colony, and which occasioned divided from the people whose destinies they some remark. From a reply which we received guided and controlled ; and I say that their from the honourable gentleman it would appear example is good enough for colonial statesmen, and statesmen in any part of the world, to that we alone amongst all from whom he re ceived telegrams did not offer him congratula- follow. I need hardly say that it is on broad tions upon the fact that he had received the grounds of that kind that I, for one, joined in honour of knighthood. It would be thought, sending the telegram to the Hon. the Minister perhaps, that we did not care, if we were silent to which I referred. I do not recede from that on this occasion, to defend that proceeding on position at all. I say that it ought to be a afterthought. It might be thought that the plank in the Liberal platform of this country that we should set our faces like a stone wall telegram was sent hurriedly and in haste, and that feelings of regret had entered our minds against the granting of titles in New Zealand. That is my opinion and my belief. I have said since it was done. For my part, I am unable to recede from the position which, along with my sufficient to make my position clear in re- gard to this matter, and now I would just like colleagues, I then took up. The position I take to emphasize the fact that my objections are on up is this : We in this country are, I take it, a democratic people. I take it that almost broad grounds of party principle, and it is plea- sant to be able to add that, if there is any man the most Conservative of us would be classed among English Liberals, and I say that it is in this country to whom the granting of a title is an honour that ought to be given, if it is an contrary to the feelings, and views, and ideas of the Liberal party in this country that there honour acceptable to the bulk of the people-if should be a distribution in New Zealand of there is any man in this country who deserves titular distinctions. It is greatly to the credit it for his ability and for his great natural gifts of the present Administration that during their of head and heart, it is the Hon. Sir Joseph long term of office titular distinctions have Ward. But, Sir, I still regret that he should have seen fit to accept such a title, and I would not been bestowed on many persons in the colony. So far as I understand the matter, the have preferred to have seen him for many years, while he continues to be a leader of the Liberal Cabinet has set its face against anything of the party, known under his plain title of " Mr. sort. We who live in this country have come Ward." There is another matter to which I out - those of us who came from Home-have come out to avoid as far as possible the evils of am also obliged to refer with great regret in- the Old Country ; and I say that history and | deed, but, still, it is a duty which devolves upon that it is not palatable to the people of this the result was that at the very next election, in 