I know of instances where land is being sold at three times its productive value, with the object of selling it again at fictitious prices. A short time ago the Government land valuers for Selwyn told me that they had valued a farm on Banks Peninsula. They added up everything the farm could produce, both as a dairy farm and for producing cocksfoot, and they estimated the value at £11 5s. per acre; and, would you believe it, that land was sold the next week for #23 per acre. As certain as that land boom has come, so certainly will the crash come. After all, what does the economic greatness of the colony rest upon ? It rests upon the land. It is like a pyramid which has for its base the land and farming community and interests, and above that come all the professional and other classes. If the value of land is raised to a fictitious price, then the people in the lower part of the pyramid, who draw their sustenance from the soil, are forced up into the other classes, and the pyramid, instead of resting as it should do on its base, rests, as it were, on its apex. What is the result when that takes place ? Banks burst, people go bankrupt, and distress sets in. That can be traced at regular intervals right through the history of the English-speaking people. That being the case, then, what is the cure for it, or, rather, what is the preventive for it ? The only cure is to increase the land-tax on large estates, and to keep on increasing it ; and, as the honourable member for Auck- land City said, a line of demarcation will be effectually drawn between those in favour of that and those who are in opposition to it. We will then know who are the true Liberals and who are the imitation ones. As far as I am concerned, I would like to see a great increase in the land-tax. If we do not the present pro- sperity will soon vanish into thin air. Before I pass from this I think it is only right I should refer to a Bill that was passed last year -that is, the Bill to give a 10-per-cent. rebate to Crown tenants. I know the agreement that was made by the Prime Minister and those of us who were opposed to that measure, and I only trust that agreement has not been broken. If it has it will be one of the worst things that could possibly have been done. I believe the measure was not called for, and it will bear bad fruit for this country in a very short time ; and, as far as I myself am concerned, I will do my best to get it repealed and swept off the statute-" book altogether. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the agreement ? Mr. LAURENSON .- I will not say what it was. I only regret that the honourable gentle- man who represents Bruce, as he professes to be so great an opponent of dishonesty, was not with us in opposing that measure. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I was not there. Mr. LAURENSON .- Then, I withdraw my condemnation of him. I forgot that he was absent at the time. The Speech also says that the Government are going to introduce a super- annuation scheme for railway servants. It is very easy to find fault and criticize, but it is very difficult to find a remedy. The present Mr. Laurenson system of promotion on the railway is that men are raised not by merit, but by length of service, and I think that a system more productive of evil could not well be invented. I see that in England they are beginning to rouse themselves to the evils of that system. I say that pro- motion should not be by length of service, but by ability, and that the best men should be promoted, irrespective of how many years they have been in the service; and I trust I will live to see the day when some such system as that will be introduced. Reference in this connec- tion has been made to the system of making appointments by accepting the recommenda- tions of members of Parliament. I believe that the ideal way of making appointments would be by having a Civil Service Board to make ap- pointments irrespective of creed or colour, and irrespective of the recommendation of any member of Parliament ; and if Ministers rise to the occasion, and wash their hands of the whole business, they would find their labours lighter and their worries less; and I believe also that it would be a very much better thing for members. But I think it is only fair to say that, as far as my experience has gone, I can bear testimony that Ministers have distributed the positions they have had at their disposal in a very fair and impartial manner. An Hon. MEMBER .- Among their own crowd. Mr. LAURENSON. - " Among their own crowd," the honourable member for Wellington City says. I have been in New Zealand for over twenty years, and at one time I took a notion that I would like to enter the Civil Service. I went up for the examination, and was first for Canterbury. I sent up my appli- cation and fee to Wellington to get an appoint- ment, and I might have been waiting yet. A friend of mine asked me if I had got an appoint- ment. I said "No." He asked me whose support I had got, and I said that I had got no one's. He laughed, and said I had no chance unless I had a member working for me. Who was in power then? The so-called party of purity - Sir John Hall, Sir Harry Atkinson, and Co. Just as now, they gave the positions to those recommended by their friends, with this difference: that the present Government give them to the one selected, whether the son of a rich man or a poor man, whereas the former one gave them only to the sons of the wealthy. It ill becomes those who took such a prominent part in distributing the billets in those days to criticize the Government for distributing the billets as they do. But, as I say, two blacks do not make a white, and if we are to have a proper system we should have a Civil Service Board that would make appointments by ability. Then, there is provision made here for regulating the hours worked by employés in shops and banks, and I hope that that Bill will soon be brought before us. In this connection I think it would be desirable to fix some minimum rate of pav for men who have the handling of large sums of money. I know men in banks who are handling large sums of money every day, and are getting $120 a year. I knew of one man who had been eighteen years in a bank, and was sentenced for 