who, after many years' struggle in trying to perfect the proper system of producing one of the colony's best and greatest products, is only just reaching a period of prosperity. I would suggest, with other honourable members, that the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill should have it recast. If the honourable gentleman will have it recast, I say, with all sincerity, that the principle of eight hours will receive my hearty support, provided it does not interfere with the working of live-stock in the country districts-and in the matter of agricul- ture live-stock is also worked, because horses are required for harvesting. Horses cannot go with- out their feed because the driver has worked eight hours, and cows cannot go without milking because the milker has worked eight hours ; and, that being the case, to apply the eight-hours system to the agricultural and pastoral districts is very different from applying it in cases where no live-stock is brought into the question. Wherever there are manufactures in which machinery only is dealt with, then you require to consider the workmen. With respect to the half-holidays that workmen are to get, as pro- vided in the Bill, I have had a life's experience in country districts, and never under any cir- cumstances have I heard men in the country districts say that their employers were over- working them. The employe has the key of the position in his own hands, for this reason : it is very difficult indeed now to obtain good reliable labour, and the workmen can dictate to the employer in the country districts to-day. The country settlers are borne down 11.30. by the heavy weight of depression in the wool-market and in the grain-market, and those are two very large products of this coun- try, and they have practically gone down almost to zero. That being the case, I think, if we are going to have experimental legislation, this is hardly the time to place such a burden upon the farmers and agriculturists. If this Bill in its present form goes into Committee I shall use every effort in my power for the purpose of bringing it within such lines that I feel confident will not do any injury to those whom it is in- tended to benefit. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I can hardly say that I see my way to support the Bill now before the House, though, like the last speaker, I believe in the principle of an eight-hours day. Representing as I do an agricultural cousti- tuency, I think it is necessary to say a few words upon the measure which we are discuss- ing at the present time. As one honourable member stated, the principle of the eight-hours law has now generally been accepted ; and I, for one, do not object to an eight-hours law being applied to any industry wherever it is possible and practicable to apply it; but this Bill is intended to apply to industries where it is neither possible nor practicable to apply the eight-hours system. I refer, of course, to the most important industry in the colony, the agricultural industry. It is not necessary for me to repeat what has already been stated ; but we all know, both city and country representatives, that there are times and seasons when it is quite impossible without serious loss to limit the working-day to eight hours. Then, take that important branch of agriculture, the dairy industry. That industry is important not only to the people directly con- cerned, but to the colony as a whole. I venture to say that the average working-day in the dairy industry during the height of the season and for seven days in the week is over twelve hours. And I say, speaking with knowledge of the sub- ject, that that time cannot be curtailed without causing considerable loss, and perhaps absolute ruin, to many of those now engaged in the industry. As to child labour, we all know that at the present time it plays a most important part in connection with dairy operations, and I regret to admit that there is serious reason to believe that many children are overworked. But what would be the effect of this Bill so far as child labour is concerned ? Will it improve matters ? Not in the slightest, because if this Bill is placed on the statute-book it would make it more difficult for the dairy farmer to obtain hired labour; and he would simply endeavour to get on with the labour of his own family, and the last state of things, so far as children are concerned, would be worse than the first. The member for Marsden expressed an opinion that the Government ought to fix a minimum price for produce. That sounds very well, but, like a Bill of this nature, it would be almost impos- sible to give effect to it, because prices are almost constantly changing. I believe there is a much easier and better remedy that that suggested by the honourable member for Marsden. We have an Act upon the statute- book, called the Industrial Conciliation and Ar- bitration Act, which provides for the settlement of disputes between employers and employers. Why not amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act so as to make it apply to disputes between consumer and producer ? That seems to me to be the real remedy. Make it possible for the producers to go to the Conciliation Board or the Arbitration Court, and ask them to fix a fair price for produce, taking into consideration the hours worked by the farmer and the capital he empi y -. That I believe would be the real remedy, and if the Government would assent to that I believe the country settlers would get better remunera- tion for their labour. It would not be necessary for them to work such long hours as they do at the present time, and the people in the cities would simply have to pay a little more for their supplies. I want to make this offer to the Gio- vernment, and to the member in charge of the Bill, who, I believe, has introduced it with the best intentions. If the Government will promise to so amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as to provide for the settlement of disputes as between consumer and producer, and thereby fix the price of produce, I shall support the Bill. Otherwise I shall have to vote against it. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Sir, the dis- triet I have the honour to represent contains a borough within an agricultural district. Now. so far as the borough is concerned, the provi- sions of this Bill might be approved by the workers, but certainly it would not be approved 