Buddo McGowan Tellers. McGuire Lethbridge Carroll Duncan Russell, W. R. Stevens Thompson, R. Hall-Jones PAIRS. For. Against. Mackenzie, T. Mckenzie, R. Majority for, 26. Bill read a second time. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) moved, That the Bill be committed this day week. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) moved, as an amendment, That the Bill be referred to the Stock Committee. Amendment negatived, and Bill ordered to be committed this day week. # CEMETERY TRUSTEES VALIDATION BILL. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said he did not think there could be any objection to this mea- sure, which would have the effect of removing a good deal of friction in regard to the working of certain clauses of the Cemeteries Act. Clause 2 was as follows :- "The appointment of any Road Board as trustees of any cemetery heretofore made or purporting to be made under section 45 of . The Cemeteries Act, 1882,' is hereby vali- dated." He thought these local bodies were more likely to be in a position to carry out the duties of trustees of cemeteries than nominated men. They are men that are generally held in repute by the residents: they are elected to these positions, and this is a matter that comes immediately under their supervision. Then, clause 3 savs, - "The appointment of the Rotorua Town Council as trustees of the Rotorua Cemetery is also hereby validated." There is no other body to take charge of this than the Rotorua County Council, because the trustees have vanished almost one by one, and they are on the ground to look after this matter. Then, clause 4 provides that- "Such validation shall in all cases be deemed to extend to the date when the appointment was made, and to all acts and proceedings (if otherwise lawful) done under such appoint- ment." Clause 5 is as follows : - " Where any cemetery trustees have been appointed under the said section by the name of the Corporation, or of the Mayor, Councillors, and Burgesses of a borough, or of any similar name, such appointment shall be deemed to mean the Council of the borough, and shall not be invalid by reason of such misnomer." So that, instead of having these trustees appointed, where these boroughs are prepared to take their place we think they are the better body to carry out the Act. We do not intend to interfere with any one so long as the work is carried out satisfactorily, but we think it is it is in the interests of the public that these changes should be made. I therefore propose the second reading of the Bill. Motion agreed to. # LOCAL AUTHORITIES INDEMNITY BILL. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2. "(1.) It shall be deemed to have been lawful for any local authority to expend. directly or indirectly, during the financial year ending the thirty-first day of March, one thon. sand nine hundred and two, out of its funds, any sum or sums of money in fitly receiving their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York on their visit to New Zealand. " (2.) For the purposes of this Act 'local au- thority ' includes the Council of any city or borough or county, and any Road Board, Town Board, Harbour Board, and Education Board." Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) moved to insert, after the words " Harbour Board, " the words " Drainage Board." Motion agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. # REFERENDUM BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). -- Sir, I desire, in reply, to state that the member for Hawkes Bay did me an injustice, inasmuch as be stated I was not serious in respect to the passing of this measure. Sir, it is a strange thing, but nevertheless true, that that has been said about nearly every Bill that ] have had charge of, and that has been placed on the statute-book. It was said about the Old-age Pensions Bill that I was not serious. It was also stated in respect to the Women's Franchise Bill. The fact is, if you want to urt a Bill through, according to the dictum laid down by the member for Hawke's Bay, yon must not appear to be serious. Any Bill I want for the future to be amongst the slaughtered innocents I will treat seriously, and endeavour to convince the member for Hawke's Bay that I am serious, and then he will consider it his duty to oppose it. It is lament- able that such a state of things should exist. At the same time I can only say that I have often felt we have not had the necessary ma- chinery where there were questions that ought. in my opinion, to be referred to the people- questions on which we were evenly divided in this Chamber, and which in another place a small majority supported. Where one, as it were, has to force the legislation through. the question might be referred to the people, and in that way the difficulty would be got over : but there was no machinery provided for its being done. If the Bill passes and becomes law. We need not then hesitate as to how to act. The member for Hawke's Bay made one of the speeches that are characteristic of him, and in keeping with his life as a politician. He is He is always afraid. He is always nervous. 