years he could not have seen those decorations. Although he concurred with what his honour- able friend, the Hon. Mr. Scotland, had said in many respects, believing that the decorations and pasteboard arches, with the various mot. toes upon them, really were a sham, and that it would be very much better that the Royal visitors should read their welcome on the faces of the people who lined the streets, at the same time he thought the reporters of the newspapers should be assured of what honourable gentleman gave utterance to the remarks instead of putting them down to somebody else. He did not wish to go any further in the matter, and he only rose to draw the attention of the reporters to their mistake. TRAWLING. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS asked the Minister of Education, If the Government will cause immediate inquiries to be made as to what effect trawling has had on the various fish- feeding grounds about the coast of New Zea- land ; and whether trawling is, as alleged by some authorities, detrimental to the spawn, and also to the young fish which feed about the shallow waters traversed by trawling-vessels ? The question submitted was a most important one. It was alleged by many authorities in piscatorial matters, both at Home and in this colony, and also by many engaged in the fishing industry, that great hardships were resulting owing to some of the steam-trawlers about the coast-line disturbing the spawn as well as the small fish about the fishing-grounds. So detri- mental to the men had this been in the Hauraki https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Gulf, that, where a few years ago there were twenty-five sailing-vessels, employing crews numbering about a hundred men, there was not one vessel now engaged in the fishing in- dustry about the gulf. At Home it had been found absolutely necessary to bring into force most stringent regulations for the purpose of assisting and protecting the coastal fishing industry. Trawlers should be made to keep further out to sea. He asked that the Govern- ment should at once cause inquiries to be made in the colony to ascertain the truth of the allegations that were now freely made -- namely, that the effect of trawling was detrimental to the spawn, to the young fish, and therefore to the fishing industry generally. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, Person- ally he did not think this diminution or migra- tion of the fish could be laid down to the effect of trawling in our waters, unless our waters were subject to conditions dissimilar to what was the rule in other countries. They had only to look to the enormous harvests of the sea gathered around the coasts of Great Britain and the surrounding islands, where he supposed a thousand fish were caught to-day where ten were caught fifty years ago, and to see the marvel- lousiv stocked markets in all the principal towns in the Old Country and the enormous variety of fish. to feel assured that the modern methods of capturing fish could not seriously disturb the habits of the fish. However, that was simply his own belief. He could not understand from what he had seen that there could be any such serious danger as that indicated in the question. But he had before him the opinion of the In- spector of fisheries, which would probably carry more weight than anything that he could say. The Inspector of Fisheries, Mr. Avson, had given some attention to this subject during the experimental trawling-cruise of the s.s. " Doto" round the North Island, a report on which had been recently received from him, and which would be printed for general information. It had been ascertained that fish were scarce in certain places which were good trawling-grounds, but this was due to their migratory habits, which were influenced by the food-supply, and this in turn by the state of the weather, tides, and currents. In fact, the extent of the fish- supply in any locality could only be ascertained correctly by having each locality fished at dif- ferent seasons. It might then be found that bottoms with a poor supply at one time might at another season prove to be prolific. The fish- feeding grounds were not well defined or per- manent throughout the year apparently. Mr. Ayson stated that wherever the coast-line was prospected the best results were obtained in from tive to twenty-five fathoms. In March last complaints were made that the trawler " Minnie Casey " was the cause of a decrease in the supply of fish in the Hauraki Gulf. The impression seemed to be grounded on the belief that fish-spawn was deposited on the bed of the sea. It was, however, known that the ova of most kinds of fish was buovant, and was carried about by the ocean and tidal currents until the young fish were hatched out. How- ever, these matters were receiving the attention of the Government. Any one who read last year's report on the subject of trawling must have done so with great interest and pleasure, and he had no doubt that the report which would be laid on the table shortly would also be of exceeding interest to honourable members. He assured the honourable member that the subject was receiving every consideration, but he trusted that trawling was not to blame for the disappearance of fish from certain waters at a particular time. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said one of the difficulties or objections urged by people who were really qualified to speak in regard to the effect of trawlers was that these vessels at times went out at night to catch the fish, and the fish were not sorted until the following morning at daylight. All the small fish, up to a quarter and half size, were thrown into the well of the trawler before being sorted, and when they were taken out in the morning they were dead. Now, in ordinary net fishing, when these small fish were caught they were immediately thrown overboard ; but to keep them until the morning meant an absolute waste of about one ton of fish out of every five. HOSPITAL NURSES REGISTRATION BILL. On the question. That this Bill be read the third time, The Hon. Mr. JONES said, Sir, when this Bill 