to get the freehold. That has got to come ; sooner or later the Premier will have to face the question of the freehold, and the sooner he does it the better. It seems to me it is only a question of five or six years before we get the freehold. Mr. SEDDON. - You will get revaluation before you get the freehold. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, I am quite prepared to vote for the revaluation as well, because it is a step towards the freehold. But the Premier must know that sooner or later all settlers will get the freehold. The exigences of party politics in a democratic country, where every settler has a vote, will necessitate it; every settler wishes to reduce his rent, and all farmers will have to bring pressure to bear to get their rents reduced. Captain RUSSELL .- Revaluation will put their rents up. Mr. HERRIES. - But perhaps party pressure will see that the rents are reduced. We had last session a Bill introduced giving 10 per cent. reduction whenever rents are paid promptly. and if the Premier wants to introduce it again I will support him. An Hon. MEMBER .- But he did not get it. Mr. HERRIES .- No, because the Premier had no backbone ; he gave in to a small section of his own supporters, and very improperly, I think. We were quite prepared to back him up, and then we should have had a reduction throughout the colony. At present it is en- joyed in only one favoured portion-in Canter- bury. In all the rest of the colony-in the North Island and in Otago-the Act is of no use to the settlers. Mr. SEDDON .- We will have it again this session. Mr. HERRIES .- I hope so; any support I can give him in stonewalling against his own supporters he shall have. Anyhow, it 11.30. is only the thin end of the wedge. If you give 10 per cent., why not 20 or 40 per cent. If the Premier would only look to the future he will see of necessity that what is going to happen is that as these settlers get more powerful their interests will become so large that they must get their rents reduced to a vanishing-point, and then they will get the freehold. Therefore I say that it would be far better to put a clause in the Bill by which these settlers could get their frechold if they paid for it. I do trust that the Premier will agree to the clause giving settlers the freehold. It would be a great benefit to the settler and to the country, and it would solve this difficulty, which is bound to crop up within the next two or three years whatever Government is in power. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka). Sir, the few re- marks I have to make on this Bill will be in reference to clause 8. As clause 8 stands at present I am certainly bound to oppose it. All through my electorate people have been begging for land during the time I have been in Parlia- ment, and if this clause is passed as it stands at present it completely debars them from taking advantage of the opportunity of getting land. I idea of. I think the Premier would act wisely And, again, any people from other colonies who might be married men would be able to answer the question " Are you a married man ?" in the affirmative, and they would get the land, while the sons of our own settlers, the sons of those who have worked hard to lay the foundation of the colony, would be bound to stand aside if not married, and anything that puts them in that position is, in my opinion, iniquitous. It would also be the means of driving our young men and women into the towns. That is the tendency at the present time. If any one will look at the parliamentary records they will see that there are between two and three thousand applications from young men and young women to join the Postal and Railway Departments alone. They are seeking employment in the Government service, and will not take service in the country, simply be- cause wages are higher in the towns than in the country. Last year I wanted to get some land opened up in the Matakanui district, and the Minister of Lands promised to visit the dis- trict, but he was apparently unable to do so. as he had to devote nearly all his time to the North Island. If he could have spared the time to go there he would have found a large number of young men who were anxious to get married, and who were engaged to get married. If he had gone there he would have met a deputation who would have pointed out to him their views on the subject. I hope he will be able to visit the district on an early occasion and see the state of things in regard to the want of land for settlement for himself. The same remarks apply to the Tuapeka district. There are some settlers there with very large families. Some of them have ten or eleven daughters of marriageable age, and no doubt they want to get them into double harness, but they are not prepared to undertake the responsibilities of married life until they can get a home of their own. Now, this Bill says to them, " You will have to look elsewhere for that home; you cannot get it here." Then, again, these young men and women are responsible for the mortgage on the lands the Government have taken up, and they have been contributing to the capital cost of such lands through the Customs just as much as the married people ; but this Bill will allow people to come here from foreign parts, and it gives the preference to them. I think, Sir, these are matters that should be considered. The Premier could not do better, to my mind, than take measures to prevent these bad effects. This particular Act has done a great deal of good for the colony, and it is a pity now that any steps at all should be taken that will result in the undoing of the benefits so far received. I hope the measure will not pass in its present form, and when it is in Committee I shall do what I can to improve it. Section 9 certainly wants alteration. It is not right that such a power as is contained in that section should be put into the hands of the Crown, and it should not be allowed by this House, because it would put the colony in a position that the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill has really no 