this year to place a substantial sum on the esti- mates, so that this very necessary work could be carried on, in the interests of the farmers and others, who were continually using this road to get to and from the city with their goods or produce. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the Road Surveyor at Invercargill recommended that £1,500 should be put on the estimates for this work. That was to cover a liability of $500 on the 31st March last and to continue the work, but whether or not provision to that extent would be made on the estimates would depend upon the amount of money available for road-works and the requirements of other roads. It was usual, moreover, where the road was in a settled district, as in this case, for the local authority to offer to pay half the cost. Generally, in an old-settled district the County Council came forward with a proposition that they were prepared to pay a portion of the cost of these roads. It might be right to tax the whole colony to meet the wants of new settlers in back blocks where they had nothing to pay with, and therefore it was that Government money was required for those blocks in straight- out votes. When you come to the 4.0. other settled districts, he thought it was a good plan that the local authorities should contribute some part of the money, be- cause they generally kept a closer supervision over it when there was some of their own money being expended as well as the Government money. That was the position at present, and it would depend entirely on the amount of money that the Treasurer would give him whether he could satisfy all the needs or not. TARANAKI DAIRY-SCHOOL. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister for Agriculture, When the long promised dairy- school, with the most modern and scientific processes for the manufacture of butter and cheese, will be established in Taranaki, the home of the dairying industry of the colony? Sir, this school was promised by Sir John Mckenzie, and it would be seen by section 7 of "The Reserves and Crown Lands Disposal and Enabling Act, 1896," that a reserve had been taken for establishing such a school at Waimate. The sections read as follows :- "Whereas Section 32, Block III., Waimate Survey District, West C ast (North Island) District, containing ninety acres and twenty perches, more or less, was, in pursuance of num- ber 22 of the First Schedule to . The Special Powers and Contracts Act, 1885,' by notice in the Gazette of the 9th October, 1885, page 1196, vested in the Public Trustee for the purposes of a School of Agriculture: And whereas such school has not been established, and it is de- sirable to vary the purpose for which the land was set apart and to apply the rents and profits of the land in manner hereinafter provided : Be it therefore enacted as follows :- "(1.) The Governor may, by Gazette notice, resume possession of the said land, and from and after the gazetting of Mr. Hanan freed from any trust in or control by the Public Trustee, and shall be deemed to be a reserve for the purpose of establishing an experimental dairy- school for the North Island in such manner as the Minister for Agricul- ture directs : "Provided, however, that any lease theretofore granted by the Public Trustee shall not be disturbed there- by, save and except that such lease --- shall thenceforth be deemed to have been granted by the Commissioner of Crown Lands for the Land District of Taranaki, who shall have all the powers of the Public Trustee thereunder, and the lessee shall thenceforth pay his rent to the Receiver of Land Revenue at New Plymouth, whose receipt shall be a sufficient discharge. "(2.) All rents and profits in respect of the said land in the hands of the Public Trustee at the date of the gazetting of the said notice, and all rents and profits that thereafter accrue, shall be paid into the Public Account to a special account, to be called the ' North Island Experimental Dairy- school Account,' and the Colonial Treasurer may, from time to time. without any further appropriation by Parliament, pav therefrom any ex- penses incurred by or under the authority of the Minister for Agricul- ture in the establishment, support. and maintenance of the said experi. mental dairy-school. " The provisions of the last preceding section hereof shall, mutatis mutandis, apply with re- spect to Section 534, Block XI., Hawera Survey District, containing sixty-nine acres one rood twenty-two perches, more or less, which is at present vested in the Mokoia Domain Board, under ' The Public Domains Act, 1881,' and for the purposes of such application the expression ' Mokoia Domain Board' shall be read in lieu of the expression ' Public Trustee." " He brought this matter under the notice of the Government on several occasions, and the people whom he represented were under the impression that an up-to-date dairy-school would be established, so that the promise made by the late Minister for Agriculture would be given effect to. He had not previously quoted the statute he had referred to; and he had only done so on this occasion to prove that his statements were correct. He felt it was absolutely neces- sary in the interests of the district he repre- sented that the promise. ratified by Act of Par- liament, should be carried out, seeing that they had eighty-five dairy factories in that district out of the 152 in the colony. The dairy farmers were entitled to some consideration. The Act re- ferred to was passed in 1896, and sufficient money almost had then accrued from the reserves to enable the Government to thoroughly equipand start the dairy-school on the most modern and scientific lines. It was a matter of the greatest 