of party. For myself, I do not raise it as a party matter at all. There are members on both sides of the House who believe, as I do myself, that it is our duty to uphold the privi- leges that have come down to us, and to resist the practice of the Premier in adopting an autocratic attitude and snapping his fingers in the face of every precedent, and doing as he thinks fit. The honourable gentleman knows it is now only a case of government by himself. All custom, all precedent, everything that has guided us, everything that does guide us, to maintain the liberties of the people is being violated by that one man. Mr. SEDDON .- No; I deny the soft impeach- ment. Captain RUSSELL. - Well, unfortunately, the honourable gentleman will joke, and a good many members will laugh at his jokes ; but, Sir, I have the courage of my opinions, and I will divide the House on the question of going into Committee of Supply, and abandoning the posi- tion we should always take up of demanding redress of grievances before granting Supply. Common courtesy, at any rate, demanded that the Premier should have informed us on this side of the House what course he was going to adopt. The Bill comes before us, Sir, absolutely without precedent. On no previous occasion has a Supply Bill been brought before us until we have, at any rate, had an opportunity of reading the Speech of His Excellency. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Captain RUSSELL .- Well, at any rate, I cannot remember it. If I had been allowed time I would have looked into the matter, but, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 as it is, I have had to depend on my memory for my statements. Sir, I do hope the House will agree that there is no justification for this Bill, and that the Government is to blame for having put the House in an unfortunate posi- tion; and that there has been ample oppor- tunity for calling Parliament together since the 31st March without interfering in any way whatsoever with the ordinary functions of the Government of the colony, and without inter- fering in any possible manner with our demon- strations of loyalty. Sir, I intend to divide the House on the question, because I am sure it is creating a bad principle, which must be appa- rent to all who have paid any attention to this subject. Mr. SPEAKER. - I would remind the Premier that two years ago his motion was to suspend Standing Order No. 414, in order to permit the Committee of Supply and Ways and Means to be set up before the Address in Reply is agreed to, so as to enable the Government to proceed with the Imprest Supply Bill this day. presume he is following the precedent then established. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- There is no motion of that kind before the House. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I under- stood the motion of the Premier was to go into Committee on the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I did move that the House go into Committee of the Whole ; but -so as to set the matter right, I will, with your permission, follow the same course that was followed in the previous year. I would now ask . leave to withdraw my former motion. Motion, by leave, withdrawn. Mr. SEDDON .- Now, Sir, I rise to move, That Standing Crder No. 414 be suspended, in order to permit the Government to proceed with the Imprest Supply Bill. I took it for granted that the House would well understand the situa- tion. It is not the desire of the Government to violate Standing Orders or precedents; but, when an abnormal condition of things arises -- Captain RUSSELL .- It is not abnormal. Mr. SEDDON .- I say, Sir, that it is ab- normal ; we have never had a visit of the Duke of Cornwall and York before. But then, Sir, one should never take anything for granted in this world. It was generally conceded, as far as I could discover without absolutely asking honourable members, that this course should be taken. That was the result of my inquiry. I submitted two proposals : one was to have a short session, and then to adjourn after the passing of the Imprest Supply Bill. That meant bringing members from all parts of the colony to Wellington, their being here for a few days, and then going back to their homes again. I say that would have been very inconvenient and very expensive. It would have been right enough for some members who live in Wel- lington, or who, when in Wellington, are within easy reach of their homes; but I con- sidered that, as the head of the Government, it was my duty to consider the convenience of members as a whole. Then, coming to the con- clusion that there would bo inconvenience and expense from a short meeting of Parliament- of course, we ran the risk of the Imprest Supply being blocked-and I considered then, and 1 consider still, that under the extraordinary cir- cumstances the House would pass the Imprest Supply Bill, because it is really only for the payment of the current expenditure. It is not as though there were anything introduced here which members could take exception to: and I think I am entitled to meet any argument that might be advanced to the effect that it has not been customary to bring down an Imprest Supply Bill until after the Speech from the Throne has been dealt with ; and, Sir, the honourable gentleman has not taken me into his confidence yet as to whether he is going to debate the Governor's Speech. Captain RUSSELL .- I have not read it yet. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, it will stand reading, and the sooner the honourable gentleman reads it the better. What I say is this : Last session there was no debate on the Imprest Supply Bill I at all ; but, Sir, if there is to be, as I am told, a prolonged debate upon the Address in Reply on this occasion, what difference will there be if we adjourn this Bill for two or three days ? We shall then be in the middle of the Reply to the Speech from the Throne ; so that it is better, I think, and it is more convenient, to take this Bill now than to intercept the debate on the Speech from the Throne by the passing of the Imprest Supply Bill. Now, as to precedents, 