STATE FIRE INSURANCE. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) said,-Instead of , important that they should do it in the best way, and that they should not do anything which asking the Premier whether it . as his intention to bring down a Bill dealing with State fire insurance, he would like to compliment the Right Hon. the Premier upon the prompt way i were now at work upon this and other matters in which he had brought down that Bill by Governor's message. SANITORIA FOR CONSUMPTIVES. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Colo- nial Secretary, What steps have been taken to establish sanitoria, or a sanitorium, for the ! treatment of consumption. In asking the . ment, Whether they will this session make question, he would impress upon the Minister, : some provision for members of the Constabulary as he had done last session, the urgent neces- sity, in the interests of the colony, that some- thing should be done to stem the spread of this fearful disease -this scourge, consumption. It had been stated on the authority of Sir William his notice lately by the fact that a gentleman Broadbent, one of the greatest medical men in the Old Country, and one of the principal authorities upon this particular question, that seriously from injuries sustained when struggling consumption was undoubtedly contagious. In the Lancet of 1898, this authority said- " Consumption was proved beyond doubt to be contagious : that it is communicated from person to person, and from animals to man, and that it arises in no other way. It is not an inherited vice in the constitution, which declares itself in course of time. Every case of consumption is derived from some pre- existing case." Referring to statistics, he found that last vear 577 deaths from consumption had occurred in the colony, and he had pointed out last ses- sion that 50 per cent. of these occurred amongst native - born New - Zealanders. He hoped the Government had already done something, and that there would shortly be in existence here the methods that had proved beneficial in other parts of the world. He referred to the out-door treatment of consumption. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary), in reply to the honourable member, said that the Government had recognised the importance of this question which was now raised, and which had been raised before. Since last session the Health Department had been in operation, as the honourable member knew. This depart- ment was making extensive inquiries in many directions, with the view of seeing what could be best done in order to grapple with the fell disease consumption. He could tell the honour- able member that a sketch had been already prepared of a hospital for consumptives, to pro- vide for twenty male and twenty female patients. The Government were not, however, moving hurriedly in this matter, and it was not desirable that they should do so. They were waiting for the fullest information from the Health Department. The Chief Health Officer was going very exhaustively into the question, and upon the receipt of his report they would be in a position to judge of the best way in which the difficulty could be met and dealt with. With the honourable gentleman, he agreed that they should do something to ameliorate the condition of those who suffer from consumption in this colony; but it was might be afterwards a cause for regret. They must in this be guided by the opinion and the reports of their responsible expert officers, who which they were considering for the benefit of the colony. PROVISION FOR INJURED CON- STABLES. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Govern- Force of the colony who have been perma- nently or seriously injured while in the per- formance of their duty? He put the question, as the subject had been brought forcibly under who was at present resident in his district, and who a few years ago was a member of the Con- stabulary Force of the colony, suffered very with a prisoner whom he had arrested. This officer was compelled to give up his position in the service, and was now absolutely unable to keep himself and his family, or, in fact, to earn anything at all. He had been informed that there were many similar cases, and he thought it most unfair to ask that such men should go upon the Charitable Aid Board, or become burdens upon their friends, or even to come to Parliament occasionally for a grant. The Go- vernment ought to make some permanent provi- sion for such cases. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said it appeared to him that this was one case in which a man, no doubt, had suffered, and would like to come under the benefit of the Act that had been passed subsequent to his injury. "The Police Provident Fund Act, 1899," made provision for all such cases as had occurred since the passing of that Act. Cases that had occurred prior to that statute had been specially dealt with by the Government, and some were now under con- sideration. He did not see that there was any- thing remarkable or exceptional in this particu- lar caso. # RAILWAY SLEEPERS. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will authorise the purchase of red-birch railway-sleepers from settlers in the Seventy-mile Bush ? He had been induced to put the question on the Order Paper by repre- sentations made to him by bush settlers in his electorate who had considerable quantities of red-birch. He understood that red-birch was a very useful, strong, and lasting timber. If the Minister would authorise the purchase of red- birch for railway-sleepers, it would bring in considerable revenue to the settlers, and at the same time probably be of much advantage to the Railway Department. He believed the depart- ment were going to purchase white-pine sleepers and creosote them, but, in his opinion, the red- birch timber would probably be cheaper. They were always talking in this House about the 