on the Bill as it first came down, but still it is a Bill that will advertise us to the world as a highly immoral people; and I am prepared to say that we are not a highly immoral people. We may have foolish young people, and there are foolish young people in every city and in every country in the world : we may have careless parents, and there are careless parents in every town in the world : but when you have passed this Bill. and when it becomes law, you will not have effected one iota of good ; you will not have done anything to prevent the same sin going on then as now, you will only make it worse by driving it into the slums. The wrong- doers will be a little more cautious and a little more careful, but the sin will go on just as it That is my reason for ob- has been doing. jecting to the Bill. The Council divided. AYES, 20. Kelly, T. Stevens Arkwright Swanson Barnicoat Louisson Bolt Tomoana Montgomery Reeves Twomey Bowen Walker, W. C. Rigg Harris Williams. Jenkinson Scotland Smith, A. L. Jones NOES, 11. Ormond Johnston Baillie Pinkerton Feldwick Kelly, W. Shrimski. Gourley Kerr Jennings McLean Majority for, 9. Bill read the third time. The Council adjourned at twenty-five minutes to five o'clock p.m. http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 25th July, 1901. First Readings-New Member-Land for Settlements Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Omaka Investigation Bill, Charitable Gifts Bill, Cook County Vehicle Licensing Bill, Young Persons Protection Bill. NEW MEMBER. Mr. F. H. HASELDEN took the oath, and his seat for Patea. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. On the question, That the amendments made in this Bill in Committee be agreed to, Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) said, -- I move to recommit the Bill in order to re- consider clause 9, which is the provision giving power to the Governor to make regulations in defiance of "The Public Works Act, 1894." `I move for the recommittal of this clause for Hon. Mr. Pinkerton the following reasons: In the first place. I do not consider it proper that power should be given to modify any statute law of the land by regulation or rule. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- Will the honour- able gentleman allow me to interrupt him for a moment ? The honourable member for Dune din City (Mr. Barclay) has an amendment on the Order Paper to recommit this clause. I referred the matter to the Crown Law Officers, and we propose to strike out the words to which excep- tion is taken and substitute the following : - " The provisions of . The Public Works Act. 1894.' relating to claims for compensation. are hereby modified in as far as the same are incon- sistent with the principal Act and this Act." It will save time, perhaps, if I say that we are not going to object to the Bill going into Committee at once. Mr. WILFORD. - The other objection I have to the clause is that it is not explicit : the clause itself does not define the extent or scope of the power. It states that the Governor mav from time to time make regulations prescribing the procedure and forms to be used. and making and disposing of claims for compensation. I do not believe in the proposition. I do not consider that power should be given for regulations to he made in the way set out in the Bill, and I think there will be no safety to the public because there is no check whatever as to whether the regulations made are ultra vires or not. Any regulation made in pursuance of a statute should always be made subject to that test- that it should be within the authority and sub- ject to the scope of the statute enabling it to be so made : and if any regulation is made which is ultra rires, that regulation would he set aside by a Court of law. No regulation made under the authority of this section could be set aside on the ground of being ultra vires. The defence of it being uitra vires would be available to no one who pleaded it. I might say that the side I have taken in this matter is the side I have taken from the first. On the second reading I disagreed with the clause, and in Committee I divided against the clause, -the voting being twenty-eight votes for and thirty-two votes against. On that occasion several members said to me that they were not aware of the purpose of the division, and that they had only just arrived in the House when the division-bell rang. I feel quite sure that some of the members who voted with the mi- nority on that occasion would now, if they were given an opportunity, help to excise this clause from the Bill. I cannot, I am sorry to say. accept the amendment of the Premier, because I am afraid of its effect. Mr. SEDDON .- Then I shall not recommit the Bill. Mr. WILFORD .- That is a matter for the House. I will vote against the clause, because I disagree with the principle set out therein. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I do not quite understand the amendment of the Pre- mier. I think this clause ought to be struck out altogether. I do not think the statute law should be overridden by regulation, and I trust 