that has been left even for a small amount in the position this liquidation has been left. It may be said that the shareholders are the proper parties to take this matter in hand ; but I would point out to honourable gentlemen that the Colonial Bank had a very large and widely- distributed proprietary. It will be seen at once that it will be a very difficult thing to get any kind of cohesion amongst these gentlemen so as to bring about an application to the Court for the information required. We all know that if you get into the hands of the lawyers in a case of this kind there is a very large amount of expense involved. There are shareholders here, in Australia, South Africa, Great Britain, and many parts of the Continent, and very difficult it would be to get these gentlemen to come to a resolution about the matter, and it would also be a very expensive process. Well, under these circumstances it appears to many of the gentle- men who have spoken to me on the matter that an application to Parliament is theonly recourse. It may be said by the Government, " What have we to do with this : it is no concern of ours ?" That is practically the essence of the answer of the Hon. the Minister last year; but I say that is not the proper view to take of it, when the Government must see that a very large interest like this is being delayed and dealt with in this perfunctory manner. and I think, in the interests not only of the shareholders, but for the sake of the general credit of the commercial community, and also of our Courts, they should take some action whereby the proper intimation can be got as to how the liquidation stands. Let me give the Council a short history of this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 very peculiar case. Honourable. members will remember that on the passing of the Bank of New Zealand Act of 1895 it was deemed advis- able that that bank should have the opportunity of purchasing the interest, business, and assets of any other bank. Of course, it was known at that time that there had been a move to pur- chase the Colonial Bank and its assets, but the Act previously passed prevented that, and when the Bank of New Zealand was assisted by the Act of 1895 it was thought desirable to provide that it could purchase the business of another bank, and power was given whereby the Bank of New Zealand should be allowed to purchase any other bank, thereby affording it an opportunity of carrying out what it had been suggested was its object the year before -- namely, the purchase of the Colonial Bank. In pursuance of that Act an agreement was entered into between the Bank of New Zealand and the Colonial Bank. It was approved by the directors on each side, and also by Parliament. Then, there was an Act based upon that, and reference was made to the Colonial Bank, and one clause said that application should be at once made to the Court to liquidate and wind up volun- tarily, or under the Court, as circumstances might decide. Therefore, in that case, the Government have undertaken, as I think, a certain responsibility in removing from the shareholders altogether the power of deal- ing with their property, as the Act ex- I time when an account might be represented by Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith apply to the Court without reference to any resolution by the shareholders whatever, and that also is a reason why the Government. I think, should have a certain amount of re- sponsibility in the matter. In course of time liquidators were appointed-I forget exacty the circumstances under which they were ap- pointed, but I know that the late Hon. Mr. Larnach was one-and they proceeded to de The assets were extremely large. certain things On the one side there was an asset of $2.043.000. and the liabilities were €2,509,000. There were four accounts, or lists. the A, B, C. and I) lists : but the difference between the liabili ies and the assets was to be paid at once in cash, and it in- volved a payment by the Bank of New Zealand to the Colonial Bank of $133,000. That was the bass of and the first transaction in connection with the proceedings. Then, there was a list prepared - the A list -- which included, it was supposed, all the first-class accounts of the bank, and which. by mutual agreement between the Bank of New Zealand and the Colonial Bank, it was deter- mined should be passed over at par value and given credit for on that basis. And now com- what I might say is the cru -- the kernel-of the whole difficulty which has arisen, and as I proceed I shall endeavour to show that i .. regard to the B accounts there has been great deal of what I consider to be no: very astute treatment. The B list represented $604,000. The C list represented 950. And then there was the D list ; but we can throw that D list of accounts entirely out of consideration, because the Bank of New Zea- land determined to have nothing to do with them, and the Colonial Bank agreed to tike them and wind them up in their own way and on their own account. The B list repre. sented €604,000, and there was placed against it as security for the full value being reaked of the amount standing against the debtor-' names in that account and the C account the sum of #327,000, of which it was generally understood-and, I believe, understood with some basis of reality-that £55,000 was to be at once credited to the C account in th. margin of the accounts and written off at one :. and thereby was left a sum of about £270,00 odd, which was to be altogether appropriated for adding to the security of the B list. Well now. Sir, about that time I remember I had a discussion with the late Hon. Mr. Larnach about this matter, and he did me the comul :- ment to ask my opinion about it, and I said. " Well, in my opinion, the Colonial Bank has made a very good sale, inasmuch as the whole of the money which is supposed to be realis will be above the par value of the shares. sod in the circumstances of these times I consid .: that a very fair realisation." Mr. Larnich himself thought so, and then we discussed h. " this money should be got. I said. " Well, in my view. the Colonial Bank liquidators bay got a good opportunity to make good terms" By a certain clause in this agreement they had power to go to the Bank of New Zealand avr 