settlers in this particular special settlement, | tion of the land, and if the dairy industry which is contiguous, I may say, almost to the towns of Pahiatua and Woodville, we have there at the present time about four or five settlers remaining. There was another settlement in an exactly similar position, also in my electo- rate. Well, if that is done all over the colony, what does it mean ? It simply means depopu- lation, and, unless the Government step in and stop the accumulation of property such as this, the result will be that you will have little or no small settlement at all. It is only the thin end of the wedge for the purpose of again creating large holdings. Now, at the present time a wealthy New Plymouth firm has come into my district and is buying out the freeholders there -those who have taken up land under the per- petual lease. I do not think that is right. The settlers there are prosperous. One settler on Monday last told me that off a hundred acres of good land he could take $300 a year at dairying. In these cases it behoves the Government to see that these small sections are not wiped out of existence alto- gether. I agree with the honourable member for Palmerston in a great deal that he said to- night, more especially in respect to the re- striction of the freehold. If that were done I think it would be a very good thing. As far as the lease in perpetuity is concerned, what exists at the present time ? There may be four lessees who hold a hundred acres each. After ten years residence is required no longer. The holder may leave his land and go where he likes. He may sell the product of his land -- that is, the grass-to his neighbour. What is to prevent monopoly there ? The Act cannot prevent it ; the Government cannot prevent it; and the man's lease cannot be altered. For these and other reasons I think there is room for improve- ment in the lease in perpetuity. With respect to private land offered to the Government for the purpose of purchase, I wish to say that not long ago the Government were offered a station, a fairly large area of land near to Takapau, in the electorate of the honourable member for Waipawa. It was offered them at a reasonable value. Now, I was informed the other day that the land is at present selling at $9 an acre, and yet the Government could have acquired the whole of it at ₺6 or $7 an acre. I consider that when an estate like that is voluntarily offered to the Land Purchase Board, they should acquire it before they put into force the compulsory clauses of the Act. also consider that the lands in the hands of the Assets Board which are suitable for settlement should be purchased by the Government and settled at once. With regard to acquiring large estates, I think the Government should act very carefully. We find that for dairying land they have paid as much as £20 to $28 an acre. Well, butter at the present time is fetching a very fair price, but how long will that continue ? A corner may be established any day. Look at wool. Three or four years ago it was selling at 7d. and 8d. per pound, while now inferior classes are selling at 3d. Of course, the low price of products will bring down the valua- receives a set-back, land-values must neces- sarily fall. The honourable member for Frauk- lin stated that the lands which have been acquired under the Land for Settlements Act could be sold and the money obtained from the sales set aside to purchase other properties. Well, I would ask the member for Waitemata this question : If he were the Minister of Lands, and the member for Franklin was the Premier, and the member for Ellesmere was Colonial Secretary, how much land would they purchase with the money they obtained from the sales of these lands ? I believe that not one of these gentlemen would touch his friends' lands, and the result would be that the money would ve placed . in the Public Account and would be spent on public works, and the present Govern- ment would be accused of a huge borrowing policy, and extravagance; whilst they would claim to be a non-borrowing party but they would be entirely living on the money raised by their predecessors in office. I would cer- tainly object to that. Sir, I have no objection to the settlers securing the freehold, provided the area is restricted. If there is no restriction. however, I shall never vote for the freehold. I think it is wrong in principle to purchase land from one owner and sell it to almost his next-door neighbour. Land taken under this Act should be continued under some form of lease, but the freehold should not be given. There is an estate in my district that is held by an absentee, and the people of Pahiatua have been agitating that it should be cut up. It is on the margin of the town ship, and if the Government were to .0. acquire this land under the same terms as they acquired Hatuma, they could acquire it. I think, for about #4 an acre; because it is nearly non-productive, and on that account if they were to acquire it on the same terms as Hatuma, they would have to pay a very small figure for it. The $60,000 was also mentioned by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. He stated that Mr. Purvis Russell offered the Government #60,000 to release him from the bargain of selling his estate. Now, any man who knows anything about the Land for Settlements Act must come to only one con- clusion-that such an offer must have been a bogus one, and that he never thought for a moment the Government would accept the offer. If, Sir, they had accepted it what would have been the result ? The complete upsetting of I the Act ; they could not, in my opinion, have acquired another estate under the statute. On this account I think the offer made was a bogus one, and the Government were within their right in treating it as such, no doubt. li he thought the Government would have accepted it, he never would have made it. Another statement was made, I think, by the honour- able member for Bruce, and was a very specious one, and one that would take very well on the public platform, and would be accepted by a non-thinking people. He said, " If a man has $30,000, why should you not take that and divide it the same as the land ?" There is no 