to maintain the musty and fusty safeguards which have been standing in the way of pro- gress for ages. Those are the very things which should be got rid of. We have retained un- necessary safeguards which a free people should not be required to be burdened with. In New Zealand the people are politically educated, and the honourable gentleman is not justified in assuming that, because a measure has only been before Parliament and under consideration for forty, fifty, or sixty days, the people of the colony are not likely to be able to understand it, or be in a position to give an intelligent vote upon it. I conceive that there may have been a time, years ago, when the franchise was limited, when it might have been impolitic to facilitate the passage of a Referendum Bill under which measures of magnitude and importance should be relegated to the people. I had some years ago my doubts about the measure, and I opposed it because I was afraid that it was premature -- that the people of the colony were not suffi- ciently educated in a political sense to be able to deal satisfactorily with some of the huge and intricate questions which might be brought in front of them; but we have had now the ex- perience of popular rule under a universal fran- chise, and from the way in which that franchise has been exercised by the people we have a clear proof that the time is approaching when they ought to have the power to dictate to Parliament under what laws they are to be governed. It is the inherent right of a free, an educated people, men and women, to say how they shall be governed. What are we proposing ? We are proposing to remove from Parliament a certain amount of responsibility. We are handing a certain amount of the power that has hitherto been exclusively vested in the Parliament of the country over to the people. I am of opinion that the people should be the ultimate controlling-power. They should be the ultimate Court of Appeal in connection with our legislation. If our legislative Cham- bers are at variance with each other, and cannot come to a proper conclusion as to whether a measure is desirable or not, the people should be the umpire between the con- tending parties, and say whether the measure should be passed into law or not. Now, I con- tend that, with the amount of education that our young people who are leaving school and becoming incorporated in our political in- stitutions are receiving, and with the splendid political training through the medium of the Press, platform, and otherwise that is being conferred on the people generally, if there is any part of the world where a Referendum Bill could be of any importance and do any good it is in a young country like ours. It is all very well to taunt the Premier with boast- ing of the liberties our people are enjoying. The people have made a splendid use of their liber- ties and privileges, and have shown by the way they have acted from time to time that they are fit to receive a further instalment of power, and to be intrusted with the great and responsible duties which is assigned to them by a Bill of Mr. Hogg made to the altered constitution of the Legis- lative Council. We are told that the Upper House is no longer standing in the way of the Premier. I presume that the honourable gentleman means that the Upper House is no longer standing in the way of the wishes of the majority in this Assembly, and of the de- mands of the people themselves. There was a time when the principal employment of the other Chamber was not merely to revise our Bills, but to consign them to the waste-paper basket. Day after day certain measures, some of them policy measures, passed by this As- sembly had only to go to the other House to be rejected. Our progressive legislation was frustrated. Captain RUSSELL. - You cannot give one instance. Mr. HOGG .- I think, during the first session I was in this House no policy measure of the slightest importance passed this House that was not rejected in the other Chamber, and as a result, towards the end of the session, a huge .... meeting was held on the reclaimed ground at Wellington, at which I was present, for the purpose of protesting against the action of that Chamber. The Land Act, the first Electoral Bill, including the female franchise, were re- jected there. During that session, after what I call the Liberal party came into power, I believe every one of the policy measures brought forward was rejected ignominiously by the Upper House. That was the work of gentlemen who at that time occupied about two hours a day slaughter- ing the legislation of the people's representa- tives. I do not wish to treat the members of that Chamber with disrespect. No doubt they were sincere in what they did, and acted according to their lights ; but there could be no real progress while one Chamber was destroying the work of the other. That was why the con- stitution of that Chamber had to be altered. Now we have arrived at another stage when an alteration of the Constitution is demanded. and if we consult the wishes and interests of the people we will have that alteration carried out. It may seem a dangerous thing to some members. like the member for Hawke's Bay, that there should be any amendment of our Constitution. but I trust that we are not going to hesitate to carry out reforms and improvements if they are found necessary for the general good of the country. We have here a Referendum Bill. and if we think the people can be intrusted with more power than they now enjoy, and that the result will be the passing of measures more in harmony with the wishes of the ma- jority than at present, then I say we ought to welcome the passing of a measure of this kind. What are we endeavouring to bring about ? It is not denied that we should do everything possible to make ourselves conversant with the wishes of the majority. By the referendum we shall be enabled to ascertain what the people require. I believe that the wish of every true Liberal and democrat is to give expression to the desires of the people. This Bill is founded upon a sound principle-the principle that every man 