case was called on before the Board the Waihi mine-owners were the ones to get all the mines in the peninsula made parties also. The Waihi Mine did this to keep the wages down, as there- by the small companies, which were not paying, would be put upon just the same footing as the Waihi Company. All these companies were forced in. and they met the Waihi Company and fought with them as one man : but many of them wanted to deal fairly with their men. They would not have done what the Waihi Company did in dismissing the omcers of the union from their employment. Not only had the Waihi Company gone in for dismissing those officers of the union whom it employed, but they were crushing out, as they said they would, the trade-union altogether, and wanted to go back to the old system of strikes and lock-outs. Sir, the honourable member for Eden has raised the old cry that this is going to frighten away capital. It is just the same old cry that we have had year after year that is raised to-day. When the wages of the miners were fixed on the West Coast, did it frighten away capital there? No. We have had a boom there since the wages were fixed by Mr. Justice Edwards's judgment. Yet always we hear the same cry about frightening away capital and closing up mines that some honourable gentle- men have made use of to-day. Another state- ment that is made is that employers have to place their books before the unions. Now, Sir, the books go before the Court ; and when the employers on this occasion, in this matter of the Waihi dispute, had a subject of controversy. when there was a denial between one party and the other and their books would prove which side was right-they refused to produce their books for a long time. The Court assured them that the miners would not see the books, and the Court only would look into them, and as a result they were brought to the Court, and taken away quickly as soon as the Court had done with them. There was no possibility of the miners looking into them. An Hon. MEMBER .- No harm in that. Mr. PALMER .- There is no harm in that, of course. Mr. R. THOMPSON. - Did the union not apply for the books ? Mr. PALMER .- The union wanted to look at the books to see if a certain statement was correct, because there was a denial on one side and an assertion on the other side. It was a question of "time," and they wanted the " time-books," and the representatives of the company would not let them even look at the time - books. Now, Sir, with regard to the other sections of this Bill, of course these amendments had to be brought in, or else this dismissal of men because they were officers of a union would be an absolute defiance of the Act, and an end to the labour-laws of the colony. If men are going to be "sacked " because they belong to unions, and these companies are going to crush out the unions, then there is no possi- bility of industrial conciliation in this colony. Another thing that I wish to mention is that they appointed a lawyer as attorney for the English companies to appear before the Court. I think this principle is wrong. If it is a principle of the law that we are not going to have lawyers in the Court, why should one person have them and another not ? I go further, and say if an English company wants to appoint a lawyer as attorney, well, let them appoint him as at- torney, but if they are going to appear in the Court, then that lawyer should have the privi- lege of appointing some one to appear for him, such appointee not to be a lawyer. This Bill should be amended to give the lawyer that privilege, so that his company shall be repre- sented before the Board or Court. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .-- Mr. Speaker, two or three honourable members whom I have heard speaking on this Bill have been strongly advising the Government to go slow, and saying it is in the interests of the country they should go slow. Now, Sir, I do not think the labour party want to push things unjustly. But if any honourable member thinks that the labour party are going to stand still, or that the labour movement has not come to stay in this colony. he is making one of the greatest mistakes that could be committed. It is going to stay, not only here, but will be extended to every one of the Australian Colonies; and they intend to ask this House to see justice done to them and nothing more. The honourable member for Eden told us just now that the farmers would rise in their wrath and hurl the Government out of the country. When a bogey like this is raised one wants to analyse it. We have so often heard of the immense power of the farmers that I took the trouble to go through the census returns to find out its value. The total return of farmers in the country is thirty thousand, and the whole of those engaged in agricultural and pastoral pursuits, including agricultural labourers, amount to seventy-one thousand out of a total population of seven hundred and fifty thousand. The farmers in 1895 had a block vote of thirty thou- sand ; probably there will be a slight increase this year, but there will be a corresponding in- crease on the other side as well. To take the Act as it stands, I do not think the Govern- ment could have gone much slower: there is no forward movement in this Bill with the exception of the one thing the member for Ohinemuri has pointed out-that where a dis- pute arises, and a union has gone first to the employers and asked to have a conference on matters affecting the two-before ever the case has gone to the Board or the Court men have been dismissed. They could not dismiss them after the case had gone to the Board-after the dispute was filed ; but they took the opportu- nity before it got that length of dismissing the men. This Bill only makes provision that where there is anything in dispute, or anything is com- menced between the two sides, everything shall remain in statu quo until it is entirely decided. That cannot injure either one side or the other. If you take this from the Bill there is not one forward movement from the first clause to the last. The other part deals merely with little defects existing in the Act. It means that as 