having supplied that want. But if freights are to be kept up to their present extraordinary figure I think the sooner a sum of money is placed on the estimates to provide for a line of large steamers to carry our produce to the various parts of the world the better it will be for us. The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) last night spoke mainly in the interests of the tourist traffic between Aus- tralia and this colony ; but what we want, also, is to have "ocean tramps" to take away our produce to any part of the world. We ought to, and must, have our produce carried at fair rates. Why, Sir, a large portion of the oats which have left this colony for Africa have been bought by merchants in New South Wales and Victoria, and shipped from there to the Cape. Why should not the farmers have reaped the profit which has thus gone to the middleman in Australia, and the cargoes be sent direct to the destination ? That is the direc- tion in which I would like to see the Govern- ment go. I believe I am right in stating that the last Imperial order sent to this colony for oats was at the rate of 1s. 9d. a bushel. But what price did the farmers get ? About 1s. 3d. on an average. An Hon. MEMBER .- Whose fault was that ? Captain RUSSELL .- The Opposition. Mr. FLATMAN .- No, I did not say it was the Opposition. Captain RUSSELL. - No; but you were going to. Mr. FLATMAN .- No, I beg your pardon. I was going to say it was through the middlemen combining and filching the farmers to that ex- tent. The merchants ought to be satisfied with fair profits. and if they are not so satisfied, then it is the duty of the Government to assist the farmers. I am informed the true state of affairs is that the contract price was 1s. 9d. a bushel, and the farmers only got Is. 3d. I say if we levislate for one class of the community, we should look out and see that justice is done to the others, and that is all I ask. An Hon. MEMBER. - What was the contract price ? Mr. FLATMAN .- 1s. 9d. An Hon. MEMBER .- What do the farmers get ? Mr. FLATMAN .- 1s. 3d. That is 6d. profit to the middleman, bar trifling expenses. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Who gets the 6d. ? Mr. FLATMAN .- The middlemen do. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Who were the middlemen ? Mr. FLATMAN .- You may be one, for all I know. In fact, I am rather inclined to think you are, otherwise you would not have taken the matter up so keenly. I would not be at all surprised to hear you had a good share of that profit. At any rate, I say it is not right ; and if we are to protect our people by having cheap coal and other cheap commodities, surely we have a right to look after the interests of the farmers, and while I am here I shall do so. I am also very pleased to see it is contemplated to amend the Advances to Settlers Act, and to allow lessees who hold educational reserves to VOL. CXVI .- 5. rather afraid that at the present time the lessees are neglected. I am informed that the frec- holder gets more consideration than he is entitled to under the Government Advances to Settlers Act, and the Hon. the Minister who is in charge of the department will know whether I am right or not. I do not say I am, but this is the information I have received, and I want to sift the matter out. I want to see that these lessees get what is due to them. This House passed an Act which allowed the leaseholder to obtain 50 per cent. upon his improvements. An Hon. MEMBER. They will not get it. Mr. FLATMAN. - The honourable member says, " They will not get it," but I am informed that occurs in many cases where it has been recommended by the departmental officers. And there are charges or fees that these applicants have to pay when they apply for a loan, and the department pockets that, and some of those persons never get their deposit or their loan either. I say that it is not right or just when it has been recommended by those who are specially appointed by the department. I do not see why the heads of the department should ignore altogether that which has been recom- mended by its officials. If this is the case, I trust there will be an improvement. I am not saying that it is an absolute fact, but I say that these cases have been brought before my notice, and I have been told that they exist-I hope they will not exist in future if they have existed in the past. There is another thing I think the people of the colony can congratulate themselves upon, and that is the floating of the $500,000 loan, and the amount that was oversubscribed in reply to the appeal ; and it must be admitted that the more money we can raise amongst our- selves the better it is for us far better than going outside the colony, even if we have to give a little more interest for it. I have no wish, Sir, to occupy the time of the House any longer, because I learn there are many honourable gentlemen who have prepared speeches before them to deliver. I had no prepared 3.30. speech ; the only thing is that I wished to express myself on the few matters which I have mentioned. I trust that we shall all work harmoniously together, and that we shall have a good session, and that when we have finished we shall be able to go to our constituents and say that we thoroughly believe we have been working for the good of the colony generally. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City). Sir, I did not intend to speak this afternoon, believing that some of the older members of the House would have carried on the debate. I think it would be a mistake if we allowed this debate to break down in the same way that we did last year. It is very important that the proposals contained in His Excellency's Speech should be discussed, and also that reference should be made to the administration of the Government. The position we see in the House at the present time is rather a peculiar one, resulting from the announcement made by Captain Russell, late leader of the Opposition. I suppose the inci- dent that occurred last evening is probably 