possess, and I should be sorry to see the freedom of action of the House interfered with in the manner suggested by the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay. I prefer the existing method of the Government leav- ing private members severely alone to intro- duce any measures they may think best, and then let the good sense of the House decide whether any proposed measure is worth passing There are a number of very into law or not. serious defects in the Bill, which, if it went into Committee, I should have to comment upon and to endeavour to have remedied ; but, as I think there is no probability of the Bill going into Committee, I will not weary the House by referring to them. I will simply say this: I think that all the benefit sought to be obtained by this Bill can be obtained under the existing law in cases in which such benefit is desirable. By applying to a Judge in forma pauveris a person may appeal by merely paying a certain amount of disbursements. I feel sure the class of workers defined by this Bill is far wealthier than some other classes of the community, and it would therefore be an unjust discrimination in their favour if it were to pass. I am opposed to class legislation. All citizens should be equal before the law. At the same time, I hope that at some future period a Bill will be intro- duced to remove existing anomalies and many blemishes in the existing Code of Civil Pro- cedure. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Sir, 1 agree with everything that has been said by honourable members who have so far opposed this Bill. But, Sir, there is one point to which https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 I wish to draw attention, and which seems to me to be a most serious point to be considered in connection with this Bill. The object of the Bill, as stated in the preamble, is to pave the way for a worker to be able to apply to the Appeal Courts without giving any security for the ordinary costs incurred by so doing. Now, it has been suggested that this Bill is to be read in conjunction with our labour laws. Sir, I fail to see that this Bill has any bearing on our labour laws at all, and it is really a most serious matter. So long as the appellant is a worker-it does not matter what the nature of the case is-he is to have the opportunity of ap- pealing to the superior Courts. Is this the way to troat the law of our country? If the Bill were to apply to labour matters only it would, no doubt, limit it to some extent ; but even then I should feel bound to oppose it, because once we begin to deal with our labour laws in this manner we discredit them. When the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay was speaking he almost voiced my opinion when he said that in this measure there was really a subtle ondeavour to injure the labour legislation of the colony. That is my own opinion. But the Bill does not refer merely to questions of labour. If a person is a worker as defined in the Truck Act the Bill applies to his case, and as defined in the Act of 1891 a worker means a person in any manner employed in work of any kind, or in manual labour. A worker may, for instance, be cominitted in the Magistrate's Court, and under this Bill he would have the right of appeal without lodz- ing security for costs. Let him be committed for assault, and this Bill would give him the right of appeal without any such security. Let him be committed for libel, and this Bill would equally give him the right of appeal with. out lodging security for costs. I ask the honour- able member in charge of the Bill, Is he in this slipshod fashion prepared to open the Appeal Courts simply because the appellant happens to be a worker, irrespective of the charge upon which he may have been con- victed ? Simply because he is a worker, is he to have the right of going to the Appeal Court without giving such security as must apply to other persons ? Sir, a more monstrous pro- posal was never suggested on the floor of the House, and I trust members will not consent to sending it into Committee. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- Sir, I do not think the honourable member who has introduced this Bill will feel flattered by the remarks that have been made up to the present time, and I am unfortunate enough to be compelled to join with those who have already spoken. When I first looked at the Bill, being in a manner misled by the captivating title, I was under the impression that it would give facilities to a workman to recover his wages in perhaps a more speedy and efficient manner; but on examining it I find that every statement made by preceding speakers is absolutely borne out. One has but to think for a few moments as to the effect of such a measure and be will find that we are asked to privilege a particular class of the community in a manner which bas never been heard of. It is not a question of the recovery of wages, though incidents have occurred of late which show that this system under which our workmen recover wages at present is not so perfect as we imagine. But that is beside the question. If it had been a Bill dealing with such a subject it would com- mand a considerable amount of attention and support, but, as the thing stands, one can see it may be the means of working untold mischief. A worker, simply because he is a wage-earner, may be the owner of a wretched dog which worries half a flock of sheep, and if he is cast in damages he is to have a right of appeal without depositing any security whatever. The Bill places him in a position in every respect in which he can fall back on his privilege to the detriment and disadvantage of any other person who is pitted against him in the law-courts in a style which I am sure will never be allowed by this House, and which would be discountenanced by the bulk of outsiders. Take the case of a wage-earner having a bicycle : in the course of his peregrinations he runs down an elderly lady. and leaves her half dead on the road ; he is traced, and after a while identified : a case is brought against him, and he is cast in damages : he can appeal at once without the formahty of giving security or depositing costs. The Bill only wants turning round and looking at from two or three points of view and the House will reject it at once. It is preposterous, and makes 