see the absence of criticism on the part of the Opposition. If they were worth their salt they would stump the country from end to end with the materials at their disposal, and I am sure they would, if they had the energy, be able to arouse such a flame that we would soon see a much more numerous Opposition on those benches-a state of things which would be better both for the Government and the country. But the policy of the Opposition is manifest to us. It is simply this : that by refraining from per- forming their legitimate duties they may entrap the Liberal party into an exposition of the diversity of views in the various groups which might result in expressions of opinion adverse to the Ministry, and thereby cause the present large and consolidated phalanx of Liberals to be broken into fragments. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay twitted the Government party with following the dicta of one man, and he said the policy before the House was not the policy of any party, but the policy of Mr. Seddon. Sir, it is a very singular thing that one so learned in political history as the honourable member should not recollect that the policy of a party is always personified in the leader of that party. Take the name of Cobden. What does it sig- nify? It signifies a policy - the policy of a party. Will any one say the followers of Mr. Cobden were intellectual slaves, or that they were not worthy of a place in the Legislature of Great Britain because they followed that saga- cious man ? Mr. Cobden's name is identified with the repeal of the corn-laws, not because he himself accomplished the actual work, but be- cause he was the leader of the party. At first https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 it was a small party, but it grew in numbers until its power was such that it swept away the laws that had up to that time filled the pockets of the landed aristocracy of Great Britain at the expense of the masses of the people. Take the name of Shaftesbury. Is not that name associated with the abolition of the slave trade? It does not imply that the large party that was at the back of Lord Shaftes- bary in the country were men who were ashamed of their leader, or of whom their leader would be ashamed because of their alleged subservience. Take the names of Disraeli, of Gladstone, of Parnell-all the great names in our political history are associated with great movements, and so it will be with the name of Seddon in New Zealand. I say unhesitatingly that, notwithstanding that I have differed from the Premier on some occasions, and have criti- rized his actions-and I may do so to-night where I think it to be necessary-the right honourable gentleman's name is associated, and will be for all time, with the rising tide of Liberalism in New Zealand-a tide which is never destined to recede. I say the name of Seddon will be linked inseparably to the various measures of political and economic reform that have been adopted and passed into law by the predominant party in New Zealand during the last seven years. Therefore, Sir, there is nothing in the criticism that the policy of the party is the policy of Mr. Seddon. It is a time- was applied at the time of the secession of a number of Liberals in England from their party to those Liberals who adopted the Home Rule principle, and they were called " Gladstonians," as though they had forfeited the name of Liberals, and their right of inde- pendent judgment. Now, Sir, referring to the Speech of His Excellency the Governor, I ob- serve that the characteristic note of the Speech is one of unchecked progress. It shows a deter- mination on the part of the Goverment to continue to lead the political party which sup- ports them upon the path of progress. I note the sneer of the honourable member at the apparent lack of unity among the members of this party. Their apparent lack of unity, their independence of thought, and their independent criticism show that the Liberal party is a live party, and at the same time that we are not the mental slaves that the honourable gentleman opposite twits us with being. The marked characteristic of the Conservative party in Eng- land, as well as of the Conservative party in this. colony, has been its cohesion, because of the abject subjugation of the members to the will of its leader for the time being. But the reason that the Liberal party in the Old Country has. on occasions lost its unity of purpose - and it is a matter of history that such has. been the case- was that Liberals are ne- cessarily groups of men and thinkers who. have advanced to different stages of thought and judgment on political questions, men who are perfectly independent in their judgment and perfectly unfettered in the expression of their thoughts. And that, Sir, is also the reason for any apparent lack of cohesion in the ranks of the Liberal party in this colony. This. independent criticism is not an indication that the policy of Mr. Seddon is not the policy which has been evolved by the Liberal party as a whole. It may be that the Government measures do not go so far as some members of the Liberal party might wish. It may be that they go further than another section of the Liberal party may desire. But the leaders of the party for the time being are bound to take the average view, not to take the extreme view -not to go to the position taken up, perhaps, by the honourable member for Riccarton, and. on the other hand, to go much further than the position of some Liberals, who might more appropriately sit on the other side of this House. Now, Sir, with regard to the Speech, I notice that the most important measure, to my mind, to which reference is made is the local government Bill, or, as it is termed, the Counties Bill. Well, I do not agree with the remarks which fell from the honourable member for Christchurch City, I think it was, or per- haps it was the honourable member who seconded the motion. He referred to the fact that by consolidating the various local bodies a large amount of money would be saved. Now, I believe in consolidation in particular cases. Perhaps the instance alluded to, where there are six or seven Borough Councils within a small radius, may be an extreme case ; but at. 