first commenced it ? I remember that, at the ' that he was about to make ; he desired that if first meeting of a Conciliation Board called to hear an industrial dispute in the colony, one of { end, "because," he said, " I know that the ma- the employers not only sat as a member of the : jority of you have had enough to do; I know Board, but acted as counsel for his own side, he : that you are not in the position you were a at the same time being a party to the dispute. ; year ago, and I would like, if possible, that you What do we find .to-day? That one of the members of the Arbitration Court, who does : not represent the workers, but who represents the employers, goes from one end of the colony to the other not only agitating, but organiz- ing and forming industrial associations. This gentleman went down to Dunedin. He was successful there. He was the cause of an in- dustrial association being formed, and at the first annual meeting the chairman made one of the bitterest speeches against the labour-laws of this colony, against the Arbitration Court, and against the Government of the day that, I think, has ever been placed on record. Not only so, but the greater number of the state- ments made were not in accordance with fact. We have the same thing taking place in Auck- land and other parts of the colony. We are told the farmers of the colony are organiz- ing, and for myself I say that this is as it should be. The working-men do not lament the fact of the employers organizing. They can then meet them as a body. They do not regret the fact that the farmers, or any other em- ployers, are organizing; but I say, Sir, it is lamentable that a member either of a Concilia- tion Board or of the Arbitration Court should become an agitator and organize associations in any part of this colony. Then, again. Sir, we are told that the industrial war to-day is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 greater than it has ever been in the past. Why is that so? It is greater to-day because one hears more of it. That is all. Years ago there was an undercurrent of unrest that was not known by the community at large. To-day it is known, because an instrument has been placed in the hands of the workers of the colony by which they may gain, or strive to gain, justice from the employers without them- Selves suffering. Sir, in 1875-which is going a long way back-one employer in the City of Christchurch said to his employés, in effect, " I am going to reduce your wages." They said, "We will not accept your reduction." He said, " Very well, go out on thestreets. Ido not require your services any more." Next morn- ing they found the factory-doors closed. They went to other places, and the employers in these factories said to their emploves, " Do you agree with the employés of Mr. So-and-so's factory ? " and on receiving a reply in the affirmative the employés of the other factories also were sent on the streets, and then they were told by the employers, " When you and your families are sufficiently hungry we will open the doors and let you in again." Sir, a few years 2.30. afterwards there was a small dispute in another city, and after the employer had kept his men out of work for a considerable number of weeks -some eleven weeks-he called them together about the 14th day of December. and told them that he knew that the great majority of them could appreciate the offer possible this dispute should be brought to an and your families should enjos a plum-pudding for your Christmas dinner." Sir, those were the arguments, and the mode of warfare, on the ! employers' side : and I put it to the honourable : members who have spoken so bitterly upon this question this morning as to whether thev desire that we should return from the position that we occupy to-day under the Arbitration Act and go back to arguments such as we had brought to bear in those times. But, Sir. there ! is another side to the same question, and that is that if the trouble was not decided by the employer by a lock-out it was by the employe by means of a strike. Now, in the City of Auckland, about the year 1893. there was a strike in a small trade which lasted for a period of six months. And I put it to honourable gentlemen who have not worked for their livelihood in the way the labourer or the tradesman does-who are not in the position described by one member last night as not to be able during hi- experience to provide for the future-I put it to them to strive to realise what it means to the working-man to be turned out of his employ- ment for six months, and the amount of suffer- ing that is not only imposed on himself, but upon his wife and his children. Now, this is what I wanted to lay emphasis on : that that strike cost to that one union the amount of $7,000 in cash. And you must add to that the losses that had to be made up by the workers after returning to their work through . paying the bills that had accumulated during that period. But even that was only one side of the question. At the time that this strike was commenced the industry was a prosperous and thriving one in the City of Auckland, and at the end of that time the whole industry had been so disorganized and so broken up that it has not recovered itself up to the present time. and to-day the manufacturers of Auckland in this particular industry will tell you that that strike was a curse to their trade in that city as far as that particular branch was concerned. Again I ask you, " Will you come back to that mode of warfare ? will you fight as you fought in those days?" Why, under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act we have had a great number of disputes settled, and I ask honourable members to try and realise what it would have meant if only a fraction, if only, say, one-fifth, of these disputes had resulted in a strike, and in all pro- bability a larger number would so have ended. I say such things would prove a curse to our colony, and would have crippled our industries to a very large extent. We have had the Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act. We have had these disputes settled in such a manner that our colony has been able to go on and progress as we know that it has, and the cost of the Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act during the first seven years that it has been in vogue. -- that is, up to last year-was the small sum of $5,404. 