bably honourable members will be surprised when I say that I do not think there has been any necessity at all for compulsion. I say that the same feeling that caused our sons to volunteer for South Africa caused their fathers to agree, and to desire that they should go to South Africa, and that same feeling weighed in respect to giving them training in the schools so as to pre- pare them for every emergency; and I say that that feeling is quite sufficient without its being made compulsory at all. That is my opinion on the matter, and we can agree to differ without allowing our feelings to carry us away as has been the case with the honourable gentleman. I say that it is absolutely necessary to be prepared and to be ready. Being ready, Sir, helps the preservation of peace : but if we were to follow the advice tendered to us by the honourable member we should be wiped off the face of the earth as a nation, become sub- ordinate to other nations, and fall back into a most deplorabie condition. That would be the result of following such advice. The Czar of Russia propounded peace and the settlement of international disputes by arbitration ; but, Sir, while that very Peace Conference was being held what did we find ? We found Russia at that time selfish in her actions, and not going in the way advocated by the Czar, and for which he called the Conference and as, ed other nations to join in. That peace policy was propounded, but we found that in actual practice, instead of attempting to carry out that policy so as to strengthen the hands and work of those who were engaged in its deliberations, the armies of the Czar were being transported towards China and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 towards India. Railways were being construc- ted to carry out their designs on China, and secret treaties were the order of the day. Manchuria was coveted as an outlet to Chinese waters, and the securing of Corea was not divulged to the Peace Conference. Those are the facts of what was contemplated, and on the tapis at the very time this Peace Conference was sitting, and we find the same thing going on in the case of other nations, all of whom are training up their men to war. The honourable member referred to Germany and to other nations at the present time. He complains of the growth of militarism, and of the conserip- tion, and of the forcing into military training of the Germans. Then, so long as the honour- able gentleman admits that that is going on, does not his common-sense strike him that unless we do the same thing we cannot meet on equal terms ? It is a moral impossibility ; and when we find other nations strengthening their navies and putting huge burdens upon their people, what course are we to take but to do the same? They are doing this because they are jealous of our supremacy upon the seas. The honourable gentleman said that our fathers crossed the seas to escape this militarism ; but who was it who kept the sea clear so that our fathers could come to the colonies? I say it was the Mother-land. It was our kindred at Home. It was they who kept the seas clear and have helped to maintain our freedom. Are towards helping the Mother-country, who has done this for us? We are putting people here upon the lands of the colony ; we are sending away exports to the value of $13,000,000: and if you take away the natural produce of the soil from the exports where are you? And unless the sea is kept clear how can you get your pre- duce to the markets of the world and to the Mother-land ? And if your Mother-country is starved. then she falls a prey to other nations. I say that the work that our forefathers did stands out plain. The whole thing is plain, and we, like them, must keep the ocean elear. You must have your land forces in training, or else when you have to face a hostile nation you will be in the position of an army armed with the old " Brown Bess " meeting another armed with the magazine rifle. Military training and military drill improves a young man. Contract a man who has been drilled with one who has not, and the bearing of the one is superior to the bearing of the other. Mr. HUTCHESON. - It was never dis- puted. Mr. SEDDON .- I say, again, that by bors meeting in company, being well organized, and with good officers over them, they improve and develop. No man can possibly say that any one is worse off morally, physically, or m any other way through Volunteering. I say, Sir, that it improves your nation, it improves your manhood, and anything that tends to improve your man- hood or to strengthen your position as a nation is beneficial, and should be encouraged and pro- moted ; and any member who desires the goed of the people and of his country should Dit take exception to what we are doing in this respect. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I do not. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, why not allow the Bill to proceed, and when it is in Committee he can help us to pass the measure in as perfect a form as possible. That is the course that honourable members should take in dealing with a large question of this kind. The honourable member for the Grey has brought the matter forward, and when it was first mooted in respect to the lads in our public schools there was a necessity for something of the kind being done. I am one of those who believe that you should tra.n up a child in the way he should go, so that when he gets old he will not depart from it; and I say again, that you start with voor cadet corps in the public schools-nx the limit of age at eleven years if you like. After thes have had the training in the school, when they leave they continue in the ordinary cadet corps : and, when they get old enough, they naturalh join your Volunteer Forces. I say that the toy gets, as it were, his first liking for it at the pul- lic school. He never leaves it until the time ar- rives for him to leave the Volunteer corps and go into the rifle club. In his old age he still en;ois shooting as a pleasurable and particular pastime. And thus we stand better to-day than ever we did. It may be said that there is an abnormal condition of things prevailing, and that we shall not continue to have our eighteen thousand 