the forms will be filled up. The thing is not worth a moment s consideration. I hope the Liberal party will vote in a body against the proposal and oppose anything in the shape of electoral rights being introduced, which will only prove to be the thin edge of a wedge that would split up the Liberal party. Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - I think I can speak from experience on this matter, as I have lived for a considerable number of years in colonies where electoral rights have been for a long time in existence, and I am not aware that they have a better system of enrolling electors, preventing personation, and obtaining a very full vote of the people than we have in New Zealand. In regard to progressive legislation, we are a long way in advance of colonies where they have the electoral right -- such as Victoria, New South Wales, and some of the other colonies. Can it be alleged that our system is defective, or that those colonies are more favoured than we are in regard to efficiency of representation and the manner in which the franchise is exercised ? I think it would be very impolitic to alter the system we now have here, and I sympathize with the remarks of the last speaker. Sir, I consider it the duty of the Liberal party to maintain and carefully quard the franchise as it exists, and prevent the introduction of anything that would be likely to interfere with the free exercise by the people of their convic- tions and opinions. I am satisfied that the pro- posal made will fail to effect the object sought. If honourable members wish to have a tho- roughly good vote in connection with huge questions that, no doubt, will be relegated to the people under this Bill. there is a very simple addition to the Act that would effect that object - that is, to make voting not a privilege but an imperative duty on the part of the people who are enfranchised. I do not see why people who enjoy the franchise should not, instead of being brought to the poll in vehicles. and waited on at their doors, and dragged : present time - that is, whether they vote for reluctantly to exercise their votes, be made to realise that it is their duty to record their votes. If they do not record their votes, and unless they can show good reason for failing to do so, they should be held responsible for their want of interest or negligence. An Hon. MEMBER. . Would you punish them ? Mr. HOGG .-- We punish people for far less offences than that. If they do not send their children to school they are liable to be brought before the Magistrate and fined, and if they do not exercise a privilege which they ought to value very highly, I do not see why they should not be made amenable for that. It is a serious neglect of the duties of good citizenship. But with reference to this proposal to send votes through the Post Office, I do not think it will in any way prove an improvement on the existing system of voting, and, consequently, I am not prepared to support it. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) .-- I do not agree with the last speaker that a person should be pun- ished for refusing to exercise his vote. There Mr. Carncross son from so doing. Nor do I think we have any right to find fault if any person remains neutral on any question submitted to referendum, and for the reason that the person might not be able to judge the merits of the question. But what I rose to say is this: I object strongly to any. thing like electoral rights being introduced, and for this reason : that when a person gets behind the screen in a polling-booth he exercises his vote just in the direction he wants to. We should not open a way for interference with a person voting in the direction he wishes to vote. As has been said, there might be influence brought to bear upon servants and others to vote in a certain direction-in the way the master or mistress or other people wished them to vote; and also it might happen that certain voting-papers might not reach the Returning Officer-they might be intercepted on the way by those interested in keeping votes from reach- ing the Returning Officer. Therefore I am net in favour of the amendment of the member for Palmerston. Mr. LANG (Waikato). - The Government Whip, the member for the Taieri, in his speech a few minutes ago, said that the Liberal party had always opposed the granting of electoral rights, and it struck me at the time that it was hardly to be wondered at. What would be the effect if co-operative labourers were accord- i the privilege of electoral rights? We know a great many cases where co-operative labourer- are sent to certain districts before a general election just in time to be placed on the roll. and it is well known how those co-operative men are expected to vote. And not only that. speaking of the secrecy of the ballot, it would be far more secret if these electors were allowed to use electoral rights. because they com. i then, if they liked, vote in the district. they came from and where their interest. were, and the direction in which they vie. could not be so easily detected as it is at th. or against a particular candidate. With ro- ference to the position that the Liberal part; has taken up as to electoral rights. I may remind the House that not many sessions a there was a motion moved by Sir Royatt Stout to give co-operative labourers the privilege of exercising the electoral right. ard the Premier, Mr. Seddon, then said that if that amendment was inserted in the Bill he wand throw up the Bill. That shows the position that the Liberal party has maintained in respect to giving people electoral rights. I maintain that if it is right to grant electord rights to shearers, commercial travellers, and others, then co-operative labourers ought : be accorded the same privilege. The member for Christchurch City, Mr. Ell, mentioned that the Opposition did not support his amend- ment in connection with the initiative : and I may state that I know the reason why a great many of the members on this si did not vote for this proposal was because i provided for 5 per cent. of the electors, and s large number of members thought that por- 