still, I hope, as true a democrat as I was in the days of my moleskins and nugget boots. It is not the clothes that make the man. I myself have endeavoured to do my duty faith- fully to the people of this country. I shall continue to do so, and nothing will cause me to deviate from that course. I am glad to have almost the unanimous support of the House in what is proposed, and what is before the coun- try ; and in our debates, and in our measures, I say, let the highest possible motives actuate us, and let us with single-mindedness still endeavour to improve upon our legislation. Our administration shall be carefully, wisely, and well attended to; and I will say that, with the great power that is now in the hands of myself and colleagues, with the greater respon- sibility, and, shall I say, the greater confidence of the people, it will behove us to be careful and do our duty faithfully to the people of New Zealand. Now, as a matter of personal ex- planation, I might say, in reference to the statement made by the honourable member for Riccarton that the Government had paid for painting the crest on one of Lane's carriages, that I have placed myself in communication with Mr. Lane, and I have also a communication from the carriage painter who painted the crest on the carriage. Mr. Lane says,- " If any one has stated that Government paid or was to pay, or was expected to pay, for the painting of your crest on my carriage it is incorrect, and without the slightest founda- tion." The carriage-painter in his communication says, -- "I am the pictorial sign-writer who, for Mr. Lane, put your crest on his carriage. Mr. Lane contracted personally and paid the cash." The statement made, Sir, by the member for Riccarton is without the slightest foundation, and I was astonished when I heard it. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, several members have been lamenting the fact of the demise of His Majesty's official Opposition. I, Sir, hail the announcement with joy. I regarded an official Opposition as a curse to our politics before I came here, and I have been more con- vinced of that since I have been here, and for this reason, if for no other : that propositions which have been made emanating from that direction have been counted as coming from the wrong quarter, and so have not been treated on their merits, and that is why I say, Sir, that I hail with joy the announcement that we are not to have in future His Majesty's official Opposition. Mr. SEDDON .- You will have it all the same. Mr. ELL .- We can have criticism as we have had it to-night, the most wholesome criticism that you can get, criticism from all quarters of the House. There have been speeches made to-night by members who count themselves loyal supporters of the Government, and they have been severe in their criticism upon many points in the policy of the Government, and that is as it should be. What I have always regarded as the function of a member is this : that he should come here without being tied down to either the leader of the Opposition or the leader of the Government. Speaking from my convictions with regard to politics and parties, I have always been opposed to members coming into this House pledged to support either one party or the other. I have been very actively engaged in politics since I was a lad of about fifteen or sixteen, and through- out the whole of my career I have always been counted what is known as a "free lance." I was told that as a free lance I would never reach the floor of this House. Well, I am here, and I think I am likely to come here again too ; but, although I came here as a free lance, I venture to say this: that I have consistently supported Liberal measures, and I have given support to propositions which have emanated from the Government with quite as much con- sistency as those who have been returned as out and out supporters of the Government. I have done that because I believed that the propositions that have emanated from the Executive were right. Now, Sir, I just wish to refer to one or two matters particularly men- tioned by the Premier. The Hon. the Premier said with regard to the Public Revenues Bill that it was necessary to enable the Government to grant certain increases in the salaries of the railway employés. Why, Sir, months before that Act was placed on the statute-book an in- crease had been granted in the wages of railway servants, and it was put down as an extra 6d. Sir, I believe this : that if the House is true to the spirit of democracy, and true to its traditions, it will repeal clause 3 particu- larly of the Act. We had no right to be placed in this position : that we as representa- tives of the people cannot move to increase any salary, and that the whole of that power should rest with the Executive. I will not say the Crown, because the Crown is too frequently put forward in this Chamber, and it tends to blind the community. The Crown is really the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister too frequently claims that the Crown's prerogative is being encroached upon in this direction and that direction. Sir, I say it is the prerogatives of this Chamber that are being encroached upon, and as soon as we recognise the fact that we are in a great measure controlled by the Executive of the country the better. We can- not do as we want to do. Take the question of the old-age pensions. I venture to submit this opinion : that if the mind of the House had been taken absolutely free on a vote to increase the property allowance, it would have been increased last session. I venture this opinion : that there are not ten members in this House, outside the Ministry, who do not believe that it is wrong in principle that a man who gets together a small cottage home worth, say, $250 should be penalized. We had a case given to us last night by my honourable friend the mem- ber for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), of an old lady who possessed a small property of £240, and in consequence of being in possession of that she received a paltry #6 a year. But, on the other hand, what are the facts? A man 