Speaker, in the speech he delivered just now the Premier quoted a passage from May in support of the position he is taking up. As a matter of fact, the passage from May which he quoted has not the slightest reference in any shape or form to the matter which is before the House. It dealt solely with the question of the prorogation or adjournment of Parliament in the presence or otherwise of the sovereign. I will give him a quotation in May which does deal with the position before the House now. It is on page 554, where I find this passage :- " Action of the Commons on the Royal demand for a Supply .- The action taken by the House of Commons upon the demand of aid and supply for the public service made by the Speech from the Throne, is the appointment, pursuant to Standing Order No. 54, of those Committees of the whole House which are known as the Com- mittee of Supply and the Committee of Ways and Means. Motions setting up these Commit- tees are made immediately after the House agrees to the Address in answer to the Speech, and are put forthwith from the Chair, no inter- ference being permitted." And our own Standing Order No. 414 is exactly in the same direction, for it says,- "The House appoints the Committees of Sup- ply and Ways and Means at the commencement of every session so soon as an Address has been agreed to in answer to the Governor's Speech." You, Sir, being the guardian of the rights and privileges of this House for the purpose of seeing that the Standing Orders are complied https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 with, I ask you to rule whether, in defiance of Standing Order No. 414-even although there may be a precedent for it-such a motion as is now before the House can be put. Mr. SPEAKER .- It is competent for such a motion to be made, as that of suspending No. 414. Standing Order No. 437 prescribes the course for suspending a Standing Order, with or without notice. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .-- Sir, I think the action that is being taken to-day must bring home very forcibly to members the obvious objection to holding the session of Parliament so late ; and still more so the objection to the estimates being brought down so late in the financial year. We are asked to-day to pass an Imprest Supply Bill, and the Premier has told us in his second speech that accounts are to be paid which are exceptional and extraordinary. Now, we shall pass this Imprest Supply not knowing anything about what the amounts are or anything about them. Mr. SEDDON .- You will have information. Mr. J. ALLEN .- What sort of information shall we get ? Very meagre information ; and the only real information about these matters will be when we get the estimates before us. But those estimates will not come on for many weeks, and when we do get them we shall be asked to agree to the accounts on the ground that they have already been paid. They will be paid under the authority of this Imprest Supply Bill, and the argument held up to us will be, "What is the use of your discussing these expenses ; we have already paid them ?" We know that that argument has been used in this House many a time before when the esti- mates were going through : " It does not matter whether you object to them or not ; the money is gone." Surely this is parting with the privi- leges of this House. Mr. SEDDON .- It is the case every session. Mr. J. ALLEN .- 1 know it is the case every session, and that is the argument I am using for bringing forward our estimates earlier in the session. This is the only Parliament in the world in which the estimates are brought down at so late a period of the session. Now, with regard to " fusty precedent," I think we have a good deal to be thankful to precedent for. I do not think we need rely upon precedent to- day. What really I think the House ought to take exception to to-day is the method by which the Premier has sought to introduce this Bill to us. We have Standing Orders which are not musty and which are not fusty, having been amended by the House not many years ago ; and directly contrary to those Standing Orders the Premier wishes to introduce a Bill to. this House, and if it had not been for you, Sir, protecting our privileges we might have had this Bill passed entirely contrary to the Stand- ing Order. The Premier in 1898, when he saw occasion to bring forward an Imprest Supply Bill before the Address in Reply was dealt with, adopted the proper course of moving the sus- pension of Standing Order No. 414. To-day he did not mention Standing Order No. 414. Mr. SEDDON. - Standing Order No. 414 related to the appointment of Committee of Supply. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Well, how can you get your Imprest Supply Bill unless you get your Com- mittee of Supply and Committee of Ways and Means? This Standing Order prevents those Committees from being set up until the Address in Reply has been dealt with, and you cannot get your Imprest Supply Bill through unless you get those Committees set up. You know that perfectly well. It is this casting-aside of our own Standing Orders that I so strongly object to. These Standing Orders have been set up for our own safety; but they are set aside, and we might as well do away with this. book of Standing Orders and go as we please. The Right Hon. the Premier admits he has no <!-- PageHeader="1" --> respect for precedent. Well, I am sorry he has no respect for precedent, and still more sorry to know that he has shown by his action this afternoon that he has no respect for our Standing Orders, and I am only too glad that you, Sir, in your place as the protector of the privileges of this House, noticed what the Premier was doing, and pulled him up and put him on the right course. As to Parliament being called so. late this year, I do not know that there was any special reason for it. Truly, it might have been inconvenient to members to come here in May or earlier ; but what are members elected for but to do the work of the country, and any member not willing to come here is not willing to do the work his constituents appointed him to do, and I maintain it would have been right, 