which he can deposit his savings and the accumulations of his life as well as in his homestead. He knows that other properties may disappear. If he trusts to the Premier and puts his savings into the savings-bank, he knows the honourable gentleman will take the money out and lodge paper in its place, and he does not know what contingencies may arise in the future. This House may yet have to legis- late to compel the depositors in our savings- banks to accept Government paper instead of receiving back the coin they lodged in them. Of course, I will not suppose that such a thing will happen, but no thoughtful man will deny that in a country like ours, in the face of the competition that this colony must receive from different parts of the world and is receiving at the present time, caution should be observed. No one, Sir, can say what the levels of land-values will be ten years hence. The Premier objects to the option of freehold being given to settlers under this Act, and I understand he has, so to speak, staked his political existence before many witnesses in this House that he will never concede the granting of freeholds to those who are holding land on lease in perpetuity, or who are buying land on these improved estates. But I feel as certain as that I am standing here that these tenants will yet clamour for their freeholds. They will de- sire to place their savings in their properties, and even though they may for some years have no fear of their ability to meet the de- mands of the State landlords, yet there will arise in time in the mind of any man who is & mere tenant a thought that the day may come when he will feel he cannot easily find the amount of rent the State landlord re- quires, and that he would much rather be free. No doubt he will improve his place, and in the course of time, as he goes on to accumu- late savings, he will feel that he would like to put them not in the savings-bank, but in his property, so that in his old age he will know he is not open to the demand of the landlord every six or twelve months for rent, a demand that perhaps in his old age may impose an anxiety that will detract from the pleasure and happiness of his life. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- Sir, I took no part in the debate on this Bill in Committee, and therefore I think I have a perfect right to make a few remarks on the third reading of the Bill. Before I proceed to deal with the measure I would like, Sir, to usurp what might be con- sidered one of the functions of the Opposition- that is, to congratulate the honourable member for Patea on his election to this House. I may say, however, that I wish the election had resulted otherwise. At any rate, Sir, the honourable gentleman, in his speech to-night and in his addresses on the hustings, has proved to the House and to the country that he is no political hybrid, but an out-and-out Oppositionist, and that he is a gentleman who has been elected to take one side in the House, and we shall always know where to find him. On reading the honourable gentleman's address to the electors it struck me, however, that he ! Mr. Monk assumed to himself the functions of the political reformer. I might remind him that there was once a gentleman standing for the American Congress, and some person said, " We realise that you are fired with patriotism ; that you have great ability, great thoughts, and can clothe them in appropriate language, and ex- press them in suitable words ; but what could one man like you do in a sink of iniquity like that ?" The reply was, " If you take a bottle of scent and throw it into a tan-yard it would not take away the smell, but it would qualify it." I understand the honourable gentleman bas come here as a bottle of scent. The honourable member who has just sat down made a remark which I think was quite uncalled for and un- generous in reference to the Right Hon. the Premier. He inferred to the House, and I dare say he meant it to go forth to the country, that the Premier was keeping back the estates of the Assets Board from being cut up because he was getting $250 a year as a member of the Board. I never heard a more ungenerous statement made in the House, and I think the House and the country should resent such an assertion. I would ask the leader of the Opposition and honourable members on that side of the House if his statement could bear any other construction ? Then, coming to the leader of the Opposition --- Captain RUSSELL. - The member for Hawke's Bay. Mr. LAWRY .- Well, if he is not the leader of the Opposition it has no leader and it has no following. I was very sorry indeed to hear the honourable gentleman's remarks about the Minister of Lands. The Minister of Lands was not in his place, and the honourable gentleman, by more than inference, declared he was incap- able of taking charge of any Bill associated with his department. Captain RUSSELL .- No; I said the Premier would not allow him to. Mr. LAWRY .- The Premier always allows his faithful followers to do anything they like. But, Sir, would the honourable member inform us, when he sat on those benches- Captain RUSSELL .- A long time ago. Mr. LAWRY .- It will be a long time before he will sit there again. Was the honourable gentleman, when in charge of any Bill that had been drafted for him, ever distinguished for any great ability in conducting the measure through the House ? Captain RUSSELL .-- Yes ; certainly. Mr. LAWRY .- Yes; his position was as in- congruous as a chimney-sweep would be making a watch. He never should have been on those benches if he had been faithful and honest to his convictions. I have told him that before. Captain RUSSELL .- It is your only speech, I think. Mr. LAWRY .- Well, I can make another speech. I may say I have some degree of sympathy with the clause the honourable gentleman drafted, and which he wished to be incorporated in the Bill, and for once in my life I agreed with the member for Palmerston. He put the question very clearly before the 