ago to ascertain that in the part of the colony he came from no District Health Officer had been appointed ; and he believed that this was the position not only in Canterbury, but in the rest of the colony. In the meantime, the exist- ing legislation having been repealed, it was ne- cessary and desirable that these officers should be at once appointed. He hoped the Minister would give the House the assurance that such appointments would be made at an early date. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) said the honourable member would recognise that in the working of such a department as that of Public Health it was necessary for them to be very careful in the selection of medical officers. The honourable gentleman was mis- taken in supposing that no District Health Officers had been appointed. Dr. Valintine had been travelling a good deal, both in the North and South, and Dr. Pomare, who had been appointed, had also been doing a lot of work. "The reason that no permanent officers had been .appointed in the South was the difficulty of obtaining men with the necessary qualifications in medical science. They could not make slip- shod appointments, and it was necessary that the general head of the department should make visits to the various centres, as he had been doing, and also to get the assistance of the local Health Officers. He had proposals now for submission to Cabinet for the pur- pose of appointing one or two more Dis- trict Health Officers, and as they found men with the necessary qualifications he could assure the honourable gentleman that appointments would be made, as they were anxious to make https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that branch of the service as complete as pos- sible. Although they had not been able to ap- point District Health Officers in some parts of the colony, these places had not been unat- tended to. On the other hand, a good deal of attention had been given to them by the Chief Health Officer and others to whom he had re- ferred. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said that, as far as Can- terbury was concerned, the gentleman who had been doing a great deal of the work had been receiving nothing for his services. Sir J. G. WARD said there was a proposal now before Cabinet for consideration, that this officer should receive remuneration for the work he had had to do. ## KAIPARA FLATS-WELLSFORD RAIL- WAY. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Minister for Public Works, If the route to be taken in the construction of the Kaipara Railway-line betwixt Kaipara Flats and Wellsford has been definitely surveyed ; if not, to what point has the survey been made ? He would just mention that there was an impression that the survey of the Kaipara line had not been finally made and the route definitely laid down. The settlers, however, were very anxious that this question should be immediately settled, in order that they might be in a fair position to have an effective grant made this year for the more rapid construction than hitherto of that line. VOL. CXVI .- 3. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the route of this line had only been definitely surveyed as far as the end of the Komokoriko Section, the bulk of the work on which was already in hand. It was desirable that further survey-work should be put in hand shortly, and the District Engineer was asked whether he could rearrange his staff so as to release an officer for this work, but replied in the negative. The survey would therefore have to stand over until an engineer could be spared from another district, or an engineer would have to be specially employed for the work. The matter was, of course, under the attention of Government, and they intended to complete the line and get the necessary sur- veys. WAIMAHAKA-TOKONUI RAILWAY. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) asked the Minister for Public Works, When a start will be made with the construction of the Waimahaka-Toko- nui Railway ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said instructions were sent to the District Engineer, Dunedin, to make a start with the construction works on the Waimahaka-Tokonui Railway on the 10th May last. Mr. Ussher replied asking whether Mr. Barrowclough, who was engaged in extend- ing the survey further on, was to discontinue survey-work in order to supervise the construc- tion. He was informed by telegram on the 23rd May as follows :- " District Engineer, P.W., Dunedin .- Reply- ing your telegram of 17th, Minister does not intend that Barrowclough should discontinue survey. Minister says you told him Mr. Shain could look after construction work at Waima- haka in addition to what he is doing, and his successor should be able to do same. Please arrange accordingly." Mr. Widdowson, who was to take Mr. Shain's place, had only recently arrived on the ground. He had not heard at present that construction work had been started, but had wired to District Engineer to make inquiries. "NEWTOWN PARK SCANDAL." Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Premier, If he will appoint a parliamentary Committee to inquire and report on the complaints made by the Volunteers respecting their treatment, resulting in what is known as the "Newtown Park scandal," and also with respect to the lan- guage said to have been addressed to them by Colonel Penton? His reason for putting this question was that it was evidently desirable that steps should be taken which would prevent the recurrence of the confusion which had been re- vealed in the recent encampment of Volunteers at Wellington. A system should be devised that would be proof against the irregularities that had resulted in trouble, and which would be unfortunate indeed if our troops were mus- tered for more serious purposes than we had yet experienced. With regard to the last part of the question, the feeling was that if the lan- guage which had been reported in the news- papers had been used to the Volunteers-men who gave their services voluntarily, and who 