when the clause is recommitted the clause will be so amended that the statute cannot be over- ridden by regulation. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- As I understand it, the recommittal is moved simply for the bond fide purpose of amending what is looked upon as necessary-that is, to prevent the modifying of the statute law by regulation. If that is the un- derstanding I have no objection to this clause being recommitted, but if it goes beyond that I certainly object. When the Bill was in Com- mittee I promised to look into the matter. My attention was calied to the point by the mem- ber for Wellington City, Mr. Atkinson, and I think by one or two others, and I then said I would look into the question. I have had the matter looked into. The following are the reasons why the clause was placed in the Bill as it stands now: The provisions of "The Public Works Act. 1894," differ from those of the Land for Settlements Act as regards the procedure for making and hearing claims for compensation, and the time at which steps should be taken. and necessarily so. The con- stitution of the Court before which the claims are made is different from what is provided in the Public Works Act. The two Acts differ in respect of the payment of Assessors, and, conse- quently, what was intended was that the regu- lations under the Land for Settlements Act should obtain where they differ from the Pub- lic Works Act. It would have been better if it, had been put that way at first. This clause, of course, will practically have altered the statute law by regulations. Mr. WILFORD. - Now, it will validate an https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ultra rires regulation. Mr. SEDDON. . No. Now, section 18 of the principal Act says that the provisions of the Public Works Act, in so far as they are modified http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero by the principal Act, shall apply to claims for compensation under the Land for Settlements Act. That is already in the Land for Settle- ments Act. It is clear and explicit, and it is desirable that those modifications should be specified by regulation. Now, as that is already in the original Act, this clause is not at all in- consistent, but was contemplated when clause 18 was put in the principal Act. However, the objection is that you are modifying an Act of Parliament by regulation. That I hold to be constitutional, and I am supported by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) in that contention. It would, of course, be dangerous- Captain RUSSELL .- You supported it the other night. Mr. SEDDON .- I always stick to my Bill, and, in any case. I should have had it amended in another place. However. I prefer that we should go into Committee, and do it here as long as I am met by the House fairly. I can- not agree to the clause being struck out al- together. Mr. WILFORD .- What would be the good of striking out those few lines ? Mr. SEDDON .- After the words, " principal Act," I want to strike out all the following words, and insert the words "the provisions of 'The Public Works Act, 1894,' relating to claims for compensation are hereby modified in so far as the same are inconsistent with the principal Act and this Act." Captain RUSSELL -Where do they differ ? Mr. SEDDON .- They differ. first of all, in the way of hearing claims for compensation ; they differ as regards the constitution of the Court ; and they differ as regards the payment of As- sessors. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - The amendment I understand the Premier desires to adopt if the Bill goes back to Committee is to strike out all the words in the 9th clause after the word "Act," in the fourth line, and to substitute "The provisions of . The Public Works Act, 1894,' relating to claims for com- pensation are hereby modified in so far as the same are inconsistent with the principal Act and this Act." An Hon MEMBER. - What is the good of that if there are regulations ? Mr. ATKINSON .- You are referring to the second part of the clause, the power to make ultra rires regulations. I am quite with the honourable member for the Suburbs as to the second part, but I agree with the Premier that There the first part requires amendment too. are two improper powers given by the clause : First, the power to legislate by regulation ; secondly, the legislative sanction to be given to regulations already made, even if now ultra cires. With regard to the amendment now suggested, I would ask the House to consider whether the words are necessary at all, and whether section 18 of the principal Act, which we are amending, has not already the same effect which it is proposed to enact by this amendment. The terms of section 18 of the principal Act are :- "Every claim for compensation under this Act shall be deemed a claim for compensation within the meaning of . The Public Works Act, 1894,' and all the provisions of that Act, save in so far as the same are modified by this Act, shall apply thereto for all purposes in like manner as if the land to be taken under this Act were land taken for a (Government work under that Act." Therefore, the amendment the Premier suggests would not carry the matter further than section 18 of the principal Act, which he proposes to amend. We should, I think, strike out the 2nd subsection. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .-- It is true that I cannot claim to be completely proficient in the forms and methods of procedure of this House, and it was with some considerable surprise that I observed a fellow-member to- night rise and propose exactly the same motion which was on the Order Paper in my name. How it was that that gentleman chose to do this is difficult for me to understand. because it seems to me it was the sort of thing one member ought not to do to another, unless, indeed, he is very anxious to advertise himself. 8.0. It seems to me, Sir, that the matter might have been settled without any discussion whatever. The proposal of the Premier to alter 