as they do justice to Auckland, and do what is i put into the hands of those settlers who took right in the interests of the colony. Speaking as a member for the City of Auckland, I have been extremely pleased at the way in which members of the Ministry have kept their pro- mises made on the floor of this House. They promised to visit Auckland and ascertain the requirements of the northern part of this Island. I pointed out to them last session that if they visited the north they would be cordially received, and they would find that the northern portion of the colony requires an attention which it has never yet properly received, and that they would see the large areas of unculti- vated Crown and Native land which requires settlement. There are many advantages en- joyed by the northern part of this Island which were not known even to members of the Ministry until they recently visited Auck- land. I have been very much pleased that the Government have kept their promise so far as our district is concerned. I heard also that, out of the £130,000 promised for the con- tinuation of the Main Trunk line, £129,000 has been expended. That in itself is very satis- factory. Perhaps the Government have shown rather a superabundance of energy in regard to military matters. It is all very well to excite our young men to go to South Africa, and I quite approve of what the Government did in the first instance; but I do not think it is in the interests of the colony that any further martial spirit should be aroused. I think the attention of the Government and the people should be devoted to opening avenues of labour and developing the resources of the colony. There are a certain number of men in every town who are always out of work, and there are a number of boys who under the present regulations cannot be appointed as apprentices. There are in every portion of the colony the resources which, if the Government exercised the organizing power which they possess, and if they put into industrial matters the same energy that they have displayed in sending our young men to South Africa, this country would soon bound to the front and make very rapid progress indeed. Now, in connection with the North Island goldfields, at the present time there is a disposition on the part of the English investors to withdraw their capital. There are three mines closing down at Coromandel, and the capital is to be sent to South Africa. It is not for us to advertise South Africa before the world. We require to retain our producing- power in our own country. Our difficulty should not be how to find employment for our men, but how to get sufficient men to develop the un- paralleled resources of this country. In regard to the land question, the same principle applies as it does to our industrial matters. Instead of continually buying land that is already produc- tive, being covered with grass and sheep, I would like to see a certain number of men put on to clear a thousand or two acres of land in the King-country, so as to still further increase the wealth of the country. This land could be sold, and, instead of giving the unearned increment to private owners, the money expended could be up portions of the land and settled upon it. I consider that the great energy and ability the Government possess might be devoted to find ing profitable sources of employment in the colony. I do not care whether it is in the di- rection of developing our goldfields, or in opening up our lands, or what it is ; but anything is better than allowing the whole world to think only of South Africa when far greater resources exist in New Zealand. The complaint of many members of the contingents who returned to New Zealand is that they cannot obtain work, and I do not think in a country like this there should be any difficulty whatever in providing work of a profitable nature to employ them. All that our working.men want is the necessaries of life, all of which can be produced here, and we require to keep our own able-bodied men here to assist in increasing the wealth of this country. I am not for a moment expressing dissatisfaction or a want of con- fidence in the present Government, and con- sider that, as far as Auckland is concerned, their action in taking the Royal party to Roto- rua was a very wise one. The advertisement that Rotorua received on that occasion is going to be productive of the greatest benefit to this colony. I was at Rotorua myself, and I saw there the representatives of the greatest news. papers in the world, and they were sending away daily columns descriptive of what was taking place. The representatives of illustrated papers were there also, and no doubt we shall shortly see illustrations of the hot lakes of New Zealand in those papers, and the district will be advertised as it has never been advertised before. The hot lakes have not been of the same benefit to us as the hot springs in other parts of the world have been to those countries where they exist. I think in that one action alone the Go- vernment have earned the gratitude of the people of Auckland. As regards the question of selling the produce of this country, it certainly is most important that some steps should be taken to secure better markets for our settlers. An enormous market exists in England, and when I was there I was struck with one fact, and that was that the settlers of this country are not getting the prices they should for their sheep. There was illustration of this at the Grosvenor Hotel inquiry. It seems that some of those interested in the management of that hotel property were found guilty of having bought articles at a very low price and having sold them at a very high one ; and for some years past it turned out that they have been buving New Zealand mutton at 33d. per pound and selling it to the hotel at 1s. 3d. per pound as best English mutton. I mentioned this to the Agent-General before I left, and I was very pleased to see in the papers this week that they have been taking action against dealers who have been selling Argentine and Australian mutton as New Zealand mutton. It seems we have been between two fires in this colony : on the one hand they have been buying our mutton and selling it as English ; and, on the other hand, they have been buying other in- 