therefore, I think the member for Masterton ought to feel very proud at the manner in which the Bill has been received, and I hope he will take it through the House, and not accept the suggestion to send it to the Stock Committee. Arguments were brought forward by the Minis- ter of Lands against the Bill which, I think, every member will admit were not very forcible. In the first place, he said the amendment was not required because the clause was seldom enforced. Then, if it is so seldom enforced, it is not very necessary to have it on the statute-book. Then he admitted that the Magistrate had no option in the matter but to impose a fine when the case was brought by the Inspector, but he said that he might inflict the minimum of £1. But I would point out that it is a great hardship to the settler to be brought before the Magis- trate and fined even £1 for no fault whatever of his own. As far as referring the Bill to the Stock Committee is concerned, I would point out that last session a similar Bill to the pre- sent measure was sent to the Stock Commit- tee, and that that Committee passed the very amendments that have been proposed here. Therefore it seems to me a waste of time to send this Bill to a Committee composed of the same members as last session, and who were occupied with an exactly similar Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are not the same. Mr. LANG .- There may be a few exceptions so far as the Committee is concerned, but the Bill is the same. I would like to point out to the House a feature of the present Act which has not been mentioned. I would like to read two lines from the present Act, which state that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 an Inspector shall have power to do such things, and take all such measures as to him may ap- pear proper or necessary to insure the destruc- tion of the rabbits on the land. That means, that the Inspector, if he likes-and it is quite possible that he may do it sometimes out of ill-will-may make the settler clear ti-tree off his land and other shelter that he has provided for stock. Mr. DUNCAN .- You have never heard of an Inspector doing anything of the kind. Mr. LANG. - I have known cases in which it has been done, and where the shelter has been ordered to be cleared off the land, and where such action was altogether unnecessary. The provision has proved very irksome to the owners of property, and under the present lawit is useless for the unfortunate settlers to attempt to defend cases. Even if they were to bring a whole army of witnesses to prove that they had no rabbits on their land it would have no effect, according to the present Act, as against the voice of the one Inspector. It is to the credit of the Inspectors that for the most part they have not very strictly enforced this provision, more par- ticularly in the part of the colony that I have the honour to represent; but I hold that it should not be in the power of any one man to enforce such a law, or, rather, that any one man's word should be taken as against that of any number of people whose word is as equally reliable. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) .- Sir, I heartily approve of the Bill introduced by the member for Masterton, and I hope he will take the advice so often tendered by the honourable gentleman now occupying the position of Minis- ter of Lands, and "stick to his Bill." Sir, if this Bill leaves this Chamber and gets buried in a Stock Committee, I think that is the last we shall see of it. Mr. MASSEY .- Why should it be buried in a Stock Committee ? Mr. CARNCROSS .- We do not want it buried at all. We want it to reach the statute-book, and I am afraid it will have a very poor chance of reaching the statute-book if it is referred to any Committee. The Act as it at present stands is a most tyrannical one. There is no other Act in existence under which the mere statement of one man is allowed to overwhelm any amount of evidence brought on the other side. Many of us know of Court cases, over and over again, where any amount of evidence has been adduced by farmers to prove that they had done all that was possible to eradicate rab- bits, but, because the Inspector was on the land and saw a few rabbits, the Magistrate had no option but to enforce the Act and inflict a fine. The Act is most tyrannical, and is a disgrace to our statute-book, and I say it has been too long there. I congratulate the honourable member on bringing forward this measure, and I hope the House will carry it through by a good majority. Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - Sir, I intend to make my reply as short as possible. I am ex- ceedingly pleased with the character of the debate on this Bill to-night, and I may simply say that I intend to accept the advice ten- dered to me to take a division on the second reading, and ascertain from the members who are present in the House whether they wish the Bill to pass into law or not. To send it to the Stock Committee, where it has been already dealt with, would be simply a waste of effort and a waste of time, and my own impression is that it would never find its way back to this House again with the slightest chance of being passed. In consequence of that I ask now that a division, if necessary, be taken, and 10.0. I therefore move the second reading of the Bill. The House divided. AYES, 36. Allen, E. G. Morrison Fraser, W. Allen, J. Graham Napier Arnold Guinness ()'Meara Parata Hall Bennet Russell, G. W. Bollard Hardy Herries Steward Carncross Hornsby Collins Tanner Thomson, J. W. Colvin Houston Laurenson Willis. EII Field Tellers. Lawry Flatman Millar Hogy Fowlds Monk Lang. Fraser, A. L. D. 