vessels. Sir Lyon Playfair gives these remark- able figures: that in 1880 a steamer of 1,000 tons, fitted with all the then latest labour-saving machinery, required a crew of thirty-six hands to work her, whereas a similar-sized steamer launched in 1886, and supplied with the latest labour-saving machinery to that date, only re- quired a crew of twenty-four men. In other words, the progress of invention during those six years was such as to save twelve men in the crew of a steamer of 1,000 tons register. That being so, we find that a less number of .men than used to be required in the mercantile marine are now required-that is, in propor- tion to the tonnage of the ships. know also that officers cannot get certificates until they have served a certain period on board an ocean-going sailing-ship. How many ocean-going sailing - ships are there owned in New Zealand? There is a very small number indeed ; yet, in spite of that fact, I have known New-Zealand-born officers and captains holding positions on ships in almost every part of the world-holding these positions with credit to themselves and to their native country. I am very proud to know that, and I believe that we will yet have a very large maritime population. I join with the member for Waitemata in ex- pressing my sincere hope that our maritime population will increase. I believe that our prosperity has been largely owing to the very rapid and unprecedented increase in our pro- duce, and the rise in price of the various articles. Of course, there has been some un- settlement in the relations between the em- plovers and the emploves, and there has been more or less of industrial unrest; but when you speak of industrial unrest here and com- pare it with what obtains in other parts of the world. and with what obtained in New Zealand a few years ago, you will see the advantages of the legislation we have passed. For instance, there are the riots in Belgium ; in England there are continual strikes; and in America the state of affairs is such that million- aires are leaving America and putting their money into investments in England. Here in New Zealand, in comparison, we are living practically, so far as industrial war is concerned, in a garden of Eden ; and, in my opinion, whatever some members of the House may say to the contrary, I believe it has been brought about to a large extent by the action of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, an Act which has borne such good fruit during the past few years. Now, a number of honourable gentlemen have dwelt upon the question of high wages in relation to industrial prosperity. I, Sir, would like to draw honourable members' attention to a remarkable return presented to the United States Senate. Some four years ago they appointed a committee to inquire into the price of wages, the cost of living, the amount saved by the working-classes, and the cost of turning raw material into the manufactured article in different countries in the world. As a result of that inquiry, it was found that the countries that paid the heaviest wages, where the workmen had the best food and clothing, and saved the least, turned the raw material into manufactured articles at the least cost. That is to say, they turned iron into the manufactured article at far less cost in Great Britain and America, where the wages were high, than they did in Belgium and those countries where the working-people have low wages and live poorly. An Hon. MEMBER .- There is no labour legis- lation in America. Mr. LAURENSON. - I admit that in America there has not been much legislation dealing with the subject, and the result of that has been that workmen are fighting against the big We companies and big owners, and there has been murder and massacre between employers and employed ; and the result is that, instead of having a little unrest, there has been a bitter and ferocious feeling engendered between em- plovers and employés. I think, therefore, America might very well take an example from what we have done in New Zealand. In New Zealand what have we done? Our manu- facturers are able to ship across to Australia, where there are longer hours and poorer wages. and. in spite of protective tariffs, beat the Aus- I know that agricul- tralian manufacturers. tural implements, and woollen goods also. for instance, are sent across in large quantities to both Victoria and New South Wales. Now. the only other honourable gentleman whose remarks I wish to refer to is the honour- able member for Eden, Mr. Bollard. He referred to the farmers' grievances, and he said the result would be that the farmers would combine against the Government and crush them. Sir, there has been no Government in New Zealand that has done more for the farmers than the present one. It is admitted. Sir, by all the agricultural associations, even those that are opposed to the present Govern- ment, that everything possible has been done by the Government to enable them to grow their produce, to extend their markets, and do everything possible to bring the agricultural industry into a state of prosperity. And what has been the result ? that never in the history of New Zealand, as a country, has the farming community been in such a prosperous and well- to-do condition as they are at the present time. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Butter has done that. Mr. LAURENSON .- Yes, butter has had a good deal to do with it; and no country has done so much to grade the butter and to foster the butter industry as New Zealand under the present Administration. Why, ten years ago the farmers' wives in Canterbury were selling their butter at 44d. per pound. That same butter to-day commands 11d. and Is., and at the same time the price of butter in the London market was as good ten years ago as it is to-day. That result has been brought about very largely by the action of the present Administration. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. LAURENSON .- None can gainsay that. and I am quite prepared to produce papers that will convince even my honourable and Conserva- tive friend, the member for Waitemata. Sir. I am very pleased indeed to give my support to 