outside the public schools, an education to take place which you do not inspect. That is en- tirely opposed to the policy of this country, and it should not be permitted. These schools ought to be inspected, so that the country would have a guarantee that proper education had been received in those schools. The object of education is to train up the citizens of the State, and for that reason the compulsory method has been adopted. But here you allow children in private schools to go uninspected, and thus you do not know whether those children are receiving a proper education or not. I believe- - and the opinion is held by some lawyers-that a proper construction of the Education Act makes it mandatory on Edu- cation Boards to inspect such schools. How- ever, some of them have refused to do so, though others have not, and the proper step to take is to make that point clear and plain, so as to compel Boards of Education to perform their proper functions, and inspect these schools. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, there is no doubt that the logical intention of the Act of 1877, under which education is made compulsory, was that before exemption could be pleaded it should be shown that a child was receiving private education elsewhere -- that the State should be assured that that education was of sufficient character. No doubt that was the logical intention of the Act of 1877. Since then the Act has been administered without very much attention to that part of it. As far as the Government is concerned, they have always been jealous to see that no children were placed at a disadvantage by reason of private schools not being inspected, and they have appointed Inspectors to give certificates on the passing of standards, in order that the children attending private schools may be quali- fied for the public service. I regret that certain Boards have not been broad-minded enough to consider it to be their duty when asked to inspect the private schools. I think it was the intention that they should inspect. No one can say it was the duty of the Government todo it, because Parliament deliberately, in the Act of 1877, took the inspection out of the hands of the department and put it into the hands of the Boards. But, if the intentions of the Act are to be observed, they should be observed by those parties upon whose shoulders the statute places the burden of inspection. I consider, therefore. that those Boards which have been narrow-minded enough or short-sighted enough not to inspect have not been doing their duty under the Act. But, as I said before, in order to prevent any injustice or hardship, and to pro- tect the rights of the children who are receiving education at private schools, the Government have for many years past approved of Inspectors especially to meet the case of those children- to protect their right as far as their entrance into the public service is concerned. To say the inspection should be taken away from the Boards is to open up a very wide question indeed, and I am not prepared at the present moment to enter upon a discussion of it even, much less to propose legislation on the subject in Parlia- ment. Our education system under the Educa- tion Act is gradually being tested. We are finding out what amendments have to be made, and it is better not to anticipate possible re- forms which have to com., but to deal with the reforms that we have at the present moment to our hands, and we have a very large one at the present time in the matter of teachers' salaries. which I am quite content this year to place in a satisfactory position. As to private schools, which cannot get such inspection as they think they are entitled to, I may state my belief that the intention of the Act was that they should be inspected, and I may say the Government has all along endeavoured to meet the occasion by preventing those children who attend private schools from incurring any hardship or disad- vantage by inspecting them specially so as to qualify them for Government appointments. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. - - Is that the case when the Board does not appoint an Inspector ? Motion agreed to. YOUNG PERSONS PROTECTION BILL. On the question, That this Bill be read tiv third time. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said, . Sir, before you put the motion that this Bill be read the third time I have just two or three remarks to make in connection with it. I have opposed this measure consistently ever since it was intro- duced into this Council, and I have done so for reasons which are conscientious, and which I believe to be sound. I do not-hold it is a good thing in a country like New Zealand, with the advantages that our young people have, that undue repression should be put upon them, such as this measure provides. I quite admit there are certain things that will pain any one who goes through the cities ; but I hold --- and statis- tics uphold my contention -it is not to the extent that warrants the introduction of a Bill such as this. With clauses 12 and 13 I have every sympathy, and I cordially sup- port them. I think those clauses are neces- sary, and they make that portion of the Bill acceptable. Now, Sir, I had occasion to visit Wellington during last Easter, and at the street corners here I heard whispers against the innocent daughters of some of your best and most-respected citizens. The slanderous and vile things that were said simply astonished me. Again, I know of a case in Auckland where a spirited, light-hearted, joking vonnis girl was slandered by a scandalmonger to such an extent as to cause her almost to lose her situa- tion. Even the other girls, her fellow-worker -. turned against her ; and to justify herself and her good name she laid an action for slan ier against the person. Two respected doctors before the Court declared the girl a rio intacta, and the jury and Judge found to: slanderer guilty. That scandalmonger cool: d his heels in Mount Eden Gaol, having been sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment. It is knowing these facts, and being so deeply conscious of the harm that may be done to young children, has induced me to oppose this Bill, and which will compel me to vote 