the hands of a mortgagee, who has foreclosed ment taking up properties in Canterbury. No on the land, with the result that it has been doubt he knows Canterbury well and its wants. sold considerably under its value, because no ; My interpretation of the Land for Settlements one cared possibly to bid against the little ; coterie who wished to secure it. Now, if the i people on the land in thinly populated parts of Government had had power, as proposed in this Bill, to take part in that auction the owner of the property would have received a better value, there would have been no confiscation, and the Crown would have purchased land that could have been thrown open for settlement, that would be beneficial to the colony and to the settlers who were fortunate at the ballot box. Therefore I sincerely hope that for the sake of that section alone the House will agree to the measure. Leaving the honourable member for Hawke's Bay and that special portion of the Bill, I may say I was rather amused at some of the remarks of the honourable member for Riccar- ton. Of course, I do not think the Bill itself troubled the honourable gentleman very much. If I may be allowed to use a vulgar colloquialism, I would say he wanted to have a slap at his bete noire the Premier. We have had in this House quotations from many authorities, and we had one the other evening from the " Encyclopædia of Political Science." We had one from the " Sunlight Soap Annual." We have had them from all quarters of literature, and to-day we had the honourable member for Riccarton quoting the "black-book " of the Hon. the Premier. That black-book is a very useful one, because it reminds that honourable member of statements he has made in the past, when contesting an election, that now he is in the House he looks upon in a different light. In passing I may say that the honourable gentle- man and that black book should not be strangers, because honourable members know as well as I do that for years past he has been in many people's black-books, not only in the Premier's. I wish now to say a word about another remark of the honourable member. He deprecated the right of members of this House to sit on Land Boards. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I never 8.30. said anything of the kind. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Oh, well, I apolo- gize. I understood from the last member who sat down that you had said so. I regret that you did not say so, because I should agree with it if you had, for you would be expressing my views. I say it is wrong to place a member of Parliament in a position where political influence can be brought to bear. I say that in many instances men are put on Land Boards totally incompetent for the position, and they are put there simply because they have " M.H.R." after their name. It is quite un- fair to place them in that position, for on many occasions they have to deal with their own constituents; and, though a man may be as honest and as true as sunlight, he cannot but be influenced by the fact that people are supporters or opponents. For this reason I think the Act should be amended to the extent of not allowing members of Parliament to sit on Land Boards. The honourable member for Riccarton also strongly advocated the Govern- Act is that it was especially intended to place the country. Now, comparing Canterbury with Hawke's Bay, we find in Canterbury about nine million and a half acres of land, and in Hawke's Bay six million odd acres. Canter- bury has 145,000 inhabitants, and Hawke's Bay only 37,000, and I suppose it will not be unjust to say that in the matter of superiority of land for close settlement Canterbury cannot compare with Hawke's Bay. I think I am correct in saying that the Land for Settlements Bill was brought down by the Minister with the idea of increasing the population in such places as Hawke's Bay, and little has been done there ; in fact, with the exception of Hatuma, prac- tically no lands have been taken up there for close settlement. Now, there are lands there that need not be taken compulsorily, lands now open for the Government to purchase, and we find from what has happened there that nothing but success has attended the efforts of the Go- vernment. We heard the honourable member saying men paid rent in Canterbury amount- ing to £6 per year. I do not know that he meant that #6 per year per acre was the rent, but I know of two or three blocks in which men are paying the Government £1 10s. per acre rent, and the men are doing really well out of four or five acres. Mr. TANNER. - It is not to the Land for Settlements Board that that rent is paid, but to private owners, and it shows the demand for land. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Of course, if there is a comparison of close settlement, Canterbury is closely settled compared to the district I represent, vet I find a far better exemplification in Taranaki, which is an object-lesson not only to New Zealand, but to the civilised world. An Hon. MEMBER. .- Nelson is much better. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I can hardly credit the statement that Nelson is better than Taranaki. They have in Taranaki about a third the acreage we have in Hawke's Bay, and vet they are within two thousand of the population in that district. Now, I specially mention these figures to show that the Government, in taking up the matter of land for settlement should not be so particular, perhaps, as to its geographical locality as to putting people on the land where the country is sparsely populated. And, Sir, while we have in Canterbury 145,000 inhabitants and only 37,000 in Hawke's Bay, it is the absolute duty of the Government to take up land there as soon as possible and place people upon it. Now, this earth-hunger is no extravagant statement or idle platitude. I know the earth-hunger does exist. In Hawke's Bay, to meet the dozens of dissatisfied people who re- turned from Hatuma unable to get sections there was heartrending. These were not people who were going in for idle speculation, but they were men who had a few hundred pounds of their own, and whose sole idea was to go on the land and do justice to it and to themselves. A solicitor told 