Mr. SEDDON .- Sour grapes ! Incidentally something of the following came to my ears : After all the honourable gentleman's experi- ence, and after the part he had taken in de- bating the subject of teachers' salaries, who was there who was better fitted? I might also say there was another member of the House who was well fitted for the position : I refer to the member for Ashley. But in selecting a repre- sentative from Canterbury upon the Teachers' Salaries Commission, the Government called to the Commission the Chairman of the Canter- bury Education Board. There was no offence intended to the honourable member for Riccar- ton, to the honourable member for Ashley, or to any other member from the Canterbury Dis- trict. I took a gentleman who had sat on an Education Board for many years, and, under all the circumstances, there is really no reason for saying the Government treated Canterbury dif- ferently from other parts of the colony. Then, I come to the question of the Public Revenues Act. The honourable gentleman led the House and the country to believe he opposed that Act. Did he oppose it ? Did the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton, I ask, oppose the Public Revenues Act? I say he did not. He voted for going into Committee on that Bill. And again I say, Sir, that that very Act was passed in the interests of the honourable members' constituents, and he would not to- morrow vote against it. Sir, a wrong con- struction altogether has been placed on the measure. It came to me, as Colonial Treasurer, from the Railway Department. The House had agreed, and it had been urged on the Govern- ment and on the Minister for Railways, that we ought to increase the wages of the workmen on our railways, but it was pointed out that, as the railway servants were under classification, we could not pay the money unless the Public Revenues Bill was passed. There is no getting over the fact that the law is as clear as it is possible to make it -. that where you have salaries fixed by statute you cannot give an in- crease, as was suggested in this case. The honourable member mentioned that the other evening, as applying, I think, to Mr. Speaker and, I think, the Chairman of Committees. It was clearly pointed out that, until you had the power that was given in the Public Revenues Act, no increase could be granted ; and, as a matter of fact, the Controller and Auditor- General had stopped increases in the past because there was not the necessary power. That is the complete answer. Even during the last year we have had valuable public servants leaving us because, amongst other reasons, they were tempted by higher salaries which were offered to them from outside the colony ; and I say that in the recess power should be given to act in a case of the kind, and have that action ratified by the House later on. The honourable member must not forget this : He said the payment of the money to the Royal Commis- sioners was practically an evasion of the Dis- qualification Act - that the passing of the Public Revenues Act was to enable an evasion of the Disqualification. Act. Mr. SEDDON. - " Would enable," Sir. But what does Burns say about giving the power to see ourselves as others see us? The spirit of the Disqualification Act is violated by the honourable member every month of his life - and he is not alone- and there is not a word said. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- In what way ? Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member ought to know better than I do. Sir, I say that the Disqualification Act, instead of being evaded, was bringing into play this question of the appointment of Royal Commissions. It specially provides what shall be paid to mem- bers of Parliament when acting on a Commis- sion. Clearly, therefore, the Legislature said that for those outside Parliament you may fix whatever you like as remuneration, but to members of Parliament you can only give £1 a day. I say, therefore, the Disqualification Act intended members of Parliament to go on these Commissions, and properly so too. Sir, the honourable gentleman had something to say adverse to what he terms "the forty-pound grab." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I said nothing about it. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I read it in your speech, sir, and I am quoting your own words- "the forty-pound grab." Do you deny it was said ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- No; I mentioned it in my speech. Mr. SEDDON. - Very well, he who does not fight and runs away lives to grab another day. Did the honourable gentleman vote against it ? Did the honourable gentleman receive it ? An Hon. MEMBER .- You too. Mr. SEDDON .- No, I did not; as I could not draw an honorarium as well as draw a salary. However, sir. I use the words " fight and runs away " advisedly. I looked carefully through Hansard to see how the honourable member di- vided against the Public Revenues Bill. I find the honourable gentleman was in the House, and voted for its committal, and then he must have left. I find, in regard to the increase given to members, that the honourable member just previously had been in his place in the House, and that he was not there when this division took place. I would like to know, Sir, where- oh ! tell me where-he was then. I come now to the question raised by the honourable mem- ber as to the "exhausted condition," I think he said-of initiative in the Ministry. Sir, he has only discovered that since the last general election, and even since that he has admitted there were only two leaders in Parliament. Well, Sir, I want to say this, that over twenty years ago I was supporting a State coal-mine. I have never departed from that. In 1879 I was supporting an increase of honorarium to mem- bers-the payment by Act of salaries to members of the House. Look at your Journals for 1879, and you will find where I introduced a Bill for that purpose, supported as it was then by our great leader at the time, the late Sir George Grey; and after 1879 I come back still and say 