and I only hope and trust that, whenever the time comes that His Majesty's Opposition re- quires a leader, they will be so fortunate as to get a gentleman of the calibre and character of the honourable and gallant gentleman to lead them. I desire also to congratulate Sir Joseph Ward on having had conferred upon him the title of K.C.M.G. Now, a great deal of fun has been attempted to be poked at the idea of one of the leaders of the demo- cratic party accepting a title. Sir, while we have the recollection and example of Sir George Grey and his work in this colony we should never despise any man because he takes a title and remains a Radical in politics. Sir George Grey was the embodiment of Radicalism ; he was the father of Liberalism in this colony ; and I say he was no less a Radical, because he happened to be Sir George Grey. And I ven- ture to say that in the years that are to come Sir Joseph Ward will be no less a Radical in politics, and no less a reformer in this colony, because he is "Sir" Joseph Ward. I trust that he may long live to wear the title with honour to himself, and that he may pursue his work with profit to this colony-as much profit to this colony as has resulted in the work he has done in his position as Postmaster-General and as the head of the Railway service of New Zea- land. Now I want to say a word or two on the question of defence, because that question has cropped up in the Speech of His Excellency the Governor with reference to the assemblage of troops in various parts of the colony. Other honourable members have made reference to the fine display made by our Volunteers and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 cadets. The honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Collins), in referring to the review in Hagley Park, said it was an eye- opener-that it showed what material we had http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero for our defence. It was a guarantee, he said, for the future of our colony being able to resist invasion. Now, Sir, it is perfectly true that there was gathered together in Christchurch a fine body of men, and it is undoubted that we also had a fine body of men, especially mounted men, in Wellington ; but as I saw those men pass by the Government Buildings in Welling- ton I noticed-for I am an old Volunteer officer myself-I noticed that they were carrying Snider rifles with old sword-bayonets on them, and that many of them were armed with the Mar- tini-Henry rifle; and I have seen some .303 rifles which have been imported for the purpose of arming our forces in the colony. They are the Martini-Enfield rifles, and I say distinctly that it would be nothing short of murder to send our men into the field to face an enemy with any of the weapons to which I have re- ferred in their hands. Long before a man could get into action with a Snider rifle he would be killed, and long before a man with a Martini - Henry rifle could get into action he would be killed; and, if it came to firing with a single - fire rifle against a magazine rifle, it would be a thousand-to- one chance against the man depending upon the former weapon. With regard to this question, we have had it proved over and over again in the South African campaign that the whole secret of success of men who are defend- ing a position is the possession of magazine rifles -the stopping-power of the torrent of lead which they are able to pour across a certain space. I was only speaking to an officer a little while ago, who told me that one body of men he commanded were three days advancing a hun- dred yards. Now, you can easily understand what the position would be. Those men who were facing each other were armed with maga- zine rifles. What would be the position of our troops fighting against an enemy armed with magazine rifles ? The fact of the matter is this : The whole question of defence and arming our Volunteers has got to be taken into the most serious consideration ; and the sooner the better. The Government must face the position, and must arm our Volunteers with magazine rifles, and our men should be taught the use of them. An Hon. MEMBER .- They were ordered to do so last year. Mr. HORNSBY .- And they have not done so, and I refer to this matter with the object of en- deavouring to bring about a reform. It is ab- surd-it is worse than absurd ; it is a crime-to make the people of this colony believe that we have got the necessary armaments for our citi- zen soldiers, when, as a matter of fact, they are paraded in the public view with those Snider rifles and other obsolete arms. There is another thing that was proved with respect to the camps that were formed in Wellington and Christchurch. That is this : that we have no commissariat, that we have no ambulance, that we have no transport outside our railways, and that we have no arms. That is the position. That is the magnificent material we have ! We have men, we have horses, but we have nothing else. Mr. WILFORD .- And nothing to eat. Mr. HORNSBY .- " And nothing to cat," as the honourable member for the Wellington Suburbs says. And that brings me to the point I was just about to make with regard to the scandal in connection with the Newtown Park camp. \---------- An Hon. MEMBER .- Not yet. Mr. HORNSBY .- I am going to speak about it, because I believe it is incumbent upon every man in this House to say what he thinks about these matters, and because this is the proper \- -- place to do it. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is sub judice. Mr. HORNSBY .- No; have we not been told by the Defence Minister in this House that there is no Court in this country to try Colonel Penton ? I say this is the highest Court in the land, and I arraign Colonel Penton here to- night in the presence of this House, and I say his conduct should have brought upon him long since the displeasure of the Defence Minister of this colony. It is absurd to say there is no one to try him. He is the servant of this colony ; the Defence Minister is his employer, in the name of this colony ; and I say it was only right and proper that he should have been suspended the moment it was established that he had so committed himself. He should have been sus- 