industry, and in connection with manufactures of all kinds. When we desired in the first in- stance to obtain rolling-stock from Britain, we could not get our orders taken up unless we extended the time to two, three, and even four years. The order for 1,000 wagons was therefore spread over four firms, entirely so as to insure as early delivery as possible. The firms I will give for the information of honour- able members. They were : Brown, Marshall, and Co., 250 wagons. at $36,254 ; the Ashbury Railway Car and Wagon Company, 250, at $37.525 : P. and W. MacLellan (Limited). 250, at $39.025 10s. ; Stableford and Co., 250, at $37.256 a total of $150,060 10s. Honourable members will see that, if we had desired to have extended the contract over a longer period, we would have had in the ordinary course to have waited until the pressure that now exists, not only in our own colony, but in Britain and America, had ceased. We would have waited until we could have done the whole of the work in our own colony if it had been possible to do so. There was a clamour for extra wagons everywhere -settlers, coal- miners, traders, general merchants, shipping- in fact, there is not a member of the House but knows that the remarkable prosperity of our country gave an all-round impetus to everything, and our railways had to meet an extraordinary growth of traffic within a short period ; and I say the department has, under many difficulties, done wonderfully well, and I am happy to say that such is generally re- cognised. We not only ordered these wagons in England, but we spread them over four large https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 manufacturing firms purposely, to get them out quickly to meet the growth of traffic, the nature of which I hope to be able to point out to honourable members presently. Now, Sir, while upon this let me refer for a moment to a statement made by the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton about the wagons that were tendered for in this colony. The honourable gentleman, Sir, gave us information which, I take it, referred to the tender of Booth, Mac- donald, and Co., of Christchurch. He did not name them, but I have no doubt what- ever that the particular firm to which he was referring was the firm of Booth, Mac- donald, and Co., of Christchurch. And the honourable gentleman said some wagons were being made by Invercargill firms. That is quite correct. Some were being built in Invercargill, and as he said, at a cost of £106. Some were also being built by an Auckland firm at the same price. Sir, the £106 was only the cost of making the body of the wagons. The depart- ment itself has to supply the wheels and axles and draw-gear in every single instance ; and when the honourable gentleman referred to the wagons being taken at a price which he said was too low, he was not aware of the very important fact I am now alluding to. Now, I tell the honourable member that the depart- ment. before fixing the price at £106 for the building of the body of the wagons, took into consideration that a living-wage must be fixed for making the body of the wagons. Every firm in the colony who had tendered for the 500 wagons, or any portion of them, were offered a number of wagons to build at £106 each, the department providing the wheels, axles, and draw-gear at its own cost, and the majority of the firms declined. There were only three who accepted the offer-two at Invercargill and one at Auckland-and they are making 225 That is a very different position from wagons. that put forward by the honourable member for Riccarton, and I think that he will admit it at once. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Your English price is $150, by your own figures. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am going to deal with the English price and other aspects of it pre- sently ; but the honourable gentleman gave the impression that we kept the local price down, and that one of the Canterbury firms would therefore not take it up. He did not say that the wheels, axles, and draw-gear had to be supplied by the department in every single instance. That is a very material difference so far as that matter is concerned. Now, Sir, the tenders offered in the colony for 500 wagons in the first instance, excluding the wheels and axles and draw-gear, ran from £115 to $136; but the time wanted ran from two years and seven months up to three years, excepting the Auck- land firm, who offered to make fifty in twelve months ; and those fifty wagons completed with wheels, axles, et cetera, would have cost £178 each. Both the price and time for delivery in the colony were excessive. The whole of the 225 wagons we gave to outside shops in the colony are to be in service bv the 31st Decem- ber next. Now, just a word while upon this matter, first of all, about the number of vehicles-which I had intended to alludo to before-that are now on order in the rail- way workshops of New Zealand. There are 965 wagons, and 76 carriages, inclusive of 23 carriages which are being built to replace worn-out and condemned cars. Then 24 new brake-vans, also 16 locomotives, inclusive of 3 complete rebuilding, are actually now on the programme, to be proceeded with at once in the railway workshops, considerable progress having been made with these orders. The new carriages which are being built in the railway workshops are all of the long double-bogie type, and the worn-out and condemned carriages were of the old-fashioned short type, which are thus being replaced by much more up-to-date and comfortable vehicles of an average capacity of fully one-third more; in many cases the new stock being more than double the length of that which it replaces. Taking into consideration the present prices of material and wages, the actual cost of making our own wagons in our own railway workshops averages $120 for 74-ton all-iron high-siders, Class L ; $100 for iron and wood framed low-siders, Class M ;. £220 for bogie iron and wood-framed platform wagons, Class U. No four-wheeled 12-ton wagons have been made in our workshops. Now I want to refer to the cost of these imported wagons, and 