otherwise. It may not be the opinion of some, ' than to see a thoroughbred showing his paces but I think if any community became entirely bereft of the sentiment of sport that community would be no good whatever. If the world was full of perfect men, men who knew no vice, cruel and ungenerous on the part of the honoar- men like the honourable member for Ashley, i able member for Ashley to make a sweeping above purity itself, men who denounce every : condemnation to the effect that those who form of what they deem to be evil-if you had a world composed of such men, what a world ! What a nice place to live in ! It is all a question of degree -- how much good we can , case. secure, and how little we can reduce. evil to. I believe that where an evil is rampant, and where it injures the masses as well as the i can tell us of any particular case within his own individual, we should put it down with a strong hand ; or, if we cannot altogether eradi- cate it, we ought to take it in hand and try to. minimise its evil results. Sport is inherent in the British race, and has added a good deal of ; takes one or two cases that have been com- lustre and fame to the nation. It is with the people ; it moves with and lives with them. Whenever people have emigrated from the Old Country and founded new colonies and built up new nations they have always carried the [ cover the whole of the people, or the majority sentiment of sport with them, and sown the I of those who attend racecourses. Why. those seeds thereof in the new soil of their adop- ! tion. This affection for their national sports has always made the British people wherever . they have gone. If you deprive the British people of that sentiment -- love of foot- ball, field sports, racing, and fighting -- you make them a cold, soulless nation without any warm impulses; you weaken them as in. dividuals and as a community, and must neces- sarily weaken them as a nation. I do not see https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that any particular harm will arise if you fail to do away with the totalisator. At all events, there is no need for urgent action. The racing community for the last few years have been handling their affairs in a most meritorious http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero way. They have a conference every year, at which every club in New Zealand that enjovs the use of the totalisator is represented by delegates-just as the members of this House, representing the people of New Zealand, meet here in session every year to discuss the general affairs of the country and of the people -- in the effort to improve and place upon a better basis all affairs connected with racing. These men are at work - just the same as we are at work here-to better things and improve those matters which come under their administration. If honourable members will look over the list and judge for themselves the character and status of the men who are representing the various racing bodies who meet here every year. they will agree with me that they are the best men that could be possibly got to have charge of racing. They are not men who are likely to encourage gambling for the sake of gambling ; they are not likely to .promote the selfish ends of humanity purely for that purpose. They have no interest in sport as a special means of living. They are on the broader plane of trying to raise it up, and making it creditable to have anything to do with. They are those who like to breed or see a good horse, and a laudable pride it is to look upon equine nobility. There is nothing more inspiriting Mr. Carroll as he proudly discloses himself in a preliminary before the contest. My friends opposite should witness a sigh such as that and live. It was attend race-meetings ease or remove the cash- boxes of their emplovers. Mr. MEREDITH. - That is very often the Mr. CARROLL. - The honourable mamier says that is very often the case. I wonder if he knowledge. Mr. MEREDITH .- Look at the reports of the Court. Mr. CARROLL .- The honourable gentleman mented upon in our law-courts, where gambling. has been attributed as a cause, but which may i have had no direct reference to horse-rach :.. and that has been distorted by him so a- to yery same gentlemen that the honourable member refers to that were found out and talen before the Court might have been chanh- , goers-men who put their sixpence in the pie' .. You might as well argue that that had some- thing to do with their fall. An Hon. MEMBER .- There was no dividend. Mr. CARROLL .-- No; but still there was the investment on behalf of conscience, with the hope of a dividend in the future. The honour- able gentleman cannot give a dozen instanars such as he would have us believe existed. We should not too lightly condemn people " . have their own way of enjoying themselves. and who are fond of horse-racing as a sport. The honourable member seems to see nothing bon bad in those who attend races, or who view life through different spectacles to those he You will find dark sheep in all elases wears. and in all walks of life-aye, and in the various vocations that have for their avowed older's the betterment of mankind. The total-ator may be said to have sounded the death-knah of the " spieler." because he is not allowed on to the racecourse. The "bookie " is also kopt under restraint. The profits of racing go to im- prove the ground, enlarge the stakes, and add to the conveniences for the public. Sureis that is something. If I thought the honour- able member by passing this Bill would succeed in doing the good he wishes to do. and for ever put a stop to gambling. I would be one of those to follow him in passing the measure. But I am certain that his efforts in that direction will be barren of results, and that he will be a sadly disappointed man. We might get rid of one form of gambling only to introduce that which might be more odiou- and pernicious in effect. I think if the honoura vie member would only attend a race-meeting or two, and put a nimble sovereign on the totalisa- tor now and then, and if the honourable mem- ber happened to get a fair dividend. I am sure his feelings would change as to the evils atten- 