quite clear that the House should meet at half-past ten o'clock on the two days referred to, and should rise at half-past ten p.m. ; the resolution said, "and, further, that on those days no business shall be taken after half-past ten p.m., at which hour the House shall adjourn." That was the clear and definite in- tention. It would, he hoped, enable members at the end of the session to return to their homes as fresh and vigorous and as able to carry on their respective private work as on the day they opened Parliament in Wellington. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) asked whether this would not interfere with Committee-work. Sir J. G. WARD said it was not the intention that Committees should sit at all on those days. He thought the proposal should be given a fair trial ; no doubt some details would have to be met as they arose. Motion agreed to. WORKERS' RIGHT OF APPEAL BILL. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) .- This is a very short Bill, and it will not take me very long to explain it to the House. There are only four clauses in the Bill. The 1st clause is the Short Title, the 2nd is simply a reference to the interpretation clause, and the 3rd is really the executive clause of the Bill. The 4th clause is merely a consequential clause to the third. The principle of the Bill is this : It is a funda- mental principle and maxim of law that where- ever there is a wrong there should be a remedy. Now, very often the law-courts inflict a wrong to a person, and it is right that person should have a remedy if he possibly can get it. The Courts, as I am aware, have inflicted a wrong upon one person mentioned in this House- Lillywhite - and he probably will have his remedy, or may get some consideration from the Government ; but there are other persons who perhaps have no remedy at all. Their only remedy is by way of appeal. It is a condition precedent to an appeal that the appellant must give security or deposit money before being allowed to prosecute the appeal. If, however, a man has no money, or no one to go security for him, although he may have had a wrong inflicted on him, he has no remedy at all-he has to put up with the wrong. There is only one way left by which such a person may have his remedy, and that is if he makes himself a pauper. The law recog- nises that it is not fair to deny justice to any man, and if he has no money he is allowed to apply in forma pauperis-that is, if he has not $25 exclusive of his clothing and the subject- matter then in dispute. Very few people of the class I mention here can lay their hands on $25. I think it is unfair to say to any man that he must declare himself a pauper before he is allowed to proceed to get his remedy. The object of this Bill is to allow that class of people whom I have mentioned to get their wrongs remedied without having to make them- selves paupers. Under this Bill the whole of the facts of a case have to be stated by a solici- tor, and have to be submitted to counsel, and he has to give his opinion as a professional man before the Court will allow the person to pro- ceed with his appeal. It is not intended to allow any one the right of appeal unless there is some solid ground for appeal. I think every safeguard has been taken to prevent frivolous appeals. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I think this Bill goes a little further than the honourable gentleman intends. He has alluded to the sys. tem of appeal in forma pauperis ; but it appears to me that by this Bill those who are to take advantage of it will be put in much the same position, in forma pauveris, as against other litigants who are possibly in the same position, as far as pecuniary matters are concerned, as themselves. I will take, for instance, a farm- labourer, who may be suing his employer- a small farmer-for wages. The judgment goes against him, and he can appeal without putting up any security at all, though he may be pe- cuniarily in just the same position as the small farmer who employs him. If the judgment goes againt the small farmer, the latter has to put up the money to appeal. Now, I fail to see why the very fact of one man working for wages should give him any advantage as a litigant over the man who employs him. I could quite understand the honourable gentle- man introducing a Bill to put people on an equal footing-if they had a certain amount of money, to put them on an equal footing in that way-but I do object to the principle of saying that, because a man is working for wages, therefore he should have special ad- vantages over a man who may be equally im- pecunious. Take a small contractor, whose wages-men are probably just as well off, if not better off, than he is. Well, they will be allowed the advantage of making the appeals without putting up any security, while the un- fortunate contractor, who may be poorer, will be obliged to put up the money for the appeal. I cannot see the equity and right of that. I am, as much as any one else, quite prepared to give the worker his fair share, but I do not see that we ought to give him any more than his fair share from the people of this country. Our small farmers are just as much entitled to con- sideration as the workers in the towns, and more so. They work harder, and the men whom this colony has put on the land for the purpose of making homes for themselves are en- titled to just as much consideration ; yet they are to be penalised, as compared with the wage- earners in the towns. I say that sort of legislation is a drawback to this colony. If the honourable gentleman brings in a Bill to say that any one who has not got sufficient funds to put up the money for appeal shall have this advantage, I will be prepared to agree with him. If he were to put them all on a level. and stipulate that those who have not a certain sum of money should not be obliged to put up the money for an appeal, I could understand his action ; but I cannot understand this arbi- trary distinction between a man who is drawing wages and a man who is simply impecunicus. It seems to me it is in a sort of way pauperising 