what the history of the construction of our railways has been in the past. We know that railways have been constructed, as was the Otago Central, through a gorge up which it should never have been taken ; but it was taken there because of the political log-rolling that in- fluenced the Government of that day. The same thing applies to the railway going out of Port Chalmers and running to the north, when it might have been taken up a fertile valley and so open up some fine country, and at the same time lessen the danger of travel- ling and shorten the distance between Dun- edin and Christchurch. And so on, I ven- ture to say, in connection with every rail- way in the colony .. Now, what have we in connection with the railway extending from Heriot? You are taken into a part of the district available to a railway now for every farmer within six or eight miles, and I believe it is purely owing to the pulling of political wires -- and I challenge the Minister in his place to make it clear before this House that the land through which he intends to take it is at all a suitable country. If it is continued it will be taken through a gorge where there is no land fit for the plough. It will touch the Clutha River at a point where there is practically no agricultural country, and will be absolutely diverted for all time from the Moa Flat Estate. Sir, I had not intended to speak on this subject, but I wish to say that, in my opinion, the policy of the Government should be this : that, if they do not now see their way to acquire that estate, they should not continue the railway bevond two miles past Heriot, and they should stop at that point until such time as they acquire the estate; and if they never acquire the estate they should not take the railway a single vard further. The Minister has informed me it may be taken to Edie- vale, six miles beyond Heriot, and from there to the Moa Flat Estate. Well, I have made inquiries since I had that interview with the honourable gentleman, and I Ind the railway may be taken there, but it would be a retracing largely of the country it has already traversed. I therefore say, in connection with the Moa Flat Estate, that as it is impeding settlement and railway communication, if it can be purchased at a reasonable price, and as the people who own that estate are not resi- dents in New Zealand but are absentees, that is the class of estate the Government should ac- quire. They would not then be displacing our o . n people-instances such as we have heard stated here to-night, of a widow and her sons bring driven from a property they were cultivat- ing, and that she had hoped to hand over to her family afterwards. In that connection let me say that I never before heard a more un- reasonable proposal than that which emanated from the Premier in connection with that wido . 's estate. Had they delayed taking the property, they might have seen it-the four thousand acres-divided between four or five persons. Well. as the sensible and practical member for Ashburton interjected at the time, " Why not ? " And. Sir, I would ask who has a better right to the property than the children of the people who hold it-those who have side by side struggled with them in the early days of the settlement ? Sir, if parents cannot have the opportunity of leaving their property to their families it will be a dark day for the in- dustrial future of this colony. Now, we had a statement also from the honourable memver who represents Napier on the same subject, and the same from several other members of the House, that the crux of the prosperity of this colony was contingent upon the Land for Settie- ments Act. Well, now, those honourable mem- bers, in making statements of that sort. have entirely lost their idea of proportion. What is the total area acquired under the Land for Settlements Act ? I am not saying anything against it, but I am giving hard facts. The total area acquired up to the present time is 338,000 acres, of less value than $2,000,000 - actually $1,800,000. I have just looked up a return laid on the table of the House the other day, and what do I find to be the acreage under cultivation in this country? There are 12,500,00 acres of land in the country under crop, and there are 21.000,000 acres under grass. The value of that is $109,000,000. If honourable gentlemen say in this House that the crus of the pro- sperity of the colony is contingent upon the purchase of property not coming up to £2,000,000, when the balance of the land, as I have said just now, is, according to the Government's own return, {109,000,000-and when all that $1.800.000 was actually in use prior to the Goverment acquiring it, and yielding probably nearly as much- I say that honourable members making statements of that sort have no grasp of proportions, and they ought to be much more careful of theit utterances. Not one member has ever hinted that the reason for the increase in value of hand was because of the industry of our farmers. not on account of the money we get for their pro- duce. Then, we have had what I doplere, sheets uttered against the Minister of Lands for tot buying more land, and we have had mumier here bringing, I think, altogether disproporty E- ate and undue pressure upon the Mini-ter it connection with the purchase of estates. We have, for instance, the honourable member for Ashburton telling us that the officers of the Land Purchase Department are the most con- servative men in the colony, and entirely te- yond Ministerial control. We are told by the honourable member for Masterton, Mr. H & .. that they are not purchasing estates in his part of the country. Why. the whole comein almost which the honourable gentleman regto- sented till quite recently was in the hands of the Crown. I must say that it is improper pois y on the part of this Government to acquire inte for settlement where Crown lands are still ava- able. Not only does that interfere with the settlers who are utilising the back count !! by inducing them to purchase lands neane settlement, but it prevents settlement gots there, causes schools to be closed, and increases the discomfort in country places. You thereby really cause the withdrawal of settlers from the 