are in this unfortunate position : that they are appealing first to one and then to the other to get that which they require and are entitled to, hardly knowing whether they will have to dis- band at an early date or not. Sir, I trust that the Minister will yet take this matter into con- sideration, and when this Bill goes into Com- mittee I hope that such amendments will be moved and carried as will remove from it the whole of this spirit of militarism in connection with our children, and make it a Bill to en- courage physical drill, and physical drill only, in our public schools. Mr. HOGG (Masterton). - I am sorry, Sir, that the honourable member for the Grey has brought forward this Bill, because I cannot see my way to support it. In the first place, I do not like the word "compulsory." If we pass a Bill of this character we must be prepared to infer that the Education Boards of New Zea- land are not doing their duty ; and, consider- ing what has been done in the past under the auspices of this form of local government, I think it would be a retrograde step at this time to pass any measure interfering with their dis- cretion. If we compel them to introduce mili- tary drill, which undoubtedly they have done generally throughout the colony- An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. HOGG .- Yes. I have been travelling over the schools lately throughout the colony, and I have hardly visited a school of any size or magnitude in which military drill is not being taught. Hence I question very much whether there is any necessity for this Bill. Then, if we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 pass the Bill, how are we going to enforce it ? What are you going to do with those Boards if they treat this measure as a dead-letter? Are you going to imprison them or fine them ? There is no penalty provided ; the members may do as they like -- they may take no notice of this measure. I am sorry I cannot agree with the honourable member for Kaiapoi in the remarks he made. He referred to the necessity of giving our young people a military education, and he went on to say that the British Empire had gained its position through war. That is a very debatable question. My impression is that there is no country in the history of nations of which that can be said. If any one thing more than another has contributed to the great- ness of the British Empire it is its love of peace. The best and wisest of British statesmen have been endeavouring by every means in their power to promote peace, and it is by reason of the Empire securing a long reign of peace that it has gained its present position of grandeur. There has been no country in the world that has been more forward in supporting every de- scription of industry. Why, Britain has been the home of manufactures. It is her industrial spirit that has made her greatness, and not the art of war. Mr. GUINNESS. - At the point of the bavonet. Mr. HOGG .- " At the point of the bayonet " - - no, Sir ; but at the point of her machinery. at the point of splendid scientific and industrial Mr. Arnold always been in the van of progress. Do not her sons and daughters stand first amongst the world's thinkers? Look at her poets and her historians. Mr. WILFORD .- And her Maxims. Mr. HOGG. - Yes, intellectual Maxims : those are the men and women who have made her greatness. I should be very sorry to think it was through the art of war that Great Britain had become the wealthy, prosperous country that we find her. And I hope it is not by studying the art of war that New Zealand is going to excel amongst British colonies. Up to the present time we have got along very well by cultivating the arts of peace, by spend- ing our money on public works and in endea- vouring to supply the people of the colony with comfortable homes. The army upon which we have to rely is not so much our Volunteers, or those that learn how to use the rifle, as the army of our producers. Those are the men who are building up the fortunes of the country. And I would ask the honour- able gentleman to reflect for a moment after what has occurred during the last year or two: seeing the number of young men that have been ready to assist the British army in Africa -seeing how many the Government have had to reject-good, eligible, courageous men, able to hold their own alongside of any British Force to be found on the African veldt-I would ask the honourable member to say, in the face of these facts, whether there is any necessity for enforcing this military drill. I do not see any necessity for it. If it could be shown that there is the slightest necessity for it I would be found supporting the Bill. But it is very unfair to our Education Boards to say that a measure of this kind is neces- sary. If we pass this measure, the next thing will be Bills for the compulsory teach- ing of swimming, the compulsory teaching of cooking. compulsory bicycle-riding on our school-grounds, or compulsory laundry-work-& very useful subject, of course. We might as well make everything compulsory. I do not like the word, and I, for one, must protest against its introduction in connection with our system of education. This Bill is quite un- necessary, and if it is passed it is likely to become a dead-letter, because there is nothing in it to compel, though the word "com- pulsory " is used. its adoption by the Edu- cation Boards of New Zealand. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- I naturally rise with a great deal of diffidence to reply to the eloquent, caustic, and intellec- tual addresses that have already been delivered before the House this afternoon. I feel absolutely unequal to the effort, but I will do my best to answer some of the most cogent arguments that have been adduced by previous speakers, and I propose to deal first of all with the remarks of the honourable member for Masterton, Mr. Hogg. I cannot understand how a gentleman so well versed in the ethics of economics can possibly come to the conclusion that the prosperity of Great Britain, or the pro- 