involved, of course, no effect would be caused by the clause being included in the Bill. Where there actually was a family, thon I know of no one who is so much entitled to share in the holding as the young men or daughters who have grown up upon the farm, and have come to regard it as almost a part of their very ex- istence. I think it would be well if the Go- vernment had given an illustration of not what might occur, but of what had actually occurred in connection with the compulsory purchases under the Act, and whether this clause would have the effect of destroying the principle of the Bill that is now before the House. I can only say that, so far as the Bill goes in the direction of destroying the undoubted dummy. ism which we are all aware has taken place for years past, it will have a good effect; but whether it will accomplish all that the Govern- ment hepe for is, I think, open to question. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley). - Having spoken at some length on the second reading of this Bill. I do not desire to detain the House at any great length ; indeed, were it not for the new clause 8, which compels me to rise and address the House, I should not have spoken. The member for Masterton, in speaking to-night, referred to the early settlers not in the most complimentary language. When one considers the hardships, discomforts, privations, and difficulties the early settlers had to encounter in this colony. I think they are entitled to every praise and credit. Speaking personally, when I meet one of these old colonists, be he dressed in fustian. in home-made tweed, or in broad- cloth, I feel disposed to take off my hat and do him reverence for the valuable service he has rendered to the colony. There was a time in the history of this colony when a man coming from the neighbouring colonies or from the Old Country, and taking up a block of land, say, in Canterbury, was looked upon with the utmost approval. There was a very great scarcity of money at that time; true, land was sold at a low price, but there were very few to buy it, and when a man had money the land was taken up in large blocks. I do not see that these people who took up the land in large blocks in the early days committed a crime. I believe that many honourable mem- bers who so frequently declaim against these carly settlers, if they only had the opportunity themselves, and the energy and perseverance to submit to hardships, would have willingly stepped into the shoes of these people. The whole condition of matters has changed. The views of the people of this country in re- ference to the holding of large blocks of land in an unimproved condition have very much altered. The old state of things is passing away, and I think we ought to speak of these early settlers in a more kindly manner, they having rendered valuable 'services to 2.30. the colony. It has been stated during this debate on the third reading that the Bill is intended to prevent the aggregation of large estates. I am pretty well acquainted with the Provincial District of Canterbury, from the Mr. G. W. Russell West, and I am of the opinion that since the abolition of the provinces in 1577-twenty-four years ago-there has been no aggregation of large estates in that district, except that the land acquired by the Midland Railway Com- panv, under the contract of 1885, has in some instances gone towards enlarging one or two estates, greatly against the will of the majority of the people of Canterbury. On the other hand, there has been going on for years the disintegration of large estates. I might be per- mitted to point out two estates in North Can- terbury, in my own electorate, where a natural and voluntary subdivision has been taking place. About forty thousand acres of Glenmark has been subdivided within the last three years into ordinary-sized farms, and a population has been established on that land, and smiling homesteads have sprung up occupied by a thriving, industrious population. Then there is the Lyndon Estate. That estate consists of about 36,000 acres. Some time ago the owner offered 10,000 acres to the Crown under the Land for Settlements Act, and the Go- vernment declined to purchase at the owner's valuation. The owner thereupon sold a portion of it himself. Later on he sold the balance to the Government. That was subdivided into eight blocks, and is now held by eight Crown tenants who are likely to do very well. The same owner has lately offered 16,000 acres additional to the Government, and I have been informed that the Government is desirous of closing with him in the purchase of that area. Taking the 10,000 acres already dis- posed of, and the 16,000 acres under offer, there will be left to the owner 10,000 acres. In the opinion of every right-thinking man in this House the owner of the Lyndon Estate is justly entitled to the undist urbed enjoy- ment of the remaining 10,000 acres for the benefit of his family. As I have already pointed out, the idea of the aggregation of large estates in this colony, at least so far as Canterbury is concerned, is purely a myth. When I rose. I did so for the purpose of referring to new clause 8, which was introduced early yesterday morn- ing. I had not seen the clause until one o'clock yesterday morning, when I found it printed on Supplementary Order Paper No. 10. and I, in common with other members, went hurriedly through the several paragraphs of the clanse. It was impossible for us, in our physically exhausted state, to give that close. careful con- sidoration to it which it was entitled to before being embodied in the Bill. I have since care- fully examined the clauses, and have arrived at the conclusion that in their present form thev are absolutely unworkable, and the Land Boards will find it so. The regulations under which land is disposed of at present are infinitely superior to those in these new clauses. It has been said that the object of these clauses is to prevent dummyism. Having been a mem- ber of the Canterbury Land Board for eleven years, I can honestly say, from personal know- ledge, that no case of dummyism that could be proved to the satisfaction of the Board has come 