Hon. Sir Joseph Ward is not present, and I will say here that I was exceedingly pleased- in fact, more than pleased, I was overjoyed- when I saw that he got the title which he richly deserves. I will not compare his title with the titles which have been given some- times in this colony, as, for instance, on the occasion of the Queen's Jubilee, and with which the Premier of this colony had no more to do than I had. Sir Joseph Ward has been the greatest postal and telegraph reformer in the Southern Hemisphere. I remember that, ever since he came into this House, he has always identified himself with postal reforms. There- fore I hope the honourable gentleman and his wife will long live to enjoy the title. I do not know whether the question I am about to refer to is mentioned in the Governor's Speech-I never read it-but I saw that the report of the Federation Commission was laid on the table yesterday. I, for one, am exceedingly pleased that the Government was wise enough to select the right men to bring in that report. I am sure nothing could have pleased me better. If the Premier had put on some strong Federation- ist on that Commission. and the Commission had brought in a report with even a suggestion that there was any reason for us to favour federation, I should have been extremely dis- appointed. Now, Sir, my honourable friend the member for Geraldine referred to the over- worked railway employés, and to a number of questions discussed by previous speakers. I should just like to warn him that it is not always wise to court popularity. He spoke https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 about these overworked railway workmen. I wish the Minister for Railways were here, because that is a serious charge to bring against the Hon. the Minister for Railways. The honourable gentleman said that he allows his half-white slaves to be ground down. An Hon. MEMBER .- Quite true. Mr. MCLACHLAN. - "Quite true!" It is easy for a city member to pander to the tastes of a few men. Now, Sir, I represent a few railway workmen, and I have never heard any- thing of the kind. The only favour I am ever asked for is to get their sons and daughters into the railway workshops-into the railway em- ploy. I am plagued, I might say, because I cannot get them all in. I would do it if I could, but I am deluged with applications to get them into this overworked branch of the service. I say it is nothing of the kind. On the contrary, it is the best branch in the service for the working-men of the colony. They are in regular employment, and they get privileges that no other workmen get. They get railway commutation tickets for themselves and their wives and families ; they get holidays on full pay. Why, not long ago, when some of the troopers were returning, the Hon. the Minister for Railways gave them three days' holiday on full pay ; and yet the honourable member for Geraldine talks about their hard lot. An HON. MEMBER. -- What about the Station- masters ? Mr. MCLACHLAN .- I notice they never try \- like a burr to a sheep's back. I heard it sug- gested that honourable members, in discussing this Address in Reply, should keep as closely as possible to the text of His Excellency's Speech. I noticed how carefully the honourable member for the Suburbs stuck to the text. He darted straight away into the question of the Oceanic service, and dwelt on the excellence of the steamers of the Union Company ; and if it had not been for the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier), who followed him and dispelled the delusion the honourable member had cast over me in regard to the magnificent sailing fleet of the Union Steamship Company, I should have been deceived. It was a terrible revelation to me. The honourable member for Auckland City even went so far as to say that the boat I look upon as the best and most com- fortable I ever travelled on in my life-the "Mararoa "-is an old tub. He said that two friends who travelled with him on the " Mara- roa " for the three or four days' passage from Australia to Auckland expressed regret that they had ever come to the colony, because they had been in misery during the three or four days they were on this miserable steamship " Mararoa." Well, I do not want to see that sort of people come out here ; people who grumble at being for three days on the "Mararoa " are not the right sort of people to have in this colony. Speaking of the elective Executive, I think the honourable member for Waitaki is entitled to at least the gratitude of a great number of people who have advanced Radical views. Previously I voted against the measure, but if ever I get the opportunity again I shall vote for it. I think, if the elective Executive were the law now, the Premier, unless he were translated to a higher sphere, would still be elected to his present posi- tion in the Cabinet. In regard to the Crown Tenants' Rebate Bill, which has been alluded to by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), I consider it to be the most scan- dalous piece of legislation that ever was passed. When it was proposed last session most honour- able members who are fairly level-headed took exception to it, and the Premier, with that facility he has for drawing a red-herring across the scent, led us to believe that he had met us in every way ; in fact, I was one of the obstruc- tionists ; I went away home to have a sleep to refresh myself, and to restore myself to my usual vigour, and when I came back to the House the honourable member for Dunedin City, Mr. Barclay, told me the Pre- mier had agreed to some compromise, and I was to go and see him. I went and saw him, and he said, " Yes, yes, that is all right, John." I said, " Mr. Seddon, what we want is that the Land Board should have power to examine into every individual place, and, on their recom- mendation, with the consent of the Minister, a rebate or a remission of rents should be made ; that would meet cases I know of that have come under the review of the Canterbury Land Board." He said, " No, I won't have a Minister in it; I tell you-it is not a Cabinet secret-if I put the Minister in, and the Board does not 