that this afternoon we have spent too much time altogether in talking about Inspectors of police and police-offices, and the sooner we change the subject the better it will be. Four years ago some not very reputable things regarding the police were brought up in Parliament. It was evident that there was a want of good firm administration. From what I can learn the Police Force of to-day is much more efficient than it was four years ago. For this we are indebted chiefly to Inspector Tunbridge. All this goes to show that there is no foundation for a great deal of what has been said to-day with regard to that gentleman. I simply know him by sight, but from what I have heard about him he is a very efficient officer. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - I rise to say one or two words in approval of the speech of the Minister of Justice in this debate. I had no knowledge until I sat in the House and heard the remarks of the mover of the amendment that it was the intention of my colleague, Mr. Fisher, to bring this matter up ; so the insinuation made by the Premier that it had the tacit approval of the members for Wellington has no weight whatever as far as I am personally concerned. I regret the incident entirely in one way, and I am ex- ceedingly pleased at it in another way, because it has demonstrated beyond cavil that the whole of this House, practically speaking, ap- proves of the present administration of the Police Department, and views it with favour. It was really a national service the then mem- ber for Christchurch, Mr. Taylor, did when he succeeded in persuading the Government to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 establish that Police Commission, and I cannot agree with the Premier that it was any mis- fortune at all for Commissioner Tunbridge that he was appointed to take charge of the Police Force at that time: on the contrary, it was the means of giving him such an insight into the weak points of the Force as it would have taken him years to have dis- covered in the ordinary course of events. In, therefore, that Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge had an opportunity afforded him of going through the whole programme of the past, I think the House and country is indebted ex- ceedingly to the late member for Christchurch City for having taken the interest he did in that inquiry. There is another department -what I might call a parallel case - where the Premier has followed the same policy with equally satis- factory results, and that is in the administra- tion of the Marine Department. For the very much improved administration of that depart- ment, and the bringing out of Captain Black- burne to take charge of it, the country is also indebted to one or two honourable members to whom the Premier is neither thankful nor friendly disposed. Now, the Premier stated loosely that the Wellington members had inter- viewed him in connection with the removal of some officer of the Force, and I am glad of this opportunity to deny absolutely that ever I waited on him or any other Minister at any time for any such purpose. He also assured the House that no other Minister interferred with I tend to purify the political life of this colony, the Minister in charge of the Police Force. I think he must have forgotten that there has been quite a recent and successful attempt to interfere with the deliberate decision of the Commissioner of Police. I refer to the case of a local officer who, when instructed by the Com- missioner to proceed to another part of the colony, resorted to the old familiar plan of getting a deputation to wait on the Premier. with the result that he is still here ; and the Premier is still the political purist, who says that he does not interfere with the ad. ministrative duties of his colleagues. In the spirited defence of his department, and the strong denunciation of political interference with its administration, it was gratifying to every member of this House to hear the Minis- ter of Justice declare that he would allow no man in this House, or out of it, to run his de- partment while he was Minister. Let us hope and trust he will maintain that attitude. And. Sir, if the Premier and his colleagues had acted always upon the sentiments the Minister of Justice expressed, probably I should not now be sitting on this side of the House. Because they have never done so was why I came away from them. However, it is exceedingly satis- factory to discover occasional indications that they themselves feel the curse of political inter- ference, that they honestly desire to be free from the blighting influence of political in- trigue surrounding them, and which must be detrimental to the administration of every department of the State. I noted that the Premier in his speech made naïve and fuil con- fession of his experiences when in charge of the Police Department. I interjected, " Why did not you put your foot down and stop it ?"" the Premier very aptly replied, " One cannot stop a roaring torrent all at once." Quite so. Now, I ask, who created that torrent ! Was it not he who made the first breach in the dyke? Was it not he who widened that breach so that the torrent of insubordination and demoralisation swept the Police Force from one end of the colony to the other ? We know from the evidence of the Marine Commis- sion that he was the man who was particularly susceptible to improper political influence. We know from a thousand sources that he is mainly -- indeed, I may sav, solely -- responsible for the widespread belief that the only road to success, the only reward for merit, lies through the foul slum of political influence. But if his words this afternoon are to be taken as evidence of contrition, and his determination to turn a new leaf, none will be more glad than I, for Ministers on those benches know that from the very first moment I entered public life 1 steadfastly resisted any influence brought to bear upon me to interfere with them in the discharge of their high and responsible duties Sir, if Ministers would say to members, and especially their own followers, " Do not come seeking to interfere with the administration of my department ; you will get no special favours for political supporters from me," it would do even their own followers such service as would 