adjournment of the debate that is now before the House. Mr. SEDDON .- Twice during the early part of the evening the question was nearly put and the honourable member for Christchurch City would not rise. What I object to is this : The honourable member for Franklin and others have urged all the time that we must not sit after midnight ; and yet when the debate nearly lapsed in the early part of the evening honourable members would not speak, and now they are talking after midnight. I think all measures should be treated alike. I think if we are going to have all-night sittings let us go on ; but if we are not, then I think the debate should be adjourned. Mr. ELL .-- I have been deliberately charged by the Premier with declining to speak in the early part of the evening. I had not the oppor- tunity of speaking then, and I have not taken up the half-hour as some other members have done. Mr. FISHER. The answer to the honour- able member for Franklin is easy. It is that the vote on this question of adjournment will bear exactly the same significance as a vote on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. Major STEWARD .- That is scarcely so, Sir. There are members who wish to get home to bed, and therefore will vote on that ground alone. The House divided on the question, "That the debate be adjourned." AYES, 33. Hardy Allen, E. G. Palmer https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Parata Barclay Heke Rhodes Carncross Hogg Russell, W. R. Carroll Houston Lethbridge Seddon Duncan Ward McGowan Field Mckenzie, R. Willis Fisher Witheford. Mills Flatman Fraser, A. L. D. Morrison Tellers. Mackenzie, T. Graham Napier O'Meara Hall Stevens. Hall-Jones NOES, 18. Steward Arnold Hutcheson Tanner Laurenson Bollard Thomson, J. W. Lawrv Buddo Meredith Tellers. Collins Monk Massey Ell Russell, G. W. Pirani. Fowlds Herries PAIRS. Against. For. Mclachlan Bennet Hanan Gilfedder Thompson, R. Guinness Millar Hornsby McNab. Symes. Majority for, 15. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at twenty minutes past one o'clock a.m. Thursday, 18th July, 1901. First Readings-Coroners' Inquests-Young Persons Protection Bill-School Attendance Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Cyanide Process Extension Bill, Public Health Bill, Chinese Immigrants Bill, Accidents Compensation Bill. CORONERS' INQUESTS. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI, it was ordered, That there be laid on the table of the Council a return showing the number of Coroners' inquests held during the two years immediately prior to the passing of " The Pay- ment of Jurors Act, 1899," by the Coroners for Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, and Dun- edin ; also the costs incurred in respect of such inquests held by such Coroners, and showing : he number and cost of inquests held since the pass- ing of the above Act, including the amounts paid to jurors upon such inquests. YOUNG PERSONS PROTECTION BIJ.I .. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I see this Bill is described in a paper circulating in this town as an old friend. Well, I trust it will not be any the less acceptable because it is an old friend. It is a friend that we like to see, and we believe that it will do a great deal of good to our boys and girls if legislation of this kind is passed. The Bill is pretty well the same as the Bill passed through this Council on a previous occasion. The Bill was submitted the session before last to the ordeal of a Select Committee, which took evidence, and brought it within a reasonable amount of distance of the different views which exist as to the parti- ticular difficulty with which this Bill is sup- posed to cope. The Bill is intended to cope with the difficulty that many of our boys and girls have too much liberty and are allowed to go wild on the streets, and that from going wild on the streets they go to worse things. It has been charged against the Bill that it proposed to make a criminal class and brand them as such. Now, I contend that is not the intention of the Bill, and, if properly administered, it will not be the effect of the Bill. The intention of the Bill is to prevent a child being contaminated in such a way as, I am sorry to say, they are contaminated now. The effect of the Bill will be to put it in the hands of proper persons to take charge of these young people when they begin to transgress, and to put them on the safe road to an honest and clean life. They will prevent them from ever becoming contaminated with either the criminal class or the vicious class, and that is, of course, the main object of the Bill, and for that reason I think I can claim that this is a Bill which deserves every con- sideration at the hands of the Council. The 