through or whether they do not. It seems to | I regret that it must be obvious to every me the colony ought not to lose the #14,000 which comes from the machine, and the Go- vernment ought to express an opinion as to whether they consider the Bill is necessary or not. Mr. ELL .- In other words, you want them to come to your assistance to block the Bill. Mr. HERRIES .- Oh, no : I am quite ready to take a division. All I want to know is whe- ther the Government are in favour of the Bill or not. I want to know whether the Colonial Secretary is prepared to give up £14,000 of reve- nue or whether he is not. Sir J. G. WARD .- I thought you were in- different as to the views of the Government on anything. Mr. HERRIES. - Not at all. I generally watch the Government very carefully in all their actions ; and I cannot understand, if they are going to assent to this Bill, why they should throw away $14,000 of revenue when it is there really for the picking up. It is the easiest col- lected tax in the colony. The racing-clubs are responsible for it ; in fact, the stewards have to go security for it before they can get their per- mits. I trust the honourable member who moved the Bill will consider the question, if the Bill gets into Committee, of putting in a clause to give clubs some time to get out of their en- gagements. For instance, there are produce stakes and classic races arranged for three years ahead-arranged on the strength of these per- mits ; and it is unfair for a private member to bring down a Bill to abolish the totalisator, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 which might be passed, and so prevent these clubs from fulfilling their engagements. Mr. FLATMAN .- You can amend the Bill in Committee. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes ; I shall endeavour to do so. I think that is all I have to say with regard to the Bill. As far as I can see, no good cause has been shown why the totalisator should be abolished. Of course, we all admit that gambling is on the increase and is a bad thing, in a general way ; but I say, without fear of contradiction, that if you do away with the totalisator a greater evil will come in its place, and I am sure the honourable gentleman would not agree to that. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley). - I understand that the Colonial Secretary, Sir Joseph Ward, has now control of the department for the issue of permits to the various racing-clubs. I should like to have an expression of opinion from him as to what is the view of the Govern- ment on the question of the abolition of the totalisator as a source of revenue to the colony. We all know the ability of that honourable gentleman to deal with questions of im portance, and I hope he will give the House a lead on the question. The honourable member for the Bay of Plenty stated, in his opinion, racing was becoming more popular in the Old Country. I look upon racing as inseparably connected with gambling. Unfortunately, that is so. I like a good horse, which I admire as much as any honourable gentleman who is in favour of horse-racing ; but at the same time honourable member that gambling is in- separably connected with racing. It must be obvious that a very serious change has come over public opinion in the Old Country respect ing racing and the use of the totalisator. At one time that distinguished statesman in England, Lord Rosebery, had a stud of his own and took a great interest in the subject of horse-racing. But on account of his prominence in racing matters he wounded the public conscience and as a leader of the Liberal party he lost ground, and had to take a back seat. He has since parted with his stud, and is now one of the coming men in the Old Country. Then, coming to New Zealand, what do we find as to the question of gambling? That public feeling has asserted itself in every district throughout the colony. From Auckland to the Bluff petitions are reaching this House against the use of the totalisator, and calling on the Government to abolish the use of same. We have the opinion of our Judges, who frequently point out from the numerous cases that come before them the bad effect of gambling. Our Magistrates also are constantly directing the attention of the public to the same thing. I have noticed time and again, in the Court business in Christ- church, how Mr. Beetham, Stipendiary Magis- trate, draws public attention to the bad effects of gambling. I have on previous occasions in this House read the remarks made by Mr. Bee- tham on gambling. Taking all these things into consideration, I am of opinion there is a revolt of the public mind against gambling, and the sooner this House faces the question the better. The honourable member for Taieri should not despise the efforts of the honourable member for Christchurch City, who introduced this Bill. He is the exponent of the views of a very large number of people in the colony ; he belongs to the reform party in the House and the country, and I venture to assert that that party will within measurable distance assert itself in the country, and those who hold similar opinions to the honourable member for Christchurch City will find themselves in the front amongst states- men in this colony, while those who advocate the non-progressive, the fossilised, ideas ad- vanced by the member for the Taieri will find themselves in the background, unwept, un- mourned, and unsung. The honourable mem- ber, when defending the totalisator, said that a young man went on the racecourse with a sovereign in his pocket, but he did not tell this House that he came away without that sove- reign. He might also have stated that the sovereign in his pocket was not always his own, but that he had tampered with his employer's money, as has frequently been the case. And those are the young men who find themselves in the course of time before our Courts in a very humiliating and degraded position. I look upon gambling as an evil not to be tolerated by the State. That which is morally wrong can- not be politically right. Gambling is sapping the very vitals of this young colony, and I hope the Government will set an example, and that the Minister representing the Government, if 