detriment of the rising generation. I do not say it on my own authority-honourable mem- bers can easily understand that I have not had a very great personal or practical experience of the industry-but I speak on the reliable authority of country representatives, country school-teachers, and men whose business takes them about the country and who have powers of observation. Their evidence shows the detri- mental effect which the present conditions have upon the health and the physical and mental well-being of the children in our country districts. Young lads are roused out of bed at two, three, or four o'clock in the morning, summer and winter, in order to bring the cattle home : and when the unfortunate children go to what is to them their daily labour -- that is, to school -- the country teacher tells us dispas- sionately, and without any desire to exagge- rate, that the unfortunate youngsters fall asleep at their work owing to the fact that they have not been a sufficient time in bed for their young and growing bodies, and they are thus unable to take in that mental pabulum which is their due. I submit that suggestion to the favourable consideration of the Government. I am averse to such restrictive legislation. I agree with those who say that unless we can got our legislation to square with common-sense and practice, and to meet the approval of the people who are governed by it, we cannot hope to have good and permanent legislation. But at the same time I do think we ought to save those people from themselves who are demoral- ising their own flesh and blood, in the shape of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 their children, by subjecting them to such un- natural hours of labour. Now, coming to the industrial ¿workers of the cities-in the large centres : it is true, as the Premier has pointed http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero out, that a very large section, principally of those who are organized, are very well able to fend for themselves with the weapons already in their hands. They have almost invariably made one of the causes of complaint the con- sideration of the hours of labour, and in nearly every case they have had them reduced mostly within the limits of forty-eight hours, and in most cases forty-six hours. But there is a sub- stratum of wage-earners whose circumstances do not permit of organization yet outside the pale. The wage-earner has no hope or prospect that he can count upon. The stake he is play- ing for is nothing at all but a present livelihood. He is merely living from hand to mouth, from week's end to week's end. Nine-tenths of the workers are unable to save anything out of their wages. Now, I do not want to appraise the prospects and ambitions of the country Mittlers too highly, but at least there is plenty of food about the house. There is always stuff growing near him, and he does not dread the danger of material hunger ; and. moreover, he is always braced up with the prospect of passing his declining days under his own fig-tree. He is always playing for a stake, whether he is likely to realise it or not, and that will enable him to undergo labour which the wage-carner in the city never can do. Now, if the honour- able member is agreeable to limiting the mea- sure to the conditions of the industrial wage- earner in the centres where it may be applicable, and where it will not be repulsive and repugnant to the sense of reason and justice of the people, he will not have much difficulty in getting a simple Bill through. Now, just a word in conclusion : I hope he will see that it is made applicable to all branches of the Government employment. Then, there is purely a Committee matter which I intend to deal with myself. In clause 6 it is provided that any one who has wrought for more than forty-eight hours in a week may demand in any Court of competent jurisdiction additional payment for the time, and, in addition thereto, 25 per cent. on such amount. Now, I would point this out : that in many industries 50 per cent. is paid immedi- ately the ordinary eight - hours day's work is done. Others, again, where time and quarter is paid for the first two hours and time and a half afterwards. Besides, provision must be made for the intermittent workers, such as wharf-lumpers and others, who, after stand- ing compulsorily idle all day, may perhaps begin at about four p.m. and continue throughout the night. It would be the reverse of a benefit to ask that man to work eight hours before the overtime began. I want to make it quite clear in Committee that we shall not commit the error made in the Factories Act, and im- pose longer hours while attempting to amelio- rate their condition. Now, one word more about the miners. I have not myself made a livelihood in the mines, although I have been down the shafts and along the drives ; but I say -- perhaps because of the novelty of the situation-that I would not take twice the wages the men earn in the mines, and give the few short years that is allowed to man, in the process of acquiring as an inevitable heritage some kind of ailment, either in the coal- mines that have been referred to, or in the damp and wet that are incidental to quartz- mining. And, Sir, I feel in sympathy with the honourable member for the Grey, and if he moves an amendment making it so that the eight-hours shifts shall be applied from bank to bank, and not from face to face, I shall support him. In the meantime I support the second reading of the Bill, and I hope to see it so amended in Committee as to make it a workable measure. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - I shall be very brief, and will not keep the House more than a few minutes. I intend to support the second reading of the Bill, but I consider that most of the objections put forward by certain members are undoubtedly Committee objections. I should like to call the attention of the honourable member in charge of the Bill to clause 4. It seems to me that clause 4 is altogether unworkable, and for this reason : Any person whose employment is on a farm, or any other occupation such as tending horses or cattle, may be required to tend such horses or cattle in addition to the legal day's work. Now, what is the meaning of the word " tend " ? It may mean anything. There is no interpre- tation of it in the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- It means " attend to." 