for preparing pupils for the many requirements which were expected in the various walks of life. It was called the Auckland Training College, and good results had been attained by Mr. Malcolm. HOSPITAL NURSES REGISTRATION BILL. On the question, That this Bill be read the third time, The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said,-Before the honourable member moves the third reading of this Bill I would like to ask him a question. I regret that, owing to indisposition, I could not be in my place in the Council yesterday. I wish to ask whether subsection (4) of section 4, which provides that nurses must register on or before the 30th June, 1902, has this effect : Suppose there are nurses-and I know of some in the country districts-who may not be aware of the time for registration, will they be de- barred altogether from obtaining a certificate ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I beg to move that this Bill be recommitted for the pur- pose of adding a certain paragraph to subsec- tion (4) of section 4. There were two points yesterday that were, so to speak, left in sus- pense. One was in regard to the definition of a hospital, when the hospital was not in New Zealand. Well, I contended yester- day that, as the Minister had the power of approving of a qualification established by any hospital outside New Zealand, it was pretty well safeguarded ; but I propose to add to that clause the following words: "if equivalent in training and examination to what is required from New Zealand nurses under this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Act." We wish to put them on the same foot- ing; we do not wish to bring in any nurses under false pretences, nor any one who will be likely to bring down the standard of the pro- fession which we wish to establish here. We think that will carry out the intention of the Act in the fairest possible way, and I really think that is better than attempting to define what a hospital outside of New Zealand is. If the hospital imparts a similar training and similar qualification to our own I would say recognise it as a hospital under our Act. Therefore I move, That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of reconsidering subsection ( +) of section 4. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Sir, I would ask the Minister whether he will at the same time consider the point raised by me yesterday in reference to subsection (1) of clause 4? I sug- gested to him that there might be the same danger in reference to those persons who had three years' training as to the nurses to whom the Hon. Mr. Jennings referred in connection with subsection (4). They might not have the certificate, although they had the training, and there should be some limited period in which they could prove to the Registrar that they had the training. I would ask that subsection (1) should be recommitted also. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I had for- gotten that point. I will move also That sub- section (1) be recommitted, for the purpose of altering the word. "passing of the Act" to "first day of January, one thousand nine hun- dred and two." Motion agreed to. Bill recommitted and reported. LOCAL AUTHORITIES' INDEMNITY BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Before I move the second reading of this Bill I would like to ask the Council to suspend the Standing Orders to enable this Bill to go through all its stages at this sitting. It is simply a Bill to re- lieve certain local bodies from the obligations they entered into in connection with the Royal visit ; and the other House having passed the Bill, I hope this Council will have no hesitation in putting them out of their misery as soon as possible. I move, That the Standing Orders be sus- pended. Motion agreed to. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This Bill, of which I now beg to move the second reading, is simply framed in consequence of difficulties which arose when the Royal visit was contem- plated, and it was found that the Municipal Corporations Act of last session limited Muni- cipalities to expend on functions of that sort simply the small amount of $50 a year. I must say that that showed a certain amount of want of foresight on the part of the Parliament, that it should say that $50 was to be the amount to be so expended, irrespective of the size of the Municipality, its requirements, its duties, and its rating powers. Because I maintain that, while $50 a year might be an extraordinary profligate sum for some boroughs in this country to spend on functions of that kind, the metro- politan boroughs might wish to spend a hun- dred times as much, or as much as they like, on such an occasion. But the clause passed last session absolutely hampered the municipal authorities in dealing adequately from a muni- cipal point of view with what they conceived to be their duties regarding our late Royal visitors. The Ministers were referred to on the subject, and promised to put the matter before Parlia- ment and endeavour to get an Indemnity Bill passed, so as to put the Municipalities in a right position. The position is that the Municipali- ties have risen to the occasion, and have in- curred liabilities which they are now waiting to pay, honestly believing that Parliament would relieve them of this obligation, and extend the Act for this particular occasion. I hope they will receive every consideration, and therefore move the second reading of this Bill, which makes their action lawful. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I wish to ask whether this Bill will indemnify local authori- ties for the whole of their expenditure without exception ? The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I suppose that this is a measure which we must pass whether we like it or not. It was promised to the local bodies by the Premier, who stated that he would bring in a measure of this nature, the assumption being that he would get it passed by the Legislature. But I would point out tha 