dant upon such a proceeding: At any rate, he would see that the horrors of racing which he would picture to us do not exist at all. The honourable member for Christchurch City in introducing the Bill 'did not tell us his race- course experiences. I am sure he must have seon a lot of nice people there ; and I am sure he must have seen a lot of nice horses- perfect equine pictures; he must have seen some very keen contests : he must have seen great public interest taken in those competitions by people present, and he must have seen that those in attendance were well dressed and re- spectable. Then. where the fear that evil might come to pass ? Did he see any crime perpetrated on the racecourse through the use of the totalisator ? I am sure he could not have, or else he would have enlightened us as to what he i forward to this time for their holiday, and, if really did see, and afforded us proof of the evils of horse-racing as carried on now. I would recommend the honourable gentleman to visit some of the principal racing and breeding studs in the colony, and once he became ac- quainted with some of our thoroughbreds I am sure he would foster such an affection for the horse as would never flag. Out of this i honourable gentleman will see that this gives would grow a strong desire within him to see a few of the horses bred in this colon; competing in races not only on their own soil, but visiting Australia and England and other parts of the world and wresting laurels therefrom. Nothing would please the honourable gentleman more, once he understood a horse and appreciated that healthy rivalry which is generated on the turf, than to give his patronage to true sport, and to encourage and promote it on honest and legitimate lines -- with the totalisator -- as a way of satisfying a public spirit, and as a means of eliminating from betting its worst features. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka). -- Mr. Speaker, I wish to make a few remarks on this Bill. could not allow a measure that proposes the abolition of the totalisator to pass without entering my strong protest against it, because the honourable gentleman will find he can never put down gambling by Act of Parlia- ment. I have no doubt he does not understand the enjoyment which people take in horse- .racing ; or probably he has himself backed the wrong horse, and this has caused all his feeling on the matter. I can tell the honourable gentleman that the gambling connected with dredging has been a hundred times worse than horse-racing. At the present time thousands and thousands of pounds have been invested in dredging, and very many people have been ruined by it, and I do not know one who has been ruined by betting on the totalisator. END OF ONE-HUNDRED-AND-SIXTEENTH VOLUME. By Authority : JOHN MACKAY. Government Printer, Wellington. Down in the district I have the honour to represent, at the present time, gambling is carried on to such an extent that the business people cannot get their money; and there are young men in these places that hold thousands of shares in dredging companies, and some of them are leaving their employment thinking that they can make money out of their shares. Many have lost their money and their occupations as well. As for the money that goes on the totalisator, it simply passes round from one to the other ; the money passes round and round ; and at the same time the racing improves the blood of the horses raised in these districts. More than that, the race-day is the only real holiday that the people in some of these districts have in the year. They look they are deprived of that, what are they going to get in its place? Of the totalisator proceeds 10 per cent. is taken; 2 per cent. goes to the Government, I think, and the totalisator gets } per cent. Then, the money is generally spent in improving the racecourses. Before a permit can be got #250 has to be spent. The a certain amount of employment, and a good deal of money is kept in the districts. New Zealand is not the only place where gambling is done. Look at "Tattersall's" sweeps in Tas- mania. Two young men in my district won .€13,000 between them in "Tattersall's," and I think that if the honourable member in charge of the Bill thought he would win a sum like that he would be induced to invest a pound in that way himself. In Victoria they have no totalisator, yet on almost every day there is a race-meeting. I maintain that the totalisator is not responsible for the increase in racing. The totalisator is only a modified form of gambling, and it is preferable to dealing with bookmakers. I am a member of a racing-club myself, and I know that if there is anything that is not straight it is brought before the stewards, who inquire into the charge, and, if it is proved, disqualification for a long period follows. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) .- Sir, I regret that so many members were so strongly in- clined to speak on this matter that I had not the opportunity of addressing myself to the House earlier in the evening. I must con- gratulate the honourable member in charge of the Bill on the very moderate speech made by him in introducing it to the House. Debate interrupted. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. 