session, which, I am pleased to say, met with a good deal of approval from members on both sides of the House. It is very brief in its nature, and it has simply a couple of operative clauses, and its design is to improve the Rabbit Act of 1882. At the time when that Act was framed the rabbit nuisance was threatening to be very injurious to our pastoral interests. It was found necessary to pass legislation of a somewhat drastic character. Fortunately, since then, methods of dealing very effectively with the rabbit nuisance have been discovered, and in many parts of the colony which at that period were suffering severely from this plague the rabbits have almost disappeared. The result is that there is no longer any necessity for oppressive and drastic legislation of a somewhat un-English character. Now, Sir, the object of this short measure is to bring the Rabbit Nuis- ance Act into conformity with the rest of our statutes. I believe the penal provisions which I wish to have altered are entirely distinct from those of any other statute in operation in Great Britain or her colonies. In that respect the law is entirely unique. My design is to enable the adjudicating Magistrate to weigh the evidence placed before him, and to perform his proper functions as an administrator of the law. As the Act stands now, a penalty can be sued for by an officer of the Stock Department, and the Bench is not allowed to be guided by the evidence. If the opinion of the officer prose- cuting is that his mandate has not been carried out, no matter how overwhelming the evidence to the contrary may be, a conviction must follow. Now, Sir, it may be wrong to assume https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that the officer will be vindictive or unjust ; but where is the necessity for taking out of the hands of the Magistrate the judicial functions that he is placed there to exercise? It is simply http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero an insult to every Magistrate in New Zealand that he should occupy the Bench and be liable at any time, on the opinion of a prosecuting officer of the Stock Department, to have his own judgment entirely overruled and set aside. I have known of cases in the past in my own district where highly respected settlers-representative men, and Justices of the Peace-have resigned their offices and appointments on local bodies because they have been convicted and fined on the opinion of an Inspector. It is to save people from running such risks that I wish to have the law altered in a way that I think will commend itself to every reasonable member of the House. The judical power in all cases under that or any other statute should be placed in the hands of the adjudi- cating Magistrate before whom the case is tried. The Magistrate should have the right to weigh the evidence, discriminate between what is worthless and what is reliable, and give his ver- dict accordingly. If he is not thought fit to be intrusted with that power he is not fit to hold It is a monstrous thing that the his position. man who undertakes to prosecute should have the right of his own opinion to convict. That is the position now. The time, I think, for giving to a prosecutor such extraordinary power as this and for drastic legislation of this kind has gone by. Mr. Hogg It can hardly be assumed that land-owners are so determined to injure themselves by perpe- tuating the rabbit nuisance that they would conspire together and endeavour to mislead the Bench and every one else. On the contrary, I think, from what I know of the character of our settlers, big and little, in New Zealand, they would be incapable of doing anything of the kind, and I regret very much that we should have this insinuated as one reason why the Act should not be interfered with, and why this drastic provision should still remain. If a negligent settler neglects to keep the rabbits on his property from increasing, so far from his neighbour supporting him they are more likely to assist in his prosecution. I believe our farmers and settlers would never dream of adopting a position of antagonism to the officers who are endeavouring to administer the law for their benefit, and such a statement, I think, is an imputation against the character of a very valuable class of producers in this colony which is both unfair and unjustified. I am not actu- ated by any desire whatever to injure the de- partment, and I can speak very dispassionately. Since I brought this matter prominently before the House a year ago, I am not aware that there has been a prosecution-at all events, there has scarcely been a prosecution in my district-and singularly enough, with the dir- appearance of prosecutions, the rabbits them- selves seem to have disappeared. The section of the original Act to which I should like to call attention is section 8 :- " Any Inspector may serve or cause to be served upon any one or more of the owners of any private land on which he believes there are rabbits a notice in writing, in the form or to the effect set forth in Schedule A hereto, requiring the immediate destruction of the rabbits on such land." Then, section 9 says :- "If, immediately upon the service of such notice, such one or more of the owners upon whom the same is served do not commence to do all such acts, deeds, matters, and things as in the opinion of the Inspector may be necessary to destroy the rabbits on the land mentioned in such notice in the shortest time possible, and having so commenced do not continue such action until such rabbits are destroyed, each of the owners upon whom such notice has been served shall be liable to a penalty of not less than one pound nor more than twenty pounds." You see the opinion of the Inspector must prevail, no matter what evidence may be to the contrary. A man may, after he receives notice. have expended any amount of money in poison- ing his land. He may be able to bring before the Court plenty of evidence to show he has done his level best to comply with the wishes of the Inspector ; vet if the Inspector says. " In my opinion, he has not done all these deeds. acts, matters, and things," the Magistrate is absolutely helpless. He must convict, and the man is convicted of an offence against the law. The settler may be one of the most law- abiding men in this colony ; and I am pleased to think that our settlers generally desire to 