think this Bill is technical enough to be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee, and I therefore trust the second reading will be agreed to and that it will go to the Committee. I beg to move the second reading. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, I merely wish to say one or two words in support of this Bill. In regard to the use of profane and dis- gusting language by adults, I think the highest penalty that could be imposed is one that should meet with the concurrence of every honourable member of this Council. I re- member some time ago being on the gold- fields in another portion of this Island, and in the next room to me language was going on that would have made one of the bullock- drivers in the olden days turn green with envy. I do think that some very strong and stringent law should be put in force in regard to making adults particularly liable to the highest penalty the law can impose for using disgusting and filthy language. I have very great pleasure in supporting the Bill introduced by the honour- able member. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- This Bill is a very simple amendment of the present law. As far as I can see, it is simply making the Police Offences Act of 1884 consistent with itself. At present it is not consistent with itself. The definition of "public place," in section 18 of Part II. of the Act of 1884, does not apply generally. Section 2 of this Bill brings subsection (29) of section 3 of the 1884 Act under the definition of section 18, being an extended meaning of "public place " as regards the using of insulting or abusive language. Under https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the present law there is no option of a fine for the punishment of any person using profane, indecent, or obscene language in a public place as defined by section 18. The Magistrate has no option in the matter ; he must imprison the offender. It is the only thing he can do. Now, this Bill gives the Magistrate the option of fining the person accused in a sum not exceed- ing 420. I think that is an improvement of the law. The only other new part I can find is this in section 4, which amends section 26 of the principal Act by inserting the words " Who habitually consorts with reputed thieves or prostitutes, or persons who have no visible means of support." That is a very desirable amendment, and, therefore, seeing the Bill is but a small amendment of the present law in the right direction, I have much pleasure in giving it my support. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I am glad this Bill is going before the Statutes Revision Committee. It seems to me to require some supervision. For instance, in subsection (2) of clause 3 : "Any person who uses any profane, indecent, or obscene language in any public place as defined in section eighteen of the principal Act. or within the view or hearing of any person passing," and so on. Well, Sir, there are two phases of the offence indicated here -- the using of obscene language within the view of a person, and the using of it in the hearing of another person. How is anybody to know that a person is using obscene language except he hears it ? Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am going to alter that. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- There is a mat- ter not provided for in this Bill that is indirectly, and I think unjustly, included- in the Act of 1884 which I want to bring before the Council and try to get it amended. Subsection (2) of section 3 of the Act of 1884 reads as follows :- " Any person guilty of any of the following offences is liable for every such offence, omis- sion, or neglect to a penalty not exceeding five pounds, that is to say " (2.) Rides or drives, or wheels any truck, barrow, or carriage of any kind upon or along any public footpath, or carries any load on his shoulders or otherwise, to the danger or obstruc- tion of persons using such footpath." Now, I cannot do better than just read a letter which appeared in a late issue of the Christchurch Press, and which I think will convey the intention I have regarding the clause I have just read. It says, - "Professor Bickerton, who was fined by Jus- tices the other day for riding a bicycle on & footpath in the Mile Road, put a question to the Bench which, so far, has been unanswered. The Grecian Sphinx, it will be remembered, used to ask conundrums, and if they were not answered forthwith proceeded to devour those to whom they were propounded. We do not sug- gest that the Justices are in serious personal danger from the energetic professor, but the question which he put is certainly deserving of some attention in the public interest. His de- fence was that when he was discovered riding on the footpath the road was absolutely impassable for a bicycle, and he asked what he was to do. The Bench replied that he might have wheeled his machine on the path, upon which he asked whether that too was not an offence in the eyes of the law. To this the Bench made no reply, and since then Professor Bickerton has repeated it in our columns, again without result. His has been like a voice crying in the wilderness, hearing only its own echo in response. " We are unwilling to leave the professor in this unsatisfied condition. If nothing worse happens, we fully expect that, if he gets no answer to his cry, he will again betake himself to bicycling on footpaths, with a view to getting some authoritative statement of the law. Yet it must be confessed that the law is a ticklish subject, particularly as applied to bicveles. If the act took place in the city it would appear that it would be an offence as gross to wheel a bicycle on a footpath as to ride it. There is a city by-law which says, 'No person shall drive, impel, or wheel any bicycle along any footpath.' We understand, however, that Pro- fessor Bickerton's particular crime was com- mitted outside the city boundary. In this case he could have been prosecuted under either the Public Works Act or the Police Offences Act. The former prohibits 'riding or driving any horse or vehicle on a footpath constructed for foot-passengers only.' It would be a nice point for the Court to decide as to whether "vehicle' 