Government may propose to bring forward. I therefore say at once that I have no desire whatever, in connection with this Bill, either to anticipate or to accept a responsibility which should, in regard to so important a matter, rest upon the Government, after the profes- sions that have been made by the Premier as Minister of Labour, of the anxiety of the Go- vernment to give legislative effect to the eight- hours principle. Now, Sir, I think it will be admitted when I say that eight hours as a day's work is universally accepted in theory. So far as all the awards of the Arbitration Court are concerned, and as regards our fac tories, mines, and so on, the principle is uni- versally admitted of an eight-hours day. In fact. I think the Arbitration Court has recently been fixing even the less period of forty-four hours per week, in order that the workers may not be required to work more than eight hours in any one day and may also have the benefit of a half-holiday on Saturday. But, Sir, while the eight-hours day is accepted in theory, there are a large number of cases indeed where it is not carried out, and this Bill is intended in the first place to lay down the broad principle that eight hours shall be a day's work, and in the second place it makes an attempt to deal with those cases where an eight-hours day is not practi- cable. The labour unions, and organized labour generally, recognise eight hours as a day ; but, as is always the case where legislation requires to step in, it is not on behalf of the organized bodies of labour, but on those who are not organized. Let me take as an illustration the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 condition of the dairving industry. Last year and this year I have had letters from persons in the North Island who have seen my name associated with this Bill, and they have given me most de- plorable accounts of the hours men have to work in connection with the dairying industry in the North Island. And that industry requires that employés shall work seven days in the week. Of course, the cows must be milked, and, that being so, it appears to me that unless we are careful, however important the dairying industry may be within this colony-and I admit it has grown to an immense value so far as the products are concerned-unless wearecareful, I say, in regulat- ing industries of that class there will be a danger of the men that are employed becoming what I have seen them called in one of the newspapers of the colony a little while ago, little better than white slaves. I admit the position is a difficult one. and no doubt there are members in this House who have a much closer acquaintance with that phase of our economic life than I possibly could have ; but I venture to say this House will not be prepared to maintain an industry unless the conditions in connection with it are fair to the worker as well as profit- able to the employer. An Hon. MEMBER .-- You cannot do it. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Sir. I would remind the honourable member that a few years ago exactly the same remark was made in con- nection with nearly every industry proposed to be brought under the labour laws. Now, I should like to very briefly refer to the pro- visions of the Bill. Clause 2 provides that eight hours shall be a legal day's work ; but it pro- vides that it may be agreed between employers and employés that the hours of daily labour can be so arranged as to exceed or be less on par- ticular days, the maximum number of hours per week being fixed. The principle of this Bill is that the total number of working-hours shall not exceed forty-eight per week. But it goes further, and provides, with regard to the work of those persons who are employed in hotels, in boardinghouses, and as domestic servants and others, that they shall not be required to work longer than twelve ... hours in any one day, including meal-hours, and that certain holidays are to be given to them as compensation for the extra time which they give. With regard to farm-labourers, and persons employed in tending horses or cattle, it is provided that they shall be entitled to holi- days according to the provisions which are dealt with in section 3-namely, a half-holiday every week, and every alternate Sunday after- noon at least, but that the time that is taken up in connection with tending horses and cattle shall be independent of the actual work- ing-hours that they are employed. Section 5 brings the State and its various departments under the operation of the eight-hours prin- ciple. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Are members of Parlia- ment included ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am not dealing with the duties of members of Parliament at the present time. I am dealing now with the departments of the State in which labour is employed, the same principle being laid down in connection with the State- namely, that eight hours' work shall be a day's work. There is a proviso, of course, in section 2, by which the State may be able to regulate the number of hours per day, thus dealing with intermittent labour, so that the total number of hours shall not exceed forty-eight in a week. It may be asked, " Is there any need for an Eight Hours Act in connection with the State employés ?" I reply there is; and here I might say that less than a year ago I pointed out to one of the Ministers a case in which men in his department were working fifty-four hours, and in some cases more, a week. Now I have to deal very briefly with the question of overtime. Personally, as an employer, I do not believe in overtime. Neither do I think that any one who has the employment of men will ever think it is desirable that any man should be worked longer than eight hours per day. If you are working men for a longer period than eight hours per day they do not give you as full value for your money as if they were working no longer than eight hours per day. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is it a continuous eight hours ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. . Well, it is eight hours in a day. My honourable friend knows as well as most people, I presume, that he himself requires to stop to take his meals, and it is exactly the same with those who are employed in connection with any industry-they require 