man had not mentioned the Dry River Estate. Mr. SEDDON said the Land Purchase Officer had not mentioned it in his report. He would like to say that his own conception of the mat- ter was this : they should not wait until people offered estates to the Government. The officers should go into the district where close settle- ment might be carried out, and where suitable land was available, such as land belonging to absentees, and decide as to whether the land was suitable, and what would be a fair price to offer for it. If the owner did not see his way to accept the offer the matter should be taken be- fore the Compensation Court. As matters stood at present, the machinery was going on and settlement was not going on at all, and he was getting pretty well tired of it. Sometimes estates were offered and then it was found they had changed hands at a greater value. Either there was too much for one officer to attend to or the machinery was defective. An Hon. MEMBER said the price offered was sometimes too low. Mr. SEDDON admitted that was so. He knew that in one case the Government made an offer and a week afterwards the property changed hands at $2 an acre more than the Government offered. Of course, the Govern- ment did not want to take the land at an unfair price. He had never been a party to any suggestion that they should do so. At the same time, the Legislature had given the Go- vernment the means of securing land, and at present there was an accumulation of means to purchase land, and it was growing year by year. The fact was that effect had not been given to the wish of the Legislature; he had to say that as head of the Government. He believed that the Wairarapa district had fared worse than the Hawke's Bay District. Canterbury had fared pretty well; Otago had fared fairly well, and Southland had not fared so badly. His opinion was that the younger generation had been driven away from Hawke's Bay and from the Wairarapa. There was only a thou- sand increase of population, he thought. in the Napier district after five years, showing that there was something wrong. Mr. HORNSBY said that the Wairarapa had lost one in five years. Mr. SEDDON said that meant one less than there were five years ago. At all events, he might say that a more vigorous application of the law wanted to be made in the several districts, and he hoped to see it. He thought thev ought to have more land acquired, and he would do his best, at all events, to do what was right. EIGHT HOURS BILL. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Premier. Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce a workable Eight Hours Bill this session ? As honourable members were aware, they had a Bill of the kind before the House at the present time. It had been introduced by a private member, and he gave the honourable gentleman full credit for being earnest in his in- time his opinion was that that Bill, if intro- duced at all, should be introduced by the Government. They had to administer the measure after it was passed into law, and it seemed to him to be outside the scope of private members' business to introduce a Bill of this kind, which should be a Government measure. He could not offer any opinion as to whether 1 the Bill had been asked for by the community or not. Be that as it might, he considered such a Bill should only emanate from the hands of the Government. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was a Bill of this character now before the House. If that Bill did not appear to be making rapid progress he would note carefully the course of events. WAIMATUKU RAILWAY WANTS. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will favourably consider the necessity of erecting a grain-shed, a loading-bank, and also a new platform at Waimatuku, on the Invercargill-Riverton Rail- way? He felt sure that the Minister for Rail- ways knew that the railway facilities at the Waimatuku Railway-station were inadequate for the requirements of the district. It was an agricultural centre, and a large quantity of agri- cultural and dairy produce was exported from there to the seaboard. The platform had been entirely neglected, and the loading-bank was falling into ruins, while a grain-shed had never been erected. Although on numerous occa- sions he had made representations to the Go- vernment, asking that these facilities should be granted in the district. these requirements had so far not been attended to. It was urgently necessary that the platform should be revo- vated, and also that the loading-bank should be improved. A grain-shed ought at the present juncture to be constructed in the interest of the locality. The settlers ought to have those facilities for the despatch of their produce as were afforded in other parts of the colony. He hoped the Minister, knowing the district as he did, and knowing also the potentialities of that district, would give effect to the request of the settlers, and have provision made to effect these necessary improvements. Sir J. G. WARD) (Minister for Railways) said it was not considered that the goods traffic at Waimatuku was sufficient to warrant the erec- tion of a goods-shed, and the department was therefore unable to recommend such a provision being made. The question of providing a load- ing-bank would be considered with other neces- sary works throughout the colony when it was known what funds were available. Instruc- tions had been given to renew and improve the passenger-platform at an early date. MOUNT COOK HERMITAGE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Go- vernment, Whether they will-(1) Take steps to extend the telephone service to the Her- mitage, Mount Cook ; and (2) place a sum on the estimates for the purpose of shortening the journey between Fairlie and the Hermitage? 