think he is very much mistaken, and I am sorry that he has taken that view. Mr. FISHER. - The Prohibitionist newspaper said so. Mr. PIRANI .- Not " the darling." Mr. FISHER .- " The idol." Mr. PIRANI .- I would like to see the news- paper before I accept the ipse dirit of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). In some cases the Prohibitionists are dissatisfied with the Commissioner's action. Mr. FISHER .- They are never satisfied with anything ; nothing will ever satisfy them. Mr. PIRANI .- Nothing will satisfy them until liquor is totally prohibited. Mr. FISHER .- Would you like to see it done ? Mr. PIRANI .- I would like to see the experiment tried. Commissioner Tunbridge stands between the Liquor party, with its powerful political influence, used for its own purposes, and the Prohibitionist party, who want to bring about an improved state of affairs, and owing to these two influences the man has a very difficult task to perform. We have never had a man in the public service of this colony who has carried out a difficult task so well as Mr. Tunbridge. I say that if the whole cost of the Premier's trip to the Mother country was for nothing else than to bring him here it is money well spent. Any one comparing the Police Force of to-day with that of a few years ago cannot but feel an admiration for the man who, in so short a time, has worked such changes in it. We https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 should feel proud to know that we have a man of his capacity at the head of the Force, and anything that is done to lessen his authority must be detrimental to the good order of the colony. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - The honourable member for Palmerston has quoted my action in respect to that paragraph in the Police Com- missioners' report, and Mr. Kelly's amendment in the House. I now take up the same position as I then took-that the responsibility of the administration of the Police Force must be ves ed in the Minister in charge of the depart- ment, and in no self-governing colony could you divest yourself of that responsibility by giving it to a paid servant. It is well known that the trade. as it is called, on the one hand and Pro- hibitionists on the other are ever in conflict. The Commissioner between these two conflict- ing sections of the public is placed in a diffi- cult position, and so is the Minister of Justice : but we must see there is a fair compliance with the law, and, that obtained, the great bulk of the people would be satisfied. That done Ministers need not fear any political in- fluence. Of course, members of Parliament have a responsibility, and I am sure there is ho min who would either injure the service or wish that there should not be fair ad- ministration of the law. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The motion I quoted, and which the Premier refers to, says VOL. CXVI .- 44. - Minister. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, yes, it does. Mr. PIRANI .-- There is not a word about the Minister in the motion. It is merely that the Force should be removed from political control -- that is, the sort of control we had some years ago. Mr. SEDDON .-- It is to make the Commis- sioner of Police independent of Parliament and of the Government. Mr. PIRANI .-- No. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- Sir, a good deal has been said this afternoon by members who sup- port the Government and by Ministers them- selves on this matter; and if the debate has been prolonged for some time the Premier has himself to blame for it, for he insinuated that we on this side of the House wore pleased to see the attack made by a member of the Government side of the House on a Minister, and on the Police Force. Sir, I can assure the honourable gentleman it pained me to hear that remark. We are as much annoved that the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) should have brought on his amendment as the Premier himself is. Sir, speaking for the northern part of the colony-for Auckland, which is the largest city in the colony-and of the police management there, I say that a great improvement is patent to everybody in the police management since Commissioner Tun- bridge assumed charge of the Force. Previous to that, owing to the political influence of the Government, the police, as in other parts of the colony-the Police Commission Report will bear me out - were a disgrace to the Government of the day, and Ministers were responsible for it. To get out of thedifficulty the Premier imported one of the best men he could get in England to reorganize the police. Sir, I think every mem- ber of this House and every respectable man in the colony will admit that a great improvement had been made in the Force since he took over the charge of it. Speaking as a Justice of the Peace, and as one who in that capacity has had a good deal to do with the police in Auck- land, I can say that the police of that city are now a credit to the Police Force of the colony. On the one hand they all do their duty without being officious, and on the other they respect the Commissioner. As far as I know, every man in the Force respects the Commissioner. They say he is a strict disciplinarian, but at the same time fair and just to the men : and I say, Sir, that is the class of man you want to have at the head of the Police Force. That being my opinion. I was surprised to hear statements made in the House to-day that he will identify himself with one side or the other, and I could not allow the discussion to go on without ex- pressing the opinion I have formed of Commis- sioner Tunbridge and of the excellent manner in which he conducts the Police Force, espe- cially in the northern part of the colony. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - Sir, there are two gentlemen who are entitled to our congratulations as a result of this debate -- Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge, and the Minister 