people paying far more in rates and taxes to local bodies than they are paying in the shape of rent to the Crown. I think that disposes of the honourable gentleman's first ground of ob- jection to the leasehold and his preference for the freehold. At all events, it demolishes the argument that the owner of the freehold is able to hold his land free. It does nothing of the kind. He pays rates and taxes, and they be- come very heavy, especially if roads and bridges have to be constructed in his neighbourhood, and he is called upon to assist other settlers in carrying out necessary improvements. Then, Sir. the honourable member referred to Land Boards as " political machines." I happen to be a member of a Land Board, but I have not discovered that I am simply a political machine, neither am I aware, as the honourable member has asserted, that the settlers are afraid to exer- cise their votes as they think proper when the general election comes round. Why, Sir, the ballot surely secures them against that. - never in the exercise of my privileges as member of the Land Board seek to inquire how a man has voted, whether he is Conservative or Liberal, or whether he has been a supporter or an opponent. I think it is well known and recog- nised throughout my constituency I do not like talking about myself -that in doing what I think is right and proper for the individuals who consult me, either on the Land Board or else- where, I am absolutely blind as to their political convictions, their creed, or their country. Then, Sir, the honourable member says the freehold ought to be conferred on every one, because all wish for the freehold. But is it not a notorious fact that people often wish for many things they https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 cannot expect to obtain ? They wish sometimes for things that would be very prejudicial to them- selves, and it is a very good thing : hat their wishes are not always granted. For instance, there is a saying. "Oh, King, live for ever!" but the king does not live for ever. People might wish to live for ever, but they cannot do it. Their wishes are not realised. The hungry man look- ing through the baker's window wishes to get everything he sees there, but are his wishes granted? No. Whatever he requires he must pay for. Many people wish to be millionaires. A good many people wish to become members of this House, but when they go before the electors they are defeated. Therefore, as far as the wish is concerned, it is no argument whatever. The simple fact that a person wishes to exercise some power, or to claim some pro- porty that he may have no right to whatever, is no argument at all. The burglar wishes to da-h through the jeweller's window and sweep away the jewellery. He would like to break into the bank and >coop up all the gold and silver. But the fact that he has such a desire is no reason why wishes of the kind should be granted. The wish of the American slaveholder was to re- tain his slaves and do what he wished with them. That wish was not gratified. It was a wish that caused a war, and that war had to be fought in the cause of freedom and humanity. And if it is found by the community to be prejudicial that one section of the people should own the land and another till the land-that the owners should be able to live in idleness, reaping what they have never sown, while other people are huddled into the cities and cannot get on the land-if such a state of things as that is produced, the community has a perfect right, notwithstanding the wishes of those who have benefited by acquiring land, whether legally or illegally, to demand that there shall be reform, and that the wishes of the few, being inimical to the interests of the many, shall no longer continue to be gratified. Then, the honourable member has objected, I think, to compulsory residence. If there are people in a country like this prepared to take up the land, to make their homes and rear their families there, the land should not be held from them. Are the men who own the land to be allowed to travel where they like and become absentees? I think we have twelve hundred of those individuals in London and on the Con- tinent at the present time. They are getting large revenues from the land although they are not residing on it, and they are not helping the country in anv shape or form. I am astonished at the honourable member, because I believe he has Liberal instincts. I know he is warm- hearted towards the community, and he has many traits in his character that I admire. I am, therefore, astonished that he should be found in favour of absenteeism, a thing which has been a curse to every country where it exists. I am The sorry there are no absentees present. honourable gentleman has also referred to the system of ballot. All I can say on that is that it is a very difficult question. I am aware that the ballot system has grave imperfections, but we are endeavouring to rectify the mistakes of the past, and the present ballot system has a good deal to be said in its favour. Of late I have attended several ballots in this district, and I must admit that the way in which the land has been distributed appears to me to be tolerably fair and equitable. In reference to the question of Land Boards and the manner in which the Boards are appointed, I quite agree with the honourable gentleman that it would be a great improvement if not only the Land Boards but the Education Boards were elected on a universal franchise. If any amendment of this kind is brought forward in the House I, for one, will support it. I think the people should be clothed with power to deal with Land Boards and I ducation boards and everything of an im- portant character affecting their interests. But, Sir, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay brought up an old identity-shall I compare it to old hash ? Captain RUSSELL .- No ; I think young fry would be better. Mr. HOGG .- I would not call it that, be- cause it has undergone a resurrection. It could hardly be designated young, seeing it was buried in Hansard, at any rate, for a few years. He revived this old resolution to affirm a prin- ciple. What principle did he wish to affirm ? The principle that every owner of a large estate required by the Crown for public purposes should have the opportunity of conferring on 