of Lands and the Government to open up the land with roads, and give the settlers a chance. I am pleased to think I have been successful on many occasions. I should like to see the (Government more energetic, particularly with Crown lands, Native lands, and the land of the Assets Realisation Board, because there is nothing to my mind so important as the settlement of these lands, which yield little or nothing to the revenue. I would urge upon the Government the necessity of going in for a thorough scheme of settlement ; they have the land, and with attention and perseverance they should be successful. I am bound to say that these lands should be settled first, and with the settlement of these lands the time will have arrived to purchase estates for close settlement. When the Crown lands are occupied with bona fi le settlers there will not be a man in this House who will be more anxious to get our estates cut up than I will be. In the electorate I represent we have not any very large estates, I am pleased to say -we have a few of over a thousand acres -nevertheless, on a thousand acres we can settle more people than can be set- tied on thousands of acres in other parts of the colony. If the Government are determined to go in for a land-purchasing system, and if they really mean to put settlers on the land, there is in the Taranaki district, in my electorate, in the neighbourhood of Hawera, some of the finest land in New Zealand-ave, in the world. 150 acres of it will support a family of workers. Therefore, if the Government are going to turn their attention, as the House thinks they should do, towards a land-purchasing system, I would recommend the Minister of Lands to look round the electorate I represent. He will there find many suitable estates that could be profitably cut up, and the settlers who would take up the land would have the advantage of being close to each other on lands of excellent quality. They would be able to establish dairy factories, and to assist each other in various ways, which is a great thing in a country dis- trict. I may point out that on one large estate in Hawke's Bay the land had to be divided into sections of over 1,000 acres each. I refer to land which was purchased by the (Government ; but in Taranaki from 100 to 250 acres would be sufficient for any one family. If estates are to be purchased under the Land for Settlements Act, Taranaki will be found the best field to operate in, and thorough settlers will be given a chance such as they cannot get in any other province in New Zealand. But, although I am an advocate of the sub- division of large estates, the settlement of the Crown lands is of the first importance to the prosperity of the colony. In this connection I would urge on the Minister of Lands that when the settlers are placed on the land he should not forget the roads and bridges. I do not for a moment say that the honourable gentleman does forget, for I honestly believe that the Minister of Lands tries to do his best, but the progress he is making wants to be accelerated in the direction I have indicated. That he will rise to the occasion I have little doubt. This House is prepared to give him any money that he may require. But I desire to, at any rate, call his attention to this important matter, as I called the attention of the late Minister of Lands, the Hon. Sir John Mckenzie, because I have seen more hard-hip and suffering for the want of roads inland from Stratford, Eltham, and Hawera, than I have seen from any other cause among the people. Sir, I wish to say that what has been called the Swiss-milk settlement is now a pro- sperous settlement. I understand there is a dairy factory there now. However, if the Hon. Mr. Mckenzie had not paid attention to the warning I gave him to provide roads and work for the people there would have been no success in that settlement to-day. No, Sir, the settle- ment would have been a failure. I desire to mention that fact to the House, because I do not like to be in any way associated with a failure. Sir John did not at the time relish my criticism. He attacked me in forcible lan- guage, but carried out my suggestion at the same time, with the result that the settlement is a great success. An Hon. MEMBER. - You ought to come to this side of the House. Mr. McGUIRE. - No : I have a very comfort- able seat here. I like independence best. If you carry out with dispatch the wants and requirements of my district, and do the business of the country in a proper, careful, and busi- ness-like manner, it is a matter of indifference to me what Government is in power as long as that is done. Another thing I should like to say in reference to the lands in my district is this : we have there water-power in not one but in hundreds of places round the mountain, 50 that with its aid many of the farmers have their dairies and their houses lit up with the electric-light ; and if the Minister of Lands purchases estates in that district the men who take up the land, when subdivided, will have every convenience they could wish for, even the electric-light in their cow-sheds and their homes, which tend to make things look bright That, I think, is a very im- and cheerful. portant factor. The water-power has many ad- vantages ; the settlers can utilise it in many ways -for instance, cutting their chaff, firewood. timber, manufacturing the milk into botter and cheese, with the aid of a turbine-wird: and the man who would not make a living in that district on a suitable piece of land, at a reasonable rent, could not make a living. I am perfectly certain, anywhere. But hard- in-hand with land-settlement must go railway reform. The railways must carry the produ e of the farmers to the port of shipment at the cheapest possible rate. That is absolutely es-on- tial if our farmers are to be successful : also the freights to the markets of the world must be low. The farmers must combine in order to se. cure this, and it is the duty of the Government to help. And from what the Right Hon. the Premier stated the other night. I think it is his intention to do so. Then, we have Sir Joseph Ward, the great commercial man of the Muas- try, a man who takes a great interest in every- 