from; and he had placed a notice on the | families are overlooked. Trusting to hear you Order Paper so as to refer to the subject. might state that Dr. Karl Kubin was an advo- cate of vaccination; but the dangers he had seen arise from it being carelessly done had made him emphatic in his contention that vac- cine lymph-even calf lymph -- was by nature septic, and contained numerous forms of germ- life, which were pathogenic in certain circum- stances. He ventured to trouble the Council with a few of the facts recorded by Dr. Kubin, which were stated in the Lancet, to be found in the library. Dr. Kubin insisted in his paper that -- " Unless due precautions are taken, serious results will occasionally follow vaccination. The principal results incidental to vaccination are as follows : (1) Impure virus; (2) abrormal or paradoxical course of the cow-pox itself ; (3) im- proper performance of the act of vaccination by unclean instruments and hands of the operator ; (1) improperly prepared surface for vaccination and imperfect dressing, which allows secondary infection ; neglect on the part of the vaccinator to exercise supervision and control of the patient until the time of complete healing ; and coinci- dent diseases, such as scarlet-fever, measles, and so forth." Dr. Kubin said, further, that the greatest caro should be exercised. Now, he contended that when the clause in the Public Health Act dealing with vaccination was passed last session the fact of a medical gentleman being paid the ridiculously small fee of half a crown for per- forming this highly important duty did not receive sufficient consideration. The amount cer- tainly was not adequate for him to exercise that great care which should undoubtedly be given in cases of vaccination. Believers in vaccina- tion, who know the seriousness of the opera- tion, would rather pay 10s., so as to have it done efficiently and thoroughly. He was in- clined to think that in the past, and it might be so in the future, unless due care was observed by the authorities, vaccination might be performed in a perfunctory manner, and that not as much care would be exercised as would be given by a man who was employed to brand sheep on a station. His other reason for putting this motion on the Order Paper was contained in a letter which he received from the Thames Goldfields, from a gentleman occu- pying a high confidential position there, and with the permission of the Council he would read it :- " Parawai, Thames, 8th July, 1901. "DEAR SIR,-Re Vaccination Question : To- day a working-man was arrested for not paying the fine for not having his child vaccinated, and would have been imprisoned had not a resident paid the amount. Do you not think something should be done this session to remove this most objectionable and uncivilised law from our statutes. Here matters are assuming a very acute stage on account of the activity of the local Registrar. Hence I implore you to again move in the matter of repeal of said law. It seems as though this law is being pressed upon working-men, and at same time many well-to-do He are again intending to do your best to give . E. H. TAYLOR. relief. - Yours, &c., "Hon. W. T. Jennings, M.L.C." He begged to move the motion standing in his name. Motion made, and question proposed, " That there be land on the table of the Council a return showing for the past five years,-( 1.) The num- ber of births registered and the number of tac- cinations recorded. (2.) How many cases for non-compliance of the compulsory chiuses of . The Public Health Act, 1876,' and amen .- ments have been instituted by Registrars during the past five years, and also how many persons have been fined for conscientiously refusing to have their children vaccinated."-(Hon. Mr. JENNINGS.) The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said there would be no difficulty whatever in giving the honourable gentleman the particulars speci- fied in numbers 1 and 2, but it was absolutely impossible to comply with the direction for a statement of how many persons had been fined for conscientiously refusing to have their children vaccinated. He did not think any persons had been fined for conscientiously re- fusing. In the first instance, the Registrar- General informed him that it was absolutely impossible for him to discriminate amongst the names of the people who were fined as to whether they were conscientious objectors or not. The persons who had been fined had been simply fined for non-compliance with the pro- visions of the law, and apparently they could not have lodged conscientious objections, other- wise they would not have been fined. In thee circumstances, it was impossible for the Regis- trar-General's Department to supply such in- formation as the words indicated in the motion would convey. He therefore asked the honour- able gentleman to allow the words to be struck out of the motion. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said that. with the permission of the Council, he would ask that these words be struck out. As to what the Minister had said, here was a case stated by Mr. E. H. Taylor where a man had absolutely been fined, and would have been imprisoned, for the non-vaccination of his children. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- You accept the amendment ? The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Yes. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER would be pleased indeed if the honourable gentleman would supply him with the name and address of the person who had lodged the objection re- ferred to. He would make inquiries into the matter, and give the honourable gentleman the result of the inquiries. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON thought the Hon. Mr. Jennings would be foolish if he allowed all these words to be cut out, because he wanted to find out how many persons bad really been fined for not having their children vaccinated. If these words were cut out. the honourable gentleman would not get that infor- mation. The Minister would acknowledge that it would be easy to find out the number of per- 