cyclist in the province exact an annual tax of 5 .-. , without any power, so far as the scattered localities are concerned, of being represented on the Board as to the expenditure of that money, will create something in the nature of a revolution, compared with which the dissatis- faction of the Maoris with the dog-tax will be child's play. It will only be when you start in the country districts selling some of these men's bicycles for the purpose of getting the tive-shilling tax out of them that you will find The a veritable hornet's nest about your ears. proper thing in connection with legislation of this subject is to contract the districts, and, instead of a province, to allow each Road Board district and municipality to be a cycle district. Then, when you have done that you can provide machinery by which the local bodies and a central Board set up in each district shall be enabled to work together for the improvement of the tracks; and you can give them also powers, such as are given under the Counties Act, for contiguous districts to be grouped together. Let it be permissive so far as that is concerned. Take as an example the City of Christchurch. I do not think there is any objection to the City of Christchurch and the surrounding boroughs and road districts being permitted, if they choose, to group themselves into one Cycle Board district ; but I do object that men who live fifty miles from the City of Christchurch, and who use their bicycles only perhaps for the purpose of going from farm to farm, as some people in Canterbury do, looking for work, should be taxed the same amount as the man in the city who is using his bicycle every day of the year. I see the Bill makes no difference at all between the man who takes constant use out of his machine and the man who uses it occasionally. It may be said that these are Committee objections. To some ex- tent they are, but I wish to indicate to the honouraple member in charge of the Bill the direction in which I think it should go. I think we should be careful in dealing with a measure of this kind that we do not encourage the intense dissatisfaction which I am sure will arise in the country districts of the colony if we put a tax upon bicycles, which are now re- garded as indispensable means of locomotion. In fact, going back to my first remark, I fail to see any real reason why cyclists should be compelled to pay the special tax which it is proposed should be placed upon them for the purpose of providing cycle-tracks. It may be said this is a way of providing a means by which local bodies will be compelled to take the matter over. That may be the case, and it may be shown that it is necessary ; but in the mean- time if the honourable gentleman could get his Bill through providing that there should be much smaller Cycle Board districts than those mentioned in the Bill, and that there shall be a guarantee that before taxation there should be a fair proportion of registered evelists in the locality, there would be much less to object to in the Bill. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri). - I agree with the honourable member who has last spoken in a good many things which he has said. I fail absolutely to see why the cyclists should be taxed to provide roads for themselves. Why should they ? The cyclists now are a very large portion of the community, a larger portion perhaps than most honourable members think, and in considering this Bill members will have to think of their constituents. There are cyclists in every constituency in New Zealand. The public and the Government provide roads for pedestrians, for carts and carriages, and everything else, and why should the cyclists be differently treated ? They pay their share of the taxation of the country, and it is not the rich man only nor the poor man only that now uses the bicycle. Both use them. The poor man with his cycle has an opportunity of going into the country, where he can acquire land very cheaply, and where he can build his own little home for himself; and if the cyclists wish to tax themselves so that they may ride out to their homes, why should they not be allowed to do so ? There seems to be in this colony a feeling against cyclists, which I am glad to say is gradually getting less. But I am sorry that there is any such feeling, especially so in a young colony like this, where the roads are bad. and the cyclists have great difficulties to put up with in going over the roads. I therefore think this Bill is a most excellent measure. I was glad to hear the criticism of the honourable member for Riccarton, because it will help the honourable gentleman who has charge of the Bill to pass through this House a good workable measure. We want criticism like that. I think the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill can now claim the support of the honourable member for Riccarton, because from his speech I quite concluded that he wants to aid the cyclists. If, therefore, he votes for the second reading, every one of the objections he has raised can be met in Committee, and the Bill improved in the direction he suggests. I think the cyclists want encouragement for more than one reason. We are now going in for a large tourist traffic in New Zea- land ; we have appointed a special officer to encourage tourists to come here ; and what will bring tourists here more than if you pro- vide them with good cycle-tracks? We know that on the Continent and other places the tourists bring their bicycles, which enable them to go throughout the country. Their money is expended in the country in which they tour, and New Zealand will reap a large benefit from the tourist trathe. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the rail- ways ? Mr. PALMER. - The railways will not be injured by this, because although the cyclists ride through the country they also travel by the railways with their cycles. I know that 1 have travelled more on the railways since I became a cyclist, because I can go a certain distance on the railway and then can take my bievele out of the train and ride out into the country. Then, again, you cannot take your bicycle into the train as you can your luggage 