selves competent to teach the children whom | it was the force of arms, backed up by the they have in their charge. I am also in accord with clause 6, which makes it optional for parents to have their children exempted from drill where they have conscientious objection to it. It seems to me that is necessary, because there are some people whose scruples, where they are of a conscientious nature, should be re- spected. The Bill shall have my cordial support. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). 7.30. -I shall support the second reading of this Bill. because I think it runs on true lines, and because I think it will be the means of building up our Volunteer system in the future without having recourse to the Continental system of conscription, which takes away man- hood from agricultural and other pursuits. When travelling on the Continent I felt regret many times to notice that the farmers were taken from agricultural pursuits, and that women were doing the work of beasts of burden ; and I have actually seen two women in shafts drawing a cart along, and doing work which men would have done but that they were idling about railway-stations in different parts of Italy, performing their turn of military work. If we pass this Bill we can train our children at a time when they look on it as sport. We can train them to military evolutions and discipline, and in doing so we shall be training the children who will be in the future the pride of the man- hood of this country. Great Britain's position amongst the nations of the world is due to her force of arms. With the Bible in one hand, and the sword in the other. she has gone https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 forth and annexed territory all over the world. Although she has deprecated the greed of Rus. sia in extending her territory, yet Great Bri- tain has, after all. been the foremost of the whole lot in increasing her territory by annex- ing distant lands. She has gained the position which she now holds by the force of arms. In proportion as Fingland has increased her terri- tory and population she has increased her com- merce; and at the times when Great Britain has been menaced those were the periods when her industries have languished-when she was unable to send her goods out of the country. For instance, during the Peninsular War that was the case, but owing to victories gained by force of arms her commerce expanded, and it has gone on expanding up to the pre- sent time. The question may be asked, Is it the force of arms and not the extension of commerce that has gained for England her supremacy, and the proud position she has attained amongst the nations of the world ? Take General Wolfe's victory over Montcalm at Quebec. Then, again, we have at the present time an illustration of the force of arms in what America did when she gained the Philippines. What gained America the Philippines? Was it commerce, or was it force of arms? Sir, it was the force of arms, backed up by the moral support of Great Britain. Then, when we come to the question of South Africa, was it commerce, or trading in dynamite, or any other commodity that gained Great Britain the sub- jugation of the Boers in South Africa ? No; indomitable energy and pluck of the New Zea- land boys we sent there to help them. That is what has secured to us territory in South Africa, and what will eventually lead to that extension of commerce and trade which is so necessary to the progress of any country. And here we in the southern seas occupy the same position as England does in the northern seas, and we have to follow to a certain extent on the same lines. Although we in this colony go in for the Volunteering system instead of adopting the paid military system, I think in the long- run it pans out just as well. Sir, I cannot but think we are indebted to our honourable friend Mr. Guinness for bringing this measure for- ward. The only thing I should like to see added to it is a provision by which our boys could also be trained in training-ships, so that these who live on the sea-coast can have opportunities of becoming expert in maritime matters, and of perfecting themselves to take their place in the navy which is to protect our shores. There is one thing we cannot close our eyes to, and that is that just as England's arst line of defence is its navy, so New Zealand's first line of defence in time to come will be her navy. Here in New Zealand we stand like a shield over the Australian Colonies. We are placed right in the highway of the ocean trame that . ill be brought to us through the Isthmus of Panama, and through the Nicaragua Canal. Vessels coming that way are bound to come into our ports and obtain the necessaries of life. The consequence is that New Zealand must be of the highest importance to the new Common- wealth of Australia, and she must have as great an interest as we in the defence of New Zea- land, because the stronger the defence of the outpost the stronger must be the defence of Australia. I am proud to say there was the kindest feeling towards New Zealand shown in Australia, when it was proposed to make New Zealand a naval station, in opposition to the wishes of the Admiralty for the last fifteen years. It was felt that there is a community of interest between New Zealand and Australia, something more than an inter- national feeling, and that the stronger Now Zealand was made the better it would be for Australia. They therefore ceased their objec- tions to New Zealand being made a naval station : and their feeling now is that the stronger New Zealand is, the stronger will be Australia. It is for these reasons that I think if it were possible to introduce a clause which would give encouragement to our young people to train for the navy it should be done. I shall not detain the House any further, but will only say I am pleased so much attention has been given to the important matter of the do- fence of the colony, because to be prepared for emergency is the best way to prevent attack. I think the House is disposed to take the right course in dealing with the matter, by on- deavouring to make New Zealand one of the strongest posts in the Southern Hemisphere, and I feel confident the Imperial Government will give us every support in this direction. 