member's €186,000? The total is $350,000 for land purchases, and not €186,000, as the honourable member states. Then, Sir, as re- gards the other portion in which he has been misrepresenting me. He says,- " Under the Premier's management during the last year the total amount of land pur- chased for land settlement in New Zealand, excluding the Hatuma Estate and Ohakaea, amounted to $39,758." That is the statement made by the honourable member, and I would ask him if he denies having made it. He cannot do so. Now, excluding the two estates he mentioned, there was pur chased two hundred thousand pounds' worth of land, not $39,758 mentioned by the honourable member. The honourable member could not enumerate those other estates, for the reason that they have not been paid for, and therefore are not taken into account in the Public Accounts. The honourable member got his copy of the Public Accounts at the end of the quarter, and he should know that. He knows that we only put into the accounts the cash actually paid for the estates. I say that the Mangatoro Estate, £88,000, is not included, nor are the follow- ing estates : Langdale, $30.000 ; Mangawhata, €16,000 ; Epuni, £9,000: Kohika, $28.000 ; There- Raincliff. . €2,400 ; Pukaka, 6981. fore those estates which the honourable gentleman could not show were put into the Public Accounts amount to £175,418, so that to this extent the statement made by the honourable gentleman that during the year we had only $186,000 was entirely wrong. There is a further misrepresentation which I cannot allow to pass, and so that there shall be no mistake I purpose going to the records, and ask leave to lay the paper that I have in my hand on the table :- Leave granted, and paper accordingly laid on the table. Bill read a second time, and ordered to be committed forthwith. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .--- I would ask that a return be laid on the table showing the estates purchased in the different provincial districts. Mr. SEDDON .- I would ask leave to lay on the table of the House a statement by Mr. James McKerrow, Chairman of the Land Pur- chase Board, showing the amount of land bought last year. In reference to this, I desire to say that it is well known the Minister of Lands, on assuming office, said he would go round the country to see the estates, and ascer- tain the roads requirements in the different dis- triets. Whilst he was away keeping that pledge it was natural that some one should attend to the land-purchase business, and as I had been doing it before I continued it. I had already quite enough to do, but I could not see the interests of the country neglected ; and it is very wrong to twit my colleague and myself when both of us were doing our duty. Mr. HERRIES. - The Premier read a paper with regard to the distribution of money in the Mr. Seddon the table. Mr. SEDDON .- I shall be most happy to do so. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Does the paper new laid on the table show the dates when the respective purchases included were completei. and does it also show when the purchase-money will be paid, so that we may know in what financial year the transaction will take place ? I should also like to say, with regard to the honourable member's remarks in reference to his colleague being twitted for not attending to the business of his department, that my attention was directed to this phase of the Department of Lands by some remarks which the Right Hon. the Premier made at Waipawa, where a depu- tation asking for land for settlements in that neighbourhood waited on him. The Premier gave the member for the district the greatest credit for doing his best to have the country opened, and the Premier twice stated that he. speaking not as Minister of Lands but as head of the Government, accepted the blame that was due to the Goverment for not having opened lands in that locality, where they had been so repeatedly urged to do so. At the same interview the Premier also said that on his return to Wellington he would take stops with the view of having more energy shown in the operations of the department. If the honour- able member had said at that place, . 1. as Minister in charge of the department. &- cept the responsibility," it would have been a different matter, but he said, "1. as head of the Government, accept the responsibility." It was therefore only natural to read in the newspapers a week or two afterwards that the colleagues of the Right Hon. the Premier were satisfied at the action taken by him in taking over the management of the purchasing department of the Land for Settlements Office -I saw that stated distinctly in one of the southern papers. It was stated that the action of the Right Hon. the Premier in taking over the Land for Settlements Purchase Department was approved by his colleagues. I am not responsible for where the reporter got his infor- mation, but under such circumstances it was not unnatural for one to suppose that the honour- able gentleman had taken charge of the Land Purchase Department in order to throw greier energy into the matter. I repeat that the honourable member said that he, as head of the Government, accepted the blame for that department in the matter of making purchases. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). . I regret. Sir. that the House intends going into Committee on the Land for Settlements Bill so soon. be- cause I gave notice of a clause this morning that should be some improvement on our bahnt system, and I regret very much that it will not receive the consideration at the hands of honourable members that it ought to recese. owing to the Bill going into Committee immer- diately. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I should have thought that the veriest tiro in the House of political and constitutional matters would have 