from Fiji, and he had no doubt he had in | communication was addressed to the Secretary his possession some correspondence in regard to a letter sent, not by the Governor of Fiji in a constitutional manner to the Governor of New Zealand, to be forwarded to the Premier, but some person occupying an official position had sent to the Premier of New Zealand direct a letter purporting to give the Governor of Fiji's views and containing statements drawn from imagination. But the Premier of New Zea- land knew his position, and the Premier of New Zealand treated that communication as it deserved by not taking any notice there- of. When the Governor of Fiji had any- thing to say to the Premier of New Zealand, and addressed it through the Governor of New Zealand in the proper manner, then the Pre- mier of New Zealand would deal with it. He knew the honourable member had possession of that correspondence ; and he might say that there were statements made in that letter which were absolutely false and incorrect, particularly in respect to what had happened in respect to him (Mr. Seddon) sending a com- munication to some person in Fiji who had broken the law. He said there was not the slightest foundation for the statement. His communications had been sent to men of in- tegrity, and men in whom he had the fullest confidence, and he had done nothing but what he felt sure the House and the country would uphold. When the whole matter was laid on the table, and when the correspondence was completed, he thought the honourable member would see that it was time we vindicated our honour; and whenever any one assailed the honour of our colony, notwithstanding our political differences, he would have 4.30. the honourable gentleman standing shoulder to shoulder with him in defending our honour as a colony as against those who, with- out the slightest reason, accused us of cruelty and taking away the lands of the Natives, when, as a matter of fact, we stood out in bold relief as compared with any part of the civilised world as to the treatment of our aboriginal natives. That was the position, and naturally he had given a very full answer to the question. Captain RUSSELL said the right honourable gentleman had not, so far, attempted to answer the question. The question was specific- namely, Was a copy of the resolution passed by the House on the 19th October last, recon- mending that His Excellency should be re- spectfully asked to forward a resolution to the Secretary of State in favour of the incorpora- tion of Fiji with this colony, forwarded to the Governor of Fiji, or the Government of Fiji, and whether any reply had been received thereto ? Mr. SEDDON assumed that the honourable gentleman had in his possession copies of the correspondence. Captain RUSSELL asked, Then, had any letter been received from the Governor of Fiji, or from any of the Government officials in Fiji. Mr. SEDDON said there had been no reply, be- canse the Government of New Zealand had not communicated with the Governor of Fiji, but with the Secretary of State. The reply they had of State, and the Secretary of State's com- munication was to us. In the meantime, no doubt, the Secretary of State would communi- cate with the Governor of Fiji. He was sur- prised at the honourable gentleman's want of knowledge as to the course of procedure. Captain RUSSELL must still press for more knowledge. The right honourable gentleman had still not yet given a reply to the question, whether any answer had been received from any Government official in Fiji to the communica- tion sent from this colony through the Go- vernor. He only asked the question because he had heard, on what he believed to he good authority, there was a reply sent from Fiji. Mr. SEDDON had said there had been no reply received through the proper constitutional course, and until they received one through that course then no reply had been received. Captain RUSSELL said the Premier would not deny, then, that there had been a reply re- ceived, although he did not choose to call it a reply. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentleman had asked him the question. " Did Mr. Seddon receive a communication from a certain gentle- man ? " who, he believed, was an appointee of the Governor of Fiji. The Governor nominated his Council in Fiji, and there was one of these gentlemen who, he believed, held the position of Secretary. Captain RUSSELL. - No. Mr. SEDDON said, Then, if it was not this person, he did not know to whom his honour- able friend alluded. # ALLEGED MISCONDUCT OF VOLUNTEERS. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, If he will cause an inquiry to be held into the alleged misconduct of Volun- teers at the Woodville refreshment-rooms on or about the 8th February last ? On or about the 8th February the country Volunteers were invited to Wellington in connection with the celebrations which attended the visit of the Imperial troops. On the arrival of the Volun- teers at Woodville they rushed into the railway refreshment-rooms there ; they took possession of them for the time being, and helped them- selves to liquor, cigars, and cigarettes. These were the allegations that had been made by the licensee of these refreshment-rooms, and they were corroborated by more than one railway official. The then Mayor of Woodville con- sulted him on the matter, and before he com- municated with the Premier he (Mr. O'Meara) consulted the licensee, who placed the whole of the facts before him. Some of these brave defenders, who brought disgrace on their fellow- Volunteers, rushed the dining-room. One of their number jumped upon the table and demanded food. The young lady who was waiting on him asked him to desist, and he spat in her face. These were the allegations that were made by the licensee of the refresh- ment-rooms and others. He (Mr. O'Meara) immediately communicated with the Premier, 