lands as long as they can. They believe they have a splendid prospect in front of them. Here, on the one hand, we have a Govern- ment expending huge sums of money every year in pursuance of a vigorous public works policy, making roads and bridges, and prosecuting the construction of certain railway lines. Pri- vate property is thereby being raised enor- mously in value, and the big estates, as well as the little properties, are getting the benefit. The owners of these estates naturally, seeing the additional value that from year to year is being given to their properties, are reluctant to sell. On the other hand, we have the Govern- ment. with the settlers behind them, very anxious to purchase these estates, so that they may put to practical advantage a valuable portion of the national assets with which very little is being done. We have the Government on the one hand anxious to acquire these lands, and on the other hand we find that through the public expenditure these lands are rising in value from year to year. This is the process which is now going on. Is it fair? Is it just ? Can it be defended ? Is it not perfectly obvious that something will have to be done to strengthen the hands of the Government in acquiring the land that should be made avail- able under this Act? At the present time we have arrived at practically what is a deadlock. I know for a positive fact that the Land Purchase Commissioners have been endeavour- ing again and again to acquire land in the neighbourhood of Masterton, Greytown, and Carterton and all round Wellington. They have been trying to secure these lands for close settle- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 ment, but they have been completely baffled. Is it surprising that the Government should be reluctant to make bridges and roads in the direction of large estates that are suitable for close settlement, when they know very well that the moment they do this they will greatly increase the value of the lands they wish to acquire for settlement purposes? Therefore, I say that the Government must fearlessly face the position, and the course demanded is clear enough to me. But will they adopt it ? They ought to have done so long since. Unfortu- nately, they do not appear to fully realise the necessity that exists for exercising a firm hand in the assertion of popular right. They do not seem to have backbone enough to turn the key which will unlock these estates. They have the key in their hands if they choose to use it. I am not blaming the Go- vernment for refusing to purchase land at an inflated value, but I consider that we must have an alteration in our system of dealing with land generally. A radical alteration will be brought about if the people do their duty, and that in a very short time. At the same time, I am pleased that amendments of the Land for Settlements Act are now proposed. It is the duty of the Government to endea- vour, as imperfections in their measures be- come apparent, to bring forward amendments. The amendments proposed will, I believe, facili- tate the acquisition of land for settlement : there- fore I intend to support this measure. But, Sir, there is one amendment which I was in great hopes would have been included in this Act, but which I am sorry to see the Goverment has entirely overlooked. It is not sufficient for the Government to acquire land for settlement, to buy estates, and to subdivide these properties and retail them to the people. They must see that the people have reasonable opportunities after having leased the sections, for making their operations successful, and in that respect the Land for Settlements Act as it exists at the present time is not sufficient. You will re- member, Sir, that last year when a Land for Settlements Consolidation Bill was before the House, provision was made in that Bill for assisting the lessees of workmen's homes, but no assistance was provided for the ordinary lessees who were taking up small farms. Now, when estates are subdivided, and opened for selection under the terms of the Act, the successful applicants must reside on their land. They have twelve months' grace, but within those twelve months they must begin to reside. If men with their families are to reside upon their sections it is necessary that they should be able to convert them into homesteads. They must have them fenced so as to make them repro- ductive. It is also desirable as well as neces- sary that they should be able to dispense with the private landlord. The only way in which they can do that is by erecting dwellings, and to do so working-men usually require the as- sistance of capital. That is inevitable. The Government offers powerful inducements to men in the towns with families, who have sometimes a hard struggle to make ends meet, to go into the country and take up land adapted for dairy farms. But after the Crown tenants have done that-when thay have paid down their rents and lease-fees, and are ready to go to work -in what position do they find them- selves? They must complete their fencing, and then the next thing is to obtain cattle or sheep to make the land reproductive. They have then to erect dwellings for their families. Any ordinary private landlord at this juncture would endeavour to help his tenant : but what does the State do? The tenants are not allowed to mortgage or deal in any way with their property during the first twelve months. They are compelled to reside there, and they have to pay their rent punctually and make im- provements : but they must not borrow. or, if they do, they can offer no security. They must not go to the Government or 4.30. to any one else to borrow a shilling. That is the position in which they are placed. Under clause 60 of the Land for Settlements Act of last year it is provided :- " Except on the recommendation of the Land Board and with the approval of the Minister, it shall not be lawful for any lessee to transfer, sublet, or in any way part with. mortgage, or charge his lease, or any portion of his interest therein, until the expiration of the fifth year of the term of the lease." So that for five years, unless the lessee can get special permission from the Land Board and the Minister of Lands, he is unable to raise 