remarks. He thought that all the railway- lines of the colony should be in the hands of the State, and he thought that this Parlia- ment and any future Parliament should work in that direction. He had heard something of the matter that the honourable gentleman had brought up some short time ago, when a depu- tation waited upon the Government to draw attention to the need of a railway in that part of the colony. He was under the impression that the honourable gentleman had all the in- formation that he was asking for in the question. They had the preliminary survey, statistics showing the class of materials to be carried on the line, approximate estimate of the cost, and nearly everything that was required. As the honourable member was aware, each session the Government had a large number of applica- tions from various districts in the colony asking for surveys of railway-lines proposed to be made, and he would understand the difficulty there was to spare the services of the officers of the department to do the work asked for. They had a fairly large programme laid down, and he was inclined to think that they should adhere to the works that they had in hand, and push them forward as speedily as possible. If the honourable gentleman would let the matter stand over for a while, perhaps he (the Minister) or his colleagues would have an opportunity of seeing the proposed route and becoming convinced that the line should be made. Personally, he would be pleased to visit that part of the colony and see for himself what the district could produce, and then make his own recommendation. If that would suit the honourable member, he would be glad to meet his wishes. APPOINTMENT OF BOILER INSPECTORS. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Marine, Whether he will consider the advisability of amending the regulations respect- ing the appointment of boiler Inspectors, so that competent boilermakers may become eligible for the position ? At the present time engineers exclusively held the positions of boiler Inspec- tors, and it seemed that engineering and boiler- making were distinct branches of trade. The boilermakers held that an engineer was not necessarily the best boiler Inspector. Some dozen Inspectors were at present employed, at a cost of £3.665. In Australia the same difficulty arose, and it was overcome by appointing com- petent boilermakers as assistant Inspectors, and he would ask if that could not be done here. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said this was not the first time the question had been brought before him. At the first glance there seemed to be a great deal in what the honour- able member had said, but he would point out that all the Inspectors were trained men, with a knowledge of both engines and boilers, and the great need was for men who combined both qualifications. To appoint a boilermaker would mean that an engineer would also have to be appointed to assist in the inspection, and the cost would be double what it was at the present time. An engineer, to be appointed as an In- spector, must have an expert knowledge of boilers, and if a boilermaker had the necessary knowledge of machinery he was entitled to apply for such a position. LOCAL OPTION POLL IN KING- COUNTRY. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Premier, Whether he intends, as promised last session, to appoint a Commission to inquire into the desirability or otherwise of placing the people residing in the King-country (Rohe-Potae) in a similar position to the electors living in other parts of the colony with regard to the poll for local option purposes? He had been requested to bring this matter under the notice of the Government (by a meeting of clergy and laity recently held in the Waikato, who passed the following resolution : "That the Government be asked when the Royal Commission on licensed houses in the King-country, the ap- been promised, pointment of which has will commence their inquiries." The pre- sent position was generally admitted to be very unsatisfactory. The Premier promised to set up a Commission some time ago, and it was a matter for regret that that had not been done. If it had been done, the people of the colony would have been enlightened on the question. Last session the House received a very large number of petitions from various parts of the colony on this subject. He might say that the greatest number of petitions, with the largest number of signatures, came from districts most remote from the Waikato, show- ing that they knew little or nothing about the question. If this Commission were set up, the people in other parts of the colony would have been enlightened on the subject, and, he ven- tured to say, would not have signed the peti- tions. The true position, so far as the people of the King-country were concerned, was this : They simply asked that they might be placed in the same position as electors in other parts of the colony so far as the licensing question was concerned. He hoped the Premier would be able to give a satisfactory reply. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was well known to honourable members that during last recess there were an abnormal number of Royal Commissions set up-in fact, you might say that the panel was almost exhausted. He trusted the honourable member was not asking this question with the view of intimating to him that during the recess he would like to be appointed to this Commission. The real diffi- culty, of course, in this matter arose from the fact that there had been a public agitation against any licenses being granted there, as would beseen by the petitions presented last ses- sion and this session. They were numerous, al- though signed by a very few persons, the de- sire evidently being to make the pear as general as possible. But, Government were aware, the situation had not changed. If there was any change at all it was for the better. That being the case, the Government had not seen its way to appoint a Commission ; but he might say the matter 