appointed to draw up a colonial scale of staffs and salaries for the public schools of 11.30. the colony. I may say that during the years I have been in Parliament I have been advocating the adoption of a colonial scale of staffs and salaries. It seems ridiculous that each of the thirteen Boards of Education should have a system of its own ; that we should have a master in one district teaching a school for, say, $150, and in the adjoining district another master, for doing exactly the same work, getting $200. You will find in one school four teachers doing the same work that is being performed in another district by five teachers, while in a third district only three are provided to do it. Consequently, seeing equal work is not being done, equal salaries are not being given. But there is another cause at work. In the strong education districts it is possible for the Boards to give better salaries than they are able to do in the weaker districts. So the Government took the wise and judicious step of endeavouring to arrive at a colonial scale of equal work and equal pay, irrespective of the education district in which the teacher may for the time being be engaged. Reference was also made by the previous speaker to the land ad- ministration of the present Government ; but he was able to find very little fault with what was being done. He advocates a number of reforms that may be effected, and with some I must say I concur. There is, no doubt, room for improvement in the land administration ; it is time the distinction between acquired lands and Crown lands should be abolished - that settlers, whether the land be acquired or Crown, should have the same opportunity of taking it up under the alternative systems, either for cash with the right of purchase or on lease in per- petuity. Seeing that the honourable member for Franklin has gone at length into the subject, it is unnecessary to go into it further than to advocate periodical revaluation of the Crown lands. Many settlers who take up land are clamouring for a reduction of their rents. Those who take up land above the value paid for it will not complain ; we only hear com- plaints from those who are dissatisfied. Some people are very hard to please. Consequently I advocate a periodical revaluation. If the settlers were all subject to periodical revaluation with- out taxation on improvements at the end of ten, twenty, or twenty-one years, as the case may be, then you may rest assured that, if it is found they are paying too high, they will be entitled to get relief, and if they are paying too little they will be called upon to pay a little more than they have been paying. Reference has been made by previous speakers to the dairy industry of the colony. The Government de- serve a great deal of credit for the assistance they have given by way of technical instruction to those engaged in that industry. The pro- ducers are able to place on the Home market a better article by far than they did two years ago. The export of butter and cheese has considerably increased, and we are able to obtain prices in the Home market that are in many cases about equal to those realised by the Danish product. And I hope, in time to come, the Government will extend this system of sup- plying technical instruction to wool-growing. as has been referred to by the honourable member for Otaki. I have advocated the appointment of an expert to give instruction in wool-classing and wool-grading, and I think effect should le given to what has been urged by the honourable member for Otaki in that direction. Then the thousands and thousands of pounds that have been lost to the wool-growers of the colony through ignorance in the classifying and proper grading of the wool would be obviated, and the best possible prices that could be obtained m the Home market from the buyers would be the result. I hope the Government will take this into their serious consideration, and that the same energy as marked their efforts to stimulate the dairy industry will be exerted to enable the wool-growers to obtain the highest prices possible for their products. The question of borrowing, Sir, has been touched upon likewise. I have advocated for years the advisability of more systematic borrowing, in order to carry out a plan of progressive public works. If we were to decide to borrow a mil- lion, or even a half-million, a year for a period of, say, five years, and if the amounts we pro- posed to so borrow were ear-marked for the carrying-out of a well-defined policy of pro- gressive public works, then we should know exactly what we are doing. But to borrow a million and expend it, and then as the neces- sity arises to borrow another million and spend it, without any well-defined public works policy, is, to my mind, an extravagant method. There- fore I should advocate borrowing systematically, say, half a million a year for the next tive years-or a million for that matter-and carry- ing out a system of public works-roads, bridges, and other improvements-that, if not imme- diately reproductive, will at any rate tend to promote settlement and afford the necessary means of communication with our outlying districts. Then, if in a certain year it is found impossible to proceed with particular works, it will be satisfactory, at any rate, to know that one may look forward with some degree of certainty to the execution of that particular work in the year following. But now, with the haphazard manner in which we are pro- ceeding-getting a million for one year and trusting merely to the possibility of getting another next year-it is not possible to know at any time exactly where we are. The Govern- ment deserve credit for the assistance they have given to the backwoods settlers. It must be borne in mind that these settlers who take up areas in the back blocks and endeavour to carve out homes for themselves and their families are doing a great deal to prove the capabilities of the soil. They are materially improving the well-being of the community, and helping to build up the nation. As respects the construc- tion of the three main lines of the colony I am in favour, seeing that the Referendum Bill is now before the House, of placing the matter fairly before the people of the country. If the majority are in favour of borrowing a sufficient 