cost of labour there is .$2 per month and found. I tion, so that they may be enabled to go about in Those men largely live upon sheep worth 5s. i a way commensurate with their position. We and cattle worth $3. Mark you, I am not ap- i shall, of course, have South Africa brought before proving of this system of labour. I only regret i us as a field. Sir, that held is of very little im- to think that our people in this colony have I portance compared with others unless our Go- to contend against such conditions, and I am merely pointing this out as a factor in the competition you have to face in this country, 'away the operations of the South African and to show we must not pay fancy prices for ; Customs Union. Those operations might con- land. Then, let us come to the taxation in the tinue after the war is over, and then it will Argentine. It is $1 per $1,000. It is taxation be impossible for us to carry on any system upon land-values there. There are some muni- i of trading in South Africa. They have 3d. a cipal rates that do not seriously affect it, but I merely mention the fact. Now, if you have factors such as these in connection with your land to fight in a country that is not half the distance that you are from the markets of the world, how is it likely that you can maintain your present high values -- the present ex- cessive values that obtain - in the face of such competition as I have indicated? say, therefore, the officers of the Land Pur- chase Board are to be commended upon the prudence they have exercised in connection with their transactions recently. And, coming back to our own colony, we have heard - and I am proud to know it is so -- that we have exported thirteen million pounds' worth of produce last year. Unfortunately, owing to decreased values our exports will be a million short this year, and if we decrease the produce by a million it will have a serious reflex action on the land- values in this colony ; and, if you continue to pay the present excessive values, how can you expect those unfortunate men to pay interest on that capital and have a surplus for the main- tenance of their families as well ? These are https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 points I wish honourable members to lay to heart. I might say, too, that in the competi- tion we have to face we see the very ablest men from the whole of Europe concentrating their efforts in the competition we have to encounter .. Mr. Reynolds, who so successfully established in Auckland the Black Horse Dairy Factory, has made the widest reputation for that brand of butter in the London market ; because you can always get 4s. a hundredweight at Home in excess for the Black Horse brand of butter over any other. He has now got a good salary to go and conduct operations in South America, where many thousands of cows will be milked, and he will bring his ex perience to bear there in a way that may be seriously damaging to our own country. I be- lieve the honourable gentleman has stated that the Government is anxious to exploit new markets, and I hope the experience they have had of what is necessary will prompt them to put a sum on the estimates that will compensate a man to come and do the work properly. It is a pottering policy they have hitherto adopted ; they are not aware of the seriousness of the posi- tion, nor the work the men require to do to bring about the very best results in this country. i give facilities for acquiring the freehold. . Au In the opening-up of new markets you require the very ablest men you can employ, and you require to pay them well, and to place sums on the estimates for incidentals in excess of any- thing you have voted previously in that connec- vernment and the Governments of the other parts of the Empire make an effort to sweep pound on butter and cheese, led. a bushel on oats, 4s. a hundredweight on flour, and from 1d. to 2d. on tinned and frozen meats. I say that largely the remedy must be brought about by the joint action of the dependencies of the Empire. If we are going to maintain our high system of civilisation and hold our own against these countries I have alluded to w.th I their cheap labour, low civilisation, and cheap 1 land, the dependencies of the Empire must bring pressure to bear on the Imperial Govern- ment so that they may extend concessions to the people of our own nation. I again say it is impossible for us to compete with people who employ inferior labour, and who are nearer to i our markets, and who have advantages which we do not possess. Unless that is adopted. I venture to say that the value of our produce will be affected, and that correspondingi, the value of our land will also decrease. Comming now to one or two points in the Bill, I would like to say that I perfectly concur in the view expressed by the Ministry that married men should have the choice of properties. I reart 1 to think that we have not considered that matter sufficiently in our legislation in the past. ! Our system of taxation is crude and unwork- able in many respects, and we see the off et it has on the population of this country. Few families would be in the position iba are now if encouragement were given to families ; but the people of this country hait been made to feel by our legislation that family: - are an encumbrance and a very heavy art. and the consequence is that we see. especially amongst the working people and offers. t! : families now number very few. I think that not only should special inducements be ext: id: 1 to families, as is proposed under this Bill, but that special concessions should be granted nuder the income-tax and the land-fax, and. i. possible-although it might be almost n! wow !- able-in connection with the Custom- tutti The burden of taxation in New Zealand a' : r present time is borne by people with families. and I venture to think that a principle of that sort is wrong, and I think that the Government in endeavouring to rectify that wrong has m ve a step in the right direction. I then ay !! indorse the opinions expressed by honoura . members in connection with the endeavonr te that at the present time it is a little unpopular but it matters not how you grant land so ? ? as you do not permit the frecholder to beld : » much ; but there is no tenure which will mduice men to do so much as will the freehold, and 