means the fee-simple, and occupation with right of purchase is also practically the fee-simple. The lease-in-perpetuity system is practically better than the fee-simple, and as an authority for that statement I will quote the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, who used these words on the second reading of the Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Bill last year : - " When we granted the lease in perpetuity it was supposed to be not only a qualified free- hold but something better than the freehold." I believe that is quite right. Honourable members know that the disposing of land in fee- simple and the holding of the land in fee-simple has been condemned, and the evils have been pointed out time out of number -- more particu- larly of recent years. The system has resulted in England in this: that one two-hundredth part of the population are the owners of the whole of the land of England-that is to say, the other hundred and ninety-nine two-hun- dredths of the population practically exist on the sufferance of the other two-hundredth part. Every kind of evil-millionaires and pauperism -every kind of suffering and trouble, has been traced to the ownership of the fee-simple in land : and I believe it should be a plank in the platform of every true Liberal in this country that we should not allow to be reproduced in this country on any consideration whatever the system of land-tenure which has brought about the state of things that exists in the Old World. Now. it is hardly necessary to point out that the land will in all probability rise in value in this country, and the holder of a lease in perpetuity, who gets his land at 4} or 5 per cent. on the capital value of the land, in the course of a few years will have a property im- mensely increased in value. As has been said by the honourable member for Waihemo, it may be that there is a mild land-boom just now, and prices may be somewhat higher than they ought to be; but I would again refer to the testimony of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay in the same speech I quoted from before. He says : "There can be no doubt in the mind of any person who has lived in the coun- try but that the value of land will persistently rise." Now, if the value of land will persistently rise, we are simply giving our birthright away -we are giving away the only asset this country possesses to a privileged few, under this lease- in-perpetuity system, and the result will be that by-and-by, when we come to look for our national assets and our wealth, we shall find them in the hands of a privileged few, and we shall bitterly and deeply regret the day when such a system became general in this country. I have said before, and there are many who think with me, that the best system of land- tenure is that of periodical revaluation. It cannot be said that there is any practical difficulty about such a system, because it is a matter of common private arrangement --- an arrangement we see every day in force by virtue of mutual agreement. The Glasgow leases or perpetual leases are quite usual in the city I come from, and I dare say they are perfectly usual and common in other places throughout VOL. CXVI .- 36. the colony; and if it is a system which com- mends itself actually to private persons as & matter of bargain between themselves for their own mutual advantage, what possible objection can there be to such a system being adopted by the State as between itself and the cul- tivator of the ground. Now, something has been said about workmen's homes. Well, I do not think it will be of very much use merely getting land for those homes. I do not think it will be of very much use offering a workman a certain piece of land and saying, "There is a section of land for you at such-and- such a rent : Do what you like with it." He has got to build a house, and he cannot always do that. What I say is this: that, as far as the cities are concerned, at all events, I think the Government should simply build the houses, and then they ought to let them to these tenants like any other landlord. An Hon. MEMBER .- Furnish them as well ? Mr. BARCLAY .- No; I do not think that it is necessary to furnish them ; but I say this : What reason is there, if other landlords find it a very profitable thing to build houses, why the State should not do so ? An Hon. MEMBER. - The London County Council does it. Mr. BARCLAY .- Yes ; and it is done all over England. The Borough of West Ham provides a very striking case : they have an enormous number of houses which they have built and let to people. There is no earthly reason, if private people who have to pay a long price for the land find it profitable to build houses for tenants, why the State, which simply desires to allow workmen to have the use of these houses at a rent which will cover interest on the cost of the land and construction, should not do so. It seems to me that that is the way in which it will have to be carried out. I regretted to hear the honourable member for Waihemo utter what seems to me a fatal and vicious fallacy in connection with the question of fixing rent for land. The honourable member's theory was that if the land costs so much to buy, then, so long as we get from the tenant interest at 3, or 4, or 5 per cent., or whatever it might be, on the capital which was spent in purchasing the land, we ought not to ask anything more- that ought to be sufficient. Now, I say this is a fatal and vicious principle, because it has the same effect as the lease-in-perpetuity system. If the capital value of the land always will be what it is now-if it did not increase at all-it is true there might be no objection to that principle; but, if the value of the land in- creases, of course it is a false basis on which to fix the rent. An Hon. MEMBER .- What clause of the Bill are you dealing with ? Mr. BARCLAY .- I am not aware what par- ticular clause in the Bill the honourable member for Waihemo was referring to, but as he gave utterance unchecked to this vicious fallacy I consider it my duty to refute it in the most thorough manner possible. If the capital value of land increases, I say that the basis of rent ought to be the productive value of the land, 