name of " Albert," which I inherit from my ever- to-be-lamented, great, and wise father, who, by universal consent, is, I think, deservedly known by the name of " Albert the Good," and I desire that his name should stand alone. "'In conclusion, I trust to Parliament and the nation to support me in the arduous duties which now devolve upon me by inheritance, and to which I am determined to devote my whole strength during the remainder of my life.' "The Governor is fully assured that the House of Representatives shares in the deep sorrow which has befallen His Majesty and the Empire by the lamented death of His Majesty's mother, the late Queen, who, through the sixty-four years of her reign-the longest and most bene- ficent in the history of our race-endeared her- self to her people by her manifold excellences and virtues. " The Governor is also assured that the mem- bers of the House of Representatives will testify their loyalty to the Throne and person of His Most Gracious Majesty by taking the oath of allegiance before entering upon the ordinary business of the country. This has already been done by Mr. Speaker. " Government House, Wellington, 1st July, 1901." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Mr. Speaker, I rise to move, That a respectful address be pre- sented to His Majesty, to assure His Majesty that this House deeply laments the death of our late Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, whose name and reign will ever be held in lasting remembrance by Her late Majesty's https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 sorrowing and loving subjects. This House respectfully begs to submit to His Majesty its congratulations on his accession to the Throne, and assures His Majesty of the House's loyal http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero attachment to his person, and desires to pray for His Majesty the glory of a reign to be dis- tinguished by peace, prosperity, and a general advance in the social and economic conditions of his subjects. Sir, when the sad intelligence reached the colonies of the death of our good and gracious Queen Victoria, of blessed memory, a wail of grief went forth not only from her be- reaved subjects, but also, I would say, from the civilised world. Sir, we, the bereaved sons of a departed mother -- for New Zealand was the first colony established during her reign, and as a colony it has prospered much during that reign - and as true, loyal, and loving subjects, have felt keenly the loss sustained. Sir, although our good and gracious Queen has passed away -her remains lie in Frogmore, and her terres- trial throne has been surrendered she has gone where all will be mercifully and wisely judged ; and we feel that it is only a temporary surrender, and that she will be awarded a crown of glory, and her place will be amongst the blessed. Sir, during her reign great advantages arose to mankind, and to depict her spotless life and character, and her many virtues, would be almost like attempting to paint the rata-flower. or the beautiful and pure white flower of Kumara, or the lily of the valley. Deeds, not words, redound to the memory of our good and gracious sovereign, whose irrepar- able loss we mourn. One and all must ad- mit that mankind itself profited greatly during that beneficent reign. When, Sir, we look at the conditions existing sixty-four years ago and the conditions now obtaining we must admit that there is a better condition of man- kind, that good has been inspired, and that the best wishes of those having only at heart the benefit of their fellow-men have been in the fullest granted. Under these circumstances, Sir, we, the members of this House, join in offering condolences to His Majesty and to the Royal Family, and we join with others of the nation in that grief, and that sorrow, and that irreparable loss which we have been called upon to bear. As Empress, Queen, wife, mother, and widow our late good and gracious Majesty Queen Victoria has shown an example to the world. It was not altogether as a ruler that the brightness and brilliancy of her reign is so appa- rent, but it was in her many virtues, and in her great fortitude, and in her every endeavour to promote the well-being and happiness of those over whom she ruled. Laying apart, then, that credit to her as a monarch-and be it said here that, as monarch, she stands pre-eminent, holding almost first place in the world-when you realise the fact that she was a woman, I say all the greater tribute to her blessed memory. Sir, we are not alone. We are joining in a general regret at the death of our blessed Sovereign. Hers might be said to be a reign of peace, and we all deplore that at the very end the clang of war, with its sorrows, its anguish, and its difficulties, obtained. But we must not forget this: that the honour of our nation was ever the great care of that ruler who has passed away; and much as we regret the condition of affairs at the end still we can only say that, though gone from us, her memory will ever be revered. and wherever the English language is spoken, wherever her good works have been known, those of the future, as well as of the present, will join in paying that tribute to her good works and to her memory which they so well and worthily deserve. Sir, whilst moving this resolution on the death of our beloved Sovereign, it would be well that we should offer to His Majesty Edward the Seventh our loyal and cordial greetings on his acces- sion to the Throne. The worthy son of a good mother, we can, I say without hesitation, ex- pect that the reign of His Majesty will be cha- racterized by a completion of the works so well begun in the reign of Her late Majesty Victoria. That the commencement has been all that could be desired I think is conveyed in the words which you have read in the message to-day. Under the most trying, sad, and painful cir- cumstances, our King first speaks to his people thus :- "My first and melancholy duty is to announce to you the death of my beloved mother, the Queen, and I know how deeply you, the whole nation, and I think I may say the whole world, sympathize with me in the irreparable loss we have all sustained. " I need hardly say that my constant endea- vour will be always to walk in her footsteps. 