the huge number of applicants for each section, / city. It would be far better for his future and the fact that land is being sold to private buyers at higher prices than the Government will give, all goes to prove that land is being taken by the Government at less than its actual selling-value, and that dummies who are putting in claims for land are not desirous of helping some other person, but wish to derive a direct pecuniary benefit themselves ; that is to say, the person who succeeds in drawing a good section can make a profit on it of $200, $300, or $400 in less than no time. An Hon. MEMBER. That has been done. Captain RUSSELL .- It is done continually. Now, why should people not be allowed to fix by tender, or any way you choose, the price they will give for the lease of the land ? I am told that the public auction might be too much for the unbalanced brains of the men who are supposed to want to go upon the land ; but I would ask why should these men be regarded as brainless? They are generally men who are well able to take care of their own interests. Ifa system of tender were initiated, there would be no ground for the allegation that they had given more than the land was worth. They would sit quietly in their rooms and draw up a tender in accordance with what they believed to be a fair price for the land, and if that were the principle acted upon you would not find the great number of applicants there now is for every piece of land submitted to the ballot. Clause 6 of the Bill deals with the preventing of evasion of the Act. I sympathise with the Right Hon. the Premier in wishing that there should be a pro- vision to prevent an evasion of the Act, but at https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the same time, let us treat everybody fairly. This section practically says that there shall be no dealing with the land by the hitherto owner after negotiations have been commenced by . the Government for the purchase of the land. Sir. I think we ought to fix the precise time at which negotiations commenced. The Act provides that the time shall be fixed by the Governor in Council. Well, the Governor in Council is a Minister, and I dislike allowing anything to be done by a Minister when it might be fixed by statute. Mr. SEDDON .- I am quite prepared to say it should be fixed as the time when the notice is sent. Captain RUSSELL. - Well, however that may be, I think there should be no room for question as to the time when the negotiations commenced. Then, I was much interested in the kind interest the Premier takes in our married men. The married man undoubtedly has heavy responsibilities, and it may be right we should' do everything to facilitate his chances of advancement. I see no reason myself why a single man should not go away into the back blocks and carve out of the wilderness a home for himself and his future wife, while everything is done to facilitate the opportunities of the married men. The single man may go out into the back blocks and put up with a little roughness. He may do without the theatres and amusements of towns, and the comforts and conveniences of life in a large success, and far better for the country if he went " up country." Mr. HOGG .- The future wife may not go out there. Captain RUSSEI L .- I am quite convinced that if my honourable friend, the member for Masterton, were to go to the most remote part of New Zealand, and wanted a wife, he would get one to accompany him there. Now, Sir, what I do object to in the clause is the usual provision that is put into every Bill we have to deal with, and that is the special reservation in favour of the Minister. The married man is to have the advantage so long as there is no friend of the Minister to put in. Under this clause there is power reserved to the Minister to favour the single man if he chooses. Such power ought not to be at the discretion of any Minister. I just want to return for a moment to the question of the evasion of the Act. The Right Hon. the Premier told us of a case which he has known, and I think illustrated his argument by a particular instance. Mr. SEDDON .- No, it was a supposititious case. Captain RUSSELL .-- Well, several years ago, when the original Land for Settlements Bill was before the House, I moved an amendment, and I shall give notice of that amendment to be dealt with when we go into Committee. It is upon the very ground of the instance that the Premier has brought under the notice of tho House, and is one which I think must com- mend itself to honourable members. I do not think it was a supposititious case. Iunderstood the Right Hon. the Premier to tell us of the case of a man who had not divided his land amongst his children, but who, when it was proposed to take the land under the Land for Settlements Act, immediately proceeded to sub- divide the property amongst his family. Mr. SEDDON .- That is not the particular case, but is a case under the workmen's homes clause. Captain RUSSELL .- I suppose we shall be told that a man who is frugal and thrifty, who has a natural love for his children, and who de- sires to make provision for them. is a public sinner ; but, for my own part, I think that to provide for his children is the first duty of a man, and that the natural love of offspring is a sentiment which, common to most, does honour to any one. Sir, I moved this amendment some vears ago, and I intend to move it again now. It is as follows :-- "Where an owner of land has children born in lawful wedlock, the areas limited by subsec- tions (two) and (three) of clause twelve of . The Land for Settlements Consolidation Act. 1900,' shall be increased as follows, that is to say : Of first-class land, an additional area of five hundred acres for each such child ; of second- class land, an additional area of a thousand acres for each such child ; and of pastoral land, an additional area of two thousand acres for each such child." These areas and limits are the areas and limits provided for Crown lands under the Act 