received one shilling per cent., because I think that the nature of their calling is such that they should be well recompensed for their labour. Why, Sir, those men, when they kiss good-bye to their wives and children on leaving home to go to their labour, feel that it is only by a merciful Providence that they may see them again. Look at the lamentable sight at Kai- tangata, and later on at the Brunner Mine, where sixty poor men were lying round the pit mouth dead, leaving about sixty families un- provided for. My sympathies go out to the coal-miners above all other classes, because the nature of their employment is such that the risks they run should be considered, and they should be well rewarded. Then, if the coal- miner does not profit and the mine-owner does not profit, who does profit by the high price of coal? Is it the ship - owners ? Is it the middle - man ? I think, Sir, if this Commis- sion which has been appointed can show that there is room for increasing the col- liers' wages, after allowing a reasonable profit to those who invest their capital in coal- mines, it should be done. As it is likely that some provision will be made to regulate the working of the coal-mines, I will refrain from further commenting on this matter. Let me now, Sir, in passing, congratulate this Parlia- ment and the country generally upon the suc- cess of the penny postage, which I am sure was a step in the right direction. I think Sir Joseph Ward deserves great credit for intro- ducing such a measure and passing it into law. It is to be regretted that the federated colonies https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of Australia have not seen fit to admit our letters unless surcharged, while foreign nations freely admit our letters without surcharge. But, now that it is recognised we take a lead in pro- gressive legislation, I trust that the federated colonies of Australia will shortly see that it is to the advantage of the mass of their people to have not only the penny postage themselves, but to admit New Zealand's penny letters into their colonies. I am very much pleased to learn that the traffic on our railways is still increasing, and that the Government intend to have their locomotives and rolling-stock constructed in the colony. I think that it is quite right to encourage our own workmen, and to induce skilled artisans to come to the colony and construct these necessary appliances. We should be able to manufacture our loco- motives ourselves, and I am quite sure that the construction of locomotives and other rolling- stock is quite within the compass of the people of the colony at the present time. But what pleases me most is to find from His Excellency's Speech that the Government intend to bring forward a scheme to provide for the aged infirm, and people who by accident are prevented from following their occupation. That is to be done in the case of the Railway Department, and also in the Civil Service generally, and I think it is a measure which will commend itself to both rich and poor in this colony. After a life hard spent in the Government service, surely, if the income of our Civil servants is not suffi- cient to enable them to put something by for their future years, it is our duty to see that they have sufficient to live upon when they are aged and infirm, and I think that the Government will be complimented in bring- ing forward such a measure. I intend now to mention the lamentable cases that have taken place recently in connection with fires. I think that every care should be taken to provide escapes not only for hotels, but for boarding- houses, and I regard it as rather a pity that such care has not been taken in the past. I see that nightwatchmen are to be insisted upon in future by the Government, and that is a very necessary provision ; but let us have proper watchmen, and let us have "tell-tales" to check the performance of the duties of the watchmen. It is all very well to keep a man at work in a hotel part of the day and all night cleaning boots and doing other work. I ask, How can a man keep his watch and discharge such duties? The chances are that he falls asleep, and the fire-bell is probably the first thing that wakens him. Something should be done in this direction ; and, while it will redound to the credit of the Government if such a measure is passed, it will not impose any great hardship on hotelkeepers. Let it be done, I say, even if we have to give the hotelkeepers a concession of some other kind. I have spoken on the subject of coal, and I will now briefly refer to the dredging industry. Dredging has been a complete success in Otago, and I feel confident it will be successful on the West Coast. Most of the dredges at work on the West Coast are really paying much above working-expenses, and, when the blunders in the way of weak ma- chinery and short ladders, which do not permit the buckets to reach the bottom of the rivers, are corrected, I have no doubt that the dredges will pay excellently all those who have put their money into them. In the meantime gold-dredging ought to be nursed, and every facility given to develop the industry. I am pleased also to learn, in connection with the dredging industry, that the Government intend to bring in a Bill compelling directors to pay their calls as well as shareholders, and that they will be proceeded against if they do not. It is very fine for a director holding a thousand shares to clamour at the outside shareholders, holding perhaps fifty to five hundred shares, to pay calls when they do not pay themselves. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is not so. The Hon. Mr. KERR .- I have heard in- stances of it having been done. There are several other matters referred to in His Excel- lency's Speech which doubtless will be atten- tively considered and debated in Parliament, and therefore I will not detain this Council by making any further remarks on His Excel- lency's Speech. However, Sir, I hope you will allow me to refer to one matter which gave me, and, I have no doubt, all the other members of the Council, extreme pleasure, and that was the knighthood of yourself. I think you have well merited that honour, and I trust you will live long to wear it. I also congratulate my friend the Hon. Mr. Walker on having C.M.G. placed after his name, and I also congratulate Sir 