change in regard to that. But, so far as the personnel if the Ministry is concerned, I feel satisfied the House will work better under a Government absolutely of its own choosing than under one man plus the Ministers that he may happen to associate with himself. Another object of the Bill is this : that we may be able to change one Minister without being compelled to turn out the whole of the Govern- ment. Is it reasonable that in order to get rid of one Minister you should have to get rid of the whole Ministry ? If a man wants to get rid of his cook, does he dismiss all his house- maids and other servants at the same time ? The thing is absurd ; and the sooner we come to a more reasonable state of things, I think, the better. This Bill, if passed, will enable that to he done. I have already referred to the minor clause which will enable Ministers to take charge of measures in either House, upon which, I think, there is no difference of opinion. I will now address myself to some of the possible objections. First of all, the objection is raised : Have you power to effect the reform ? Most clearly we have, for in the Queen's Letters Patent constituting the office of Governor special provision is made to enable such a Bill as this to pass. Article 6 says : " There shall be an Executive Council for the colony, and the said Council shall consist of such persons as are now or may at any time be members thereof in accordance with any law enacted by the Legis- lature of the colony, and of such other persons as the Governor shall from time to time, in our name and on our behalf, but subject to any law as aforesaid, appoint under the Public Seal of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the colony to be members of our said Executive Council." So that the Imperial Parliament, in giving us our Constitution, has specifically given us the power to settle the way in which we shall appoint our Ministers. The next objection that is urged is this : "Oh, you would get a set of Ministers who would not act together." I have already answered that, because I have shown that when the names come out of the ballot the Ministers elected can agree to accept office or not. and if any one or more declines to work with the rest they have only to refuse, and others will be elected in their place ; so that you do get a consensus of opinion amongst Ministers. Then, there is the objection that you would not get so homogeneous a Ministry as we now have. I ask honourable members to say whether it would not be easily possible to get as homogeneous a team as we now have. I certainly think it would not be a very difficult thing. Then, there is the objection that what is good enough for the Mother-country is good enough for us. If you are going to push that argument to its logical conclusion we should not have female franchise, old-age pensions, or con- ciliation and arbitration laws. So that simply to state that fact is to explode the whole of the argument, and show that there is absolutely nothing in it. Then, the next objection is that great things have been achieved under the system of party government ; therefore it is argued that as great things cannot be achieved under a different system. Now, Sir, that is begging the whole case. It is admitted that great things have been achieved while the system of party government has been in force, and there are those who will argue that such measures as the abolition of slavery and the repeal of the corn-laws could not have been carried except under the system of party organization ; but it can be shown that it was the existence of party that prevented these very measures from passing for years, and that if such legislation as this Bill had been in force these reforms could have been obtained very much earlier. It is the obstruction of the opposing party that has for years and years prevented reforms being carried into effect. Reforms are largely the result of social com- bination and discussion and agitation outside Parliament, and it is only then, when public opinion has been thus ripened, that legisla- tive measures become possible. It is not true, Sir, that party government is entitled to the credit of reforms effected. It may may be as well argued that it is responsible for the delay in their attainment. The claim for the party system, that it is entitled to the credit for these reforms, is the old " post hoc ergo provter hoc " fallacy, and is about as logical as to attribute the formation of the Goodwin Sands to the influence of Tenterden steeple. The position was very well put by the Dunedin Evening Star in a few lines, which I will read :- "No doubt vital and most beneficial reforms have been effected under that system, but they owed nothing either to its principle or practice. As a matter of fact, the liberty of the people has only really developed in the Old Country since party government was established; but the development has been retarded rather than for- warded by the evils and mischief incident there- upon." Evon, Sir, were it true that the reforms that have been effected were due to the party system, it by no means follows that that system cannot be improved upon, and still greater reforms obtained. Indeed, the presump- tion is that different times will require different systems, just as modern arms and modern tactics are needed in modern warfare. This is not only a presumption, it has actually passed into the region of fact. Let any one look into the condition of things in the House of Com- mons, and let him tell me whether in England there are not signs that the two-party system is breaking down, if it has not broken down already. What has occurred in this Chamber since you, Sir, took your seat at the opening of the present session. Has it not been admitted that an organized Opposition is impossible ? If that is the case, has not the party system absolutely broken down in this colony ? Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Major STEWARD .- It seems to me that it has. Then, what is the sum of the argument ? The present system admittedly is fraught with evils which require a remedy. Why not seek a remedy? Why not seek the establishment of an up-to-date method of parliamentary govern- ment ? The method proposed in the Bill is by 