The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER thought he | past. Of course, the difficulties raised that might be excused if he said a word or two with reference to the question of order raised by the Hon. Colonel Pitt. Judging from the practice of the other House, certainly a debate on a motion for adjournment, as had been ruled, was com- pletely out of order; but, the subject having been mentioned during the afternoon in a question, he thought they might perfectly well follow the precedent in the other House which allowed of such discussion. He thought, there- fore, that the discussion was perfectly regular. With regard to the check system, it seemed very unfortunate, if it was the great boon some of them knew it to be in countries where it flourished, that it should be so little taken advantage of by the inhabitants of this country. If it had been otherwise, he felt certain that the railway officials would have been encou- raged to carry the system on to perfection. How many honourable members were there who knew that there was a page of regulations in the Railway Guide affecting this matter ? And, again, only one gentleman had stated that he had seen a notice in a railway-station draw- ing attention to it. Other honourable gentle- men were prepared to say they had never seen such a notice. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not one in ten. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that was exactly so, and it showed how little appreciated the system was-how little anxiety there was in this country for a decent check system for the conveyance of luggage being adopted. He remem- bered this system in operation in 1867 in a very insignificant State in South America, and there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the system was carried to perfection. As he had pointed out in his answer to the question, the difficulty was that the Railway Department did not carry the luggage across the sea. When the luggage came to a seaport there was a break in the chain-the railway responsibility ceased and some other responsibility came in. This was got over in other countries by putting the matter into the hands of transport companies, who took the luggage from the room in which a man was living and placed it in the room in another hotel in some other part of the country that he was going to, and all the traveller had to do was to receive and to give up his brass checks, the whole responsibility being taken over from him. It only needed that further encouragement should be given by the public to the Railway Department, and then the department would go a good deal further than it had done, and would, no doubt, make arrangements with the steam- ship companies to carry the luggage from point to point instead, of as now, merely from station to station. In order that it might be any- thing like a complete system it was necessary that it should go from point to point, whether water intervened or not, and he believed the Railway Department would be only too glad to arrange for this. At all events, he could see no reason why we should not have as complete a check system for luggage in this country as in any other country ; but, if it was complete, it ought to be patronised by a great many more people than it had been patronised by in the afternoon were of an exceptional character. He did not know whether the official the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton had had a difficulty with had "got out of the wrong side of his bed " on the morn- ing in question, but he had never met a railway official who, under any conditions, had so mis- behaved himself to any one. He trusted this was very exceptional, and that it might be re- garded in that way. His invariable experience for all the years we had had railways in New Zealand was that the officials were universally courteous, not only to himself but to all and sundry. He had seen the most wonderful patience exhibited by railway porters and by guards to people who really were very trying, and might almost have been turned out of the carriage for misbehaviour, but still the patience of the officials came in and rounded the difficult corners to the satisfaction of all concerned. He did not think there was any class of officials who should be held in higher respect in this country than the railway officials for their universal courtesy and tact, especially if they recognised that in this country they had not the temptation of differentiating between man and man. In other countries they received tips, but here that was not done. In other countries the railway officials would attend to one man more than another, because they said it was likely they would get a tip out of one; but here that was not the rule, and he thought it was very much to the credit of the service and to the honour of the railway servants that it was not done. As regarded reciprocity of parliamentary railway- passes between this colony and Australia, it was very much to be regretted that there had not been complete reciprocity in this matter. He would mention it to his colleagues. Certainly when Sir Joseph Ward and he were in Australia lately they thought they had put that matter on a perfectly good footing with the authorities in New South Wales. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- This has hap- pened since. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that the matter would be mentioned to the Minister for Railways, and every effort would be made to get it settled in a way that would be reciprocal and satisfactory. It was not a fair thing for a mem- ber of Parliament to be put in such a position that he might claim a right that would be denied to him, and therefore the matter should be put straight and all difficulty on that point obviated. As regarded the difficulty raised by the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith, he was not at all sure that, under any system, once luggage was re- ceived and checked an official could break the seal during the journey. The Hon. Mr. LEE SMITH said his luggage was not sealed. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that, at any rate, he was sure the desire of his colleague was to make the check system and every other point connected with the railways as convenient to every one as possible. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at half-past three o'clock p.m. 