does not like to say anything harsh in regard to a Minister who makes his first appearance in that capacity in this House, but I cannot help saying that the speech just delivered is an indi- cation of the wisdom of the Premier in selecting his colleagues from time to time from those gentlemen who have served as Whips, for this evening we have had a speech given us as nearly like a stonewalling speech as ever I have heard. The figures the honourable gentleman gave us were those he gave to his constituents a few weeks ago in a speech he delivered at Blenheim, and I have looked for the return to which he referred as being laid on the table of the House in regard to the advances to settlers- An Hon. MEMBER .- Laid on the floor. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - My honourable friend said it was laid on the floor. I do not know what he means, and I have not yet heard that the floor of the House is a place for the reception of parliamentary papers. Captain Russell, in the course of the speech he de- livered, referred to the question of Liberals and Conservatives, and said that the differences had disappeared. I think they have to a very large extent. The other day a newspaper published in South Canterbury, of which a member of the Legislative Council is proprietor and editor-I refer to the Hon. Jeremiah Matthew Twomey, who, I believe, is in sufficiently close touch with the Ministry to be able to say what is the actual position-stated in a leading article that the Premier had won over the Conservatives to his side. That is the position that has taken place : that the Premier has now won over the gentlemen who have been leaders of the Conservatives,-in the country if not in the House, -to his side ; and it has not been difficult during the late Royal tour http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero to see evidence of this. The gentlemen in Christchurch who were selected for the high and honourable position of Royal Commis. sioners to arrange for the reception of the Duke and Duchess of York, were they drawn from the Liberal party? There was Mr. G. G. Stead, managing director of the Christchurch Press ; Mr. Wigram, the largest proprietor of the Lyttelton Times, who has always been iden- tified with the Conservative party; and Mr. Robert Allen, a gentleman who has always been understood to be Conservative in his leanings. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, no. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I think I may be considered to know something about Christ- church. Then I come to a State function given by the Government to the returned troopers and veterans: and not one of the members of Parliament for Canterbury was honoured by an invitation to that function ; the only member of Parliament present was the honourable member for Napier, who was a visitor to Christchurch, whilst the local guests who were there were, I believe, every one of them, leading members of the Conservative party. I am stating what is a fact. If those gentlemen were asked because they were con- nected with the executive of the War Fund, then I reply-I will give the honourable gentle- cause I do not wish to be unfair-if that is the case, then I say there were members of Parlia- ment who did whatever they were able to do in assisting the fund in their constituencies, and, as the function was not one for which the Pre- mier was going to pay out of his own pocket, but was one for which the country was going to pay, I certainly think that the representatives of the people in the Province of Canterbury had as much right to be asked to meet the returned troopers and veterans as had the gentlemen who formed the executive of the War Fund. Having said that, I do not wish to refer to the matter further. I wish to congratulate the colony and the Government on the continued prosperity, which is unquestioned ; and also re- garding the establishment of the penny post I heartily indorse the congratulations which have been tendered. I also congratulate the Govern- ment upon the success attending the functions in connection with the reception of the Duke and Duchess of York. Those functions were well and worthily carried out, and I believe that the colony will receive nothing but good from the expenditure in that respect. Of the policy which is outlined, however, in the Speech from the Throne there is comparatively little to be said. It is practically colourless, and emphasizes in a marked degree more than ever the exhaustion of the initiative of the Ministry that now occupies the Treasury benches. The Pacific-cable proposal is a matter of history of some year or two past. State coal-mines, now taken up, have always been opposed by the honourable gentlemen who are on those benches. Last session, in this House, a quota- tion was given from a speech by the Minister of Mines on the West Coast, in which he declared against State coal-mines. The Premier also, during last recess, set up a Royal Commission to inquire into the coal question ; but before that Commission had the opportunity of send. ing in a report or coming to a conclusion the honourable gentleman anticipated their report, in case it might be said that they had given the Government a policy by recommending the establishment of State mines. Then, with regard to railway pensions, that is no new thing, for it has been advocated on the floor of the House for years. Local government has been a standing dish in this House for a number of years past, and at last we have the Govern- ment bringing down a modified proposal of the betterment principle, which the Premier and the Minister for Public Works, a little over twelve months ago, at the turning of the first sod of the Cheviot Railway, opposed. The question was raised at that function by the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) and myself, and was strongly opposed by the two Ministers present. There were other mem. bers present on that occasion, and they will bear me out in the accuracy of what I am saying. Yet to-day, under pressure-when they see that the country insists upon something of that kind being done - the Ministry come for- ward and claim credit for initiating the policy ; whereas, as regards both the betterment prin- 