soon as a union has entered into a discussion | place a man there with good common-sense with the employer- Mr. J. ALLEN .- It may not enter into a discussion. Mr. MILLAR .- Well, I will tell you what takes place, that which goes on at the present time, and I should advise-if we are to take the Waihi dispute as an example-I would say to every trade-union, " Never go near your em- ployer at all till the award is given, and then no man can be ' sacked.'" I do not think the honourable member would say that is right, or is likely to engender a right feeling between employer and employed. Is it not far better for the two to meet before they go near the Court ? That is what we are trying to do. Hitherto where this has been done the men have been dismissed before they ever took a formal part, and that is what we are trying to avoid, and to say that from the first approach on the part of either employer or employed till the matter is finally settled no man shall be dismissed on account of any dispute. That is all there is in the whole Bill. I have heard some honourable member saying that this Bill has . created disputes. Honourable members jump to this conclusion, because they see day after day from one part of the colony to the other certain disputes before the Conciliation Board, and they therefore conclude that disputes have increased. What is the real truth ? Under this Act men have been able to organize who formerly dare not organize. They have taken advantage of the Act and organized, and before they can get any settlement with their em- plovers they have first to take the matter to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the Board and get an agreement entered up. It is simply the new unions which have been formed from day to day all over the colony in trades that never organized before which come before the Board for a settlement. Will honour- able members pick out for me how many cases have been before the Court from labour-unions who entered into combination three or four years ago? They will find they have been 12.30. very few. There have been many cases in which there have been breaches of the award, and I am sorry to say that there are some em- plovers who are doing their best to foster a feeling against the Act throughout the colony. They are very few, I admit, but there are two or three who, at the instigation of one or two lawyers, are trying to prejudice this Act in the eyes of the people : but it will be long before the people see its disadvantages. It is now quoted all over the world that we have been able by means of this Act to settle our differ- ences without any trouble, and I certainly think we ought not to do anything that will in any shape or form prejudice or injure the working of the Act. It may from time to time be found necessary to amend it. and the point raised by the honourable member for Parnell may have to be considered, although personally I do not confess it, because my objection is this : that should experts be appointed for every dispute, you would have a bitter party feeling imported into the matter, and you might just as well leave it to the Judge alone. If you who can analyse arguments brought before him, you would have a better chance of getting a fair decision than by having an expert, because these men, if they require assistance, have the power to call in experts in every variety of trade, and any one trade can therefore have the advantage of expert knowledge, and you would then have a man who has no strong feelings in regard to any particular matter that came before him, and the judgment would not be that of a man who is a strong partisan on one side or the other. I think the member for Waitemata made some reference to the shipping laws of this country, and I think, if I understood rightly what he said, he blamed our shipping laws for being the cause of our vessels being manned by foreigners. An Hon. MEMBER .- The member for Eden. Mr. MILLAR .- I did not hear the member for Eden state that. But if the honourable gentleman wishes to find out how the English mercantile marine stood, let him read Brassey of 1884,-which was long before there were any shipping laws in this country as to manning of ships,- and he will there find that about 75 per cent. of the British mercantile marine was manned by foreigners at that time : and I guarantee this : that in New Zealand at the present time you will find a larger percentage of British-born subjects following the sea than you will find in any part of Australasia or other British colonies, because under our laws here, and under the wage paid here and in Australia - which is a fair wage-men will go to sea. and, to-morrow, if you like to offer sufficient inducement in the matter of pay to our colonial youths you will find that they will take to the sea ; but no young colonial will go to sea under the conditions existing at the present time. They can do a great deal better by remaining ashore under present cir- cumstances than by going to sea. There is nothing, however, in our laws to prevent the youths of this colony going to sea. A vessel can go round the world from one end to the other full of boys, provided she carries a com- plement of practical seamen to guarantee the safety of the ship and passengers. Our law goes further. It compels boys to be carried : it compels ordinary seamen to be carried. Sir. the honourable gentleman would like to see this, I believe : a 1,000-ton ship going to sea with nothing but boys at about 5s. a month. He would not care twopence for the ship or for the freight she carried, because she would be covered to the full value, and the whole ship could go down with everything on board. Mr. MONK .- 'They did not go down before these laws came into force. Mr. MILLAR .- Will the honourable gentle- man show me whether there was any large pro- portion of boys before these laws came into force? If any honourable gentleman makes an assertion in this House where he can be con- tradicted let him give proof of his assertion. Let the honourable gentleman show me the proportion of boys carried twenty years ago on this coast. I say the shipping laws only came 