class of the community, but from the discus- sions we have listened to in this House one would be inclined to think that the contrary was the case. I say what is intended in that clause is positively dishonest, and I shall feel compelled at the Committee stage to move in the direction of striking it out. A great deal has been said about the success of the Land for Settlements Act, and I am willing to admit that the Land for Settlements Act has been a success, but we ought to remember at the same time that several of the estates pur- chased under that Act have been the reverse of successful. There was the famous Pomahaka Estate. If any one will look at the Land Settlement Report of last year he will see that that estate cost the colony $22,981, and the amount received from rents last year was $192 17s. - less than 1 per cent .- though we are pay- ing 4 per cent. on the Pomahaka debentures. Then, there was another estate also referred to in the Lands Report, the Starborough Estate. I think the Minister of Customs knows some- thing about it. It cost $106,000 odd, and last year we received a rental of $2,378 from it, a little over 2 per cent. In pointing this out I admit that, taking one estate with another, the colony is not making any loss, but that some of those estates are not so successful as they have been represented to be. So far as the compul- sory clauses are concerned, I have never approved of compulsorily taking land under the Land for Settlements Act, and I have not changed my mind on that point. I agree with the member for Napier that no land should be taken com- pulsorily for the purposes of land-settlement https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 unless it can be shown that it is absolutely impossible to acquire land in that particular district in any other way. It has only been necessary, so far as I can remember, to take two estates under the compulsory sections of the Land for Settlements Act -- namely, the Hatuma and Ardgowan Estates-and probably it would have been as well for the colony if those estates had never been interfered with, because there has been a lot of friction and trouble in connection therewith. I think it would be better, as I have said, to adopt the suggestion of the member for Napier, or else to make a provision that no estate shall be taken compulsorily without the consent of Parlia- ment. I think that would be a check on the Government of the day, and it would probably prevent hardships and injustice being done to landowners. Now I come to what has been said with regard to Crown lands, and I want to indorse what was stated by the member for Waikato-namely, that the Goverment re- quire to infuse a great deal more energy into the settlement of Crown lands in the Auck- land Provincial District particularly, and in the North Island generally. The Minister for Public Works told us that the lands are being opened up as fast as an army of surveyors can open them. I would like to know how many men there are in this army, and how many thousands of acres have been opened up in the King-country, say, during the last twelve months. I venture to say very few. An Hon. MEMBER .- Twenty thousand acres. Mr. MASSEY .- What are twenty thousand acres compared with the large areas Iving idle and unoccupied ? Other districts in the colony say they have suffered from land monopol. but the people in the Auckland District are also suffering from land monopoly in a most aggravated form. We have got three kinds of monopolists : there is first the Government. then there are the Natives, and then there is the Assets Board, of which the Premier is a mem- ber. Between those three there are hundreds of thousands of acres of good land, much of it fit for close settlement, lying waste and produe- ing little or nothing, while there are plenty of settlers ready and willing to take it up. I xt the Government ought to be more energetic in this matter, and I say no Government is doing its duty which does not open up those lands de the earliest possible date. In conclusion. I wish to say this: that, whether in connection with land acquired under the Land for Settlement- Act or Crown lands, any legitimate and genuine settlement will always have my sympathy and support. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine). I shall not de. tain the House more than a few minutes. but i do not wish to give a silent vote on this Bill. I would first support the suggestion put forward by the honourable member for Masterton, that clause 50 in the principal Act should also atges to the country as well as workmen's bom -. and specially those with small sections. I da not see why those with small sections from twenty to fifty acres should not be allowed :" acquire a loan of $50 as well as those who take up a section for a worker's home near the city. I think this should apply specially to all th w who are small holders. Then. in regard to using the tender system in the place of the ballot for the disposal of land, the ballot st. tem may not be all that is desired. but the tender system would, in my opinion. two in- finitely worse. The tender system would wie the land to those with most money and why could afford to pay the most rent. In sony cases worse than dummvism might take på +. For instance, some would give high prices and crop the heart out of the land for two or three years, then leave it, and it would be worth .... thing to the tenant who follows. That is , thing we must guard against. I believe it. Act, as a whole, has been well studied out. .... i the amendments that have been suggested 3 night by various members who have could not be carried out and work as well as 'ir present Land for Settlements Act does. The honourable member for Christchurch City . M :. Ell suggested that land should be acquired ir the workers who dwell in our country town .- ships. I have advocated the same thing - ago. These people have settled in the court !. towns in prosperous days, and have perhai- bought a half-acre section, and have Te! nice homes, and they do not care to leave them: and probably they have not saved suthe! :: money to take a small farm under the Land :x Settlements Act, and would be glad of a snad allotment. The residential restriction shond 