ability of training our lads for the sea, he did not know if it was absolutely necessary that this should be done on a training-ship. He did not profess to know much about the subject referred to, but it seemed to him, as a non-seafaring man, that a great deal of what was necessary to be taught could be taught in some place contiguous to the sea, not per- haps so effectively, but with much greater economy than by the maintenance of a train- ing-ship. The main thing was to give lads the opportunity of following a seafaring life, and he thought that should be done, whether by means of a training-ship or a training-school on land. He would bring the matter before his colleague the Minister of Education, with the view of coming to some decision before the close of the session. HANSARD REPRINTS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Upon whose authority the Go- vernment Printer last session refused to issue reprints of members' speeches from Hansard ? He took it that the authority was the authority of the Government. The honourable gentleman would, of course, tell him whether he was right or wrong in that assumption. He said, with great deliberation and without hesitation, that such an act on the part of the Government was an unwarrantable attack on the rights and privileges of members of the House, and he would go further and say that he thought the time had come when the House ought to assert itself in no unmistakable manner, and should defend its rights and privileges in a manner so https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 forcible as to leave no room for misunderstand- ing. He remembered the time in that House when members had the privilege of using the Hansard type for the printing of their speeches in the newspapers of this city before the speech had appeared in Hansard. That was one of the privileges of members of Parliament in those days. Then, for years past-he could not tell how many-members had had the unques- tioned right to reprint their speeches at the Government Printing Office, upon payment of the actual cost of printing. No one ever dreamed of questioning that right. The Minister for Public Works, who was also the Minister in charge of the Printing Office, had endeavoured to explain what he called the legal aspect of the case, and had unearthed all the phantoms and shadows which he be- lieved were a bar to the printing and circula- tion of members' speeches from Hansard. It was passing strange that it should have remained to the honourable gentleman to make this discovery. He thought he (Mr. Fisher) might be allowed to say without presumption, as an old Pressman who had studied the law of libel, that he was as well informed on the legal aspect of the question as any lawyer who might have given the honourable gentleman a legal opinion upon the subject. He had given much attention to the law of libel. The honourable gentleman said a member rendered himsef liable to legal penalties if he published a speech : by issuing five thousand more copies of that from Hans ud, unless he published the whole debate of which the speech formed a part. Did the honourable gentleman think they had the purse of Fortunatus, or the purse of a modern Liberal Government ? How could they afford to print a whole debate, extending perhaps over a whole day, because they wished to print a single speech ? He had some knowledge of many past Governments in this country, but no Govern- ment, Conservative or Liberal-no Government, even the most Conservative-had ever attacked the rights of members in such a way before. One was instinctively prompted to ask whether this was in reality a Liberal Government. All he could say was that if they committed many more such acts they could only look for one eure, and that cure was a change of Government ; but, as this Government was likely to remain in existence for many years yet, he supposed they would have to submit to their rights and privi- leges being curtailed in this way. But the Go- vernment might rest assured that this slumber- ing discontent would develop into a feeling of They had heard a great strong resentment. deal about Sir George O'Brien and his tyranny in Fiji. Mr. SPEAKER .- The honourable member cannot refer to a former debate. He is going clearly beyond the latitude allowed in asking a question. Mr. FISHER said he had no wish to infringe the rules of debate, but he would repeat that. when a Government showed that it was pre- pared to act in this tyrannic manner, the time had arrived when the House should in the most positive manner assert that it would de- fend its rights and privileges in spite of any Government, no matter how strong that tio- vernment might be. His question referred to the refusal of the Government Printer 4.30. to issue reprints of members' speeches last session. To-day the honourable member for Ashley, Mr. Meredith, had received a note from the Government Printer telling him in most peremptory language that the right to ob- tain reprints of speeches had been taken away by the Government, and that his speech of yesterday on the Land for Settlements Bill- surely there could be no objection to a purely argumentative speech of that kind-could not be reprinted at the Government Printing Office. The honourable gentleman had said that the Government Printer had been threatened with a libel action for printing one of his (Mr. Fisher's) speeches of last session. He was himself threatened with a libel action for circu- lating that speech. What did he care for such threats? And why should the Government care ? He put his threatening letter in the tire at once. These threats were mere brutum ful. men. He would test the question further. It was that speech of his which was circulated last session which gave rise to the threat. I: appeared to have shivered the very souls of the I more timorous-the lily-hearted-members of the Government, who dreaded that they might ! be prosecuted at law for printing his speech. Now, he intended to test this question further speech of last session, and then if any oud 