LAND FOR LANDLESS NATIVES. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether progress has been made by the Survey Department in the matter of surveys of land for landless Natives in the South and Stewart Islands? Since he had been in Wellington he had received commu- nications asking what progress had been made in allocating the land to landless Natives in the Waiau and other places. He hoped the Minister would look into this matter, and give him a favourable answer. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said two surveyors had been employed on the survey of lunds for landless Natives on the west side of the Waiau River, and last month the Board which was dealing with this question subdivided and allotted two large blocks there, and the so arranged would be executed sabdivision forthwith. DUNEDIN-MOSGIEL DUPLICATE LINE. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) asked the Minister for Railways,-When he expects a commence- ment to be made with the work of duplicating the Dunedin - Mosgiel Railway ? A considerable sum was placed on the estimates for this work last year, but little of it had been expended. It was a very necessary work, and when completed would give an immense impetus to the whole district which would be served by the railway. Until the line was made, the progress of the district was really being retarded, and he trusted that immediate progress would be made with the work. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that, in order to get over the chief difficulty which presented itself originally - that was, rapid transit from Mosgiel to Dunedin-changes were made by the department in the way of having more stopping-places. That had given considerable relief, and, as a matter of fact, it had enabled the traffic to be carried on with a great deal of success. In the meantime the plans and drawings were almost completed for the carrying-out of the double line of railway, and as soon as it was possible for that work to be gone on with it would be put in hand. The survey of the land required between Dunedin and Abbotsford was in course of preparation. However, what the department was most con- corned with, and, no doubt, what the honour- able member and others wished to avoid, was the congestion that formerly existed between Dunedin and Mosgiel, and that had been over- come very successfully in the way he had indi- cated. That being the position, the depart- ment would go on with the work when it was in a position to do so. # CHARLES LILLYWHITE. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Justice, What steps he proposes to take to rehabilitate the man Charles Lilly- white, wrongfully arrested for murder, and to compensate him for the mental and physical suffering he has been subjected to? He de- sired to assure the House that in putting the question on the Order Paper he was actuated by no feeling of hostility whatever. He was only actuated by a desire to ascertain, not only for himself but for the general public, the in- tentions of the Ministry with regard to this most unfortunate man. Honourable members might recollect that in 1889 Lillywhite was the victim of a serious accident at the Parliament- ary Buildings. After Iving in the hospital for some six or eight months with both legs broken, and after a course of treatment at Rotorua, he got some light work from the Minister for Public Works, and it was while so engaged that he was arrested. He would like to take that opportunity of stating that while awaiting de- portation the Minister of Justice very cheerfully and cordially agreed in his case to mitigate the rigour of the treatment afforded to prisoners. He (Mr. Hutcheson) now wished to know what the Government intended to do to rehabilitate the man for what appeared to him to be two years' of most untoward and unprecedented ill-luck ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said that, until full particulars as to the cause of Mr. Lillywhite's discharge from custody and as to the action the Colchester police, for whom the arrest was made, had taken in the matter were received, he thought it would be premature to come to any decision. The brief cablegrams received merely stated that a large number of witnesses failed to identify the prisoner as Blatch, and that Lillywhite's brother failed at first to identify him as Lilly- white. There could, he thought, be no doubt that the man was Lillywhite, and not Blatch ; but, as he was surrendered mainly on the sworn testimony of two witnesses specially sent out for that purpose by the Colchester police, the responsibility for his detention in custody after the arrival of those witnesses in New Zealand and his subsequent conveyance to England mainly fell upon that Force. He considered the pre- sumption was that the Colchester police would, if they were satisfied that the man was not Blatch, make due reparation ; if they did not, then it would be necessary for the Government to give the matter very careful consideration, and he had no doubt they would endeavour to do everything that was fair in connection with this unfortunate individual. In the meantime it was not for them to take immediate action until they had the whole facts before them and were able to go fully into the matter. ## LAND FOR SETTLEMENT IN THE KING- COUNTRY. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Minister of Lands, When he intends to open up more land for settlement in the King - country (Rohe- Potae) ? About twelve months ago the Go- vernment opened two large blocks of land in the King-country, and the promise was made that before the end of the year another 100,000 acres would be opened. He was sorry to say that instead of that only 5.000 acres had been opened up. and for that quantity of land 15.000 applications had been put in, showing the great earth-hunger that existed in the district at the present time. He anticipated that the reply of 