make, and he could not say anything very strong against it. Therefore, not desiring to take the extreme step of giving the Bill six months, he suggests a roundabout way of putting it on the shelf, which is to be done by means of the Stock Committee. Then, the Minister of Mines got up and asked us to answer the arguments of the Minister of Lands, which I think are not very difficult to answer ; and after saying that he immediately proceeded to praise the Bill, and said it was a just measure. When we have the Minister of Mines supporting the Bill, and the Minister of Lands only half-hearted against it, it should have a fair chance of going through if the honourable member sticks to it. I hope he will. I have supported him always in the Bill, because I know what the injustice is, and because I know what my constituents and the constituents of neigh- bouring constituencies think of the Act as it is. I am quite certain, unless some reform is made, there will be a very serious time for any one who upholds the present Act. I hope something will be done-not to injure the work that is being done by the department-I do not think this will. We have had twenty years' ex- perience of the rabbit nuisance and the way we are dealing with it, and with this experience it will be safe to so alter the Act as to re- move what is a gross injustice. I am quite certain, having had these matters with us and having been dealing with them for so long a time, there is no farmer now so foolish as not to attempt to get rid of the pest. It may be some are not very keen about it, but I am https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 certain that under the amended Act they could be brought to book. I hope the honourable gentleman will stick to his Bill. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti). - I come from a district that is moderately infested with rabbits, and there is a strong objection to the Act as it is at present, and I am frequently brought into contact with the farmers and with the landowners generally. I know what I am talking about, as I have an interest myself in land in the electorate of Waihemo, and have a personal knowledge of the rabbit-pest. The Act, if amended as proposed, will not leesen the destruction of the rabbits at all, but it will certainly protect many settlers who are liable to be unduly prosecuted under it. It has been mentioned in this debate that there are not very many cases of hardship that have been brought to light on account of prosecutions under this Act. We hear of a good many cases. I know, Sir, of one case, that of Mr. McGregor, who resides on the Otago Peninsula, who was brought before the Court and heavily fined for having rabbits on his ground. There are rabbits on nearly every acre of the ground on the peninsula, but not in such numbers as to do a great deal of harm. No doubt there were some on this gentleman's land, but he only had a few acres, and he was singled out and, it was considered, wrongly summoned by an Inspector named Johnson, who, I am glad to say, is now out of the service. However good he may have been in his youth, he was then Mr. J. Allen tell a rabbit from a cat running about. was asked to bring Mr. McGregor's case before the Government, and I did so, and I endeavoured to get it inquired into, but for some reason or other the Government did not think fit to hold an inquiry. The man had to suffer and abide I should like to by the decision of the Court. point out that the interest of the settler is not to encourage these rabbits. The interest of the settler is to keep them down. One would think that all of the settlers were rabbit-farmers, and wanted to protect the rabbits. It is nothing of the sort. Even if there were no Inspectors,- which I should be sorry to see,-most of the settlers would, for their own interest, do what But in the they could to keep down the pest. case of a man who has three or four hundred acres of very poor hilly land, he could get more off that land if he encouraged the breeding of rabbits than if he ran sheep on it. The land would perhaps only carry 150 sheep, and at the price rabbits are now bought for freezing purposes he could get far more profit from his land with rabbits than if he ran sheep on it. In such cases the Inspector is invaluable. I think, however, it might be a very good idea in such cases that if a settler were allowed to securely fence in his land with a proper rabbit-proof wire-netting fence he should be free from the provisions of the Act. The Otago newspapers lately have been full of protests against the arbitrary powers that the Inspectors now have, and there is no doubt from one end of the country to the other. where rabbits exist there is a strong objection to the harshness of this particular clause in the Act giving the Inspector such power. I hope the second reading of the Bill will be carried. It is not a new Bill ; it has been brought before the House from time to time. It is a moderate amendment of the Act. The intention is simply that the arbitrary power shall be taken out of the hands of the Inspector and placed in the hands of the Magistrate, and I think that should be done. The Inspectors and agents in my part of the country, at any rate, are very fair and reasonable, and perform their difficult duties well. They feel their great responsi- bility, and I am not sure but they are more lenient under the present circumstances than they would be if their powers were not so arbitrary. Mr. LANG (Waikato). - It seems to be an extraordinary thing that the portion of the statute which this Bill is designed to amend should have been allowed to remain so long on the statute-book, and I hope the amendment will become law. The only members of the House who have spoken against this Bill-and & large number of members have spoken-are the Minister of Lands, the Minister of Justice, and the member for Hawke's Bay. Perhaps I am wrong in saying that the Minister of Justice spoke against the Bill. That honourable gentle- man, if I understand his remarks aright. ex- plained why the Minister of Lands opposed the Bill; so that actually there were only two members of the House who opposed it. and, 