taken up by one who has been brought up under such noble auspices, and who represents the traditions of the past and the hopes of the future. We are glad, too, that he has adopted a style and title which reminds us of the his- toric glories of England, connecting our present life with the annals of the past. We hope and we trust that for a long time to come he will represent as loyally as the late Queen the honour of the English race throughout the world. Sir, I am sure that this Legislature, which has sorrowed with the whole Empire on the death of the Queen, will have the same feeling of loyalty for her son and her repre- sentative as long as he lives. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- Sir, I might add a few words to what has been already so ably said by the mover and the seconder of the resolution. As an old soldier, and one who has served Her Majesty in this colony for over forty years, I think I may be able to express a few words of sympathy at the loss sustained in the death of our late Queen-mother. She was the mother of the nation. I remember when , the Crimean war broke out I was at Chat- ham, when she visited the hospital there, and showed much interest and sympathy for the wounded men who had been serving her ; and, consequent upon her close scrutiny of the hospital accommodation, she sent a letter to Lord Panmure, Minister for War, desiring that proper accommodation should be provided for her soldiers. She will always live in the me- mory of her dutiful and loving soldiers. She always sympathized in our griefs ; and widows https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 and orphans of her dead soldiers especially have read many letters penned by her own hand to those unfortunate in losing their breadwinners. I think it is only right that we should express http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero to our reigning sovereign our sympathy with His Majesty in the great loss that the country has sustained. I remember the welfare of the people at the time I was a boy, and you may say that the lot of the working-classes especially have improved in many ways during the late reign, owing to the wise legislation passed during that period. We now have laws which we may say are an example to the world. Our legislation has been an advance in many re- spects on that of other European nations and of other parts of the world. I will not say any more, but, as one who has served Her Majesty so long, I think it has been my duty on this occasion to say what I have. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI. - I trust the Council will permit me to speak on this occa- sion. As a naturalised subject of Her late Majesty, I say that during her long reign the Jewish people under the British flag, both in England and in the colonies, have received the same freedom and liberty as British-born sub- jects, and I can say, on behalf of my core- ligionists and myself, that her memory will always be revered and regarded with lasting gratitude by those who have received these benefits during her reign. Motion agreed to. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I beg to move, That the Hon. the Speaker present the address to His Excellency the Governor, respect- fully requesting him lo forward it to the Secre- tary of State for the Colonies for submission to His Majesty. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at half-past three o'clock p.m. ## HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Monday, 1st July, 1901. Opening of Session- Swearing - in of Members - Northern Maori District - Resignation of Mem- bers-Death of Queen Victoria. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. ## OPENING OF SESSION. The following message was delivered by the Acting Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod : "The Legislative Councillors, authorised by virtue of His Excellency's Commission, desire the immediate attendance of this honourable House in the Legislative Council Chamber, to hear the Commission read." Accordingly, Mr. SPEAKER, accompanied by members and preceded by the Serjeant-at- Arms, proceeded to the Legislative Council; and, the Commission having been read, re- turned. SWEARING-IN OF MEMBERS. Mr. SPEAKER said that, with respect to the oath of allegiance to King Edward VII., he had received the following letter from the Colonial Secretary :- "Colonial Secretary's Office, Wellington, 1st July, 1901. " :formula: have the honour to inform you that it is considered proper and desirable that the oath of allegiance to His Majesty the King should be administered to all members of both Houses of the General Assembly at the com- mencement of the present session, being the first session held since His Majesty's accession. " His Excellency the Governor will be pre- pared to administer the said oath of allegiance to you at Government House at noon this day, and I enclose herewith a warrant under the hand of His Excellency, authorising you to administer the said oath to members of the House of Representatives. - I have, &c., "J. G. WARD. "The Hon. Sir George Maurice O'Rorke, Kt., Speaker of the House of Representatives, Wel- lington." The enclosure was as follows :- "RANFURLY, Governor. "To all to whom these presents shall come : Greeting. "In pursuance of the authority in me vested by the Constitution Act, and of all other autho- rities me enabling in this behalf, I, Uchter 