will be required in the defence of our own instruction to the children, or are you going country. But, Sir, it must not be forgotten that great progress has been made during the last school-in which case we will have a stand- few vears in this respect. Those who had the ing army of drill - instructors? If that is pleasure of witnessing that great assemblage in Christchurch, where there were about three The whole of the machinery that is required thousand of our colonial lads taking part in the we have at the present time. Last year we manœuvres, must have been struck with the passed a Bill taking the cadet corps from the spectacle ; and, from what I have heard from the Education Department; and from that day men competent to express an opinion, their drill would compare with anything of a similar kind in any country in the world. And it was has been issued transferring the cadets from only a few of our lads who are taking a course the Defence Department, and the result is that of military instruction in connection with our these cadet corps are languishing. They can schools that were present on that occasion. get neither capitation nor anything else, and Then, in many of our schools where there are they cannot get any information. What is the no cadet corps there are thousands of child. use of placing an Act on the statute-book unless ron who are being taught, directly and in- it is going to be properly administered ? Un- directly, military drill, and also physical fortunately, we have not got a Minister of dril. - because we cannot separate the two. Education on these benches to ask about this Now, with regard to those who were in matter. I think, if the Government simply Christchurch, their drill comprises nearly all take steps to encourage the cadet corps or the that is comprised in ordinary physical drill. older children in our public schools, and give a They can go through the ordinary movements military drill to those that desire it, purely and company drill : and. in addition, they prac- voluntarily, they would be doing a good work, tise ritle-firing. Those who are supplied with the more especially as they have a form of inter- model rifles, of course, receive instruction of a mediary corps through which they may go after mere primary character. and as they advance in leaving school and before entering the Volun- years they are moved forward to ordinary exer teer corps. If that were done we should have cises. For these three thousand lads five hundred ample means of training our sons up in the med ·I rides have been supplied, and are in turn use of arms. Personally, I would not allow a daughter of mine to go in for military drill. used by schools representing some fifteen thou- Physical drill is right enough. The spirit of sand scholars-by boys of an ag , at which they might be taught this form of military drill. I militarism is becoming rampant in the country, with no good object to be attained. I will mention this because it might be inferred from what the honourable member said that nothing assist the honourable gentleman all I can to make physical drill compulsory, but I will was being done in the matter. It must be oppose the making of military drill compul- borne in mind that this has only been brought into operation during the last few years, and it sory. is a question whether it would not be as well to the second reading of this Bill. Two vears ago let the voluntary method continue and grow, and where it is required it can be extended ; there might have been some necessity for it, but during the past two years a great military wave and I say it is the duty of the Government, no has passed over this colony, and expressions of matter what Government sit on these benches, loyalty have been made in the most concrete to provide the necessary rifles and facilities to form that it is possible for a people or a nation enable our lads to take advantage of such in- to express their convictions. Spontaneous struction as is proposed in the Bill. I am of opinion that we have all the necessary ma- chinery under the existing law, and that the and shows a much healthier state than any compulsory effort. I feel that, inasmuch as Bill now before the House is not required. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- Sir. I cannot been organized into cadet corps, and that the see why we should be asked to support this Bill as it at present stands, because it seems to me to be a modified form of conscription. We are foster them and encourage them, I do not think not prepared to say to the adults of the colony that they must undergo military training, but we are asked to say to the children of the colony that they must have a military training. This Bill goes a great deal too far : and if the honour- able gentleman had confined it to physical drill on their hands in the evenings when they might I would have supported it, because I think that ought to be done. But let us take this Bill as it stands at the present time. I do not know a great deal about the country wants, but I corns. understand that the majority of the schools in the country districts are taught by fom ile teachers. Are you going to compel these female teachers to go through a course of military to have drill-instructors appointed for every what it means, I am opposed to that too. Defence Department and placing them under to this no Gazette notice or any instruction Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I cannot support effort put forward by the people is much better the youth of the colony have for some time Government of the colony has been fostering these cadet corps, and intends in the future to there is any necessity for this measure. The proper time to educate the boys of the colony in military drill is not while they are at school, but after they have passed the Sixth Standard, have loft school, and have a considerable time be learning drill. An Hon. MEMBER. - The Bill is not for cadet Mr. MEREDITH .-- I understand that per- fectly well. The principle of the Bill is to introduce a spirit of militarism into the schools of the colony. I have no objection to physical 