discuss the amendments that we will never get much further forward. Now, that is the posi- tion. Well, it is much better, I think, for us to say straight out to what a measure of this kind shall apply, and to put it definitely. Let there be no ambiguity at all. It is much better to take it, I say, even though there may be some who are left out of its benefits who may be entitled to it, than that we should fight for that which we cannot achieve. Now, the course I intend to take is this : Speaking for the Government, I say we shall support the second reading of the Bill. We will do all we can to assist the honourable member in getting the Bill through. I am quite prepared to go further, and to say that if he fails I shall take up the measure and go on with it. It does not matter to the Government that it has been introduced by a private mem- ber. I hope I have always evinced that, if a measure is for the good of the people, it does not matter to the Government how or by whom or in what way it has been introduced. It is the duty of the Government to give effect to the wishes of the people, and to the wishes of the majority of the House, and consequently to give facilities for its pass- ing. The honourable member has said that this was not mentioned in the Speech from It is not specially referred to the Throne. there, but it is amongst the subjects included in the words, labour Bills and other measures of importance and of interest will be intro- duced. I think that sentence is very wide, and will apply to this. I may say that what https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 we are doing now is consistent with what we did last session. Last session the honourable member s bill was sacrificed on account of some other Bills. Then the Government gave notice of a Bill limiting the hours of labour. That was practically in another form to that which was proposed by the honourable member's Bill ; but that did not get further forward. During the recess the men belonging to the various organizations have supported this pro- posal, and I may say there is still a very general wish to have in a concrete form a measure such as that proposed here, and to further that I have told the House the course we intend to take in respect to it. I may say I should be the last, after all that the colony has done in the way of furthering the dairying industry,-or any other industry,-I should be the last, I say, to do anything or assist in passing any legislation that would prejudice or materially injure such an important industry. We might, of course, in that respect amend the Bill. There is no doubt that members repre- senting these districts will be able to show to members here in the House that we should not pass it, because it would have an injurious effect on the industries. As Minister of Labour, and as one who has endeavoured to improve the position and condition of the workers, I say advisedly that it would be better for those like ourselves and those representing country dis- tricts to give and take. If by a conference, or by setting up as between us a Conciliation Mr. Seddon do anything that would injure but to help the country districts, country members would help us in legislation which is required more particularly in the towns. There is no difference as between town and country-the interest of the one is inseparably bound up in the other. If the country is prosperous those in the towns are prospering, and if the producer is forging ahead you always find the residents in the towns doing likewise. On the other hand, if your consumption of the produce of your own country is increasing in the towns, and if your industries are prospering, you have a market of your own and within yourselves, and that helps the producers, and it helps those in the country districts. We should not forget that, and, instead of having any division of opinion, and country versus town-I say who- ever starts anything of that sort in this country is an enemy of the country. That is my honest conviction, and I say there is no necessity for any disagreement. I have been many years here in this House ; I have met members re- presenting country districts; I have met the advanced wing with respect to social progress and labour legislation, and I would say honestly that I have not known a man antagonistic to any member simply because he represented a country district, and I have not met members of the country districts antagonistic to progres- sive or labour legislation. But there are times when legislation has been proposed that would probably have had an injurious effect on the country districts. On the other hand, if the country districts and those representing them were to do nothing simply because there is a danger, or they fear danger, no progress would have been made at all, and I would ask honour- able members who represent country districts. and who have these fears, to look at the results that have attended our progressive legislation. The condition of the man in the town-of the workers-has been improved, and. in a greater ratio, there has been an improvement in the condition of the settlers of our colony ; and where both are prospering under these condi- tions I say we should not fear much. Let us pass the second reading of the Bill and get it into Committee, and, as far as my influence will go, I will do my best to see that there is nothing that will injure the country districts : and I hope the country members will do their best to assist the town members in getting this Bill passed, because it meets a point that is not met by the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, or any other legislation. It is nonsense to say that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act meets every case : nothing of the kind. I do not suppose it would be at all out of place where you have cities or boroughs where there are industries, and those engaged in those industries are affected by the measure. It is not an unreasonable suggestion made by the member for the Bay of Islands to. sav, put in a schedule and name your cities or districts in which this Bill shall apply : I see nothing whatever objectionable in that. What I do say is this : that it is consistent with what 