session. In fact, it was only to-night that I knew for the first time how certain members of the Opposition party were going to vote, and every member I spoke to said he would vote against the measure. It was only in conse- quence of what the Premier had said with regard to the votes cast by members of the Opposition in the past, that I asked them how they would vote. Sir, we know, so far as this measure is concerned, it has not a hope. We know that the Premier, by himself and by his agents, always lobbies against such a measure, because he is afraid that if it passes without being introduced by himself it will be looked on as a slap in the face for the Ministry. We know also that the Premier is himself going to introduce the measure if we only give him time. He opposed the Referendum Bill far more strongly than he has ever opposed this measure. He used stronger argu- ments against the Referendum Bill than he has ever used against the Elective Executive Bill. However, if we only give. the honour- able gentleman time he will come round on the measure. But, when he finds there is a majority in favour of it-and if the result of his active working is to prove there is a majority in the House in favour of it-he will get the adjournment moved, and next session he will come up with it hot and strong himself. It is a good point in the Premier that he is always open to conviction when there is a majority against him. The member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) also told us he was in favour of the Ministry being elected by the dominant party. I would like to know how he is going to desig- nate the Government party. Is it to be a party https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of principle-that is, men who are elected to support certain measures-or is it going to be a personal party, a party elected to support one man and one Ministry? If it is going to be a personal party, how are you to get any change in the Ministry they are elected to sup- port ? If it is going to be a party of prin- ciple, how are you going to define it ? For instance, are you going to take out of that party certain members of the Ministry who oppose the advanced legislation that is being supported by other members of the Ministry -- legislation, for instance, like the elective Executive? Are you going to tell the Minister for Public Works and the Native Minister that they do not belong to the Government party because they voted for this legislation that the Premier is against ? Are you going to include Captain Russell in the dominant party because he is opposing with the Premier the elective Execu- tive ? The result will be, undoubtedly, that the dominant party would be a personal party, with the result that you would get a personal Minis- try elected, for the very reason that they were supported by men who are included in that dominant party. And, Sir, I do not agree with those members who speak most strongly against the manner in which Ministers are selected at the present time. For instance, one member to-night spoke strongly against the selection of the Commissioner of Cus- toms, Mr. Mills. There is a very good rea- ! son, and a reason not stated by the Premier, why he made that selection. Some honourable members will remember, a little over a year ago, at a banquet at Blenheim, I pointed out to the Ministry it was necessary in the interest of the Government that the next selection in filling a vacancy in the Ministry should be that of the present Commissioner of Customs. and I think the Premier, as he generally does, although he does not like to admit it, took my advice and made the selection. That is a startling instance: of the elective Executive, because he gave a member of the Opposition a voice in the selec- tion of his Minister. I can quote other in- stances where the Premier does not consult his own party at all in making additions to the Ministry. An. Hon. MEMBER .- Did he send for you ? Mr. PIRANI .-- Oh, no; the Premier reads the papers. And he does not consult his own party or the feelings of his own party, but gut outside of them and thinks far more of the opinions of his opponents than he does of his supporters. And, Sir, in that he is wise, be- cause it is his opponents that can injure bim. and not his supporters. With regard to this elective Executive, I say it would be to the advantage of the Ministry to have the system of the elective Executive, because, instead of having to grease the wheels of their supporters political conveyances by giving them money votes for their districts, and in one electorate represented by a supporter paying the whole cost of a bridge, or in another electorate repre- sented by an opponent only paying one-third -- well, instead of that, and instead of having, as we were told by one of the Ministers plaintivery. the back-stairs carpet worn out by supporters of the Ministry going up and down to get votes for their districts ; instead of requiring the Premit to speak strongly against a particular supporter. and calling him Judas Iscariot and all that sent of thing for the purpose of kicking him back inte line, in case he happened just to step over that line-the Government would be able to go co their course regardless of the personal feelit Is of any section of the House ; and I am sure you would get better administration and have a more successful Government of the countn. At present I know the Government, altboust they probably do not want to do so. have to manipulate all sorts of things for their sty porters, making political appointments, patti .; votes on the estimates, and sending tele grams of inquiry about the heaith of Tom, Dick, and Harry, because they know it means additional votes and additional kudos for the Ministr .. But if they were removed from that inthie ... and they were considered solely as adminis- trators and solely as men desirous of & tempting to pass into law measures they know the majority of the people want. the a Ministry would be more secure than the could possibly be at the present time. S. far as the Opposition is concerned, I think : can truly be said that during the last two yuin there has been nothing in the shape of aa attempt to prevent the Ministry carrying logi. lation which is in the best interests of the 