of troops that we had, and with the large num- ber of people who were to be there, the Govern- ment asked to have a plan submitted. A plan was submitted, and, Sir, there was only 17 ft. between the Rotunda and the platform that was to be erected, and from which the presentation was to take place. The Commandant, the moment the plan was brought before him, came to the Government and said it was im- possible to agree to that plan with anything like safety to the people. There was no way to take the men past in sections or four abreast, and he said that if an attempt was made to take the carriages past the result would be loss of life. The only way, then, would be to carry the platform back, and the platform could not be carried back, because the shelter-shed was there. That was how the question of the shelter-sheds came up at all. The honourable member was very delicate about the shelter- sheds ; but I have no hesitation in saying now that no grosser breach of faith, and no grosser piece of trickery was ever practised by a local authority than the trick which had been played in respect to these shelter-sheds. How- ever, the shelter-sheds question would never have cropped up but for the circumstances I have just stated. Then, Sir, I do not know that I should refer at all to the honourable member's remarks about myself, as to what took place at the luncheons. The honourable mem- ber stated that I monopolized the whole of the toast-lists. Well, outside the loyal formal toasts on the occasion referred to, there was only one other toast that my colleagues could have proposed. If it was not that the honour- able member took nothing stronger than water I would have thought he was sorry, for obvious reasons, that there was not an extension of the toast-lists, so that he might indulge for a few hours. But, Sir, as he takes nothing stronger than water, that argument will not hold good. I say that on an occasion of that kind no one would with reason accuse me of doing other than that which was right and proper. It galls the honourable member, as it does others, to find me where I am ; but, so long as I am in this position, I will do my best to maintain it with dignity, and, I hope, with some little credit to myself and profit to the colony. On the second occasion to which the honourable member refers there was only one other toast proposed, and that was in reference to a departing railway- officer; and I moved that toast at the special request of the head of the department, my worthy colleague the Minister for Railways, and it did not take ten minutes, so that I think I have fully answered all that has been said by the honourable member in that respect. I now come to the remarks made by the honourable member for Waitemata, who was responsible for this debate-and what do they amount to ? It simply amounted to this: that the honour- able member could not contain himself. He wanted, out of the passing of this Bill, and out of the Royal visit, if he possibly could, to bring credit to his party by discrediting the Govern- ment ; and he is not the only person in Auckland who has been busy at that. I say they have deliberately, and wantonly, and wilfully en- deavoured to injure the Government in respect to the question of Mahuta and the aquatic display. And it seems to me that any party or any man who uses their Royal Highnesses' visit for such a purpose is guilty of conduct which is reprehensible in the highest degree. And yet that was done. Mr. MASSEY .- It was not. Mr. SEDDON .- I have positive proof ; and it is practically admitted in the speech delivered by the honourable member for Waitemata-and organized, too. Mr. MONK .- I am not in it. Mr. SEDDON. - I accept the honourable gentleman's denial. When you say that, I have nothing further to say so far as you are con- cerned. But I know others did organize, and did make the attempt to make capital against the Government, and myself personally, in re- spect to this matter ; and they went further than that. Then, the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) has been mis- understood by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). I will not see anything unjust done. So far as I know, Mr. Witheford was not detracting from the reception committee in what they did; but he, I think very properly and generously, would not agree with the honourable member for Waitemata that the Government should have no credit whatever in respect to the reception at Auck- land. I say it was fair, and he had a right to take exception to what was stated by the honourable member for Waitemata. May I say this: that we as a Government are per- fectly satisfied ; the letter left behind by His Royal Highness-the letter given to His Ex- cellency on the eve of his departure from the colony-was more than sufficient to reward the Government and all those who took part in the colony in this reception. There was only one feeling throughout the length and breadth of the colony : that we should do justice to this great occasion ; that our Royal visitors should carry back with them to the dear old Mother- land a good impression of the country and its people for their loyalty to the Throne, and that we were happy, contented, and prosperous. That is all there was in it, and, that being achieved, we might let the matter rest. Of course, it is very distasteful to me to have to say anything at all, but I cannot allow the attack that has been made on Mr. Holmes to pass unnoticed. It would be impossible for me, or for my colleagues, to place before the House or the country one tittle of what was done, and had to be done. It was an extra- ordinary occasion, and there were a thousand- and-one things coming up day by day for which there was no precedent at all. We had to use The reception committees our common-sense. and members of local bodies were each desirous of making the reception a success, but there was no precedent, and some one had to take the lead. Very well. A great deal of blame has been thrown on Mr. Holmes. There were many things proposed by the reception committees 