tinue. I will be no party to disturbing that harmony. Sir J. G. WARD. - I have looked up the Journals of the House for 1887, and they show that you voted against handing the railways over to the Commissioners on the second and third reading of the Bill. Mr. SEDDON .-- Thank you, my worthy col- league. I know the figures. My memory is as good as any one's. I know what my convictions are, and I have ever been consistent. and I opposed from the start the placing of the rail- ways under the Commissioners. I opposed altogether the taking from the colony and from the people the management of our railways, and here are the division-lists :- Against the second reading : Messrs. Barron, Buxton, Parata, Seddon. Tellers : M. J. S. Mackenzie and Moss. Those are six. Then, on the third reading there were eighteen against : Messrs. Feldwick, Goldie, Grey, Grimond, Guinness, Jackson, Jones, Joyce, Mckenzie, J., Moss, Perceval, Seddon, Thompson, T., Turnbull, Vogel. Ward. Tellers : Barron and Fish. Those are the divi- sion-lists. I know what I am dealing with. I must now go on to deal with the objections to the Bill. If you will bring these things up your- selves, I cannot help it-you must put up with them. Now, the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty. I think, wanted to know particu- larly as regarded these clauses 4, 7, and 9: and the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) also wanted to know. I say this is really in the interests of the employers. In leaving out the trade-unions by the Consolida- tion Bill we made this mistake : that a trade- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 union, forming no part of the industrial union, actually can remain outside, and is not bound by the award that is made. If that union de- signedly so seeks to get rid of a particular award it simply maintains itself as a trade-union. When the Bill was in Committee, in order to make it perfect that must be seen to. My own opinion is that probably if we were to do it now in the interpretation clause of the Bill it would meet all that is required. However, when the Bill goes before the Labour Bills Com- mittee we must perfect the Bill in that respect. I say that under subsection (2) of clause 20 we were told by the member for Bruce, I think it was, and one or two other members, that if they withdrew their union they were not liable- Mr. J. ALLEN .- I did not say that." Mr. SEDDON .- - and if they only came off the register-what does it matter-they were not liable. Now it reads :- " The effect of the cancellation shall be to dissolve the incorporation of the union, but in no case shall the cancellation or dissolution relieve the industrial union, or any member thereof, from the obligation of any industrial agreement, or award or order of the Court, nor from any penalty or liability incurred prior to such cancellation." Mr. J. ALLEN .- What about afterwards ? Mr. SEDDON .- " What about afterwards ? " They are still liable, because under another section, which the honourable member seems to have forgotten. and that we put in last session, we can bring everybody under the Act. Under section 23 : - " An industrial dispute may relate either to the industry in which the party by whom the dispute is referred for settlement to a Board or the Court, as hereinafter provided, is en- gaged or concerned, or to any industry related thereto." If there is a dispute the Governor may bring these people in. Supposing we had not passed this Bill, if a trade-union sought to avoid an award because it was a separate trade-union. I say under this section the Governor could bring them in, and rightly so. Unless our law. are made to apply to all they will be a failure .. This is what was required in respect to the Bili. Now, with respect to section 12, as that point has been raised, the reason for that was this : Some of these unions have dwindled aw :: in members to a very few. Some of their members have gone into other unions, and those who remained never took the troutie to have their registration cancelled : and it was to meet these cases that we drafted clause 12-that where they refused to answer queries and where they are practically dead it was better to wipe them off the register than keep them there, where they are a dead-letter. As we know, a large proportion of the members have joined other unions. I do not know that there is any other matter I can refer to. 1: respect to the contention of the honouratie member for Palmerston, that the Act should t made part of the machinery under which the hours of labour should be fixed, I say there is a great deal in that contention. In fact. in some measure that is the position already : but, as to making it general, I am perfectly open, and :f the House wishes to meet the hours-of-labour difficulty in that way I am quite willing on my part. I do not know that there is anything more that is necessary for me to say. 1 am sorry there has been any debate of length. I said the Bill was of a technical character, and as such I expected- Mr. SPEAKER .-- Time is up. Sir J. G. WARD .-- I wish to make a personal explanation, Sir. During the course of my re- marks I said that when the Land and Income Assessment Bill was before the House. the honourable members opposite voted against the proposal to exempt improvements from taxi- tion. If the present Opposition were not here. then they are the shadows of the men who were here before them. Captain RUSSELL. - I rise to a point of order. The honourable gentleman is entitled to make a personal explanation if he is mi -- represented. There is no question of misrepre- sentation, and he is now making a fresh speech. Mr. SPEAKER .- The honourable member ought to know the rules of the House in regard to personal explanations. Captain RUSSELL .-- He must know the Standing Orders. He was not misrepresent. J. and what he is now going to do is to back up what he has already said. 