therefore I say you should extend to the people that system which will induce them to do their very best to improve their land. Before con. cluding I wish to say this: it seems to me strange that it is necessary to compulsorily take land when we know that in the hands of the Bank Assets Board there are still magnifi- cent estates ; but I suppose if you expect them to grant facilities for the sale you expect them First, the cost of construction ; second, the con- to work for their own extinction. So long as there are estates, so long will the members of that Board occupy exceedingly comfortable and lucrative positions. But I say that the Government of the country should see, first of all, that these estates are taken from the Assets Realisation Board -that estates like the Moa Flat Estate and other properties that are not being utilised to the best ad- vantage should be acquired, before touching limited properties occupied by parents and families who may hope in the future to hand them down to their children. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works). - When I listened to the honourable gentleman's speech I almost imagined I was back to the year 1893, a time when the honour- able member made so many vigorous speeches in opposition to the land-for-settlement policy and in favour of the freehold. Such speeches we have often heard from the honourable member in this House, and, whilst he 9.30. expresses himself against the land-for- settlement policy-I will not say he is doing it in the interests of the owners; but he wants the Government to make a railway to improve the value of the Moa Flat Estate, and which is so much desired by the owners of that estate should be constructed at the cost of the colony. Sir. so long as I have a seat on these benches this railway shall not be made to that estate unless the estate is acquired by the colony. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- That is exactly what I said. M .. HALL-JONES. - No; the honourable gen: leman said the line was being made in the wrong direction ; but the honourable gentleman had not the common decency to say that we were only working to a certain point where we could deviate to the right or left-could go for- ward or stop at the point he mentioned ; he did 1 mit say we were working up to that point ; he said if we had gone to that point we would have done right. I do not know what is behind all this, but I do know that some gentlemen from that district are not far from where we are now sitting. and I can only presume that the honour- able gentleman is working in the interests of what they wish to have done. I know that in- Anence has been brought to bear to induce the 1 Government to take the railway through that estate. but I say that under present conditions the railway shall not be made through that es- tate so long as I am Minister for Public Works. I did not intend to take part in the debate to- night, and I should not have done so had it not been for what the honourable gentleman said about this railway. There is nothing of a political nature about it. The line has been urged before i a good class of settlers upon them, who are ex- the House by petition and otherwise for years. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- By whom ? Not by Rae's Juuction. Mr. HALL-JONES. -- Yes, through to Rox- burgh. The route it is going now, or the route through the Moa Flat Estate, would take the line on to Roxburgh. In considering the construction of every railway-line I have had to deal with I have laid down the principle that there are three things we should keep in view : venience of settlers ; and, third, the prospective earning-power of the proposed railway. These matters have been most carefully considered in connection with nearly every line I have had to deal with so far, and I venture to say that, so far as any rail ay-lines I may have to deal with, it will not be said that I have been connected with a political rail ay. The honourable gentleman talks about the acquisition of the Moa Flat Estate. It is the first time I have heard him advocating anything in connection with the Land for Settlements Act. Why this change ? When the Act was first introduced by Sir John Mckenzie, in division after division, speech after speech, detail after detail, almost every clause, line, and word, the honourable member opposed it. To-night his speech was against land for settlement. but he makes one exception-that we ought to purchase the Moa Flat Estate. Well, I know something about that estate, and there are members in the House who know something about it, and know how far it is suited for ordinary purposes of settlement. The greater part of it is only suited for sheep; and how much is suited for agriculture? Very little, beyond a few hill-tops with cold and com- paratively poor soil ; and it would be a cruelty to settle men on it under the Land for Settle- ments Act unless it was purchased at such a price that they could make a living off it. The honourable gentleman says the existing pro- sperity is not due to the land-for-settlement policy. Why, the honourable gentleman has been going about the colony with his eyes shut-literally with his eyes shut. Does he know an estate in Southland called Merrivale ? Compare that estate with what it was in the old days-the large increase of settlement there, the work caused by that settlement, the increased production of the soil-let him compare that estate with what it was in the past, and he will see the estate closely settled, the settlers doing well, with comfortable home- steads, and their places in good order and condition. They are all doing well, and does he say that is not conducive to the prosperity of the colony ? Is it not augmenting her exports ? Most undoubtedly that and other estates have contributed to swell the exports which the honourable gentleman has mentioned, and which now amount to over thirteen millions a year. The honourable gentleman referred to the Waikakahi, and he knows that estate, what it was a few years ago and what it is now, and when he refers to high prices being paid he can- not say that the cost of this estate was too great. I mention the Merrivale and Waikakahi Estates because they are of fair area and have 