and I feel satisfied the honourable member for Christchurch City, as well as the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, have done their duty well and fearlessly. With regard to some of the measures foreshadowed in the Address from the Throne, I shall just confine myself to one or two of them. There is, first of all, the question of defence, and the better arming of our Volunteer and cadet corps. This, I trust, will be attended to at an early date, and I hope up-to-date rifles will be supplied. I consider, like honourable gentlemen who have already spoken who saw the review at Christ- church, that we ought to be proud of our Volunteers and cadets. It is a considerable number of years since I witnessed a review on a large scale in the Old Country, and, having compared them, I feel, as a New-Zealander, proud of the eleven thousand Volunteers who were reviewed at Christchurch, and the manner With in which they acquitted themselves. regard to the treatment they received, it is true, unfortunately, that some sharp, frosty weather was experienced just at the particular period when the troops began to arrive ; but our troops know perfectly well that a camp is not a drawing- room, and they went there with the full expec- tation of enduring the ordinary hardships of a soldier's life, and they came out well. I spoke to some of them myself, and they stated to me that they were treated as well as could be ex- pected, and that they had nothing to complain of. Now, that being so with regard to the Volunteers, I think it is a sufficient answer to my honourable friend the member for Waira- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 rapa. I wish now to speak of the cadets. When the Government informed the Board of Educa- tion that they intended sending on to Christ- church 2,600 cadets, and that they wished them http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero accommodated in the Normal School, the mat- ter was referred to the Normal School Com- mittee, of which I have the honour to be a member. We immediately informed the Go- vernment that we were prepared to accommo- date eighteen hundred. Having consulted the clerk of works, we came to the conclusion that was the utmost we could accommodate in the school. However, with a great deal of plan- ning, I believe more than two thousand were accommodated. Further accommodation was provided in the East Christchurch School for the remainder of the three thousand cadets that attended the review. The cadets expressed their satisfaction with the accom- modation, and in only one case did I hear a complaint from the cadets of the manner in which they were treated, and that was of one company who arrived after midnight and had to march a distance of three-quarters of a mile -- from East Christchurch to the Normal School -to get some hot coffee before turning in for the night. That might be a hardship, but it was quite unavoidable, for there was absolutely no provision for feeding the cadets in the parti. cular school in which they were billeted -- the Gloucester Street School. Then, with regard to the condition of the school after the cadets left, the officers explained to myself and other Mr. Buddo the sanitary arrangements were first-rate. I might state that the Committee of the school took that matter in hand, and told the officers that that would be attended to, and the Defence Department approved of the arrangements. But, with regard to the tables in the dining- room in the Normal School, there was no doubt a collection of food accumulated under the table, and that was the whole nuisance that was complained of. Each company as it came in was served out with rations. These cadets were young lads-a few of them between nine and twelve years of age, and very few over sixteen-and they got men's rations-there was more food than they could consume. The result was that the companies following filed into the tables too quickly to enable the tables to be cleared, and they made a clean sweep of what was left by the previous company and threw it under the table, a fresh supply being handed out. As to the complaint in the Lyttel- ton Times that the food was not good enough : when that letter was sent to the paper, the editor put a footnote to say that, on the pre- vious day to that on which the letter was sent, the cadets had wasted a great deal more good food than they ate. So much for that. To make sure that my information was correct, on the Wednesday following the review I person- ally went to the Christchurch Railway-station and interviewed a large number of cadets- some four hundred-who were on their way to ship for the North Island, and in every case I got an unqualified approval of the manner in which they were treated. This was a credit to the contractor who supplied the food, for it must be remembered that he had to supply far more rations than he had contracted for. I think I have fully satisfied my honourable friend that there is no reason for complaint at the treatment of the cadets in Christchurch at the review, with the exception of the complaint of the com- pany of cadets who had to march some three- quarters of a mile to the Normal School after midnight in order to get a meal before turning in for the night. I do not intend to deal with the whole of the Address, but there are one or two matters which I wish to emphasize-they are matters more particularly relating to the country districts. One of them is with regard to the shortage of railway rolling- stock in the threshing season in Canterbury, and also, I think, in Otago. It is altogether inadequate for the purpose required. I have known farmers who took six weeks to get a thousand sacks of wheat sent to the Lyttelton stores. This lack of rolling-stock leads to piling up the grain at the railway-station, and to a great deal of loss and waste of farmers' time. It also causes the mixing of the various lots of farmers' grain, and consequently there is a great deal of irritation among neighbours when loading. That was the case almost right through the last grain season. I understand that a member of the Railway Traffic Depart- ment went along the Ellesmere Railway, and while there saw an immense collection of grain at the various railway-sheds. He inter- 