clothed, and they have never been more happy. There has been a certain amount of conflict with the employers, but there has been no real antagonism between the workers and those who employ the workers. The real test is this: If the labour legislation has proved de' rimental, how is it that the country has been so thoroughly prosperous ? It has been contended that labour legislation is going to . that is unsatisfactory to them. Now, another injure the country. It will do nothing of the sort. The country was never in a better posi- tion than it is in now. Seeing that our labour legislation has produced such good results, it seems to me that we can go on very well, and do all we can to improve the condition of the people in the future. What we want is not a rich and leisured class in the country. We want to so arrange our economic conditions as i under the previous Act it was found that certain to enable those who assist in producing the i classes of employes, such as tramway employes. wealth to share in the wealth they have pro- duced, and that is the effect which our labour legislation is having. Its effect has been to lead to a more equal distribution of the wealth produced by the people. I am very glad that this Bill has been introduced to remove some of the defects and shortcomings of the Act passed last session. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - I do not think that it is wise that there should be a general discussion upon the labour-laws of the colony at this stage, but there are two remarks I would like to make. I am sorry to see that the Government propose to further extend facili- dies for the cancellation of labour unions. I am of opinion that, if the Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act is to remain in force, it is most desir- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 able that as far as possible we should make our legislation so that the unions shall be bound by the award, and shall not be able to cancel their registration. I may remind the Premier, for example, that in connection with the linotype dispute in Wellington, on the award being made and proving against the unions, almost imme- diately in the Typographical Union in Welling. ton a proposal for cancellation of its registration :was made, although the good-sense of the men went against it. Mr. SEDDON .- This clause is to stop that. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - I take it that the position is that, if under clause 12 of the Bill the union does not forward its papers, then it drops out of existence, and the Registrar simply Hends notice that the union has ceased to exist, and its registration becomes of no effect. Turn- ing to clause 20 of the Act of last year, there I admit that power is given by which the regis- tration of unions can be cancelled. But what I want to point out to the honourable gentleman is that, while a union can cancel its registration after an award has been given if it is unsatis- factory to the union, the employers cannot can- col their existence. They have to accept the award, and it can be enforced against the em- ployers, because their financial position is such that they cannot pack up their traps and go away: whilst, a union having ceased to exist. the power of the employer to deal with a breach of the award can only come about Mr. Eli union, and I do not think there is a single em- ployer in this colony who would wish to take the roof from over the head of an individual member of the union by proseenting him. I want the Minister to see what I think is the effect of throwing the door open to the cancel- lation of the registration of unions, which might possibly take place if an award has been given point I would like to draw attention to is this. in connection with the definition of " worker ": At a recent sitting of the Arbitration Court in Christchurch argument was brought before the Court in the hairdressers' dispute which covered a very large range of what the amended clause in last year's Act was supposed to put right. The honourable gentleman will remember that [ grocers' employes, carters, and others. did not come within the provisions of the Act, on account of its being held by the Court that they were not engaged in an industry. " industry being used in a somewhat restricted sense as relating to production. Now, exactly the same argument was maintained before his tionour Mr. Justice Cooper in the Arbitration Court in Christchurch not many weeks ago; and Mr. Justice Cooper, while not giving a decision against counsel .Mr. T. G. Russell- - who was appearing on behalf of the master hairdressers in Christchurch, thought the position was so open that he suggested Mr. Russell should apply to his Honour Mr. Justice Denniston, sitting in the Supreme Court, and he suggested that a writ of prohibition be applied for to prevent the Court of Arbitration from dealing with the case. His Honour, in fact, wished the opinion of the Supreme Court to be taken as to who- ther the larger definition of "worker " really covered the whole of the cases it was meant to cover. I do not know whether the Government will consider it desirable to wait in connection with this Bill until the decision of that case has been given or not, but I hope whatever altera- tion may be necessary in the law will have the effect of finally settling this question, that all workers shall come under the provisions of this Act. For my own part, I see no reason why persons engaged in factories shall come under the Act and persons engaged as hairdressers and similar avocations should beexcluded. My idea is that our labour-laws should be universal. and should cover all classes of the community. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston North) .- There are one or two points I would like to draw the Premier's attention to in connection with this Bill. One is the advisability of practically including an Eight Hours Bill in this measure by making it possible for an application to the Arbitration Court to be made by. sav, ten em- ploves in any district to deal with the hours of labour in their special occupation. I think if some provision of that sort, instead of the cumbersome proceeding that has to be gone through just now, were provided, in many cases there would be a great deduction of the hours of labour worked in many of the country dis- 