if he withdrew that section. As for the rest of the Bill, I think no exception can be taken to it. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- Sir, I desire to make a few observations on the measure now before the House. It has been suggested that this is a Bill with which country members are mainly concerned. Sir, I take exception to that statement, because if land-settlement does not progress in the country the towns and the large cities must necessarily wither and decay. Therefore the city members are just as anxions to see proper settlement going on in the coun- try as any representative from the country dis- triets may be. I regard the Bill as an attempt, though it will have to be followed by more stringent measures, to suppress the evil of dummyism, which I know is rampant through- out the country, and is certainly in the pro- vince from which I come. I have personal knowledge of the fact that bona frie settlers have been for several years kept off the land through the fictitious system of ballot at pre- sent prevailing-the putting-in of applications by those who do not intend to bona fide occupy the land. The chances of the legitimate appli- cant are very small indeed under the existing system. I should like to see a provision introduced that no sale of a lessee's interest could take place until after the lapse of a certain fixed period -- say, five years from the date he had entered into possession of the land. I will give an instance to the House of land-speculation in connection with leases in perpetuity in the northern Wairoa. There was a block of land there called the Tokatoka Swamp, which was settled by the Government https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 some time ago. The land has so gone up in value that leaseholds that were considered by the Lands Department to be worth nothing but the fixed rent a few years ago have recently brought as much as $1,100 for the good-will of single sections of about two hundred acres. The sections have brought $1,100 for the good-will after four years of occupation. That is to say, an unearned increment of $200 or $250 per annum has been added to those lands. Mr. MONK .- It was a fancy price. Mr. NAPIER -It may be a fancy price. I would regret very much if it were characteristic of the whole of the settled land. At the same time it is a symptom ; and what is the conse- quence ? That there has been an amount of speculation in the Tokatoka Swamp lands that has almost been as bad as gambling in mining shares. Now, Sir, the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty insisted that the Go- vernment must inevitably give way and re- introduce the freehold system of land-tenure. I do not think the people of this country will ever again approve of a reversion to the frechold system for the settlement of the re- maining Crown lands. I have in my hand at the present moment a communication from a gentleman well acquainted with the Waikato district. who tells me that there are hundreds of young men in that district-the sons of old settlers who are anxious to get land, and who have not succeeded in getting any of the free_ Mr. Bennet hold land which was lately cut up and offered for sale for cash by the Assets Board. They could not purchase the land because the whole of their capital would be absorbed in paying for the fee-simple. And he tells me in this letter that if that same land, or other blocks in the vicinity which are now in the occupation of the Assets Board, were put up under the leave-in- perpetuity system or the perpetual-lease system, all those young men would immediately become settlers and proceed to stock the land. The freehold system, applied as it has been in seiling the national heritage, has been the curse of New Zealand; it has been a millstone round the neck of many of the settlers from the day they It has enabled entered upon their holdings. the money-lender and the usurer to fatten upon the exertions of the small settlers. An Hon. MEMBER .-. And the lawyer. Mr. NAPIER. - Yes, and the lawyers. in many cases. I could give you instances also of that fact. Settlers have often been kept under by high interest and charges for repeated mort- gages. The Government Advances to Settlers Act has now put an end to that. I say that the settlers of the country are a class we should strive to protect, for the State practically rests on the shoulders of the producers, and our legislation should be directed to aid in every legitimate way the producer, the man on the soil, without whom there can be no national growth. I hope there will be no attempt made to reintroduce the 10-per-cent. reduction to Crown tenants Bill. I regard that measure as a most vicious one. It will tend to accomplish the very purpose that my honourable friend who represents the Bay of Plenty wishes, and to stultify the land policy of the Liberal party, because when you give away one-tenth of the freehold of the land without consideration there is no logical reason why you may not similarly give away ten-tenths. I trust that those people who have received a large unearned increment on their sections will not again re- ceive a 10-per-cent. reduction of the rents they contracted to pay. I think that in lexisin- tion affecting land, as in legislation affecting other matters, we should endeavour to adhere as closely as possible to fixed principles of some kind. We all know, of course, that politics consists of a series of compromises, and that it is impossible to have a really logical Act of Parliament : but at the same time we ought not to entirely lose sight of or discard principle. but by introducing a 10-per cent. reduction to Crown tenants we are violating a cardinal prin- ciple of Liberal policy. Though I do not approve i generally of a very large extension of the pur- chase of cultivated lands until the lands in the hands of the Government in the King.country and in other parts of the North are settled. yet at the same time there are exceptions where the operation of the Act would result in a large and immediate gain to the country. I do not think it is to the interest of the country, for instance. that an immense block of land -- because I regard the lands to which I refer as one block- con-ist- ing of 238,556 acres, should be practically in the hands of one proprietary-that is to say, should 