land for settlement, but I am against paving ! that if Sir John Mckenzie had been upon those high prices for these estates; and I blame the Government themselves for inflating these values, and compelling the country to pay the high values for these estates, when they are themselves holding large properties which they are neglecting to put upon the mar- ket. Why is it that the Premier, with the control he has, has not had these estates cut up? Is it this $250 a year that is placed to his credit for doing nothing as member of the Assets Board ? Can it be that he has a mer- cenary object? I do not think so. Does the Premier ignore the fact that the people are clamouring to have these estates cut up and placed at their disposal so that they may settle on them ? Then, again, what excuse can the Right Hon. the Premier offer for the large area of Crowp land that he is allowing to lie idle, when there are a large number of surveyors un- employed and only too ready to offer their ser- vices for the purpose of cutting up those lands and enabling people to take them up? I say to those who have large estates -and the Gio- Vernment are the largest estate-holders in the country at the present moment -- now is the time to as rapidly as possible dispose of this land, while the prices of produce are at such a level as to offer every possible inducement for the acquisition of land for dairy and pastoral purposes. The Government, in buying estates, are acting with great inconsistency. I shall charge them-and, I think, justly -- with neg- lecting favourable opportunities ; and I charge them with wasting the public money by https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 allowing it to lie idle in these lands which twenty or thirty years ago were paid for, instead of placing them at the disposal of those who, when they occupy them, increase the assets of the country by the first hour's work they put on the land. Now, Sir, speaking for myself-and I speak with some knowledge upon these matters-if the Government would give me the choice betwixt 500 acres of their good prairie land and 500 acres at the higher rate I should have to pay for the special lands bought for settlement. I should most certainly take the unimproved land, because my first day's work would, so to speak, be equivalent to an invest- ment in my favour on that land. But when I go and buy these improved estates, which I may call the velvet cushion with which the Go vernment are coaxing people to go and settle upon land, instead of offering the rugged seat of the pioneer -instead of doing that they are inducing these people to take up land, as was forcibly remarked by the honourable member for Patea, without any risk. They have placed at their disposal a capital of $2,000 or $3,000, as said by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, and they can use it so long as the values permit them to pay their rents, and at the end of a few years, should depression come, they can either give up their holdings or bring such pressure to bear upon the Ministry occupying those benches as will cause them to reduce the rents. Sir, the Premier knows very little of what he is doing in these land speculations ; indeed, he knows so little that I assure him benches and had been in charge of this Bill it would have come out in a very different form from that in which it now appears. The Hon. the Minister of Lands will see to this- and I know that in him I am addressing one of practical knowledge on the subject : and he knows that what I am saying upon this matter is absolutely correct, and that there is an un- necessary risk in buying these large estates while the Government are in possession of large areas of prairie lands. It is the duty of the Government to crowd the market with these lands, and as much as possible to leave unpurchased these improved estates, which their present policy is enhancing the value of. Now, there is another influence that is being impressed upon the country, and it is a very serious one -- namely, that by the purchase of these improved lands the Premier is diminishing the revenue. They are contri- buting largely to the land-tax. The Premier himself knows he has got a special land-valuing department that had its origin a few years ago at the instance of Sir John McKenzie, who promised that land should be specially valued in order that the country might have a reliable valuation of its lands, but which valua- tion has proved in almost every instance to be incorrect. It has resulted not in that valuing department disappearing, as was the first inten- tion, but in being a permanent burden on the country, to the extent at the present time of about $30,000 a year. And these valuation officers are travelling up and down the country -a costly sauntering brigade-changing valua- tions or seeing if they can change them, and adopting every possible pretext for increasing the values, simply because the price of our produce is a little higher than it was before, although there is no certainty that it will be maintained much longer, and no certainty that there will not be a clamour through the country presently to lower these values. But these men are constantly investigating the values of property to see if they cannot increase the values, and so increase the revenue. Now, when the Premier purchases these estates he at once effaces their contributions to the revenue and removes them for ever beyond the reach of the valuer for land-tax purposes, and no direct revenue accrues from these large blocks of land after they have been cut up. Now, with regard to the freehold, honourable members can rightly tell me there is a perpetuity of tenure in 999 years. But, Sir, there is something else, which the Premier does not understand, because he has no sympathy with land-occupa- tion ; he is not a farmer, and he does not realise that when a bond for occupier of land- I am speaking now of the genuine settler, who has an inborn love of the soil and of its con- comitants -- takes up an area and works it he looks on that area as his savings-bank. No matter, Sir, what may be the terms of his lease, he has it ingrained in his very nature that he would like to have that land as his own to put his savings into. The owner of a home- stead feels that there is no other property in 