of a dispute, they have a right to apply under do not know that I should have risen except to the Act to have the dispute settled. So far so : refer to the question of farmers' unions. If we good ; but what do we find ? We find that paid . are not going to do away with freedom of con- agitators are using the Act for the purpose of causing disputes between employers and em- ployes. Take the Waihi Mine, for instance. There the men were quite satisfied with their i another form of the National Association as wages and hours until certain agitators told them that they ought to get more wages and have shorter hours. Probably, so far as that great and wealthy mine is concerned, and ! considering the large amount it is paying in dividends, the demands might be justified, but beyond that the award will be made to apply to the whole of the Thames Goldfield, and the result will be that in the case of many other mines they will not be able to carry ; because if you fix the price of labour, why not on under the increased rates. After an Act has been placed on the statute-book we know I also fix the price of produce-at any rate, as sold whether it is a good Act or not by the working i in the colony? Now, the Premier seems to of it. Take, for instance, the opinion of Mr. ; think I am not serious in this matter; but I ' can assure the Premier that, if there is no Justice Cooper as to employers being obliged to place their books in the hands of unions to be examined by them. I say that was simply monstrous. An Hon. MEMBER .- Mr. Justice Cooper did not say that-he said the Court should see the i country. Just now, I admit, there is a wave of i prosperity going over the colony. Not that the honks. Mr. BOLLARD .- If that is so, then he has , Government can take any credit for it; it is backed down, and I am very glad to hear it. I caused by the force of circumstances-caused I think, however, we should alter the name of this Act and call it the Industrial Agitation and Irritation Act. The honourable member for Christchurch City stated that certain manu- facturers in Christchurch were sending out of the colony and importing skilled labour. That : https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 is just what this side of the House predicted i number of troops are withdrawn from South a few years ago would occur as the result of ' Africa the probability is that the public the legislation regulating the employment of a : creditor will then find that we have borrowed enough money. At all events, the Premier certain number of boys to a workman. We predicted that skilled labour would have to be ' does not care to go upon the English market imported and that the boys would not get em- ployment. What is the consequence? We i farmers will make themselves felt. That will have thousands of boys applying to get into the Railway service and other branches of : be the time when the people will begin to the Civil Service in order that they may make a living. I do not want to see manu- i no doubt about it, there are indications just factories stuffed with boys in the way they have been, but I would like to see the boys . now that the tide is turning. One is sorry of the colony get a fair show to learn trades. : to see it, but we cannot shut our eyes to the I consider the boys should not be kept out, as fact. Meat is going down in price. The in- the boys wo. Id be able. when they grow up, to : creased price of meat, which was caused by the take the places of the men when they are knocked out. Then, with regard to the action of the Shipping and Seamen's Act, what do we hind? We find foreign seamen on almost all our -hips, whilst boys are not allowed to learn " mand in South Africa ceases? We ought to to be seamen. Now, I was very much sur- prised to hear the statements made by the bonourable member for Parnell in his speech to-day, because I hold in my hand the report of a speech delivered by him to his constituents at Parnell shortly before the session. He said, " One of the great problems of the age was how to deal with the labour question, but at the same time it seemed to him that labour was i assure this House that the farmers will rise like running mad." That is what the honourable . one man, and they are the largest section of the member said. How does that statement com -! community, and the most important, because pare with what he has just said? Now, Sir, I tract, why should not this Act be made to apply to farmers' unions? The farmers, I may tell the Premier, are banding together now-not the Premier supposes, but men of all shades of political opinion. 1 therefore intend to move that farmers' unions be included when this Bill is in Committee. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will the Premier accept farmers' unions ? Mr. SEDDON. - I accept anything that is good. Mr. BOLLARD .- I do not see why farmers' unions or any other unions should be left out, amendment in the Act in the direction I have suggested, he will shortly find that the farmers are determined upon having some alteration with regard to the price of produce in this by the war in South Africa. It is caused by the extravagant expenditure of a million of money every year-borrowed money too. It is caused by the separator and the freezing of meat. There are indications now that the time of prosperity is changing, and when the large for money now. We may have a time of ad- versity, and that will be the time when the consider their position with regard to the price of labour and the price of produce. There is war in some measure, compensated the farmers of the country for the loss in the price of wool ; but we now find that meat is going down : and what will be the price of oats when the de- be careful and to look ahead, and not go too fast with those indications looming in the distance. Now, Sir, as I have said before, something ought to be done for the farmers. We had a Bill before the House last night-I do not wish further to refer to it than to say that it was to fix the price of labour to farmers, and to restrict the hours of labour. I can we cannot live without them. They will rise as 