two different matters to the House. The first is with regard to the purchase of land for settlement, and the second is with regard to the financial position of the colony as at 31st December. I hold in my hand the New Zea- land Gazette of 16th May, No. 48 : "State- ment of Receipts and Expenditure under the Land for Settlements Account for the Year ended 31st March, 1901," and in that I find that there is a table stating the acquirement of estates. Opposite that there is another table stating the purchase-money, giving the names of the various estates that are reported in this statement to have been acquired and the purchase - moneys paid. The amount stated therein as having been paid during the finan- cial year is $186,621. I therefore state that, in having informed the House that these were the purchase - moneys, and that these were the blocks that had been acquired and purchased by the Government during the year, I was speaking under the authority of one of the Government's own returns, published by them as part of the financial accounts of the colony. I do not see how they can be said to have purchased lands until they have paid for them. With regard to the second matter. I regret to say that the honourable gentleman did not in this case produce the black-book. Had he done so he would have seen that I never stated that there was a deficit ; neither did I say there was a debit balance in connection with the accounts of the colony. What I did state was this : that at the 31st December, according to the Public Accounts of the colony, . the balance in the hands of the Treasurer was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 $397,000. I find here, on page 303 of the New Zealand Gazette of the 31st January, 1901, that the position was that $397,542 16s. 5d. was the net balance in hand on that date, after deduct- ing ₺870,000 of Treasury bills. An Hon. MEMBER .- You said the end of the financial year. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- 1 never said the financial year. 1 was speaking at Riccarton before the close of the financial year. I spoke at the end of February. I was only able to deal with the published accounts up to the 31st December. Although the Government started the financial year with £605,000 of a surplus, $500.000 of which was to be passed over to the Public Works Fund, down to the 31st December they had not paid over one penny to the Public Works Fund, and I said that, as their total credit balance at the 31st December was $397,000, it would follow that, if they had paid the $500.000 to the Public Works Fund, they must have absorbed the whole of the cash balance they had at that period and borrowed $103,000 to make the $500,000 due to the Public Works Fund. The Premier spoke shortly afterwards at Hokitika, and said that the money was paid over to the Public Works Fund, but he admitted that the first payment made during the financial year to the Public Works Fund was made on the 13th January, and the last was on the 27th March of this year. That is my personal explanation. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, Sir, it is a 3.0. very long one, and I hope you will allow me the same length of time. In the first place, I will commence where the honourable member left off. He was misstating the posi- tion when he said that there was only a credit balance of $397,000; and then he said, take the $525,000 due to the Public Works Fund and it shows a deficit of nearly $200,000. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I never said so. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member says he never said so. He said that there was a deficit at that stage, and he wants to make out that during the last three months the $530,000 of surplus came to the colony. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- So it did. You read your own accounts. Mr. SEDDON .-- The honourable member is only misleading the public, because between the 31st December and the 31st March the $500,000 was transferred to the Public Works Fund. Take the $200,000 we were alleged to be behind, add to it the $500,000 paid to Public Works Fund, and it means that in three months we pulled up $700.000 of money. All I can say is, it is owing to the honourable member's ignorance of finance. I have the honourable member this time, as I have his exact words. Now, these are the words : "The total purchases for the last financial year amounted to $186,621. Of that no less than €141,618 is made up of purchase-money for Hatuma." Is anything clearer than that he means the total purchases? He is now trying to add that he only referred to the amount paid. I will give the estates, as certified to by the Land Purchase Inspector :- Acres. Price. Hawke's Bay- 41 Hatuma 26,350 141.618 19,550 Mangatoro 87.975 .. Wellington- Langdale 9,406 30,669 . . Mangawhata .. 1,226 16,129 3,000 Maungaraki 423 .. . . 103 Epuni 9,146 Marlborough -- Waipapa 8,250 3,600 . . Canterbury- Lyndon 4,243 15.750 .. Kohika 3,864 28,093 .. Raincliff 745 2.424 Taranaki 32 2,858 . . .. Pukaka 981 39 . . 300 Mrs. Delargy . . 100 . . Otago- 1,152 3,000 Earnscleugh . . Total .. 70,833 £350,193 .. "In a former statement, 'North Bank Es- tate, 12,800 acres, cost $6,750,' was included in error, the date of agreement to purchase being the 14th March, 1900, and date of completion the 31st March, 1901. This accounts for the discrepancy from the former totals-namely, 82.974 acres, and $356,850. Of the above sums £87,442 was paid in April, 1901. Mangatoro and Mrs. Delargy not paid yet." 