because it is cut in quarter-acre sections. We all know that if men want to go to settle some little distance away from their . work they do not want a quarter-acre section ; they want And I believe a three, four, or tive acres. great mistake is made, in cutting up these lands for settlement, in not cutting them up into larger blocks. If these sections had been cut up into two-, three-, or four-acre blocks every one would have been taken up, and more to boot. The honourable gentleman also referred in any- thing but complimentary terms to the railway employés. I know that it is a very easy thing for a country member to speak disparagingly of railway employés ; but it is not fair to these employés, all the same. There is no reason that I should appear here as a champion of the rail- way employes, and I am not going to do it. am told there is a deluge of applications for every vacancy that occurs in the railway service, and I am often surprised at men of fair ability and education striving to get into a position in which, when they rise to the highest rung of the ladder, they can only get 9s. or 10s. a day. But, on the other hand, numbers are anxious to know that their bread-and-butter is sure, and they are quite content with that, and that explains why such large numbers apply for these situations; and I think we may say, without flattering the employes, that they carry out their duties in a creditable manner, and earn every red cent they get. The honourable member for Masterton referred to the treat- ment of the cadets at Christchurch. Now, I went to the Normal School and interviewed the boys and their officers, and one and all told me https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 that they were warm at nights, that there was plenty of food, and that the food was good, although it was served in a rough way ; and I think, if we realise that there were crowded into one building nearly two thousand cadets in the depth of winter, there was not a great deal to complain about. But, after all, the proof of the pudding is in the eating ; and the fact that so many boys were taken down there and went through all those ceremonies and parades in the depth of winter, and that there were only two cases of illness, reflects, I think, credit on The honourable member the whole concern. for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) was the next speaker, and he gave us a long list of needed reforms. I know what a sincere and ardent re- former he is ; he is in deadly earnest about all he undertakes. But I hope he will bear with me if I draw his attention to the fact that if he attempts too much he is apt to get nothing ; and if, out of the long list of reforms he gave us last night, he would devote his energy and his earnestness to one or two of them he would accomplish more than by spreading his energies over a score of reforms, each one of which might be good of itself. After all, you can have too much of a good thing. I remember reading of a negro gentleman who believed he could only satisfy his religious aspirations by i that can befall any civilised country is to have public immersion, and he got some one to immerse him in a river before a large con- ; to unduly increase the number of military men gregation ; and as he emerged from the river in a half-drowned condition, spluttering and . ing of the Maori, and I am pleased to hear Laurenson perity, that " some day some gentleman nigger was going to get drowned with such hanged foolishness as this." I believe it is a mistake to try and force too many reforms on the House. At the same time, I believe the honourable gentleman is in earnest, and I only wish he would confine his efforts to two or three of the reforms he advocates, and, if he did, they would soon be brought to pass. The Address in Reply dealt first and foremost with the death of the Queen. Sir, we all revere the Queen's memory, but we know that in the course of nature she was bound to die, and having reached a ripe old age, and passed away with little pain and full of years and honour, it is not a cause for lamentation, but a cause for rejoicing ; and we only trust that those who I succeed her will keep their Court as clean and leave as great a name behind them as she did. The next thing in the Address is the reference to the military forces ; and here I would like to impress upon this House the undesirability of fostering the military spirit more than is neces- sary. I believe, if there is one class and one thing that will retard any country it is the military class, and the fostering of the spirit of militarism. I had the pleasure of seeing the representatives of the British army who marched through our country, and most of them were good specimens of men; but, with regard to many of the officers we came into contact with down South, I am afraid that they did not im- prove on acquaintance. My experience of them was that they treated the men under them as if they were an inferior stamp of being entirely. In Canterbury they sent us word that the committees were to remember that they were not going to dine under the same roof as their men ; and when that sort of thing takes place in a country where most men are equal I do not think it is calculated to raise those men in our estimation ; and, on the whole, as regards their courtesy and general bearing, I do not think those officers impressed any of us. I do not believe in militarism, and I think we are beginning to get too much of it, and that it would be as well to set our faces against any increase of our military expenditure. It was said that at the burial of the late Queen one of the greatest sights was the galaxy of be- medalled, furbelowed princes and officers who rode behind her funeral car. They were resplendent with beautiful uniforms and feathers; but amongst them all there was one gentleman dressed in plain black, and yet he had the honour of representing one of the greatest nations on earth, because he repre- sented the Republic of America; while beside and around him marched the representatives of Bulgaria, Servia, Roumania, and other Courts, dressed in military grandeur, gew-gaws, and splendour. As far as. I am concerned, 1 only hope that we shall realise that the worst thing an undue accession of the military spirit and around you. The Address refers to the awaken- 