Amendment negatived, words retained, and , NEW COMMANDANT OF THE FORCES. clause agreed to. Bill reported. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to four o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thusday, 11th July, 1901. First Readings - Hours of Sitting - New Com- r. andant of the Forces - Sta e-school . hildren- Compulsory Drill Bill - Eight hours Bill. Mr. Speaker took the chair at half past two o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Prevention of Employment of Women in Dangerous Trades Bill, Remuera Waterworks Construction Empowering Bill. HOURS OF SITTING. Mr. SPEAKER said that it would be recol- lected that the House had the previous day passed a resolution to meet on Government dass at half-past ten in the morning, and to devote those days to Government business. Sme misunderstanding had arisen over the resolution, and he thought it better to remind the House of the purport of the resolution. It stated "that on the first day for morning sittings only orders of the day shall be taken." To-morrow would be the first day for this rule coming into operation. They would therefore meet next day (Friday, 12th instant) at half- past ten in the morning, and transact business connected with Government orders of the day only, up to half-past ten in the evening, when the House would rise. On Tuesday, as he understood the resolution, questions would be put to the Government on the House meeting at half-past ten, and then the House would proceed to the Government orders of the day. As the House would meet at half-past ten, he should, as he had sometimes done before, take the sense of the House about one o'clock as to his leaving the chair until half- past two. He proposed to leave the chair at one o'clock, to resume it at half-past two, and, continuing Government business, to leave the chair at half-past five as usual, resuming it at half-past seven, and continuing Government business. He presumed the House would dis- pense with the present supper adjournment on Fridays and Tuesdays at ten o'clock, as the House would, under the new resolution, rise at half-past ten o'clock p.m. on those days. Mr. SEDDON .- That is my intention. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Do I understand that questions are not to be put on Friday ? Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- There is no- thing in the resolution to that effect. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable gentleman has evidently not read it. We propose to go on | That this paper do lie on the table and be with the orders of the day. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) .-- I in- dicated to the House yesterday that I should be able to announce to the House the course proposed to be taken by the Government in respect to the appointment of a Commandant to succeed Colonel Penton. The Government communicated with the Commander-in-Chief, in the first place, asking what section of the army he thought the Commandant should be- long to, and his reply was that he thought the officer best suited would be one who had had experience in South Africa with mounted in- fantry. We then further communicated with the War Office, asking its assistance in advising us as to the selection of an officer. They have given that assistance, and they have recom- mended Major and Brevet- Colonel St. George Charles Henry, who is shown in the Army List as follows :- "Twenty-two years' full-pay service. He is the third on the list of majors of the 5th Regiment (Northumberland Fusiliers), being senior major of the 3rd Battalion. He was made a brevet lieutenant-colonel on the 6th July, 1899, and brevet colonel on the 14th March, 1900, and is shown as having com- manded the 4th Corrs of Mounted Infantry in South Africa since 4th April, 1980. He served in the Dongola Expeditionary Force under Sir Herbert Kitchener, in 1896, with the Camel Corps, including engagement at Firket and operations at Hafir (mentioned in despatches, British medal, and Khedive's medal with two clasps) ; in the operations in 1897 (clasp to Khedive's medal) ; in 1898 with the 1st Bat- talion Northumberland Fusiliers (5th Regi- ment), present at the Battle of Khartoum (mentioned in despatches), at the operations at Gedaref (mentioned in despatches) ; brevet of lieutenant-colonel, clasp to Khedive's medal, in the operations in 1899, resulting in the final defeat of the Khalifa, in command of the Camel Corps flying column, and including the engage- ments at Abu Aadel and On Dubreikat (men- tioned in despatches, brevet of colonel)." The following is an extract from the London Gazette, dated 16th April, 1901, page 2604 :- "Colonel St. G. Henry, Northumberland Fusiliers, has repeatedly shown to advantage as a leader of men, and as Commanding Officer of the 4th Corps of Mounted Infantry he has done excellent work." Then, there was another extract from the Landom Gazette, dated the 19th April, 1901, at page 2696 :- " Order of the Bath .- To be ordinary mem- bers of the Military Division of the Third Class, or Companions of the said Most Honourable Major and Brevet-Colonel Order, viz. : . St. George Charles Henry, the Northumberland Fusiliers." The terms and conditions which we propose to offer are the same as at present enjoyed by Colonel Penton. It is the intention of the Government to give the first refusal of the posi- tion to Colonel St. Henry. I will move now, printed. 