of saving it, but because I believe that it is { profitably settled - in fact, more profitably necessary that the thing should be exposed be- fore the public of this colony. I endeavoured to have this matter out with the officers of the department, and before I came into the House I say that I failed with the Minister, and when I failed with the department to get this matter put right I did what I believed was right: I brought it up in this House, and the floor of this House is the place for me to ventilate what I believe to be an injustice, and as long as I am a member I shall continue to do so. Just a word or two in conclusion- Mr. WILFORD. Ha! nearly time. Mr. HORNSBY .- The stupid interruptions of the member for the Suburbs will not divert me for one moment from what I have got to say. An Hon. MEMBER. - Why take notice, then. Mr. HORNSBY .-- You can be worried by a little dog snapping at you in the street. Now, Sir, just a few words in conclusion with regard to the question of land purchase. The other night, in response to an interjection by myself while this Bill was going through the Commit- tee stages, the Right Hon. the Premier said that if the amendment moved by the member for Hawke's Bay was passed we would get no land purchased in the Wairarapa. Very well. we have had no land purchased in the Wairarapa, and so far as I can make out An Hon. MEMBER. - What about Langdale ? Mr. HORNSBY .- Langdale is in the Master- ton electorate. It is on the East Coast. I say this, and I believe that the Right Hon. the Pre- mier is aware of it, and I believe that he regrets it as much as any one else does : that numerous https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 offers of land have been made in the Wairarapa i bers of this House, and I am more than glad to by the present owners, none of which has been accepted. An Hon. MEMBER. - Look at the quality of the land. Mr. HORNSBY .- The honourable member knows as much about the quality of the land as he does about good taste. There are many estates in the Wairarapa the owners of which are perfectly willing and ready to sell to the Government. There are estates which can be purchased, and which will be readily settled by the young men in that part of New Zealand, and that was one of the reasons why I opposed clause 8 of this Bill when it first came down. I opposed it because I know that hundreds of young men in the Wairarapa are anxiously waiting to get the opportunity to settle upon a piece of country. They do not care what it is - bush land, open land, any land you like-open it for them in the Wairarapa and they will take it up. They are saving money for the purpose, as they desire to do what is right and proper in the young men of this country- that is, to be- come worthy settlers. I would now impress as far as I can upon the Government the necessity for testing what I have said here: that there : are landholders in the Wairarapa who are will- ; that rebate of 10 per cent. to the Crown tenants ing and even anxious to sell to the Government. I believe if the owners of the Dry River and other estates in the Lower Valley were ap- proached they would sell to the Government at fair market-values, and that land could be freehold system ; secondly, Sir, as I pointed settled than some of the purchases already made in this colony. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I have no intention to attempt anything like a defence of the land-for-settlement policy, nor do I deem it necessary that any such endeavour should be made. Nor do I intend to follow the example of previous speakers in detaining the House while I make anything approaching an -- electioneering harangue or platform address. All that is necessary to say on this Bill has al- ready been said, and, as this is a motion for the third reading of the Bill, honourable members will agree with me that the shorter we make our remarks the better it will be for the House. I would not have risen at all, Sir, but for the ex- press purpose of putting upon record two mat- ters which I think are of sufficient importance Į to require it. The House will remember that when in Committee an additional clause was moved by the honourable member for Auckland City, Mr. Fowlds. That clause was to the fol- lowing effect : -- " Section fifty-two of the principal Act is here. by repealed. and also ' The Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act, 1900,' in so far as it applies to any land held under the principal Act, and the fol- lowing substituted : "Where in any case, in the opinion of the Land Board. the rent is too - high. the Minister, on the recommendation of the Land Board, may make such reduction of the rent as the Minister and the said Land Board may deem reasonable." " Now, Sir. I believe that that resolution would have commended itself to the majority of mem- say that the leader of the House himself ex- pressed his concurrence with at least the first part of that clause. He himself agreed that it was necessary that section 55 of the principal Act should be repealed. But one or two objec- tions were raised by members who themselves were favourable to the principle underlying the clause, and on the recommendation of the Premier it was deemed advisable to withdraw this clause so that the Premier himself might, as he undertook to do, bring down an amending Bill dealing with the whole question that is embodied in the Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act. Now, Sir, I take this opportunity of most heartily and sincerely congratulating the Minis- ter on having decided to take that step. There is no need for me now, Sir, to remind the House of the extremely bitter and accrimonious debates that took place last year on this question. And I would not have spoken to-night, 10.30. Sir, but, as I took a very considerable part in the debate, I am delighted that the Premier has promised now to take the lead in remodelling the whole Act so far as this par- ticular difficulty is concerned. Speaking for myself, the chief ground of my objection to was the fact, first of all, that I thought it was the thin end of the wedge which must eventually lead to the ultimate destruction of the present system of land tenure and the readoption of the 