Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he presumed the honourable member's question had arisen through the strike at Palmerston. The report upon that matter was now under consideration by Cabinet, and until it had been fully considered he was unable to say what might be done. He was apprised by the General Manager that during the recent strike of one gang at Palmerston North seven teen men were obtained within two hours, and a large number of other men made application, but could not be found places. Some of these men, who were being paid 9s. per day by contrac- tors, stated that they preferred working in the railway ballast gang at 7s. per day, as they lost so much time in other employment. This pointed to the fact that the rate of wages paid by the department was a fair one. That was the report of the General Manager. He might state that the whole question of the way in which ballast-gangs were being paid by the department was now under consideration. In a matter of this sort, while they de- 3.30. sired to be fair and reasonable, they had also to be just to the colony itself. There were a great many men employed casually in ballast-gangs all over the colony, and, as the honourable member knew, no Government with responsibility on its shoulders could hurriedly arrive at a decision which might mean an enor- mous dislocation of the working of the depart- ment from end to end of the colony. So far the effort of the Government had been to raise the wages of the men to the highest reasonable rate, and they were prepared to continue on the same lines in the future. The whole question of the employment and payment of ballast- gangs was worthy of consideration, and the matter would be taken into consideration by the Government. Mr. PIRANI might say, in regard to that strike, he thought the men were entirely in the wrong. Investigation had proved that; and the only reference he had made to it was that owing to that occurrence the conditions of their service and the rate of pay was made public. He had no sympathy with that strike, and, so far as the administration was concerned, he thought there was no fault to be found. PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister of Public Health, When the Government intend to make regulations, in pursuance and in exer- cise of the powers and authorities conferred by section 101 of " The Public Health Act, 1900," dealing with,-(1) The inspection and analysis of drugs, chemicals, and patent medicines ; (2) prohibiting the sale and providing for the destruction of such drugs, chemicals, and patent medicines as are adulterated ; and (3) requiring the ingredients of patent medicines to be dis- closed at or prior to the sale thereof? He wished to know if the Minister had had regula- tions prepared with a view of giving effect to the sections of the Public Health Act he had re- ferred to in his question. The Hon. the Minister was quite aware that there was a large amount of worthless medicines placed on the market, and he hoped the honourable gentleman would bring into operation the regulations suggested, and to a certain extent protect the public from unscrupulous vendors of what was in many cases valueless proprietary and patent medicines. Not only were many of these medicines value- less, but positively injurious, unless ordered under medical advice. They were advertised to cure all the ills that flesh was heir to, and oftentimes supported by bogus testimonials. Now he thought, as the colony was making great strides with the care and supervision of the public health, something should immediately be done to prevent the innocent and ignorant from being imposed upon. If people knew what many of these quack medicines were composed of they would not buy them. There were many persons who, when in dire straits, were ready to purchase and take any patent medicine or nostrum with a view of curing their complaints or disease, and it was absolutely necessary in the interests of those people that a check should be placed on the sale of such quack medicines as were simply worthless and would not do the slightest good. In the interests of the working- classes largely, who spent a great amount of money in purchasing such goods, it would be a humane and beneficial act to issue regulations making it compulsory on all proprietary and patent medicine vendors to have labelled upon the bottles a statement or certificate of the in_re- dients contained therein-in other words, that all patent or proprietary medicines have on the box, bottle, or packet a printed statement setting forth the component parts contained therein. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) said the regulations had not yet been drawn up ; and the reason was that the Public Health De- - - part ment, since it had been in existence, had been very busy upon important health matters in different parts of the colony, which had taken up the whole of the time of the Heal h Officers appointed so far. During the last day or two the Government had appointed one or two other Health Officers, who were now taking up the work of the department. He was quite in accord with the honourable member in the expressions he had given ut erance to as to the necessity of some hing being done in connection with these patent medicines. He thought that the ingredients of each bottle should be labelled on the outside, so that the neurotic medicine- eater who from time to time indulged in these nostrums might really know what they were taking ; and he might say he would see that the Public Health Department made an analysis of these patent medicines at the earliest possible date, in order that the public might have some idea of what they were composed of. Some were no doubt very good, but more often they were mere rubbish. He could only say that the point brought under the notice of the Government by the honourable member was a very important one for the masses of the people of the colony, and he thought the depar ment should be very careful to see that those who took hose patent medicines-nos rums, they really wert. many of them-should have some idea of what they were consuming. 