there I should have said so too-will not his \-namely, the working-classes. I am sorry to see words stand inverted, and should I not say, that the honourable member for Wallace is not "Inasmuch as you argued that no one had a in his place, because he is an open and honest right to deprive you of the emoluments for champion of what has passed down to history as " the £40 steal." He implied, although which you contracted with the people, there- fore you should say no logic, nor reason, nor he did not say it directly in his speech, that every member of the House who voted for honesty could defend the increasing of your it and those who had voted against it had salary during the time of the currency of your drawn the money and pocketed it for their own service." I wished, for the sake of others, to use. He argued that, having accepted it from say as little as possible about the £40 allowance to members at the time; I did not wish to the Treasury, they must have utilised it for make a hullabaloo about it, especially as most their own benefit in some way. I would like to have told him that in my view it was necessary of us had sat up during the long and weary that an honourable member should take delivery nights while Ministers and a good many of their supporters worked in relays, and of it before he could divest himself of it, because had so manned down the feeble and nu- it would lie to his credit in the Treasury so long merically small Opposition till we had not as this Parliament existed, and it could be said, strength nor mental energy enough to resist. and would be said, that he had only left it there until the scent had cooled, in order that he But now the proposal to increase the salary during the currency of Parliament, and give might go later on and lift it. That is the reason why, as soon as might be, I went to the Trea- members the advantage of it, is as wrong sury, drew the money, and immediately walked as the attempted filching of part of the to the Bank of New Zealand and paid it into honorarium for which the honourable gentle- the Public Account, whence, in my opinion, it man had contracted in 1887 during the term of had been improperly taken. I am not singular his services in that Parliament, and it will be in that respect, but there are others in this hard for him to find any logic to justify an House who do not choose to make capital out argument to the contrary. The Public Revenues Act is one of the wickedest and most undemo- of that sort of thing: but they were so heartily ashamed of the matter that they wanted it cratic and most tyrannical measures that any disposed of as soon as possible. Now, in his representative Chamber has ever permitted its. speech the other night, in the very few Ministry to put through. It puts into the hands of the Ministry of the day the absolute moments that the Premier had to spare on general subjects-in the very few minutes he control of the purse. I instance a case in con- had left over from cudgelling his erstwhile nection with the Conciliation and Arbitration supporter, the member for Riccarton - he Act of last year. In section 112, this House defended that misappropriation, and also the inserted an amendment debarring the Minister Public Revenues Bill. I turned to the Speech of the day from fixing the emoluments of the of the honourable member for Kumara in 1887, President of the Arbitration Court; and yet, when the debate on the reduction of honor- Sir, notwithstanding, by the aid of this in- arium was on in this Chamber, and there I iquitous measure, the express will of Parlia- found the honourable gentleman the ment, as set down in the statute law, is set 1.30. strongest advocate of adhering to a at naught and reviled, and the fees of the contract. He argued, and properly so, that President of the Arbitration Court are ab- there had been a contract with the electors solutely gazetted at £2 2s. a day during the time he is hearing a case, or travelling. when that Parliament was elected that he was to receive a certain remuneration for the life of to or from any part of the colony to hear & case, which in theory and in practice means that Parliament-at least during the term of the whole year through. The time of the his service in that Parliament. That is a good puisne Judge who has been intrusted with the sound democratic argument; he has always work of the Court of Arbitration is almost ex- consistently argued that the servant is worthy of his hire, and so have I; for that also is a clusively taken up in arbitration work. From good and sound argument. He also said he knew no reason why he should sacrifice himself on the altar of popularity in order that he lous position-which, perhaps, was intended- might starve. He upheld the right of a man to payment for his services, and so would .I. But will not his argument turn end for end ? Can I not invert his argument and say that if it was a contract that the payment should not be diminished during the term of that Parliament, is it not also a contract that the payment should not be increased ? If during the time of depression- and it was un- fortunately a time of depression, as he had to admit in his speech-if during the time of de- pression the argument held good, that though there was a necessity for the strictest kind of retrenchment, yet he saw no reason why he should offer up a sacrifice-and if I had been all we can judge by the cases pending, his work will be perennial, and we shall find the anoma- that one of the junior Judges will be drawing a salary superior to that of the Chief Justice of the colony. Although that may please some who hold extreme partisan views, I do not think it can be said to be based on justice, fairness, or a sense of the fitness of things. I will now leave that matter, and will make just one more reference to the Address from the Throne, and, as I have already promised, Sir, it will be short. One paragraph says, "I regret to say that the war in South Africa still continues." Sir, to that expression of regret I give my most sincere Amen. I do regret that it continues, and it was by no wish of mine it has continued so long, or indeed that 