character? I do not believe it for a single moment. He asked us, "Could we have got during the last ten years such great reforms as we have achieved?" and he instanced the land-settlement policy. Now, what on earth difference would it have made? I under- take to say that had the elective Executive been in force the Minister of Lands under that system would have been the Hon. John McKenzie. The best man for the position would have been placed there. I am quite con- vinced that the Premier would have occupied the seat he does now, and so also would the Minister for Railways; but there would be at least the satisfaction that they occupied their positions by the will and consent of the party, and, that being so, they would have the un- swerving loyalty of the members of the House whom they really represented. The Premier suggested that this was a very grave and serious constitutional change. I admit it is a grave and serious constitutional change, but I will undertake to say the position into which mem- bers of the House are driven demands this great and constitutional change. I would ask mem- bers not to treat lightly this serious and grave change that is proposed. I can assure honour- able gentlemen I shall not attempt that change merely for the sake of change, and the remarks I am now making I make with no light- hearted spirit of caprice, but because I believe something of the kind is absolutely essential to maintain the Liberal party on these Liberal lines of reform for which it has been intrusted with the power it possesses ; and it is to main- tain the stability and solidity of that party in the interests of the country itself that I speak https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 as I am now doing. We were told that at the last general election the country decided upon the party which was to represent the country and exercise the functions of government. So it did. But the introduction of this Bill, and the adoption of this principle, will in no wise affect the decision of the electors at the ballot- box. In what way would it ? The real prin- ciple of the Bill would not abolish parties in this House. It would simply place the pre- dominant party in power to do work that is not possible under present circumstances, and would place the representatives of the people in that position which they have a right to occupy in this House. I do not know that there is any need for me to say more. remember on one occasion I opposed this Bill for a similar reason to that for which I am disposed to oppose it to-night. To my mind every detail of the Bill requires alteration. could not be a party to the election of a Pre- mier for twelve months only. It would be a preposterous thing. I do not think that twenty- five members should have the right to petition for the removal of members from the Cabinet. I think these matters require considerable modi- fication, but I think members professing Liberal principles should accede to the principle under- lying this Bill. I do not advocate, as the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) did, that we should accept the principle and vote against the Bill. I accede to the prin- ciple, and if the Bill gets into Committee I shall endeavour to amend it in the direction I suggest ; and if it is not carried in that form I should, on the third reading, be disposed to vote against it rather than that it should go on the statute- book with the many blemishes I now see in it. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City). I desire to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins). who has just sat down, unwittingly misrepre- sented me. He stated that I admitted that I was in favour of the principle of this Bill, and that notwithstanding that admission the whole of iny argument was directed against the prin- ciple of the Bill. What I said in my spoch was that I was in favour of the principle of Ministers being elected by the members of the predominant party for the time being. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti). - I should like to say a few words on this Bill. I cannot understand the Hon. Major Steward, who les been a staunch supporter of the Liberal party and a strong party-man for the last five-and- twenty years, bringing forward a measure having for its object the defeat of party govern- Whatever the honourable gentleman s ment. political feelings have been all these long years he never declared himself to be an independent in politics, and I think if he had he would nt have retained the confidence of his con-ti- tuents so long as he has done. There is no doubt the honourable gentleman is an exe 1- lent representative, and that he enjoys the confidence and esteem of his constituents because he has exercised for so long his grat ability on strong party lines. He is a man . hat can be trusted. Sir, I believe the honouraile gentleman is actuated with the very punct motives, and with the best desire to improve the condition of politics in this country. But what has he offered us in exchange, what has he to give us as a substitute ? He desires to su: si- tute a system of Government that is beset w. th insuperable difficulties, and I believe, if the El was given effect to, it would plunge this country into great dangers. Sir, I have read the hon- un- able gentleman's speech on the second reading of his Bill in 1896. A very excellent speech i: was, and he finished a most eloquent perorati u with these words : "I hear at the very door- of this House the feet of them that shall bear it [party government ] forth to its burial, unw pt. unhonoured, and unsung." Sir, the footf .. . I of the undertakers that were to bury p .... government have now become silent. We have had five more years of progressive legislation is this country, and that has increased the vitase I of party government. Sir, in 1896 the second reading of the Elective Executive Bill & :s carried by the casting-vote of yourself. Attr that, a general election took place, the ii was reintroduced into Parliament, and second reading was lost by fourteen votes. I take that in a great measure to express the f. :- ing of the country that this measure was to: required. There might have been a 12.30. time when a change might have te desirable. In the old Conservative days ..... might have been the case, but since the adveil 