examined in Marlborough, and I believe they are so examined in Nelson, and I fancy they are also so examined in Westland. But certain Boards, either because their Inspectors are overworked or from sectarian feeling on the part of members of the Board -- or the pre- dominating party in the Board -refused to ex- amine the "private " schools. All I can authoritatively is Southland. speak about The schools there are regularly examined, even to what are called the " high schools" in the convents, with the most beneficial results. The managers of these schools and the parents of the children attending them are very grate- ful for these examinations. There is more in this motion than appears on the surface, in this way : it touches the question of the ne- cessity for Inspectors of public schools being brought under central control, and of one system being in vogue throughout the colony. I believe there is a Bill with that object in view in another place; but it is in the hands of a private member, and very likely it will never reach the Council. The question is one of great importance. My resolution, how- ever, merely asks for a simple return stating what Boards have examined private schools and what Boards have refused to do so. The Hon. Mr. REEVES. -- I have very great pleasure in seconding the motion of the Hon. Mr. Feldwick. I think it only right that In- spectors of schools should in every case examine private schools. There are various reasons why they should do so. In the first place, private schools are to a very great extent a saving to the Government, and we have it on record -- I have seen it myself . that those private schools https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 -convent schools and others take a far higher standard than the Government schools do. It Take ordinary education is so in every case. and music : you will find that the Catholic schools obtain a far higher standard than is obtained in the other schools. I do not care who says to the contrary, I know that to be a fact. My opinion is that Education Boards throughout the colony should have no control whatever over the inspection -that the inspection should be made by officers appointed by the Govern- ment, who would be free from all local influ- ence ; and I trust the time will come when the (Government will see its way to act in that direction. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY. -- Personally, I have no objection to private schools being ex- amined, but I do object to their being examined by the ordinary Inspectors of the Education Boards. The function of the Education Boards is to administer the Education Act to the best of their ability and local knowledge, and. if their Inspectors are to be hampered by being compelled to examine all private schools which may apply to be so examined. I think that will be very unjust indeed to the public schools, because a great portion of the time of the In- spectors will be taken up in inspecting pri- vate schools. If it is considered a politie thing or a correct thing to examine private schools, I think that should be done by a different staff of officers, supplied by the General Government ; but to say that the Education Boards shall be compelled to examine all private schools when the children of those schools could go to the public schools -- I do not think it would be right. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- There is no doubt a good deal in the complaint of the honourable gentleman who has just spoken - that the Boards of Education have been crippled in means; but there is no doubt that the Legis- lature intended that every private school in the colony should be examined if it wished to be examined. It was considered an advantage to the country that no school of any standing could venture to remain unexamined by an Inspector : the public would thus have some guarantee as to the quality of the teaching in private as well as in public schools. That was the intention of the Legislature, and I regret that it has not been carried out by. all the Education Boards. With regard to inspection, I have always been of opinion that the In- spectors should be under the control of the Department of Education. I dread the effects of centralisation, and should strongly object to departmental interference with the general management of primary schools ; but inspec- tion stands on a different footing. I think that Inspectors should be removed from time to time from one district to another, and not remain too long going the round of the same schools. The present system appears to me wrong altogether. Inspectors now have not the time to do their work thoroughly. It is too often a question of examination, whereas examining children is the least important duty of an In- spector. What we want of Inspectors is that they should be guides and helpers of the teachers, especially in outlying districts. They should watch their manner of teaching ; take note of special ability, and encourage those who have to struggle with difficulties ; point out where they are wrong ; and, in fact, appear at the schools as friends rather than as dreaded examiners dropping on schools only to find fault. They should be able to recognise and not to snub originality. I do not think there are enough Inspectors. There is always little enough money for the proper maintenance of the schools, and therefore there is a tend- ency to reduce the number of Inspectors. I do not think it is realised how important the visits of properly qualified Inspectors are throughout the country, especially in the case of detached schools -- schools at a distance from the centres of population-in order to keep up the standard of education to what it ought to be. I should be very glad to see a special vote passed for inspection on a larger scale than exists at present. so that the whole scope of the Inspec- tors' duties might be enlarged, and that they should have time to give more attention to the working of schools than is now contemplated by most of the Education Boards. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - The non-inspec- tion of private schools is quite contrary to the intention of the Education Act and to the policy of the country. The policy of the i country is compulsory education, and you allow, 