the Bank of New Zealand to be in a dangerous : only the initial but also the immediate cause position and say, " You wind it up." Well, of the bank getting into the position in which what does that mean? It means that, as the : it was, of having to sell or go into the Court. Bank of New Zealand was just entering on a ! Now, assuming that there have been losses new and, it was hoped, a successful career, I in these two accounts of $120,000 or $130,000, if it had been called upon,-as it would you will see that, with the $100,000 they have have been called upon, under the circum- stances I have described, -- to wind up these accounts, Mr. Larnach's view and my view for over $460.000, the question is, Where has was that the Bank of New Zealand, sooner the large difference gone to ? No one knows ; than incur the odium which would have at- you cannot get any information whatever on tached to the immediate realisation of these this subject, and therefore there is a further accounts, would have come to terms with the reason why the Government should take some Colonial Bank, and have given them a good steps to let the public know how this is, because proportion of that marginal sum of $272,000 in if it is admitted that we can have big trans- order to get the whole thing swept away, and actions like this in the Courts without anybody thus preserve the prestige of the bank and the being a bit the wiser, I say it is a very bad state interests of many of their own clients, who might of things. Now. dealing with this particular ac- possibly be creditors of those who had been count which I have mentioned, there was a special clients of the Colonial Bank. But, Sir. that advance to the account of $20,000. I believe, upon special security placed in a special warehouse, was not adopted. In the first instance, the C list was handed back to the Colonial Bank, and and for which warrants were given to the bank for the Colonial Bank proceeded to liquidate the heaviest accounts in it ; and I am informed on it is understood, handed over to the debtor this very good authority-an authority to the asser- asset, so members will see that there were two tions of which I can almost give full credence positions. First of all, there was the general -that the realisation of these accounts has account, involving $40,000 or $50,000, and been far more than was anticipated. I know, then there was a Special Advance Account, in- myself-and I was engaged in one particularly volving, we will say, 920.000. Now, you would large account in connection with the C list -- think that any liquidators dealing with a . that I made an offer, in conjunction with position like that, where there is a general another gentleman, for the assets, and I under. account with a very large advance, and which stand that my offer has been very largely exceeded in the realisation, and which amount very intangible and rambling sort of things, is reducible also by the enormous expenses that would have kept their fingers closely on the have been incurred in the liquidation owing to the long delay that has taken place. Well. Sir, told, and I believe it is a fact -if it is not so the next thing was that, owing to a suggestion which was thrown out by his Honour Mr. that I am saying a very serious thing-I am Justice Williams that no public intimation told that that twenty thousand pounds' worth of grain was dribbled out to this debtor in small should be given to the public as to what was being done in the matter of compromises, parcels until it altogether disappeared and be- several of the debtors of the old Colonial Bank, came merged in the General Advance Account, as was only natural, went to the bank and for which there was no tangible security. There sought relief, and, as I believe, got it in a very was a loss there of $20,000. The question is, How did it arise? How was it done ? Who al- large number of cases. Therefore, as time lowed it ? Was it a business transaction ? Would went on, little by little the asset represented by this $272,000 of marginal accounts was any commercial men, knowing they were dealing with a special security as attached to an ac- reduced, and, as it were, disappeared : and. count like that, have done that ? I say, No; and consequently in the course of time-I do not ! know how long ago-the balance of that whole therefore that is one of the things which I £272,000, so I am credibly informed, and I be- think should also urge upon the Government to make some inquiry. I believe the time is lieve it will prove to be true-was handed over to the Bank of New Zealand for the magnificent coming when the people will demand an inquiry sum of between €4,000 and $5,000. Hence, into the whole circumstances. I have pointed the apparent asset of over $400,000 as disclosed out the gradual dissipation of this money. It is generally understood that, in addition to by the valuations which took place when the the 10s. already paid, there will be another two banks were amalgamated, has been dis- sipated to an amount representing a dividend final dividend of a shilling. The liquidators received $133,000 in the first cash payment. of only something like 10s. or 11s. in the pound. Now. Sir, I think that will be con- They are going to pay another Is., it is gene- rally anticipated-we may be deceived-which sidered by all honourable gentlemen as an will represent another €10,000, so what they unsatisfactory state of things. Now, there was will get as the final result of the dividend is one special account in that bank, apart from the €110,000 - namely, 11s. per share and which accounts which I have mentioned, involving ! leaves €23,000, out of the first payment which a very large advance of something like from they got in cash, to the good, to say nothing €10,000 to $60,000-in fact, Sir, that particular of the €270,000 which was left pending the account and the accounts which were included in the C list were supposed to have been not ! realisation of the various debtor accounts in already paid off, that will only amount to $230,000; and then, considering it was sold that advance. The Colonial Bank liquidators, was unsecured, and the assets of which were $20.000. But what took place? Sir, I am I shall apologize at the proper time, seeing 