He gave us as his authority for that assertion that he received that information from the officers of his department. If that is the class of information the officers of his department give him, then all I can say is that very little reliance can be placed upon it. At the present moment. I am sorry to say, there is not that good feeling that we would all like to see exist- ing between employers and employés. On the contrary, things are in a state of unrest, and the Premier's advice that we should go slowly is excellent advice, and should be followed. Let us work out our salvation on the labour legislation that is already on the statute-book, without at present rushing more legislation of the same nature upon it. On more than one occasion the Premier has told us to go slowly. Evidently in his heart of hearts he thinks matters are not quite as smooth as they should be in connection with our labour legislation. I hope the House will be very cautious about what further labour measures are placed on the statute- book in the meantime. Many of the labour-laws require consolidating and amending, and pro- bably improving, and I am quite willing to do my best according to my ability in that direc- tion : but I must admit that I am not anxious to see any fresh labour-laws placed on the statute- book for some little time, until we have had a chance of settling down and creating a better feeling between emploves and employers than there is at the present moment. I am quite sure that a pause at the present time would be to the advantage of those for whom labour measures are designed. I form my opinion from https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 men in business, large employers whom I have had occasion to converse with on this matter, and I say there is not by any means that good feeling existing at the present moment which would be gathered was the case from the infor- mation supplied to the Hon. the Premier. Sir, coming back to this Bill before us, it pro- poses to give an eight-hours day for every- body. It has been proved over and over again that that is an absolute impossibility. There have been men in this House long before us, sixteen, seventeen, and eighteen years back, who endeavoured to bring about an all-round eight-hours' day of labour for every one ; but it was found to be an absolute and downright impossibility, and all the attempts were failures. These men, Sir, had just as humane feelings as we ourselves have, they were just as eager to help the worker, yet it was found to be an im- practicable thing to give effect to. The Premier has deprecated that there should be any feeling between town and country on this question. That is quite right, and I hope we may go through this debate, and the session, without any really direct contest between town and country. But, Sir, when a Bill of this nature is introduced, when we see a Bill of this nature before us, professing to limit the hours of cer- tain classes of country labour to eight, and knowing it is impossible, how can we help acting in a manner that has the appearance of hostility? But it is not actually a case of town versity country ; it simply means this: that the country members must vote in the direction they think is in the interests of their con- stituents, and if people say this is a hostile vote, and is town versus country, they are not treating us generously or fairly. It is not from any hostility or any question of town versus country ; it is simply because we know the con- ditions of labour that prevail in the country districts, and that legislation of this nature is not practicable, and, in justice to ourselves and our constituents, we must vote against a pro- position of this kind. We have no necessity whatever for an Eight Hours Bill. In some industries there is less than eight hours being worked now. If this Bill were passed we should do as we have done in the case of the Factories Bill -increase the hours that some have to work. That would be the effect of the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- How about the farm ? Mr. CARNCROSS .- I maintain you cannot bring in an Eight Hours Bill that could be made applicable to all the labour of a farm. This Bill affects to deal with domestic servants. Now, if it were passed domestic servants would be in a much worse position than they are at the present moment. Domestic servants at present -- if I may be allowed to make a " bull"-are masters of the situation. They are absolutely scarce ; they cannot be obtained for love or money, and they demand very high wages ; and if you want to get good servants you have to offer them very many inducements - much greater than those offered in this Bill. Mr. HORNSBY .-- A very good job, too. Mr. CARNCROSS .- I quite agree with the honourable gentleman ; I think they are a class in the community who deserve a large amount of consideration, and I am pleased that their condition is better than it was in the past. But the Bill will not place them in a better position than they are in at present. An Hon. MEMBER. - It would some. Mr. CARNCROSS .- No. I do not think it would any of them, for if they are badly treated now. and the Bill were passed, it would be taken out of them in some other way. Then, again, as an argument why I think it unnecessary to legislate in this direction. I would point to the case of flour-millers. If there was a class in the country who required legislation in this direction it was the flour - millers. Twelve hours a day has been their average work for many years. Legislation was attempted last session and was not successful, but since then, by meeting together and considering the matter in a conciliatory spirit through the Arbitration Court, they have got for them- selves more than we could have given them hy legislation. What applies to flour-millers ap- plies to almost every other section of the com- munity. There is a proposition here to include hotel servants in this Bill. Well, they are forming unions of their own, and will place themselves in as good a position as we could do by legislation. My opinion is, if you can get arrangements made voluntarily between em- ployer and employed, those arrangements will be much more lasting, and will give more satisfaction and cause less friction than those carried out by legislation. 