rate, must, speaking generally, be perfectly satisfied with the statements made in the Speech and with the policy therein enunciated. It was not my intention, as I have said, to have spoken but for some words used by the Premier in the course of his speech last night. Those words I will, however, refer to later. To my mind, one of the most important references in the Speech is that of the establishment of the penny postage, and if Sir Joseph Ward had done nothing else for the colony than initiate the penny post he would well have deserved the honour which the King has conferred upon him. It has been proved, and I have no doubt he will make a definite statement on the point later on, that we have recouped the loss which, of course, we naturally expected to make at the beginning of this innovation. The fact that the people of the colony are writing more letters under the penny-postage system must have a beneficial effect, for not only does it indicate an increase of commerce and industry, but also an increase of our communication with other parts of the world, and, with that, an in- crease of education to the people. Another very satisfactory statement in the Governor's Speech is that the census shows the Native race to be I would take second increasing in number. place to no one in respect to my admiration for the Native race, and it has always been to me a matter to be deplored that their numbers were decreasing. It has been suggested that, owing to the previous census being inaccurate, the last census cannot be taken as conclusive evidence of the increase. I think it would be well to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 have a confirmation of the census returns-and I think this matter should be attended to by the Government-with respect to the popula- tion of the Natives. The next question referred to is that of cheap money. The benefit to the settlers of the introduction of cheap money has been admitted over and over again, in this House and out of it. The amendment of the Act extending its operation to urban and suburban properties has also been a benefit to the people. But, to my knowledge, there are still very great defects in the working of the system. It may seem paradoxical, per- haps, to say so, but one defect of the system seems to be that it is worked on too business- like a method. Settlers in my district have applied for loans and have been entitled to them, but the loans have not been granted, although the settlers have been put to the ex- pense of having valuations made. The Board seems to have a certain sum of money to invest and a certain number of applications before them. They make a selection of those which they consider to offer the best investments, and these applications are granted, whereas other applications which are equally entitled to be granted are refused. I trust the Minister will endeavour to remove such complaints in the future. Turning to the question of the Land for Settlements Act, there is a defect in the working of the Act, as I have good reason to discover in two cases in my own district. The owners of certain blocks of land which the Government had selected as being necessary Mr. Field and suitable to be taken, and with respect to the acquisition of which negotiations had been entered into, led the Government to believe that. they were willing to negotiate, but took advan- tage of the delay afforded by the negotiations and a defect in the statute to divide their land among their relatives, and so evaded the law. In the cases I have referred to the land was urgently needed for close settlement purposes. but by the means I have stated the object of the Act was frustrated. The Act certainly needs amendment in this direction, so as to prevent a recurrence of these evils. On the question of land-settlement, I should not pass on without referring to the statement made by the honour- able member for Riccarton on the subject of the Right Hon. the Premier being the Minister in charge of the Land for Settlements Department, whereas he said it should be a department under the charge of the Minister of Lands. Well. the Premier has already satisfactorily explained the matter. But I wish to say, further, that the purchase of land is a very important branch of the department indeed, apart from the cutting- up of lands and disposing of them. It is only right and proper that it should form a depart- ment under a separate Minister. An Hon. MEMBER .- Under what Act ? Mr. FIELD .- I am not referring to any Act. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It is specified by Act how it shall be done. Mr. FIELD .- That may be so. There is no objection whatever to one Minister taking charge of the purchase of land, and another administering the statute on the question of disposing of the land, which appears to be the most important part of it. The great trouble is really the question of value, and too much care could not possibly be exercised in scru- tinising the prices it is proposed to pay for the land which the Government takes for this 7.30. purpose. 1 may also say that I know of my own knowledge that if the Minister of Lands carries out his duties satis- factorily as Minister of Lands proper, and as Minister for Agriculture, his time will be very well filled. Another very satisfactory portion of the Governor's Speech is that which indi- cates that a superannuation scheme is in pro- gress for the railway servants. It is within our recollection, Sir, that great hardships have arisen through the absence of such a scheme as this in the past. There are a number of railway servants resident in my district by whom this hardship has been very keenly felt, and had it not been for the extreme pressure of work on the Minister for Railways last session he would, I think, have endeavoured to bring this scheme into operation at least a year earlier. However, it is better late than never. and if it is done now I am sure the great benefit of it will be felt by every member of the Railway service. Further on in the Speech we have reference to the price which is likely to be paid for lands taken up for settlement by the Government on the North Island Main Trunk line. We have it there stated that probably if the land is taken within five years from date the prices to be paid for it shall be the 