which is for the benefit of the country settlers, { drained swamp, as the amendment of the and it is not a position in which country settlers ought to be placed. And we also know that under the lease in perpetuity you cannot transfer unless with the consent of the Land Board. Under the freehold you can transfer, and a man may cut up his property amongst his children : but under the lease in perpetuity a settler always has to have the consent of the Land Board. That is one of the principal reasons why I wish to give the settlers the freehold. But the principal reason, to my mind, is that nearly every settler I have spoken to in my electorate who holds a Government leasehold has expressed a wish to have the freehold, and it is my duty as their representative to en- deavour to give to them that which they desire; and that is the reason which impelled me to move the amendment which, I am sorry to say, was rejected in Committee last night. I regret that that amendment, together with other amendments, was rejected. I will not deal at length with clause 9. That has been dealt with by other honourable members. It is an inherent wrong as the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) pointed out-and it is con- trary to the principles of our Constitution, that regulations should override the statute law. He may be satisfied with the amendment of the Premier, but I am certainly not, because it is not right that regulations should override the statute law. Why are we asked now, in subsection (2) of clause 9. to validate certain actions which are illegal? The honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) is in the position of voting to validate illegal Acts. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 I say that is a position I am surprised that a member of the legal profession and a professor of constitutional history should have taken up. I say that no man should take up http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the position of endeavouring to validate that which was wrong at the first ; and the illegal acts must have been done intentionally. It was not a mere slip, because last session we had a consolidation of the Land for Settlements Act, and if the regulations were contrary to the Public Works Act they ought to have been set right then, or an amendment of the law should have been passed. That would have been the constitutional way of dealing with the matter. I will not deal with the amendments which the Premier made in Committee. They are on their trial ; but there was one amendment that I must, in the interests of my constituents, ob- ject to very strongly, and that is the compulsory residence from the very beginning and for all time. Now, that will be most unpopular in the country. I believe the Premier has done it with a view of checking dummyism and speculation, but I think that should have been done away with by a far better method for the settlers. I say it is grossly un fair to compel a settler to go at once and live on the land. Of course, this course is less unfair as applied to a Land for Settlements Bill, as the land is supposed to be fit for settlement at once ; but it is quite possible there may be undrained swamps in a property taken over, and is it fair to compel a settler to go and live on an un- Premier compels him ? The Land Board has no option. The Board has no power to allow a man to reside off his section, and it seems to me this will be a gross hardship to settlers. It has always seemed to me that compulsory resi- dence, if strictly enforced, will have the effect of preventing genuine settlers from going on the land. Suppose 1, on my farm in the Waikato, have a man working for me on wages; why should that man not be allowed to take up a piece of land under the land-for-settlements policy, using his wages to improve it, and, when he has improved it and brought it into culti- vation, settle and marry and become a good settler ? An Hon. MEMBER .- You would not be able to come down here for the session. Mr. HERRIES .- No; if I had a section of land under this Act I should be prevented by this clause the Minister has put in from coming down to Parliament, because I should be com- pelled to reside on my property. Mr. SEDDON .-- All the more reason why we should keep the clause in the Bill. Mr. HERRIES .-- The trouble is that it pre- cludes me from taking up a section if I wished to do so. But I think the Premier should consider the question of allowing genuine settlers to take up land without strictly en- forcing the compulsory residence clause. I know there are plenty of young men who are not able to take up land because they would have to give up their employment and wages and " do a perish " for several years on a piece of land ; whereas it would be far better to allow them to earn their wages and spend their wages on a piece of land which they could settle upon when they wanted to get married and become settlers. Then, there was another amend- ment of the Premier's. It was inserted, I believe, with a good intention, but I am sorry the amendment in it moved by the member for Palmerston was not carried. The clause I refer to reads as follows : " It shall not be lawful for a lessee under this Act to transfer the land comprised in the lease within the period of five years from the date of such lease." The member for Palmerston moved that a man should be allowed to transfer to a member of his own family. If that had been accepted by the House it would have mitigated the harsh- ness of this provision. The intention of the provision is, I believe, to prevent speculation, and, although it will tend to a great extent to prevent speculation, I think a lessee should have been allowed to transfer to members of his own family-that is, if the Land Board raised no objection to it. And, as the whole question of land policy is under discussion, I must ex- press my regret that the Government have not brought down any provision for making the Land Boards elective. Why, we had the honourable member for Geraldine accusing the Boards of all sorts of malpractices. I do not know whether he is going to get up in the House and reiterate the statements he made in Committee, but they were such as to horrify us : and the sooner, in my opinion, the 