must have been some foundation of fact for his remarks. Speaking, however, on my own experience of the Land Valuation Depart- ment, I have had none but the most favourable experiences of the working of that department, beyond that there is complaint by local bodies as to its cost. Perhaps in my own district we have been more favourably situated than other districts, and the valuers in my district may have done better work than those in other parts of the colony. The values may have been some- what high in some cases. I may here remark, though, that some of these valuers are very in- sufficiently paid. It is not my intention to go into the controversy between the honourable member for the Suburbs and the honourable member for Wairarapa, but in justice to the honourable member for Wairarapa I would mention one .point he omitted. He referred to the case of a Mr. Phillipson, who received an advance of $200 from the Advances to Settlers office, and who asked for a further sum of $200, and. finding himself unable to get it, after- wards sold his improvements on the pro- perty for $1.200. It was urged by the honourable member for the Suburbs that, assuming that the improvements were worth ¥1,200, armed with his deeds he could have gone into any of the banks and obtained the necessary sum of money which he required. I say this is not so. The banks will not lend on Crown leases, and that is the reason why it is so very unfair that settlers holding these Crown leases are not able to obtain from the Go- vernment Advances to Settlers Department the amounts they are led to expect they can, the reason being that the Government departments https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 only will, as a rule, lend on Crown leases, and if they refuse there is no hope for the settler. I need not take up the time of the House any longer. This is all I wish to say. I parti- cularly wished to explain the attitude I took up on these two main propositions by two honourable members on the other side of the House-namely, giving consideration to owners with families when their land is proposed to be taken under the Land for Settlements Act, and the question of granting the freehold. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, the speech of the honourable member for Otaki may best be characterized as the confession of an errant politician. I cannot understand the ground he takes up and the reasons he gives for not sup- porting the different clauses which were pro- posed in Committee. The main ground he gave for that opposition-and I presume it is because of his legal training-is confined to quibbles about the wording or draftsmanship of the different amendments. Now, I would like to ask him, as he supported all the amendments which were put in by the Premier, whether he considers those amendments models of law draftsmanship. Why, the honourable mem- ber himself supported a clause which meant that a man during his lifetime and after his death shall reside continuously on a section. I will read it to the honourable member : "Every applicant who obtains an allotment under this Act shall reside continuously thereon." Mr. FIELD .- That is all right. Mr. PIRANI. - There is no power to exempt a man from residence, and to carry out the provisions of the Act he must be buried on the section if he dies before the end of his lease. There is no definition of residence either in the principal Act or in this Act, and therefore this clause is either a dead-letter or it must be car- ried out to the very letter. Now, take the honourable member's reasons for not support- ing the different clauses that were proposed in this Bill. First, he told us he approved of the amendment of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. Mr. FIELD. - I said I sympathized with it. Mr. PIRANI .-- The honourable member said it was a good amendment, but it wanted re- strictions. Mr. FIELD .- - No; I said I sympathized with it. Mr. PIRANI. -- And that it was improved by the suggestions of the honourable member for Napier, but that further restrictions were neces- sary. Why did the honourable member not propose the necessary restrictions ? Then. the honourable member told us he was in favour of the motion moved by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty in reference to the free- hold, only he wanted restrictions; and in the same breath he said that the suggestions I had made in that direction met with his approval, and that two years ago he proposed similar restric- tions on the platform that would have effected the end he desired. If he was sincere in that, why did he not, here in the House, propose the restrictions that he suggested on the platform ? Why. the honourable member will find in Han- sara some eight years ago that those very restric- tions were proposed by me. Therefore it is not recent, and, I say, if it is necessary and if it is advisable that these restrictions should be put in the Bill, why did the honourable member not take the initiative? He knows as well as I do that any proposal coming from this side of the House will not receive the support of honourable members opposite. Why, then. did he not take the initiative and assist to get reforms such as he mentioned on the statute-book ? Then, he told us the reason he objected to the motion allowing transfers to be made to members of a selector's family who were not possessed of any land was that there were no definitions of " family" or of " possess." Now, the honourable member, as I said before, is fully capable of giving us those definitions and of assisting to perfect such a proposal, and vet I have never heard him since he has been a member of the House propose an amendment in any Bill that has come before the House. Mr. FIELD .- Rubbish. Mr. PIRANI .- I believe it is rubbish that a member of his ability, and of his training, and of his experience should not give us the benefit of his knowledge to perfect what can only be crude clauses when they are drawn up by lay- men. But we do not get that, and surely he should not blame honourable members who are not able to give us those perfect specimens of 