the work, so he hoped the reply would be a favourable one. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said pro- vision had been made by the Road Surveyor, Invercargill, on his estimates for $766 for this road. This sum would include the liabilities on the 31st March last of $516, and leave 9250 for further works. This would not, however, finally complete the road, which the Chief Sur- veyor says was not of vital importance. It . would depend on the amount of money avail- able for road-works as to whether or not the $250 above mentioned could be provided for on the estimates. He was of opinion that a road such a. this was one that should be attended to much more than the road mentioned by Mr. Hanan, because the settlers there could get along already. He knew a little about this bush country in the Waiau, and he knew when settlers went into such a district there was really more necessity for money being spent there than in the settled districts. people showed an inclination to go into the bush and settle the Government should as soon as possible provide them with roads. WAIAU FERRY SERVICE. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, If the Government will favourably consider the request of the West Waiau settlers and miners to subsidise the ferry-boat service at the mouth of the Waiau, and so enable travel- lers to cross the river at a reasonable cost ? The fares charged on the ferry-boat at present were 2%. Gd. each way, and the settlers and miners on the other side who had to cross and recross found this charge rather heavy for so https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 short a distance. The ferryman was at present subsidised by the Wallace County Council to the extent of 7s. 6d. a week. He wished to get a further subsidy, if possible, from the Govern- ment. The settlers had every confidence in the ability and efficiency of the ferryman, but they wished to get across at a reasonable rate, so they hoped the Government would consider the advisability of increasing the subsidy so that, instead of being charged 2s. 6d., they could be rowed across at, say, 1s. a head. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this question referred to a ferry service under the charge of the Wallace County Council, who pay the ferryman Ts. 6d. a week and also allow him to keep the fees. The only request that Go- vernment should subsidise this ferry was a petition from miners and others in March, 1898, when Mr. Gilfedder explained that the river was about a mile wide, with an island in the middle, and was dangerous to cross by boat even by experienced men. He said that he thought it would be much better if the miners petitioned to have the road improved on the west side of the Waiau and that the punt service higher up the river at what is known as the " Lower Site" should be improved. The charge made by the present ferryman at Waiau Mouth is 2s. 6d. each way, which is probably hot an excessive fee, considering the labour and risk involved. To induce the ferryman to make any substantial reduction would require a pay- ment to him of at least $1 a week in addition to what the Wallace County Council pay him. and it is to be feared that if this were done the Government would have to make similar grants in the case of other ferries. GLENHAM ESTATE. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) asked the Govern- ment, Whether they will take steps to have that portion of Glenham Estate adjacent to the factory, and on which there are suitable farm-steadings, thrown open for settlement a: once, so as to take advantage of the approach- ing milking season ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) was in- formed by the Chief Surveyor that it would be quite impossible to put any of this estate in the market at once, as suggested by Mr. MeNat. even if the time and season permitted survey being effected. The estate could be better dealt with as a whole. Those of the present occupiers who were supplying milk to the When factory could obtain a lease in perpetuity if they could satisfy the Land Board that they were really tenants of the estate. SURVEYORS' CHAINMEN. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Govert. ment, If they will provide continuous employ. ment for surveyors' chainmen whose serve are dispensed with when surveyors di-contina. outside survey-work for the purpose of pre- paring plans, et cetera ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Landsi said sur- veyors' chainmen were paid while in the field continuously, whether the weather was wet or dry. During the last two years they had los on an average thirty-five working-days through surveyors coming in for the winter. It wa probable that this winter in Taranaki, at am rate, the surveyors would keep the field. instad of coming in as usual. There was no emphy- ment other than ordinary road-work which. could be given to men who were not required while surveyors were making their plans. N. doubt, if they applied to the Road Inspector- of the district, they could be given such wers until such time as they were again required o: the survey-party. KELLY SUICIDE. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Gov mr ment, If they will make inquiries into therats of the suicide of the unfortunate man Keh at Palmerston North, as it is alleged money t owing to him by the Lands Department whisk: he could not obtain ; and if they will cause tb money, if owing, to be paid over to his wife and family at once, they being in abject cireun. stances? When the Hon. the Minister f .: Customs was in Pahiatua he was walte: upon by the late Mr. Kelly. It was thea stated --- if he remembered correctly - that b. was not paid for the metal which was pat inh the ruts, and he only received surface-med-tin. mont. If the man was entitled to payment io this metalling, he hoped the Government won' at once pay his unfortunate widow. If w. metal had already been paid for he hoped the 