how the honourable member came to hear it, better course to take than to let things drift, there are many members of the House who and afterwards be brought to book for not having done so. It cannot be gainsaid there would hesitate to give such information on the floor of the House. I would say that, at any is a large amount of uncalled capital on these rate. it is not journalistic etiquette, more espe- shares ; and the question may be asked, Why should the colony be asked to continue to find cially when the honourable member for Palmers- ton himself happens to be the owner of a news- the bank two millions when you have share- paper. Of course, there is jealousy in the matter. holders who ought to be called upon to sub- It is easy enough to see that the honourable scribe the greater part of it if wanted? There is member has been hurt at what is going on. no gainsaying that fact. That is a consequence that would be left to the directors to determine. But. in my opinion, he cannot stop the progress of the New Zealand Times, nor can he take But I come to the point again, and I say it away from it the position it has attained. I be- is not mandatory ; the directors may-I know, lieve that ultimately the Times will have the of course, what has been argued-say that it was largest circulation of any paper in the colony. the intention- An Hou. MEMBER .- Give it a good advertise- ment. Mr. SEDDON. - Well, if the honourable say the whole thing turns on profits being de- member gives me the opportunity I do not see termined, and there is a large discretion vested why I should not take it. However, so that the in the directors. At all events, the directors House may not be misled, I may say thatI am could if they saw fit. And in respect to their speaking in this matter irrespective of party, business -- a business of such magnitude as they are doing- they can use every precaution ; and and I was really provoked by the honour- able member to say what I have said. At I believe they will. But if these statements all events, Sir, it is quite clear that this Legis- are to appear - springing from a statement inadvertently made by the Chairman and sub- lature will, next session, probably have to pass legislation dealing with the Bank of New Zea- sequenily modified and explained-unless that land, extending the time and the conditions ; is checked the result will be injurious to the and when the colony is asked to take upon itself bank and to the colony. It will lead to expecta- a further obligation, will it not be more pleasing tions that may not be realised ; it has led to speculations-the Chairman himself admitted to the colony, and will it not facilitate the passing of the legislation and the accepting so. If this is so, it is better for some one to do of the responsibility, if we are in a position as I have done than to let the thing go un- checked. Before I sit down I wish to compli- as a Government to come to the House and say that the bank has done everything within ment the management of the Bank of New Zea- reason and taken every legitimate means to land on the successful business done ; I con- lessen the obligations of the colony ? I say it gratulate the officers ; and I also say that the would strengthen the position ; but if, on the colony is to be congratulated on obtaining the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 other hand, you find that without improv- services of the Auditor of the bank-Mr. Macin- ing, so far as the Assets Realisation Board is tosh. His appointment was one of the best concerned -and this seems to me to be lost things that ever happened to us and to the sight of, because now, after paying off the allo- Bank of New Zealand. Taken all round. I stand cation of the profits this year, the Bank of New here and say with confidence to the people Z dland has almost got a clear balance-sheet ; that the Bank of New Zealand never was from but, as regards liabilities to the colony, though its first inception in a better position respect- the Assets Realisation Board obligation still ing its business and management than it is to- day. I have, in calling attention to the situa- remains, and very little is paid off An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the amount of tion, done my duty, and done it in the best that obligation ? interests of the bank itself and of the colony Mr. SEDDON .- Over $2,000,000. After the and the people. grave responsibility taken by the colony and the Government, no one is more pleased than a personal explanation. The Premier said just myself and my colleagues to find -- and I do not now that he did not wish to say anything think that the rescuing of the Bank of New personal, and so he immediately followed that Zealand will cost this colony a penny-piece. It up by saying that my remarks were dictated because the newspaper he used to be connected was a grave and serious responsibility ; but it saved the Bank of New Zealand, the other with had completely wiped out the paper of banks, and the colony, in my opinion, from which I am part proprietor. It is just as well financial disaster, and indirectly the colony I should put this matter on a proper footing. profited by what was done. The next thing During the last two years the circulation of the We shall have will be that pressure will be brought to bear through speculation, caused, it a Government supporter offered $3,000 for the will be said, by inducements held out and winked paper ; the other day another offer of $4,000 at ; and when we see that going on it is better was made. That is how the Premier's paper to nip it in the bud, and take a bold stand. has wiped out the Manawatu Standard. If a mistake has been made, then I say it is my duty, notwithstanding adverse criticism, to misunderstood me. I said I would allude to stand up manfully in the House and say what I the personal matter which the honourable said, preparing for what is to come. That is a member introduced into his remarks. No one An Hon. MEMBER .- You read the clause. Mr. SEDDON .- I have read the clause. I Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - I wish to make Hanawatu Standard has doubled. A year ago Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable gentleman 