districts get as much as four times the salary than raise their voices in objection. It seems of several of our District Court Judges. to me that is only beating the wind. It would be futile to remonstrate unless we endeavour to An Hon. MEMBER .- Not all of them. Mr. NAPIER .- About $2,000 a year some do something more. I am so thoroughly con- vinced that the position of the District Court of the County Court Judges at Home receive, while about $500 a year is the salary paid to Judges is radically wrong that I object to any the District Court Judges here. Bill dealing with their powers being passed, and. An Hon. MEMBER .-- What about Judge Ward? with the object of testing the views of honour- able members who have expressed their disap- Mr. NAPIER .- There are exceptional circum- stances in that case. There are exceptional proval of the position in which the Judges are reasons in addition to his length of service, and placed, I shall move, Sir, that the Bill be read he gets (900 a year under an old Act ; but in a second time this day six months. That will future no District Court Judge can hope to earn give honourable members, if they thoroughly the salary of District Judge Ward. In Aus- agree that the salaries of the District Court tralia the salaries of County Court Judges are Judges ought to be increased, and their po- more than double the salaries we pay, and in sitions more clearly defined, an opportunity of India they are nearly three times as much. voting with me on the question to prevent any Even in America the Judges of corresponding further legislation about District Courts until the whole subject is properly discussed. Honour- status get three times as much as our District Court Judges. Sir, the member for Waitemata able members have said it is absurd to suggest was incorrect in stating that Parliament could that the District Court Judges or the Magis- tracy are afraid of the votes of members of this neither raise nor diminish the salary of a Judge of the Supreme Court. "The Supreme Court House, or, more properly speaking, of the power Act. 1852," section 11, states clearly that "The of Ministers. Sir. I say unhesitatingly there is salary of a Judge shall not be diminished scarcely a District Court Judge in New Zealand, during the continuance of his commission " ; and there are very few Stipendiary Magistrates, whose eves are not constantly watching the but. while that may be so, we have full power luminaries who sit on the Government benches to increase the salary as much as we like. Now, Sir, I am not quite satisfied,-but I shall and, without saying for an instant that their decisions are affected by the insecurity of their not oppose the Bill to-night. - that it is position, there is, I believe, scarcely one person wise to confer such plenary power upon men of the professional capacity likely to who sits upon the Magistrate's bench or the Dis- be obtained for the District Court Bench trict Court bench who is not more or less afraid lest he should fall under the displeasure of under existing conditions. No doubt we have some gentlemen of great judicial ability Ministers. as District Court Judges at the present time, but you cannot hope to replenish the Bench with men of the highest professional calibre for at any rate, believe. www a year. It is quite absurd to suppose that a professional man will take the position references to the statutes occasionally. for such a remuneration until his powers are the Magistrates and the District Court Judges waning and he finds his practice slipping away from him, or until he is falling into the sere and speak in contempt of our statutes ? They are yellow leaf. A young man in the full possession the persons beyond all others who ought to be of all his energies would not take the position competent to understand them. And we need go no further than the absurd alterations which at gxx) a year. It would be far better for him we have to make ycar in and year out in every to have a practice at the bar worth $300 or Act which Parliament places on the statute- $400 a year, which he might leave to his son, book, and the annual amendments and con- and with the prospect of development. I have i given notice of a question on this subject, and i tinual repeals of lately passed Acts, as evidence of their absurdity. Why should we not increase I hope. Sir. that when the estimates are under the salaries of the Judges? The salaries of consideration the matter of increasing the District Court Judges in the colony are very salaries of our District Court Judges will receive poor indeed. As was pointed out by the attention. Especially, considering the greatly : honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. increased responsibilities now imposed upon them. I hope the Government will see their Napier), it is useless to suppose for one instant that we will obtain highly qualified professional way to increase the salaries of these officers men for the position of District Court Judges by a substantial amount. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Sir, I unless we are prepared to give them a sufficient salary to induce them to abandon the lucrative feel like most honourable members who say professional practice which capable lawyers en- they think the salaries of the District Court joy, and to make it worth their while to take Judges ought to be on a higher scale, and that seats on the District Court bench. I am not these officials ought to hold their positions on saying that the Judges on the District Court the same terms as Judges of the Supreme Court bench are not highly educated and qualified hold theirs. Honourable members have talked and have given reasons for objecting to the posi- men, nor that long-continued practice has not enabled these gentlemen to acquire the special tion in which District Court Judges are placed legal training which is necessary to make them at the present time, but they have not led the competent Judges ; but, if we are to raise the House to understand that they will do any more i Mr. SEDDON .- Nonsense. Captain RUSSELL .- Sir, I speak of what I, Mr. HOGG .--- They make very contemptuous Captain RUSSELL .- And why should not 