Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add the following new subsection :- .. (3.) If the Governor does not proceed with the purchase and the land is not acquired by him within twelve months after the date of the notice mentioned in the last preceding sub- section, then the restriction on the disposition of the land under that subsection shall cease to have effect." New subsection added. The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause as amended be agreed to." AYES, 41. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A L. D. Palmer Arnold Parata Hall Russell, G. W. Barclay Hall-Jones Seddon Bennet Hanan Smith, G. J. Carneross Hogy Carrol! Houston Stevens Laurenson Steward Collins Colvin Ward Lawry Wilford Duncan McGowan Mckenzie, R. Ell Willis Field Witheford. Millar Fisher Tellers. Mills Morrison Symes Flatman Tanner. Fowlds Napier NOES, 21. Rhodes Allen, J. Hornsby Russell, W. R. Hutcheson Atkinson Bollard Lang Thompson, R. Fraser, W. Lethbridge Thomson, J. W. Grabam Massey Tellers. Mackenzie, T. Hardy Buddo Heke Monk Meredith. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Herries PAIR. For. Against. Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 20. Clause as amended agreed to. Clause 8 .- " In disposing of land by way of lease the Board shall, unless directed to the contrary by the Minister, give preference to married men with families provided they are landless, and the provisions of section forty-nine of the principal Act are hereby modified accord- ingly." Jir. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out the clause. Motion agreed to, and clause struck out. Clause 9 .- " (1.) The Governor may from time to time make regulations prescribing the procedure and forms to be used in making and disposing of claims for compensation in respect of the compulsory taking of land, and for that purpose modifying the provisions of 'The Public Works Act, 1894,' in its application to such claims. " (2.) All regulations heretofore made, or purporting to be made, under the principal Act shall be deemed to be as valid as if they had been made under this Act." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to insert the words "under the principal Act " after the words " compulsory taking of land." Amendment agreed to. The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause as amended stand part of the Bill." AYES, 33. Allen, E. G. ()'Meara Hanan Parata Bennet Hogg Seddon Carneross Houston Carroll Laurenson Stevens Colvin Symes Lawry Ward McGowan Duncan Field Willis Mackenzie, T. Mckenzie, R. Witheford. Fisher Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Tellers. Gilfedder Mills Flatman Hall Palmer. Napier Hall-Jones NOES, 28. Allen, J. Rhodes Hardy Russell, G. W. Arnold Hoke Hornsby Russell, W. R. Atkinson Smith, G. J. Barclay Hutcheson Bollard Tanner Lang Thomson, J. W. Lethbridge Buddo Collins Massey Meredith Tellers. Ell Fowlds Herries Monk Graham Pirani Wilford. PAIR. For. Against. McGuire. Smith, E. M. Majority for, 5. Clause as amended agreed to. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) moved the following new clause : -- " Where an owner of land has children born in lawful wedlock, the areas limited by subsections two and three of section twelve of . The Land for Settlements Consolidation Act. 1000,' shall be in- creased as follows, that is to say : an additional area of five hundred acres for each such child ; of second-class land, an additional area of one thousand acres for each such child ; and of pas- toral land, an additional area of two thousand acres for each such child." Progress reported. On the question, "When the Committee should sit again to consider the Bill," Mr. SEDDON said at half-past two next day. Hon. MEMBERS. - Oh, no. Mr. SEDDON said it was an interrupted debate. An Hon. MEMBER. - The Premier will be taking away from private members their right. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would like also to point out that the Premier had taken away their right to ask questions on Tuesdays as well as Fridays. Next day-Wednesday-was the only day when they could ask questions, because on Thursday and Friday they could not be asked. That meant that no questions could possibly be asked until Tuesday next, and even then they would have to get the Premier's pro- mise to take them on that day. He did not think that was a proper thing, and he was sure if the Premier looked at it in the proper light he would recognise that there had been no 