it. It also mentions the success of the penny post, and in this connection I might refer to some remarks which fell from the honour- able member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay). He spoke in very scathing terms of the Post- master-General, Sir Joseph Ward, for having accepted a distinction at the hands of his Sovereign ; but, after all, what we have to face is the fact that we are living in a country that is ruled over by a King, and one of the ways in which that country gives honour to those who deserve it is by conferring some titular dis- tinction upon them ; and if any gentleman has deserved it at the hands of the King, and chooses to take a title, it is not our business to condemn him, any more than we would con- demn him for being a vegetarian. As far as I am concerned, I heartily congratulate Sir Joseph Ward, and I hope he may live long. and that he will continue to do as much good for the colony in the days to come as he has done in the past ; and I heartily congratulate the honourable gentleman and the country on the success of the penny-postage scheme. In reference to this question the senior member for Wellington City referred to the fact that Sir Thomas Lipton had accepted distinction, and he sneeringly stated that he had practically bought it. Now, the honourable member for Wellington City is a sailor, and Sir Thomas Lipton has also strong sailor instincts. Sir Thomas Lipton, at an estimated cost of $30,000, gave a free treat to the poor of London. He bears an unblemished character ; he has worked his way up from the ranks of the people to his present high position ; and he is now making a gallant and desperate attempt to bring home to England the American Yachting Cup, which was wrested from her by the Americans in 1851 ; and, as far as I am con- cerned, if he succeeds in bringing back that cup. and if it pleases him to be called a duke, I would give him the title with all my heart and soul. Every one who is a sailor, and who wishes to see England regain that trophy, should have the same sentiment. The next matter referred to is the question of having a colonial scale of teachers' salaries, and I only trust that we shall soon have the pleasure of having a colonial scale submitted to the House, and that those who have the drawing-up of this scale will draw it up in no niggard fashion. I hope they will be liberal with our teachers, because if there is one department of the State where you cannot afford to pay poor salaries it is in the Education Department. There is no department, indeed, where it is worse policy to have poor salaries than in the department that controls our education system ; and, that being so, I trust the scale of teachers' salaries will be a liberal one, and on such a basis as will attract the best young men and young women in our midst to the ranks of the teaching profession. The census returns and birth-rate are also referred to in the Address, and this is the fly in the pot of ointment. It is the one great blot in connection with our pro- gross at the present time. We are prospering financially, extending our boundaries, increasing our educational facilities, reducing our pauper population ; but in the midst of all this pro- gress there is the one bad spot-that our birth- rate is falling at a tremendous rate. For in- stance, in 1880 our birth-rate was forty per thousand per annum ; to-day it is twenty-five per thousand per annum. New Zealand is now the second lowest to France in regard to birth- rate, and France is a decaying nation; and there is also the fact that this falling is not so much among the poorer classes as it is among the so-called well-to-do and wealthy classes, who are confining their families to "one or two." Women who are not deserving the name of women boast that after marriage they will confine their families to one or two, and the result is that the birth-rate is falling until the average family is only three and a decimal per family. A few years ago it was nearly six ; and if this question of the falling birth-rate were to engage the serious attention of this House for a month it would be labour well spent. An Hon. MEMBER .- Bring in a Bill. Mr. LAURENSON .- An honourable gentle- man suggests bringing in a Bill. When does he or his side ever bring in a gocd Bill? The only object some honourable gentlemen seem to have in view is to destroy ; they criticize and destroy, but they do not construct. I would like to see a Bill brought in -- a Bill to prevent chemists sell- ing certain medicines and apparatus which it is notorious they do sell. I would like to see a Bill brought in to prevent men going from house to house selling such medicines and articles. A few years ago our fathers would have clapped such people into gaol for life for attempting to sell such medicines, and if these evils are not soon swept away we shall soon cease to exist as a nation. It is one of the most alarming and degrading features in connection with our country to find a so - called civilised people boasting that they will limit their fa- milies, and thinking it a subject for congratu- lation if they see the birth-rate coming down. There is reference made to cheap money 4.0. to settlers, and I trust that not only the country settlers will have the benefit of the cheap money of the Government, but town settlers also. Then, reference is made to the earth-hunger that exists at present. Sir, at present, as far as Canterbury is concerned, it is not earth-hunger, but earth starvation. Some time ago the Government threw open some land in North Canterbury, and a friend of mine went in for a section, and I asked him if he had got it. "Got it," he said ; " I had as much chance of getting it as I had of getting a $1,000 prize in the Melbourne Cup." There were from one to two hundred applications for every section. The Government are standing in their own light in not throwing open more land for settlement. There is already a clamour down South that will grow to a roar of dissatis- faction, which will cause great trouble to the Government and the country. I would like to refer to a remark made by the honouralle mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). He said a land boom was coming on us. Sir, it is not coming on, but it has come. In Canterbury 