Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I think the House will admit with me that there has been a waste of time this afternoon, and they will admit with me the wisdom of the remark I heard in the House some time ago-namely, that we ought to keep the Police Force off the floor of this House. It was political influence and interference that at one time was the means of placing the Police Force of this colony in a false position ; and when, as Minister in charge of that department, I fought against the House interfering, there was a strong feel- ing created as the result against myself. An Hon. MEMBER .- You did not put your foot down. Mr. SEDDON .- I did put my foot down. You can turn a torrent, if you lead it ; but, when in flood, put something across it at right angles, and you will fail to turn it, and your structure would be swept away. And there- fore in stopping a political torrent you have to be careful that you do it carefully and firmly. I might say here at once that the responsibility of bringing out Commissioner Tunbridge falls upon my shoulders. An Hon. MEMBER .- The best thing you ever did. Mr. SEDDON. - Very well. If my visit Home to the Jubilee celebrations did no other good for the colony, I say that that was one. And not only that, but, as that gentleman's qualifications have been brought on the floor of the House to-day, I might say that before the selection was made I asked the Chief of the Police Force of Great Britain to assist me in the selection of a capable officer, and, after a little time he recommended Commissioner Tun- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 bridge. He said, "If you can get him, he is the best man I know of in the whole of the British force." Of course, it is well known that Mr. Tunbridge enjoys a pension from the British force, but on account of the climate at Home and other considerations he himself was in favour of coming out here, and ultimately he accepted the position of Chief Commissioner of Police in this colony ; and we know that after his arrival a crisis occurred in respect to the Police Force. Affairs some time previous were under the charge of Colonel Hume, who prior to coming to this colony had not had police experience. He was put there against his own inclinations, and on the ground of economy ; and Colonel Hume, under the circumstances, did fairly well. But owing to an increase in the population, and a correspondingly in- creased police supervision, we decided that there should be a change, and when Mr. Tun- bridge arrived here the first thing that met him was the attack on the floor of this House, and before he had had time to fully know or to grasp the strength or position of his Force, he was suddenly confronted with a Royal Commission and an investigation; and, taking into con- sideration, as we must, the difficulties sur- rounding the matter, Commissioner Tunbridge came out of that inquiry, and so did the whole Force, with credit. And the inquiry proved-I have no hesitation in saying it-that, as far as the Police Force is concerned, there was the material there to make it a most efficient Force, and the result has been, I think. to the satisfaction of the people of this colony generally. I say this because it is due to the Commissioner, and it is also due to the police. I said the same thing on the floor of this House when the attack was made upon the Force. An Hon. MEMBER .- You had not a Minister then to stand up and defend them. Mr. SEDDON .- There was just one thing that I regret in my life, and that was that I did not take it upon myself to reply at that time for the Police Force. That is what I do regret, for there was abundant material at command to have met every charge of moment that had been made against the Force. How. ever, I am glad this has been brought for- ward, if only to demonstrate to the gentle- men opposite that this is not a "one-man Ministry." I am pleased to find my colleague the Minister of Justice defending the position and his department, and he has put the matter before the House and the country in a light that, I think, the gentlemen opposite never an- ticipated. I, at all events, know all about it. Well, I can understand that this would be the opportunity the honourable member for Wel- lington City left open, and when he asked the question, "What are you laughing at ?" we can well understand that the honourable mem- bers opposite were laughing because they found a Government supporter attacking a depar :- ment on its administration. At all events. the Opposition have always been on the alert, and if a Government supporter at- tacks any of the departments controlled by Ministers it is very satisfactory to the Opp- sition, and they were pleased, no doubt, this afternoon, from that point of view ; and that. I may tell the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), is what they were probably amused at. I regret that Inspector Pender's name should be brought on the floor of the House-some members speaking unfavourably of him, and others extolling and defending him. I say those who do that are no friends of In- spector Pender ; they are not friends of any officer in the police service, because the mo- ment an officer comes on the floor of the House, either to be extolled or attacked, then that particular officer becomes noted, and it is an injury to him in the police service. Were it not that I know Commissioner Tunbridge to be a man who would not be influenced, I would feel that what has taken place on the floor of the House this afternoon might be prejudicial to Detective Nixon. It certainly cannot help him in the service. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Did the Opposition do it ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, it was not the Opposi- tion who did it ; but I say that any officer whose name is brought up under the conditions of to-day is liable to be prejudiced ; and unless you have a strong minded man at the heim. that officer may suffer in the service. Now. I should be very sorry if what has happened should injure Detective Nixon. I say every police-officer in the service of the colony under- 