ence. Look at the experience on the "other | in numberless cases had no possible chance of side." In Victoria and New South Wales they have no totalisator; and is there less betting there than here ? Why, for $100 put through in this country there are thousands spent over there in betting, and not with the machine, but with the bookmakers. There you have racing in the worst possible phase. There is scarcely any control over it. They actually hold races on a Saturday night in some places by electric light, and, generally speaking, racing has an infinitely greater hold on the people there, where there is no totalisator, than it has in this country. Let me tell honourable mem- bers that the people in Victoria, members of Parliament and others, are doing their best to try to purify racing in that colony, and to bring about a better state of things, and they say that the only way to do so is to legalise the totalisator and give them the same control that we have in this country. But the bookmaker influence is strong against the totalisator, and therefore prevents its introduction. I assure honourable members that it is an absolute and positive fact -- and every one who knows anything at all about the matter must agree with me-that to abolish the totalisator to-morrow means that you must of necessity increase the number of race-meetings held, and. if you increase the number of race-meetings, of course you must necessarily increase the amount of betting. I know this is an unpopular stand to take up, and those who do not look beneath the surface think they see a member standing up in the House and advocating gambling, but such is not the case. If the Bill introduced by https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the honourable gentleman meant the absolute abolition of gambling I would vote for it and support it heartily, but I have no more belief in the abolition of the totalisator prohibiting bet- ting than I have that local prohibition prohibits the alcoholic trade in New Zealand. Neither will be effectual, and the honourable gentleman, if he carried this measure, would only bring us back to the old state of affairs prevailing before the machine was legalised, and to that class of betting which was in vogue in the days before the institution of the totalisator. I know of such cases as this occurring : On a Saturday afternoon, when the employés of a factory were just about leaving their work, you would see the bookmakers walking up and down in front of the factory waiting to pounce upon the lads and boys, so that they could get their wages as part instalments of the amount owing to them. That was the result of a class of betting which was infinitely worse than the betting now going on on the course, because now the young lad knows that if he goes on the course to bet he has to take his sovereign with him, and if he has not got the cash he cannot make his bet on the machine ; whereas if they bet with the book- makers they can get credit, and are tempted by the long odds offered them to bet on credit. In the days prior to the totalisator all the swindles imaginable were perpetrated through that class of betting. The betting that went on in those days was of such a nature that the poor unfor- tunate creature who betted with the bookmaker winning, because in many cases the horses were run only in the interests of the book- makers, and they took precious fine care that these bets were not won from them while they had control of the horses. I do not say that state of affairs has been absolutely abolished by the totalisator, but I say it does not exist to the great extent now that it did before the machine came into vogue. Now, the honour- able gentleman spoke a little while ago about street betting-" walking totes " I think they are called-and it is quite true this evil doas exist, and that many attempts have been made to cope with it. But I believe the machi: itself within the last two or three weeks has absolutely dealt almost the death-blow to the - class of betting the honourable gentleman re- ferred to, and that is by the clubs agreeing that the dividends should be paid out upon two horses. The "walking totalisators." as they are termed, cannot afford to pay out on twe horses, and the result will be that the totalisator itself will do more than we have been able to do with all our legislation, and more than the police have been able to do, in suppressing the street betting that so many regret to see. W. have heard about young men being ruined through betting on the totalisator. Well. Sir. I believe there have been cases in which some young fellows may possibly have been brought to ruin by the totalisator, although personaly I have not known of such cases, but I admit : is possible, because there are some people who are extreme in everything -- they can touch nothing without going to some violent extreme. But, for every man who has been ruined by totalisator betting, I say hundreds and thou- sands have been ruined by card-playing in the clubs and elsewhere ; though, of course, this is no argument in favour of the totalisator. Sir. there is infinitely more ruin done there than has ever been done by the totalisator. But if members want to talk about ruin I will co further, and will say that there have been mor .. men ruined and more young fellows ruined in the last twelve months by speculating in dredging shares than have been ruined in the last ten years by the totalisator. If the honourable gentleman wants to do anything in the way of reform, let him try to abeli-h gambling in shares. But that would not be se popular, because there are clergymen and verv virtuous people who declaim about the total- isator, though they are not afraid to speculate their "little bit " on dredging shares. We are all willing to condemn the things we are not inclined to. The honourable gentleman and many with him are not inclined to the totalisa- tor, and therefore think it ought to be abolished : and those who are inclined to dredging share- say, " Well, do what you like against the total- sator, but do not interfere with our gambling in dredging." And it is the same in gambling in land. Sir, nearly everything is a gamble right through the world ; but we are not going to pr; an end to gambling on horse-racing by abolish. ing the totalisator. Personally, I do not care twopence how this Bill goes to-night, or whether 