the school-children the manual drill, as the best way to defend a country was to train the children to a knowledge of military movements, so that in course of time the whole population of the country would be capable of readily taking part in its defence. The Premier had had a pleasurable trip to Australia on the occa- sion of the inauguration of the Commonwealth, and he (Mr. Monk) had been informed there that one of the best and most enjoyable features in connection with those celebrations was the parade and manoeuvring of five thousand child- ren, who had been properly trained to move like veterans. And there had been a like im- pressive display at Melbourne recently, where the boys had earned special encomiums be- cause of the skill with which they manœuvred. Honourable members were, of course, quite familiar with the way in which our cadets had borne themselves at the different reviews during the Imperial visit to New Zealand, and all these things went to show that we ought to devote more attention to this matter than was at pre- sent the case ; and if Mr. Brodrick, in the Old Country, would only introduce such a measure for the training of the children in the public schools of Great Britain, in ten or twelve years he would have no difficulty in providing for the defence of the Empire by means of voluntary enlistment. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the Government fully recognised the advantage of drilling and training the boys of the public schools in military drill, and steps had been taken, and so far very successfully, to do that. This system would be continued and extended, to the advantage of the boys and to the safety of the country itself. DISQUALIFICATION ACT. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Premier, If the Government have promised that the members of any Royal Commission set up during the recess shall be paid a larger sum than is provided by the Disqualification Act ; and, if they so propose, will they submit an amendment of the Act named, instead of making the payment by vote under the pro- visions of the Public Revenues Act of last session ? Under the Disqualification Act of 1978, which was entitled "An Act to provide for the Purity of Parliament," it was provided that, in the case of members of Parliament being appointed Commissioners, not more than actual travelling- expenses would be payable to them; but in 1892, by section 3 of the Public Revenues Act, the payment of tra- veliing - expenses was commuted to the fixed sum of El per day. A large number of Royal Commissions had been set up lately, and he was not going to express the opinion as to whether £1 was or was not a sufficient payment to members for serving on these Commissions. It was a matter which was open to opinion whether that sum was sufficient, considering that other gentlemen concerned, who were not members of Parliament, were paid the sum of $3 3s. a day ; but the point to his mind was, if, as he was informed on what he believed to be fairly good authority, the members of one of these Commissions were expecting to be paid a larger sum than the #1 per day which was pay- able by law, then he thought that the Govern- ment should, instead of bringing this down as a vote at the close of the session under the Pub- lic Revenues Act. bring in legislation so that Parliament should, deliberately and with all the facts before it, be able to understand what was its exact legal position, and be able to deal with the question once and for all. Without introducing debatable matter, he regarded it as of the utmost importance that payments to members of Parliament outside of their hono- rarium should be limited in the strictest manner possible, so that there could be no possibility of patronage preventing members doing their duty in connection with their mem- bership of that House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was no doubt that an amendment of the Disqualifica- tion Act was necessary. An Act that allowed a newspaper man to be a member of Parliament, and draw as much from the Government as he liked without being disqualified, while another gentleman who happened to belong to another profession, or to be carrying on business, was unable to receive from the State by way of con- tract more than £50 per year-was an Act that the sooner it was amended and all were put on the one plane the better. He was not casting any reflection on the newspaper profession or the members of the legal profession. An Hon. MEMBER .- Members of the legal pro- fession, if members of Parliament, cannot draw money from the State. Mr. SEDDON said they knew of cases where members of the House who were members of that profession had made agreements that any business done for the Government should not form a part of the business they had done under ordinary circumstances, and which the Act would not have allowed. At all events, he was of opinion that the time had arrived when there should be an amendment of the Disqualification Act, and when all members should be put on the same plane. At the same time the Act itself and the passing of it was one of the gravest reflections ever put upon the Parlia- ment. It would show, at all events, that so far back as 1879 they were afraid to trust them- selves. They must have had corrupt Govern- ments in those days, and to keep them from temptation this Act was passed. The honour- able gentleman had asked a question as to whether or not some promise had been given. The Government had never committed the colony to any breach of the Disqualification Act ; but what he said now to the House was this : that if members of Commissions had to visit other colonies, and under circumstances that must entail very heavy loss on them over and above the amount allowed under the Disqualification Act, it was not honest of the country to expect them to devote their time and attention to the service of the State at a personal loss. An Hon. MEMBER .- They need not take the Commissions. 