<!-- PageNumber="1901.]" --> <!-- PageHeader="New Zealand Ensign. [HOUSE.]" --> price for the land that the land was not worth. If an excessive price were given, the burden would, of course, fall on the settlers on the land. Mr. WILLIS asked, in the event of the Go- vernment not being able to purchase land in the Wanganui district, would they purchase land compulsorily under the Land for Settlements Act. so as to give the people an opportunity of settling on the land. Mr. SEDDON said, if an inflated value was put on the land the Government should not be called on to pay that value. It was well to pro- ceed on the principle of being sure, and not sorry. # NEW ZEALAND ENSIGN. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Premier, Whether, for the encouragement of national feel- ing on the part of the youth of New Zealand, the Government will, by regulation, direct that the New Zealand ensign shall, not less than once a quarter, be paraded up and down the aisle of every public school in the colony, the boys and girls to stand in respectful salute while it is passing them ; the head-teacher to improve each occasion by giving his scholars an address, not exceeding five minutes, instructive of the his- tory of and respect due to the flag ? In asking this question he would appeal to the feelings of patriotism in the Premier. Every one must have noticed how popular throughout the country. and particularly at our public schools, But at the had been the hoisting of our flag. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 same time it had exhibited a widely defective knowledge, not only of the origin of the flag, but also of the right way in which it should be flown. He would not mention names of particular places or individuals, but during the recent decorations in honour of the Royal visit it was truly surprising to see the number of beautiful Union Jacks that were hoisted with the wrong side up. He did not want any one to think he was a faddist in the matter of flags, but, at any rate, he knew sufficient of them to know the elevating influence they had on all who were acquainted with the history of the flag and with its inspiriting story of the past. In order that there might be a proper knowledge of the history of the flag imbued in the minds of the young people of the country, and in order, too, that a national spirit might be encouraged in the ri-ing generation, he would very much like the Premier to direct that there should be a regula- tion that the New Zealand ensign-which was the blue ensign with the Union Jack, and on its fly our badge of the Southern Cross-should be paraded down the aisle and back to the master's desk of every public school in the colony at least once a quarter. A few remarks about the flag, or some remarks upon an historical in- cident with which the flag was connected, should at the same time be delivered by the headmaster, in order that the children might become thoroughly familiar with the story of the flag, and of its association with the history of the British people. Anybody <!-- PageHeader="New Zealand Ensign." --> <!-- PageNumber="239" --> think of it without having his heart warmed and his national feeling quickened, and being fired with love and affection for his flag. In order that the parade might not be a mere per- functory service, but be a matter of affection and respect on the part of the boys and girls, the teachers should aim to make them tho- roughly familiar with the history of our grand flag, and the badge which was specially our own. He hoped the Premier would use his in- fluence in this matter, and make provision for something of this kind. It would only be in harmony with what was done in other countries. It was not a tithe of the kind of effort that had taken place in the United States, whose flag was but of yesterday as compared to ours. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) suggested that the honourable gentleman should himself go round the schools and deliver the speech which he did last session. This, he thought, would have much more effect than the parading of the flag and any remarks made by the teacher. ## Mr. MONK .- I have done so. Mr. SEDDON said, then the honourable gentleman should go on doing so. He was sure the honourable gentleman's desire was a purely patriotic one -to engender a feeling of respect for our grand old flag. It was well to train their children in the way they should go, and when they became old their respect would grow, as was the case with the honourable gentleman and himself. There was, however, this difficulty : The schools were under the manage- ment of the Boards of Education : they could not as a Government go inside the schools; all they could do was to ask the Boards to consider the matter, and they in their turn could communi- cate with the Committees and the teachers. There should, he thought, be something more than the mere unveiling of the flag. There was nothing so interesting as the flag's history : the history of the flags of nations was interesting from many points of view. While they had the book showing the flags of various nations, it would be well, he thought, if they had the flags themselves in the schools. The cost would be very small, and there should be lectures at fixed periods on the different flags and their whole history. They would be listened to at- tentively by the youngsters, and would be very much more useful than a great deal of the history they at present learned, which was of no use but to tell of the wretched past, which ought to be relegated to oblivion. As showing the necessity for teaching children about flags, it was quite true that the Governor, on paying a visit to a certain town in the colony-he be- lieved, in the Auckland District-found across the street, beyond an arch of welcome, a string of flags which read, according to the Shipping Code, " Beware of suspicious strangers." His Excellency, having a knowledge of such matters, had a good laugh ; but he (Mr. Seddon) thought that if there had been lectures on the flags, as he suggested, such a mistake would not have occurred. He would refer the matter to the 