was before the Committee on the motion for its recommittal I asked the honourable gentleman in charge of it whether or not matrons were registered. If matrons are not registered, or if some of them are not, I would point out that in all cases where there is no registration of matrons under this Bill the nurses themselves would not be entitled to registration, though they might be capable of undergoing the examination. Moreover, I think it would be necessary under the Bill that matrons should have been registered during the whole period necessary for ths qualification of nurses under the Bill. I would ask the honourable gentle- man whether or not matrons are registered, or whether any of them are not registered, and. if any of them are not registered, whether pro- vision could not be made that they would be deemed to be registered for the purposes of the Bill. So that I may place myself in order, I move, That the Bili be recommitted to consider this phase of the matter. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .-. I would like to ask my honourable friend in recommitting this Bill to have the position of those matrons who have not got certificates for three years' training defined. I understand that three years' train- ing is now the customary requirement, but there might be some who, though they have served for three years, have not got a certificate. I am not sure if this Bill would not interfere with them. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - We know that the honourable gentleman who has last spoken has just come up, and has not had an opportunity of listening to the discussion in the Council on this Bill ; but if he studies the Bill he will find that the cases contemplated in clause 4 pretty well cover the ground with every fairness :- " Every person who on the passing of this Act " -I think we altered that to the 1st January, 1902 -- " holds a certificate of three consecutive years' training as a nurse in a hospital, and proves that during her training she received syste- matic instruction in theoretical and practical nursing from the medical officer and matron (the matron herself being a certificated nurse), is entitled to registration on payment of a fee of ten shillings, and on application to the Registrar on or before the thirtieth day of June, one thousand nine hundred and two." That covers the three years' course of nurses who have been in hospitals, and during their training have received systematic instruction. Then, the next subelause deals with those nurses who have not had an opportunity of being practically trained in theoretical and practical nursing. The Bill recognises them to this ex- tent : that after four years' training as a nurse in a hospital, and after passing an examination, they get their certificates. The next clause deals with those who have had three years' training with systematic instruction. As regards the objections raised by my honourable friend opposite. I cannot fall in with them to the extent he would wish-namely, that hospitals without certificated nurses are to have the privilege of sending on young persons as qualified nurses- because I do not think we ought to admit the fact that an uncertificated matron is able to train young persons in hospital work. I do not want to inflict any hardship on any person, either a matron or a nurse ; but if we are going to regulate this matter at all, and if we are going to endeavour to establish a register of nurses and a register. as an assurance that our nurses have been pro- perly trained, it stands to reason that we must be careful who is going to train our nurses Therefore I am afraid and give certificates. that, in hospitals where nurses are not trained, it is impossible to allow that they should give certificates to young persons as being qualified in hospital work. I cannot in any way fall in with his view that we ought to make special provision for matrons who are not certiheated and trained in a profession which is recognised, I might almost say, as a learned profession. 1 shall oppose the honourable gentleman's motion for recommitting the Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH. - I do not think it will be found that any hospital in the colony has got a matron who is uncer- tificated : they nearly always ask if the nurse has got a certificate, much more the matron. I think if we were to search New Zealand from end to end we might possibly find one matron who is' not certificated, but I do not think it likely. Amendment negatived, and Bill read the third time. COMPANIES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir. this Bill is one that will, no doubt, be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee, and it is there- fore not necessary to discuss it at any great length on its second reading. But I wish to point out, in the first place, that it is an attempt to bring the New Zealand companies law into line with the English companies law. The latter has been amended comparatively recently -much more recently than the companies law in New Zealand. Clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill deal with the appointment and qualification of directors, and provide that a man cannet act as a director unless he has taken up a certain number of shares ; clause 6 provides that an allotment of shares shall not take place unless there has been a minimum subscription fixed by articles of association : clause 7 states that any allotment not in accordance with clause ti shall be voidable by the allottee : clause 8 con- tains provision under which companies may commence business ; clauses 11 to 13 deal with prospectuses, laying down what particulars they must contain, and that they have to be filed ; clause 14 provides for the holding of the statutory meeting within three months of the date at which the company is entitled to com- mence business, and for the laying before such meeting of certain specified particulars as to For instance. the position of the company. the directors have to- " At least seven days before the day on which the meeting is held, forward to every member of the company a report certified by not less than two directors of the company, or, where 