tration Act. Now we shall have to consider the Trade Union Act, as a trades-union will be quite a separate party to an industrial union. With regard to the other portions of the Bill. I may say I think that clauses 3 and 5 are entirely contradictory. You compel a com- pany which is registered outside the colony to appoint an attorney, and vet you say that that attorney, after he is appointed, cannot appear before the Court if he happens to be a legal gentleman. As the Premier said, the legal pro- fession will, no doubt, get over it. The company will probably give the attorney a few shares, and he will be called a principal-the lawyers are bound to get there all the same. With re- gard to the provision for putting a stop to the dismissing of men, I quite agree with that pro- posal. I think, if we are going to have a Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act, there should be stringent measures to prevent either the men striking or the employers locking out the men while the dispute is on. So far as I know, I think that the action of the Waihi manage- ment was generally condemned as an error of judgment by all employers; and the fact of their taking the men on again is an admission that they made a mistake. I quite agree that legislation should be provided to prevent that, and also to prevent the men striking as well. I do trust the Premier will explain, when re- plying, why trade-unions should be made third parties, and why they should not be compelled under the principal Act to register as industrial unions, and why we are asked under this Bill to insert them in some clauses and not in others. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- The honour- able member for Waitemata complained that the young girls in the colony would not get occupation if this proposed legislation was passed. Mr. MONK .- I never mentioned young girls. Mr. ELL .-- Well. young women and young persons. Mr. MONK. - I did not say that either. Mr. ELL .- Well, the youth of the colony- that covers both sexes ; and with regard to that I wish to ask the honourable gentleman this question : How is it that there is such a scar- city of domestic help in the country if there is such a disinclination to make room for any work in the industries of the colony for young people ? So far as the young people are con- corned. they are not injured in any way by the labour legislation. Their position is un- doubtedly much better than ever it was before. I may say I have the honour of being the president of one union which has about three hundred and forty members, chiefly women and girls. They are well-conducted, they are well- dressed. bright, and intelligent girls, and their position, to my personal knowledge, has been con- siderably improved through the effect of the In- dustrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and the number that is being employed is an increasing number. It has been increasing considerably in the neighbourhood of Christchurch, and. I believe, throughout the colony. There is an abundance of work. And the result is this : VOL. CXVI .- 22. now what we could not get a number of years ago-articles of local manufacture. If one will take the trouble to go through the warehouses of the cities it is astonishing to see the enor- mous stocks to be found there of highly manu- factured articles produced in this country. With regard to the price of boots and clothing. and so forth, I have to furnish my family with these articles and I know they have not gone up in price, although the wages of those who make them have gone up. Mr. MASSEY .-- Which ? Mr. ELL ..- Clothing has not gone up in price. Mr. MASSEY .-- Oh, yes, it has. Mr. ELL ..- My bills tell me No. Mr. FLATMAN .- Wool has gone down. Mr. ELL .- " Wool has gone down "; but what about the previous years when wool was up? Then, with regard to furniture, nearly the whole of the furniture put into the homes of the colony is manufactured in the colony out of our own woods, and the price of furniture has gone down considerably. Nearly every article of furniture placed in the homes of the people has gone down considerably, not- withstanding the fact that the wages of those engaged in the industries have gone up con- siderably. And this industry has increased at a wonderful rate. In fact, in the Christchurch district the manufacturers have doubled the output, and one of the chief organizers of the factories assured me that they have had to send out of the country to get men, on account of the rapid increase in the development of the business which has been brought about on account of the rapid growth of the demand for colonial manufactured goods. With regard to one particular article which I might men- tion, wire-wove mattresses, as showing that our legislation has not injuriously affected the pur- chasers, I may mention that an article which cost #1 5s. 6d. a few years ago can now be bought for 18s. 9d. An Hon. MEMBER .- But very much poorer quality. Mr. ELL .- It is a very good article indeed. I have got some of them in my own house, and have had them for some years. How is it that the honourable gentleman waxes so wroth and seems to be so angry at the prospect of in- creasing the wages of those who produce the articles we have to use ? How is it that there is not a general outcry against the rise in the price of timber ? An Hon. MEMBER. - So there is. Mr. ELL .- Yes; but the rise took place be- fore the employers in the timber industry com- menced to shorten the hours and increase the wages. The rise was going on long before that. Yet directly the workpeople want to take ad- vantage of the labour legislation to improve their position there is an outery. And what is the result ? What has the country suffered ? Our Post-Office Bank deposits show a consider- able increase during the past year. The con- dition of the working-classes has never been better, their homes have never been better 