honourable friend the Minister of Education Mr. Rigg said, "I am going to support Captain praising my past services, and the other honour- Baillie's candidature." I say this, because I able gentlemen who have expressed themselves deem it only fair to the Hon. Mr. Rigg to say in that direction; and the ballot which has just that he has right through never once solicited taken place is very gratifying to me. It was a vote or done anything to lead one to think not my desire to be placed in this position, but that he desired the position. I offer my con- gratulations to the Hon. Captain Baillie. In as the Council have affirmed it by a majority I accept the position. Honourable gentlemen all every respect he is a perfect Chairman of Com- know that I am seventy-four years of age and mittees, with one exception, and that is, of upwards, and I have an infirmity from which I course, that he is now growing old. We are suffer which is often an impediment to the all in the same case, and as we get older eficient conducting of business of the Council, the infirmities of age creep upon us and render and it is therefore gratifying to me to know the us more or less unfit for our duties ; but, as Cap- tain Baillie feels that he is able to fill the confidence which honourable gentlemen of this Council have placed in me. I thought that a position, I congratulate him upon his election. younger member of the Council would have been selected for this post, and I would have to thank the Council for the very large support which they have given me in the election of the cordially supported any honourable gentleman who had the approbation of this Council. I Chairman of Committees. I wished to-day to may say that I have at all times, when there withdraw from the position, because I heard has been a casting-vote, endeavoured to hold some talk of the Hon. Captain Baillie coming out again; but it was thought best that I the scales with eyes blinded, as the goddess of should not withdraw. I congratulate the Hon. Justice is represented. I have never, I believe, given favour to any honourable gentleman or Captain Baillie on his election, and I am sure party in this Council, and I have steadily held that no one could perform the duties of Chair- man better than he has done in the past, and myself aloof from party politics. I am a Liberal in heart in many ways, but I cannot go we are glad that he should feel able to perform the whole length of some honourable gentle- those duties. I again thank all honourable men. and I have some Conservative ideas still gentlemen for the very kind support given to remaining. I desire to again thank you for the me on this occasion. position in which you have placed me. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .-- With the thank the Hon. Mr. Jones for the expression permission of the Council I desire to express my of his congratulation, and I might state that when I heard there was likely to be competi- congratulations to the honourable gentleman who has just been elected Chairman of Com- tion for the position of Chairman I at once told my friend Mr. Jones that I did not wish to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 mittees. I trust he will believe me when I say be put forward- that I would not be a candidate, that it is from no want of respect or affection towards him that I proposed another honour- or ask any honourable member to vote for me. able member, and, so long as the Council is In fact, I told all my friends that I did not wish to have the position again, because of the satisfied with the honourable gentleman who infirmity of sight from which I suffer. I thank has been elected, no one can be more pleased honourable members for electing me to the than I am that he should be reappointed, know- position of Chairman of Committees. ina that he represents the old traditions of the Council, and that he gives to its service, and has given to its service, many years of good and four o'clock p.m. faithful work work that the Council values as being above money and above price, and that he my live long and be able to fulfil the duties of # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. hi- position is, I am sure, my wish and that of all his friends. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I desire to thank honourable gentlemen for having supported me First Readings - Second Reading - Free Railway- on this occasion, and I do so most sincerely. That I should have been put forward without solicitation on my part, and have received the grat support I have done, I regard as the greatest testimonial I have received during m' Ife. I assure honourable gentlemen that their kindness will never be forgotten by me. At the same time I tender my congratulations to the Hon. Captain Baillie, and I assure him that his election to me is most satisfactory. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - I also tender my congratulations to the Hon. Captain Baillie. When I hr-t of all made up my mind to oppose the motion of the Government I understood that the Hon. Captain Baillie would not be a candidate, and I went to the Hon. Mr. Rigg The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .-- I also desire The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- I desire to The Council adjourned at a quarter past Wednesday, 10th July, 1901. passes - Sessional Committee - Commonwealth Celebrations-Cost of the Royal Visit-Railway Rolling-stock-Foodstuffs for South Africa- oal for Government Railways . - Railway Rolling-stock -Robing stock Contracts-Oats for South Africa -South African Charters-San Francisco Mail- service-1 risons Department - Bank of New Zea- land-Troopship " Tagus "- Proclamation of the King -Bible reading in Schools -Close Se: tlement in Wanganui District - New Zealand Ensign - Roxburgh Estate Unpresented Return . Lower Road to Seatoun- Military Drill in Schools - Dis- qualification Act -Customs Duties Annexation of Fiji-Alleged Misconduct of Volunteers - Rail- way Rates in the North and South Islands-Sana- torium tor Mount Egmont - Post- and telegraph- office for Morning'on-St. Andrew's Telegraph- office - Oamaru Kurow Railway - Fairhe Rail- way-platform-Railway Spark-arrester - Petone Station and Hutt Railway - Milk - vans - Miss 