not in accordance with their aims and aspira- tions and desires, so that form of govern- ment has been changed in order to suit the changed condition of the people. And that, Sir, is what we propose to do now. A great change has overtaken public opinion in this country. It is more enlightened and more active, and so demands to have more power. Sir, the dividing-line between the progressives and the moderates has been this : economic reform and constitutional reform. Social reforms are non- partisan. The economic and constitutional reforms are the only lines of demarcation between parties in this country and in every country. The proposal of this Bill is to yield up a certain amount of power to the people from ourselves, and it will be resisted by the mode- rates ; the progressives will support the proposal to yield up power into the hands of the people, which is exactly what we propose to do now. But before I proceed to give illustrations showing the working of the system I would like to call attention to one very serious defect in the Bill before the House. That is this : that it fails to place the initiative in the hands of the people, and in that respect is like a cart without wheels. Before any Bill can go before the country it has got to receive not only the assent of this House, but also the assent of a House which is purely a nominated Chamber, a Chamber which is composed partly of life-members and partly of appointees of the Government of the day, and before we can put any question directly before the country-any proposal or any Bill- we have got to receive their assent. An Hon. MEMBER. - They have got to throw the Bill out. Mr. ELL .- No ; we have got to receive their assent. If the honourable member for Wairarapa will read the Bill he will see that before any Bill or legislative proposal can be submitted to the people it has to receive the assent not only of this House, but of the other House. Hon. MEMBERS. - NO. Mr. ELL. - No. Iam right. It is further pro- vided that if a measure is rejected by the Upper House on two successive occasions it shall be referred to the people. Well, if the Bill is to be effective, and if it is to place power in the hands of the people that they do not now possess, we must have a clause in it placing the initiative in the hands of the people. If we fix 5 per cent. it would mean that before any Bill could be submitted to the people on the initiative something like 18.400 people would have to sign a petition demanding the submission of the Bill. Sir, it has been urged that if we pass this measure we shall be practically wiping ourselves out. Nothing of the sort will happen, Sir. There must be a House to frame legislative proposals. Every Bill will not be submitted to the people, but only those Bills the people desire to have submitted to them before they become law. If a Bill is passed by this Legislature and the people approve of it, they will not petition to have that Bill submitted to them. If they do not approve of it, they will petition the House to have the Bill sub- mitted to them before it shall become law. In Switzerland only those measures are submitted to the people that they have revolted against. Therefore the bogey that no House of Repre- sentatives will be necessary has no existence. and the working of a similar measure in other countries shows there is nothing in such an objection. What has been the history of the system in America ? It has been in operation there for many years, and the authorities state that the effect has been to induce interest. Though at first the polls were small, it is found now that the polls on different measures are much greater than the polls on the election of members. The people actually take more interest in the legislative proposals submitted to them than in the election of members. That is the effect in America after a number of years' trial. It may interest honourable members to hear the nature of some of the questions submitted to the people. In Massachusetts they have passed a law to the effect that a city may pension old and disabled firemen, and may establish an eight-hours law. In the City of Cambridge 5,709 voted for and 1,752 against the proposal to establish a pension for firemen. In the Town of Lynn 5,880 voted in favour and 2,181 against pensioning firemen. Six large cities adopted the proposal to pension firemen, and only two rejected it. In the three cities in which a poll was taken on the eight- hour law it was carried. It must be remem- bered that these States are not less populous than New Zealand. We can judge of their im- portance by their population. In the State of Georgia they have a population of 1,837.000. and there they carried a proposal to provide a pension for the indigent widows of Confederate soldiers ; that was the effect of the referendum there. In Louisiana they have a population of 1,118,000, and they voted in favour of giving a pension to Confederate soldiers. The voting was 31,320 for and only 1,440 against. Then, in Michigan, with a population of two millions. a poll was taken ne taxing railway lands-that is, the land alongside the railways not used by the company-and against granting special charters to the railway company. Well, out of 500,000 only 54,000 voted against this proposal. Then, in Missouri, where there is a population of over two and a half millions, they formerly made a man who owned a property pay the whole of the taxes. Now they insist upon a person holding the mortgage portion of the value pay also his proportionate share of the taxes upon that property, and this was passed by a very substantial majority. Then, in the State of Washington, they passed an amendment exempting personal property up to 300 dollars. Now, in this case, to show that it has had a good effect in educating the people, it is pointed out that the ballot-papers were 5 ft. long. They had a large number of questions on the ballot-papers, and each question was set out. and the people voted on them, and the authorities which I have quoted state that the people voted on these questions very intelligently. The referendum has had a wonderful offeet in educating these electors. Then, Sir. it has been urged that if you give the people this 