Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I do not know that any other man in the House would have conceived that which was stated by the honour- able member for Palmerston -that I purposely interposed between the honourable member for Dunedin City and himself, so as to prevent him catching your eve. It so happened that when the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs rose I was sitting in my place here. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .-- Sir, might I suggest that perhaps it would be just as well to get on with the Bill. I have listened to three or four speeches discussing the ques- tion of to whom belongs the credit of having discovered the wrongful effect of this particular clause. It does not matter who discovered it ; if it is discovered, that is sufficient. Let us get on with the work. and put the clause right. So far as I am concerned, I know perfectly well who first introduced the matter, but we need not go into that. I shall suggest to the Hon. the Premier, however, that he allow the whole clause to go into Committee, for my motion was this : "That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of reconsidering clause 9." The House divided on the question, " That the words ' the first subsection of' be inserted in the motion before the words ' clause 9."" AYES, 31. Allen, E. G. Hall O'Meara Parata Hall-Jones Barclay Bennet Hanan Seddon Steward Hogg Carneross Symes Carroll Houston Ward Duncan Lawry Witheford. McGowan Field Mckenzie, R. Fisher Tellers. McLachlan Flat man Colvin Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Mills Stevens. (Hilfedder NOES, 29. Rhodes Arnold Heke Russell, G. W. Herries Atkinson Russell, W. R. Hornsby Bollard Smith, G. J. Hutcheson Buddo Lang Tanner Collins Thompson. R. Laurenson Ell Thomson, J. W. Fraser, W. Massey Meredith Tellers. Graham Pirani Millar Guinness Monk Wilford. Hardy PAIRS. For. Against. Morrison · Allen, J. Lethbridge Napier. Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 2. Words inserted, and Bill recommitted for the reconsideration of subsection (1) of clause 9. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 9, subsection (11. - " The Governor may from time to time make regulations prescribing the procedure and forms to be used in making and disposing of claims for compensation in re- spect of the compulsory taking of land under the principal Act, and for that purpose modify- ing the provisions of 'The Public Works Act, 1894,' in its application to such claims." Mr. SEDDON moved to strike out all the words after "principal Act," and to insert the following words: "The provisions of . The Public Works Act, 1894.' relating to claims for compensation, are hereby modified in so far as the same are inconsistent with the principal Act and this Act." Amendment agreed to. Bill reported and amendments agreed to. On the question, That the Bill be 8.30. read a third time, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said. - Sir. as a great many incidents took place in Commit- tee, and as many amendments were moved. which traversed the whole land policy of the Government, it seems to me to be proper that some discussion should take place on the third reading ; otherwise the actions of members who moved the various amendments in Com- mittee, where their speeches were not reported. might be open to misconstruction and probably would be misconstrued by their political enemies. I had the pleasure of moving an important amendment, allowing all settlers under the Act to acquire the freehold. It was stated in Committee, and also has been stated all through the colony, that the Opposition --- no, I will not say Opposition, because we all support the Liberal policy. I will say that thex opposed to Seddonism are anxious to give people the freehold, in order that they may buy up their estates and bring back the old system of the aggregation of large estates. I take this opportunity of totally denying that this is our intention. We are quite willing. and always have been willing, to have an Act passed to limit the amount of freehold that any one person can hold. And that is the reason why we approve of the Land for Settlements Act, because it does so limit the amount that can be held by one person, because the State can step in at any time and take the freehold from him ; therefore the Act of which this is an amendment is certainly a check to any large aggregation of estates that could take place. But why, Sir, do we desire to allow every person to acquire the freehold? It is be- cause we desire every man to be free on his own place. It is said that the lease in perpetuity is as good as the freehold. So it is theoretically. Theoretically you can have a 999-years lease, and as long as you pay your rent you have what is as good as a freehold. But practically it is not as good as a freehold The settler under the lease in perpetuity is still under the thumb of the Land Board, and as long as the Land Board is a political machine I say it is wrong that any settler should be under the thumb of the Land Board : and though per- sonally members of Lands Boards may de nothing to cause suspicion to be east upon them -they may act uprightly -still I know from my own knowledge, that fear is in the heart of the settlers and they have some indetimite ides that if they vote against the Government it is quite possible they may suffer for it through the Land Board, and I say that is not a position 