system which should be amended. Now, Sir, , tion to make any change. The power of the does this system exist only in Switzerland ? It has been said that one of the reasons why the House should not adopt it is that it ema- nated from Switzerland-a country that is not worth taking notice of. Well, the honourable member for Riccarton pointed out that the exports of the country amounted to $32,000, which is evidence that the people are indus- trious ; and I would like to call the attention of honourable members to the position of educa- tion in Switzerland. I am quoting from the "Statesman's Year-Book for 1901 " :- "They have 723 infant-schools, 4,600 pri- mary schools, 511 secondary schools, 31 middle schools (preparatory), 47 middle schools (not preparatory), 38 normal schools (public and private), 445 professional and industrial schools. There were also improvement schools for re- cruits with 76,859 pupils, private schools with 16,277, schools for girls with 4,206, gymnasia with 7,578, and higher schools with 5,878 pupils. In 1899 there were 16 commercial schools, 54 complimentary commercial schools, 4 agricultural schools, 1 horticultural school, 10 winter agricultural schools, 5 experimental stations for viticulture, 3 dairy-schools, 153 do- mestie-economy schools for girls." An Hon. MEMBER. - What has that to do with the Bill ? Mr. ELL. - It has a great deal to do with it. It has been said we have nothing to learn from Switzerland. I wish to make another quota- tion to show that we have a good deal to learn from Switzerland. It is this :- " In 1876 it was enacted that this forest area (2,109,368 acres) should never be reduced ; servitudes over it, such as rights of way, of gathering firewood, &c., should be bought up; public forests should be surveyed, and new wood planted where required, subventions for the purpose being sanctioned. Up to the end of 18.03 the cadastration of 268,256 acres of forest had been executed, and in the year 1899, 23,669,656 trees were planted." This shows that, as far as the Forestry De- partment is concerned, we have much to learn from switzerland. Now, I have only one other matter to refer to, and I shall then finish. They have a compulsory school-age from seven to fourteen ; they have workmen's insurance for out-of-works in one of the cantons; they have 2,400 miles of railways, and 170 miles of trams ; they have a system of State fire insurance in some of their cantons ; and they have nationalised their railways. With regard to their railways again, you can buy a railway ticket for $2 10s. and travel over the railways for fifteen davs. All this will show that we have a good deal to learn from Switzerland. There is just one other matter that I need refer to. With regard to the statement that Switzer- land is the only country where they have an elective Executive : they have had this system in operation in the State of Maine for seventy- nine years. I communicated with the Secre- tary of State, and I am assured by him that it has proved entirely satisfactory to the people, and that there is no disposi- Mr. Ell Executive is identical with the power of our own Executive, and they are elected by the members of the Legislature, and it has proved very satisfactory to the people there. The objections raised respecting the Swiss people cannot be raised against the State of Maine, so that we have not only these examples in Switzerland to guide us, but we have the example of our cousins in America. I just wish, in conclusion, to say I congratulate the honourable member for Waitaki upon the vigorous debate that has taken place on the Bill to-night. It is a compliment to him, and I believe we are now within measurable dis- tance of this measure becoming law. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I move the adjournment of the debate. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister). - I just want to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Palmerston, in making reference to me as a supporter of this measure, did not understand that at the time I voted for it I was compelled to, because I had been paired against it, and on the occasion of the division I was shut inside the House and could not zet out, so I had to vote in the way the honourable gentleman with whom I was paired would have voted. It is only fair this explanation should be made, lest I might come under the charge of inconsistency. I have always opposed this Bill. and have spoken against it on the hustings. 1 am sure the honourable gentleman if he had been aware of the circumstances would have done me the justice of stating the facts. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I would like also to make an explanation. I did not state that the Native Minister supported the Ball. I quoted his name from a division-list as being one of those who voted forit. I did not remom- ber the circumstances at the time, but I re- member now that the honourable gentleman was concealed in a corner of the House and was discovered by Mr. James Allen, and that the Speaker then compelled him to record his vete. I am sorry for the mistake I made. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Speaking to the motion for adjournment, I think it is a very great pity it has been moved for several reasons. and perhaps the strongest reason is this : that it would prevent, and the Premier knows it, a straight-out division being taken on the ques- tion before the House, which is the second reading of the Bill, and it is almost certain that Major Steward would not again this session have an opportunity of bringing up his measure. An Hon. MEMBER. - Why did you talk so much about it ? Mr. MASSEY .- On this side of the House there has been very little speaking indulged in : the talking has been almost altogether on the other side. I suggest to the honourable mem- ber who moved it that he should withdraw this motion, and allow us to go to a division on the second reading of the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- At the early part of the evening it must be in the recollection of members that those- Mr. SPEAKER .- You cannot revert to the 