had been informed that any four passengers could occupy one of the "birdcage carriage" compartments to the exclusion of other pas- sengers, and that they had in some cases actually ejected other people from the carriage. A Stationmaster had told him that this was in accordance with the regulations, and that a carriage could be so secured if he were notified of the fact. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) might state that the regulations permitted com- partments to be so reserved, at the convenience and option of the Railway Department, on an application being made to the local Railway Manager, and upon the payment of four or- Passengers who booked in the dinary fares. ordinary way, and who did not make the neces- sary application, could not use reserved com- partments to the exclusion of other passengers. He might tell the honourable member that this was done all over the world. The object was to permit of a party travelling together if they chose to pay the full cost of a compartment ; so that if a compartment was available it might be reserved for them. He might tell the honour- able member that, in consequence of the number of birdcage-carriages that were now being pro- vided, it was intended to raise the number of fares that should be necessary to have a com- partment reserved to six -that was, those desiring to have a compartment to themselves would have to pay six ordinary fares. It was only right that people, if they chose to pay for a reserved carriage, should be able to secure one. A man and his wife and daughters might naturally prefer to travel together, or several persons who had business to discuss might also desire to discuss it in private during a railway journey, and there was no reason why they should not be allowed to make arrange- ments that would enable them to do this. This sort of thing, as he had said, was done all over the world. It had been the rule that it should be done upon payment of four ordinary fares, but the conditions would be altered so as to require the payment of six ordinary fares ; and even then the matter of reserving compart- ments would, of course, be at the discretion and convenience of the Railway Department. On very busy days the compartments might not be given up to anybody. An Hon. MEMBER. - They were on the occa- sion of the Christchurch Show. Sir J. G. WARD replied that was quite likely. If the judges of the show, for instance, were going together in the train, and wanted to dis- cuss matters, it was right that some considera- tion should be shown to them. The officers of the department, in these matters. while doing their best to meet the reasonable requirements of the public, exercised their common-sense. # NATIVE LAND COURT. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Native Minister. Why wills made by deceased Natives lately residents of and owning property in the South Island are gazetted to be heard by the Native Land Court in Wellington, instead Mr. McLachlan devised are situate and the Natives affected reside? The reason he had for putting the question was that complaint had been made to him that these cases had been set down to be heard in Wellington. He hoped the Native Minister would tell the Native Land Court officers that the cases should not be taken in Wellington, and that the Minister would look into the matter. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said that, owing to the comparatively small amount of business in the South Island. there were long intervals between the sittings of the Court there. The hearing of an application sometimes meant considerable inconvenience, or perhaps loss, to the parties interested, and, to avoid that, urgent applications which involved the rights of only a few persons-such, for instance, as applica- tions for succession or for probate. - were occa- sionally heard at Wellington. Such a course was only taken, however, on the understanding that if objection was made to the Court, or if from any cause the Court was not satisfied that the parties affected were present, or repre- sented, then such cases would be adjourned until such a time as they could be heard in the district in which the applicants resided. # SPRINGBURN BRANCH LINE. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) asked the Minister for Railways, When the long-promised large engine will be running on the Springburn Branch line ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said arrangements had been made to place a large engine on the Springburn Branch line in the following week. OVERCOATS FOR VOLUNTEERS. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) asked the Minister of Defence. What steps have been taken to pro- vide the Volunteers with overcoats, a vote for which purpose was placed on the estimates last session ? The delay in the matter had been considerable, and he would like to know if there was any reason for it. At the same time he would like the Minister to inform him if it was intended to supply the coats to the Volunteers gratuitously ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said tenders had been called in the colony for the manufacture of 1,000 mounted infantry khaki waterproof-cloth overcoats and 1,000 infantry khaki waterproof overcoats. This was done in consequence of a decision of Cabinet when considering a recommendation from the Com- mandant to import them from England. The inquiries made in England showed that the coats could be obtained there for 15s. or 16s. apiece. It was decided that, while that offer was a good one, it would only be just to manu- facturers in the colony to also call for tenders within our own shores. After these tenders came to hand a decision would be arrived at as to which tender to accept. As for making a present of the overcoat to the Volunteers, it was a financial question that would have to be dealt with on the estimates. At the present time there was no provision made for it. 