The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- With the general objects of this Bill I quite agree, but I very much disagree with its method of pro- cedure, which was what I pointed out last session, in common with other honourable members. I consider the means to. be adopted are far too severe, and that there ought to be a probationary period to those children who are found on the streets. By clause 5, subsec- tion (2), the Protection Officer or the police- man might, if he finds a young person in the streets, take him home, and thereby cast a slur on his character. This, I think, is a very improper power to put in the hands of any one. What should be done is that, if a boy is found habitually loitering in the streets away from his home, his name should be taken down by the Protection Officer or the policeman, and par- ticulars of the complaint should be sent to his parents, so as to give them an opportunity of cor- recting the boy or girl themselves. After a certain period, if the child is again found there, then the child might be dealt with in the manner which this Bill provides. Clauses 5 and 11, in my view, are liable to bring about what my honourable friend Mr. McLean has mentioned -that is, to brand a certain class of boys as almost criminals. What is wanted is to give the parents an opportunity of doing their duty, and which, I believe, if brought before them in the manner in which I have pointed out, will induce them to exercise proper care over their children. I shall support the Bill in Committee, and right through, if provision is made whereby the protection which I have alluded to can be given to the children and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 also to the parents ; but otherwise I will not, if the Bill passes the Committee in its present form. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I cannot under- stand, Sir, how any honourable gentleman who has been reading the newspapers and reports of the Supreme Court and other Courts for the last six months can vote against this Bill. It is quite evident that there is abroad a class of people who are too ready to take advantage of these children if they find them loitering in the streets at night. It appears to me that it is most desirable that some effort should be made to make them stay at home. It is all due to parental laxity-parents are careless, children are allowed to roam abroad and get into bad habits. Now, with regard to the stain that will be on the child's character if taken in charge by either a " discreet woman " or a policeman, I ask honourable gentlemen what may the con- sequence be to a child who is not taken in charge ? That is the point. If a child is taken in ch rge and taken home it is a warning to the child and a warning to the parents ; and if a chilo knows and the parents know that he is liable to be arrested, or anything of that kind, he will not be allowed out, and there will be no necessity for his arrest. That will be the effect of it. The Hon. Mr. McLean and my honourable friend Mr. Jennings both spoke to us of the moral agencies that were at work, and of the good people who are doing these gentlemen who are opposed to this Bill that there is a necessity for it, for if there were no necessity for it these good people of whom they speak would have had nothing to do, and they would not be doing all that the honourable gentlemen tell us they are doing. No . , with regard to the severity of the Bill, I do not know but that the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith is perhaps right. According to what I see in this Bill the He officer is not allowed sufficient discretion. is to take the child home. There is no necessity to take the child home. If he warns the child to go home and the child refuses, then he may take the child ; but there is no reason why a warning should not be given before any arrest or any hand is laid on the person of the child. But you will understand that police- men and other officers who are intrusted with the administration of the law never carry it to the extreme extent. They administer it in a judicious way, and I believe that this law would also be administered most judiciously. It would be necessary to ad- minister this Act judiciously, and consequently, if administered judiciously, I am certain that no child which possessed a character would be injured. But there are other people contem- plated to be arrested under this Bill-young persons found in gambling-houses and other undesirable places which I need not mention. Now, if a Protection Officer finds a little girl under fourteen years of age in such a place, what can he do ? What ought to be done ? Take her out of it and look after her, and save her from the terrible doom which is before her if she remains there. Very well, Sir, under such circumstances there is nothing severe in taking the child to a shelter and bringing her before the Magistrate. I do not see that this is an open Court, and I would like to ask the Hon. the Minister if it is an open Court. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- It does not follow. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- It should not be an open Court, in my opinion. I think these cases might be well considered in private, and not open to the public; but I do not think that it is at all wrong to give public officers the power to enter these houses where young boys may be gambling, and laving the foundation of a terrible career, or where young girls may le laying the foundation of a life of misery and infamy. I do not think there is anv severity in arresting under these conditions and bringing them before the Magistrate. For my own part, Sir, I think, in the absence of the Contagious Diseases Act, it is absolutely necessary that this power should be given. I have had it from several policemen that, when the Con- tagious Diseases Act was in existence, under it the police possessed sufficient powers to do that which is contemplated by this Bill. The police exercised that power in those days, and it had good effect. Now they have not that power, and consequently this Bill has become a necessity. That is what I have had from policemen, and I have no doubt that the Hon. Mr. Bowen, who has had a large experiences as a Magistrate, will be able to bear me out in that 