in respect to this measure. The honourable member for Riccarton, in his attack, told the House we had a black-book, and he described how the black-book was taken round from member to member. Sir, it is well to have a recording angel. Members make their speeches to their constituents defining the lines upon which they are coming to Parliament, and they are sorry sometimes to find we have as a matter of necessity to show them how they are depart- ing from the pledges they gave to their con- stitutents. That is why the honourable mem- ber does not like a recording angel. That is why this black-book is not appreciated by the honourable member. But, Sir, I have here something which is taken' from a journal of another colour. It is taken from a red journal -The Spectator. Here we find these words : "Then up rose the member for Riccarton, and he held the House for the hour allowed by the Standing Orders." Mr. PIRANI .-- I rise to a point of order. ask you, Sir, if it is in order for the Premier to read an extract upon a debate on this question that has taken place this year. Mr. SPEAKER. - I thought the Right Hon. the Premier was referring to something that took place during the past year. Mr. SEDDON .- The debate is past and gone. Mr. PIRANI .- It is referring to a debate of this session. Mr. SPEAKER .- If it is referring to a debate of this session it is not allowed. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, I shall not press the matter further. Sir, at the luncheon adjourn- ment I was alluding to the misrepre-" 2.30. sentation made by the honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 member for Riccarton. And, Sir, I do not think it could be accidental. I think it is a great pity the honourable member is not more careful in respect to statements that he makes, or that he should apparently take figures from the public records of the colony and apply these figures in the way he does, when he ought to know that the application he gives them is Now, the entirely fallacious and wrong. honourable member made this statement : "I say that under the Premier's management "- he was desiring to make a contrast for the last and the preceding twelve months, and he took it for granted that I had only been twelve months in charge of this department - that presumably I had only looked after it for the previous twelve months. It will surprise the honourable member when I tell him that practically I have had a general supervision of these purchases of land off and on for nearly three years. The fact is that last year land was purchased to the amount of $350,193. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-. Is that the financial or calendar year ? Mr. SEDDON .-- Sir, the honourable member takes the amount that has been paid, and he savs, " That is the amount of land purchased." But I tell him that the payments sometimes do not come in for fifteen months afterwards. Then, the year before there were 79,000 acres purchased, costing $353,000. There is only a difference in the amount of land purchased in the two years of £2,000; so that will sur- prise the honourable member. And the honour- able member went further than that when he said, " The total land purchased last financial year amounted to £186,000, but if the amount of the Hatuma purchase-£141,000-is taken from that it only leaves about $45,000 as the total amount of land purchased." Sir, here is a statement by the Land Purchase Officer of the land purchased last year, and I think it will go as far as the word of the honourable gentle- man :-- Price. Acres. Hawke's Bay- Hatuma 26,350 141,618 . . . . Mangatoro 87,975 19,550 Wellington- Langdale 9,406 30,669 Mangawhata 1,226 16,129 Maungaraki 423 3,000 . . Epuni 103 9.146 .. Marlborough- I 3,600 8,250 Waipapa . . Canterbury -- 15.750 Lyndon 4,243 . . Kohika 3,864 28,003 .. . . Raincliff 2,424 745 .. . . Taranaki 2,855 32 . . .. Pukaka 39 981 . . 100 Mrs. Delargy . . . . Otago - Earnscleugh .. 3,000 1,152 . . Total .. 70,833 $350.193 . . " In a former statement ' North Bank Estate. 12,800 acres, cost €6,750,' was included in error. the date of agreement to purchase being the 14th March, 1900, and date of completion the 31st March, 1901. This accounts for the dis- crepancy from the former totals - namely. 82,974 acres, and $356,850. " Of the above sums, $87,442 was paid in April. 1901. Mangatoro and Mrs. Delargy not paid vet .- J. MCKERROW." Now, to contrast the last two years' pur- chases : In 1899-1900 we purchased 79.5 acres, valued at $353, 718; last year, as will be seen by Mr. McKerrow's statement, we pur- chased 70,883 acres, of the value of $350.793. So that the records prove there has been no serious falling- off. Now, Sir, to show the honourable gentleman again how he will wii- fully, as it were, endeavour to put things in a wrong position, he made this statement. using his own words :- " I say Earnseleugh, which cost $3.100; Lyndon, which cost €17,750 ; Maungaraki Es- tate, which cost $2.797 ; North Bank, which cost $6,750; Tarawahi (that is Freeman's Estate), which cost $2,857; and Waipapa (J. Bell's), which cost $8,250; are the total pur- chases in New Zealand for the year for which the Government paid outside of Hatuma." It will surprise the honourable member when I tell him there are, in addition, Mangatore. $87,975 ; Langdale, $30,669 ; Mangawhata, €16,129: Epuni, £9,146; Kobika, ₺28.083: Raincliff, $2,424; Pukuka, $981. Sir, the 