the day, or they must have some reasonable ex- | returns. I think this clause certainly needs cuse, or the master must give them an excuse attending to in regard to the verbiage. I will that it is necessary for them to catch a train, or defy any Judge or lawyer to read and interpret that there should be some other desirable object. the clause differently from the way I do. I do So far as the Truant Officer is concerned, I think not want to raise any opposition in regard to the Bill at all, but there is no doubt that the the difficulty could be met if the police could be utilised in some respects, especially in the parents of a Roman Catholic child would have country districts, where very often he has very to apply annually to the School Committee for little to do. I had some little time ago read to a certificate of exemption, and, under the pro- me an article out of the May number of the visions of this Bill, the Committee could refuse Win sor, describing truant institutions which . to give it. I only wish to draw the honourable have been established in various parts of Eng- gentleman's attention to it, and I have no doubt land ; there the young vagrants, if they do not he will take the matter into consideration and see that the verbiage is altered. However, I go to school, are sent to this reformatory, and they keep them there for three months presume that this Bill, being an amendment of I think in the and teach them useful arts. the Education Act, will go to the Joint Statutes Revision Committee. morning they are kept at school for so- many hours, and some of them are em- ployed in useful occupations, and they really not think so. learn trades. But, of course, that could not be done in this country. However, I think this ought to. Bill is very desirable, and I trust the Hon. the in regard to the objection raised by the last Minister will carry it through, and that it will hive a good effect. There is one thing I might speaker, that clause 4 is pretty well the same point out to my honourable friend, and I trust as the present law in regard to this matter. he will make a note of it, and that is the diffi- The Act savs,- culty in regard to the master producing the re- gister of absence. Where the Education Board may apply for and receive a certificate from the to which I belong have summoned people for School Committee of the district in which such child resides exempting such child from at- the absence of their children, a ditheulty was experienced sometimes to get the master to pro- tendance in whole or in part at school, upon duce the register. I think some clause should satisfying the School Committee of the exist- be introduced into this Bill to provide that the ence of any one of the following grounds, master should produce a register of absence. namely :- The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- I would like to be clear as to the wording of clause 4 in this Bill. It states,- "The parent of any child may apply for and either in the Act or this Bill to run counter to receive from the School Committee of the dis- any person's convictions or persuasion. This is trict in which such child resides a certificate simply to assure the State that every child is getting efficient instruction ; the moment that under the hand of the Chairman or Secretary is assured I am certain there is no Committee exempting such child from attendance." That means to say that the parents of in the colony that would place any obstacle Roman Catholic children, if you read through in the way of Catholic children attending any school, provided they are satisfied that the the Act, have to apply annually for an exemp- children are getting good instruction there -- as tion. It is not made a ground of defence in the case of an action. It appears to me that, if the School Committee choose to refuse to in the imaginary case raised by the honourable gentleman. I trust the Bill will be received give such exemption, a Roman Catholic child would be forced to go to a public school, with an honest endeavour not to widen the law in a sense which may be disagreeable to whether the parents liked it or not. How any one, but simply to strengthen it where it would this do? I think the verbiage of the has been found wanting, in the interests of all. clause wants to be looked carefully into. Why should a person require to go annually, cap in hand, and ask for an exemption ? It is quite obvious, too, that the School Committee might refuse to issue a certificate. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Read the present law, and you will find it is exactly the same. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .--- I have not a HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. copy of the Education Act within reach, but, if that is so, it is a dead-letter, because, so long as the Truant Inspector is satisfied that the children are going to a proper school, the parents have not to go through the humiliation of applying for an exemption certificate every year. W have got too much of these certificates at pre- sent in all kinds of directions-certificates and The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- No, I do The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- Well, I think it The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I may say, " Provided also that the parent of any child "(1.) That the child is under efficient and regular instruction elsewhere." I would point out that there is no intention they generally do. I therefore see no hardship Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at five minutes to four o'clock p.m. Thursday, 18th July, 1901. First Reading-Bill discharged -- Wellington Har- bour Board Bill - Woodville County Bill - In- vercargill Re-erves Leasing Bill . Cycle Boards Bill - Starutes Compilation Bill-l'edlars and Hawkers Bill-State-school Children Compulsory Drill Bill-Eight Hours Bill. 