the four Hotchkiss guns which were sent out by Sir William Armstrong's firm to South Africa were, through a misunderstanding from the wording of the telegram making the ori- ginal offer, considered to be a gift to the colony at the conclusion of the war ; but upon the disbandment of the New Zealand Hotchkiss Battery the company claimed the guns, and said that their offer did not mean a gift, but only that the guns were at the disposal of the Government for purchase should they so desire after the cessation of hostilities. The Govern- ment declined, upon the advice of the Com- mandant, to purchase the guns, and the firm of Sir William Armstrong was so informed. He would only add that, as a gift, the guns would not have been worth much. They would have been four white elephants. ## LICENSES TO SELL GUNS AND AMMUNITION. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Colonial Secretary, If he will abolish the charge now imposed on storekeepers for licenses to sell guns and ammunition to the Natives ? Some time ago the charge imposed on storekeepers who sold arms and ammunition was abolished, but about the time of the trouble among the Natives in the North, a little more than two years ago, the fee was again imposed. It was a small charge, but it inflicted a hardship on the storekeepers without much advantage to the revenue, and they desired to have it re- moved. He hoped the Colonial Secretary would see his way to comply with their wishes. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the charge referred to by the honourable gentleman https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 was imposed in 1898, at the time some trouble arose among the Natives. A charge of the kind was really the only means the Government had to enable them to keep some control over the sale of arms and ammunition to the Natives ; but he could assure the honourable member that he would have inquiries made, and as soon as the Government thought they would be justi- fied in remitting the fee it would be removed. The amount could not be a great hardship on any one - it was only £1 per annum-but before it could be removed inquiries would have to be made. ## REDUCTION OF THE WEIGHT OF SACKS. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, Whether anything has been done, or is intended to be done, relative to re- ducing the weight of sacks of wheat carried on the railways ; and, if not, why not ? They had it on record that men were continually injuring themselves by having to carry heavy quantities of grain in sacks. He put a question on the subject to the Minister last session, and the member for Kaiapoi asked a similar question. The Minister for Railways informed him on that occasion that his answer to the question would be the same as that to the member for Kaiapoi, and that answer was that " the Railway Bill then in circulation would give power to fix the weight of cornsacks and of goods generally as far as the department was concerned." That Bill, however, did not pass ; but, whether a Rail- way Bill passed or not, he thought that when one was continually hearing complaints from the men, and when in addition one had the evidence of medical men confirming these state- ments, something should be done at once to reduce the weight of sacks of wheat. He hoped he would receive a favourable reply from the Minister. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) quite agreed with the remarks of the honour- able gentleman, and said a by-law was now in course of preparation by which the difficulty referred to would be overcome. It was no easy matter to fix a weight that would give satisfac- tion to every one concerned, but it was gene- rally conceded by those who used the railways, by the labourers, and by those who received the goods that the weight was excessive, and that the time had arrived when it should be reduced. ## GLENHAM ESTATE. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) asked the Premier, If it is correct, as reported in the public Press, that the Government have purchased the Glen- ham Estate, in Southland ? If it was the case that the Government had purchased the estate, he hoped the Premier would let the House and the country know the price that had been paid for the land. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Glenham Estate had been purchased under the Land for Settlements Act. It contained 11,500 acres, and was acquired for £37,000. Possession would be given towards the end of the year. The estate was situated in the Survey Districts of Wynd- ham and Toetoes, and at present was divided into paddocks of moderate extent, from 100 to 600 acres. Besides the main homestead, there were six or seven other homesteads of four or five rooms each, with milking-sheds attached, and there was a cheese-factory at the Glenham Railway-station, in the estate. He believed the estate had been bought on the best possible terms. It was land that was well suited for close settlement. SANATORIUM NEAR NASEBY. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, Whether they will at an early date make provision for the erection and main- tenance of a sanatorium in the vicinity of Naseby ? This question was a very serious one to the residents of Naseby. The dreadful disease of consumption was greatly on the increase, and, owing to the excellent climate of Naseby, large numbers of afflicted persons flocked to the town. The residents had cer- tainly no desire that they should come, nor did they wish an institution of the sort he referred to ; but, as these people insisted on flocking there, the residents of Naseby considered that the Government should establish an institution for their reception at a reasonable distance from Dr. the town and under safe conditions. Church had written some most invaluable papers on this subject. It might be said the 