with tape machines on events which are decided at a racecourse at some far-distant place, and money changes hands there between people who never see the racecourse. You have only got to go to Australia and any one will see that betting is on the increase there. You see more betting going on than you do here, and there is no totalisator there except in South Australia. I believe that "Tattersall's" sweeps have in- creased from very small beginnings, until now they have developed into gigantic concerns. think the honourable gentleman must admit that the evil of gambling is increasing all over the world, and it should not therefore be said that the increase is due to the totalisator. It is unfortunate that gambling should increase as it does, but the totalisator must not be blamed . for that increase of gambling. It is, as I have said, a gambling age, and the totalisator is only one of its phases. The unfortunate thing about the totalisator is this : that the returns are all published, and its enemies can go and inspect the figures and see what amounts have gone through it. But you cannot go to the bookmaker and show what money has gone through his books, and therefore the totalisator is an easy prey to the people who want to try and purify the world in general. They say, " Let us get rid of this thing." At the same time. if you get rid of the totalisator you will find that the gambling will go on just the same. I could understand the honourable member if he went for abolishing horse-racing, though I should be very sorry to see it done. If the totalisator were abolished horse-racing would go on; but the stakes would be less, because the totalisator money would not go into them. This would lead to increased bet- ting, as owners, if the stakes were less, would have to resort to betting in order to recoup their expenses of breeding, training, et cetera. That was the case before the totalisator was introduced. It would be difficult for an owner to back his horse for #10,000 on the machine, but in the old days you could do so. If a bookmaker is prepared to lay £10,000 against a horse it must be because he has a large army of small clients to make this up if the horse wins. It is well known that under the bookmaking system you can win more money on bets than on the totalisator. This proves that the bookmakers must have a large number of small men to bet with them, other- wise they could not afford to make such large wagers. Looking at the past, I think it is fair to assume that if we do away with the total- isator gambling on horse-racing will increase, because now, under the present system, according to the report of the Chairman of the Racing Conference, 623 per cent. of the totalisator receipts go to the stakes. Sup- posing that sum were not given to the stakes, as it could not be if the totalisator were abo- lished, the owner would have to recoup himself, and could only do so by wagering with the book- maker, who in turn would have to extract the amount from the general public. I am not saying it is a good thing to gamble, but as long as you have people willing to lay odds against you I suppose betting will go on. It seems to me that this system of the totalisator is the best, and a system that you can keep control of - -- much more easily than any other. I do not think the honourable member will deny that during the last ten years there has been a great improvement in the conduct of horse-racing in this colony. I do not think he will deny that. A great improvement has taken place in the meetings - not only in the general arrange- ments, but the running is straighter, and a I better class of people is found on the courses. I attribute that largely to the totalisator. You find better courses, larger stakes, and a better class of people go in for the pursuit, and the meetings are better conducted. Of course, the argument of some honourable gentlemen is in the direction of doing away with horse-racing altogether; but I am only speaking of the totalisator. If you were to do away with horse-racing altogether that would have a very drastic effect, and it would result in the people breaking out in another direction, such as a mining boom. There is another fact that 1 think escaped the honourable gentleman's notice. According to our racing rules, every club that gets a totalisator permit has to make improvements to the extent of $250 on courses before they can get their permit. There is another necessary rule, and that is that the money clubs get out of the totalisator must either be spent in stakes or in improving their courses, and erecting a better class of buildings. Now, Sir, if this Bill is passed and the totali- sator is abolished, you immediately say to these people, " All this money you have spent is wasted." An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. HERRIES. - Yes, because in some instances they would not be able to have race- meetings at all without the totalisator. In other instances they have borrowed money on the expectation of receiving revenue from the totalisator, and the stewards have become security for it. Well, it is not fair to put gentlemen in a position like that. A warning should be given to them, and if the honourable member sees the justice of what I say he will put into his Bill a clause providing that after a certain time-three years or five years, or some other term-the totalisator permits could not be granted. There would be some reason in a clause of the kind. Otherwise I can assure the honourable gentleman he would be doing an injustice to people who have spent and borrowed money on the strength of the totali- sator permits. Now, Sir. I should like to a.k. whether, in an important matter like this, that affects the revenue of the country, we are to have no word from the Government ? I think it would be a proper thing if one of the Ministers would tell us whether the Govern- ment agree with this Bill or not. Mr. O'MEARA .- How much do the Govern- ment get from it ? Mr. HERRIES .- About £14,000. It would build the Gorge Bridge that the honourable gentleman is so anxious about. I would like to know if the Government wish the Bill to go 