captivating title an eight-hours working-day. Nobody opposes that ; it has, indeed, been re- cognised and acted upon for many years past, and, as I have said, the working-hours in most of the trades are less at the present time than an average of eight per day. The Bill provides in the 2nd clause that the House by passing the measure should affirm that eight hours is a legal day. It goes on, however, to make numerous exceptions. It makes pro- vision for a large class of domestic servants, servants in hotels and boardinghouses, and other similar kinds of service, providing that they shall be exempted from the provision which purports to fix eight hours as a legal working-day, and that their work shall not exceed twelve hours per day, and provided they have an afternoon as a holiday on one weck-day in cach week, and from two o'clock every second Sunday. Therefore it implies they may be called upon to work seven days in the week. On five of those seven days they would work twelve hours a day, which is much more than the average time such people are called upon to work now. With reference to the other two days, it does not even say they shall be limited to a less number of hours of labour on those days. Of course, it would be absurd to suppose that they would begin work at three or four o'clock in the morning, but at the same time there is no restriction in.the Bill as to the hours. We can therefore count that they may be called on to work five days of twelve hours each, which is equal to sixty hours, and, say, six hours on the other two days ; so that under this Bill these employés may have to work seventy-two hours a week. That is what it amounts to. The Bill also proposes to exempt farm-labourers who may be working on farms. I believe that generally farm-labourers only work eight hours a day at the present time. I am a city member, and reside in a city, but I have also been a farmer, and as such I em- ployed men, who would have seen me some- where first before they worked more than eight hours a day without equivalent compensation. The custom was to work eight hours a day, and the custom is the same still,and farm- labourers know very well how to look after themselves in this respect. I think the laws as they stand at present are quite sufficient for the time. We should now give our labour legislation a rest to see how those already on the statute-book work out. Of those members who have spoken in favour of the principle of the Bill, some have suggested that it should have been moved pro forma, and referred to the Labour Bills Committee. I think that would have been a proper course to adopt. It is too late, however, to do it now. Then, the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) and others suggested that the present Bill should be with- drawn, and brought up again by the Govern- ment in a form that would be more acceptable to the House. Mr. PIRANI .- It may be referred to the Labour Bills Committee after the second read- ing. Mr. GRAHAM .- Yes. that is true ; but it Mr. Graham cannot be read pro forma now. The Premier. when speaking on this question, said that the Bill as it stood could not, he thought, be agreed to, but that we might allow it to go into Com- mittee, and there so shape it that it might be acceptable to the country. There is nothing to benefit the workers in this Bill except the affirming of a principle that does not require to be affirmed, because it has been recognised in the colony for the last forty years. After the discussion that has taken place, the honourable member should withdraw his Bill, knowing that the Minister of Labour says he could not support it in its present form, and would only support the second reading to enable it to go into Committee. I think, in view of the dis- cussion that has taken place, that the Go- vernment should be in a position to prepare a Bill, if they believe it is necessary, such as might be acceptable to the House, and so save a great deal of acrimonious discussion over this Bill in Committee. I agree with those members who have spoken with reference to the dairy industry, that the Bill, if passed, would be disastrous to the dairying and agricultural in- dustries in the colony. It purports to be an Eight Hours Bill, but is really a Twelve Hours Bill. Why should servants and others work for twelve hours a day, and for seven days a week. while labourers and trades generally only work eight hours? Why, Sir, this Bill even provides that these unfortunate people shall work twelve hours a day independent of the time allowed for breakfast, dinner, and tea. The Bill says they shall not work longer than twelve hours in one day. The hour for dinner and the half-hour each for other meals is not taken out of the working- time, and consequently they can be required to work twelve hours exclusive of time for meals. That shows how crude the provisions of the Bill are. A Bill which affects labour questions which ramify throughout the whole extent of the colony, and might lead to very serious hard- ships and differences between employers and employés, should have most careful considera- I commend the honourable member for ation. Riccarton for honesty of purpose in bringing his Bill forward, and I have not the slightest doubt that he is perfectly honest in his desire and intention. The discussion has, no doubt. done a considerable amount of good : but I do think, now that the discussion has taken place. it would be far wiser of him to take the assurance of the Government that they will deal with this question on such lines as they may see now will be acceptable to the House and the country. I think this would be wiser than for us to pass the second reading simply as a compliment to the honourable momber. and then tear his Bill to pieces and leave no beneficial result at the end of that process. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .-- One would imagine, after hearing the honourable member. that eight hours really obtained in New Zea- land. Sir. I also come from a city, and I re- present a city constituency, but I have had many complaints made to me. and many re- quests and demands, that something should be done to enforce the eight-hours principle which 