his family-every member of it from the infant upwards-five hundred acres of land. As the Act stands, the owner can keep for himself a thousand acres. But the honourable gentle- man does not consider that sufficient. One thousand acres of the pick of the estate is not sufficient for a family home. He maintained strenuously, and tried to trade on the sym- pathies of members of this House, that every owner should retain five hundred acres for each member of his family- Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Hear, hear. Mr. HOGG .- If a principle of this kind is to be maintained it follows that the man who is in a position to purchase or acquire land, if he has a family, must be allowed in a similar way to take up large areas instead of being limited to What does it mean ? What would 640 acres. happen? A man with a family of six little children-perhaps most of them girls, who would never be likely to occupy land at all- would be able to retain for himself four thousand acres - an estate equal in size to the borough in which I live-one of the largest in New Zea- land, in which there is a population of over four thousand souls. That is to be conferred on one individual. I say we have not got land enough in New Zealand to enable us to distribute it in huge areas like that. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Do you not give fifteen hundred acres to one person under the Land for Settlements Act ? What is your argument worth ? Mr. HOGG .- You give a thousand acres. I am very sorry the honourable gentleman is try- ing to correct me. He is the latest convert of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Must I congratulate him on being converted, coming out in new colours, and occupying the Opposition benches in regard to the land ques- tion ? What I pointed out-and the honour- able gentleman cannot deny it-is that had this resolution been passed, a man with six young children - mostly girls, perhaps, who would be never likely to occupy the land -- would be able to select four thousand acres. That is what the honourable member for Napier, representing a constituency that has suffered more than any other in the North Is- land owing to the way in which land has been locked up in huge areas, voted for and supported in this House. The honourable member for Eg- mont stated that because I opposed that proposal I could have no regard for my family. I have as great a regard for my family as the member for Egmont, but I happen to have a little con- sideration as well for the family of my neigh- bour. I do not want to see my family clothed with land and the family of my neighbour going naked. We are taught to love our neighbours as ourselves ; and I think there would be a great reform in the land-laws of this country if the people and the members of this House had a little more consideration for others, especially for the poorer classes. I do not blame the free- holder for choosing that tenure. He has a per- fect right to get the best tenure the law allows ; but I am not prepared to say that in the in- terests of the community a tenure should be perpetuated which enables one man to mo- nopolize large areas of land which ought to be distributed amongst the crowd. Surely the State can be trusted as a landlord. In Com- mittee I was attacked because I stated that I thought the freehold tenure would not always be encouraged. What I maintain is this : that we ought to have a uniform land system. In the face of what we have witnessed since the Land Act of 1892 was passed, can it be contended that the land reforms which have been intro- duced have not been advantageous ? The lease in perpetuity has been the means of anchoring hundreds-I may say thousands-of families to the soil of New Zealand. It is one thing to place men on land ; the difficulty is to keep them there. If you give them the freehold, they are tempted on every side to mortgage their properties, and by-and-by the mortgagee comes along and turns them off, and where there was a large community you will have a few huge sheep-runs. What has happened to our Native population? See how their land has been scooped up. An Hon. MEMBER .- By the Government. Mr. HOGG .- No; but by gentlemen whom I am sure the member for Napier likes to sup- port. See what the Twelve Apostles did in the neighbourhood from which the honourable mem- ber comes-where a poor Native was hunted like an opossum up a tree. What I maintain is this : that private ownership or private land- lordism is synonymous with slavery of the very worst kind. If you leave people without land. or make them tenants, they are slaves and serfs. Is that what the member for the Bay of Plenty would like to see ? Mr. HERRIES .- I want to give the free- hold. Mr. HOGG .- I believe he wants to have a restriction of area ; but does he agree with the member for Hawke's Bay that each man ought to have about four thousand acres for himself and his family ? Is that the nature of the 9.30. restriction ? I think he is perfectly safe in advocating restriction of areas. if we are going to have areas of that character. But if you retain the State as the landlord the people are safe. The State, which is really the people, will take very good care that the agere- gation of homesteads will not take place, and It that land-monopoly will not be allowed. may be said, " Well, we cannot trust the State." All that I can say is that if the State cannot be trusted to exercise the powers and prerogatives of a wise and generous landlord. then I think there is only one other course, and that is to municipalise our lands, and place their administration in the hands of the com- munities under a universal franchise. In that case you will have the Land Boards-elected by the people in the way suggested by the honour- able member for the Bay of Plenty-administer- ing the lands, and preventing such a curse-the curse of old nations and young colonies - as pri- vate landlordism from raising its evil head in a country like this, where there is plenty of free land, and where the people should have access to it. What has been the redemption of the 