Mr. HALL (Waipawa) .- I have been wonder- ing to-night what has caused the honourable member for the Grey to bring forward the Bill which has led to this very long debate. I should have thought that a measure of this kind, which embodies really a policy of defence, would cer- tainly have been brought forward in a Bill emanating from the Ministry themselves. I do not know whether the honourable member for the Grey has introduced this measure as a sort of feeler to find what the House was prepared to do; but I do object to a Bill being brought down at such short notice which involves some principles that I think ought to have the very gravest consideration of the House, because it is really trenching upon our educational system, and trenching upon our educational system in such a manner that it may act to its detriment very materially. Now, we have during this debate heard a great deal of talk about Imperialism from members of this House, and I should have thought they would have had so much Imperialism during the last six months that we could, at any rate, have afforded now to let it drop, and not by this latter outburst of Jingoism make a laughing- stock of ourselves to the rest of the world. One of the objections I have to this measure is this : that the school-teachers of New Zealand have got plenty of work to do-very many of them more than they can do-and if you are going to burden them with further duties, if you are going to compel teachers to fultil other duties -- the drilling of their children -- you will find that some of them will require more salary than they are getting at the present time. There has been a Commission sitting on these educational matters during the last few months, and until the report of that Commission is laid before this House, and the financial aspect con- sidered, it is the duty of this House to withhold any legislation casting on the teachers further duties in the direction which this Bill in dicates. And, Sir, I wish particularly to draw the attention of members of the House to the fact that there are scores of schools in New Zealand that have been closed through insuffi- cient attendance. Whenever districts have become depopulated in consequence of the mopping-up of small holdings, it has caused schools to be closed in consequence of an insufficient number of scholars to keep the school going under the Act. The parents in these districts are called upon to contribute in order that their schools may be kept open. I can take you to schools in my district that are in this position at the present time. Would it be wise to initiate a policy involving, as this does, a considerable expenditure, while we are neglecting to give the children in some back blocks of our colony the merest rudiments of education ? We have heard a great deal about Britain's greatness being in consequence of her prowess in war. Now. I venture to say that any one who has read up the history of Great Britain will have learnt that she has become great in consequence of her commercial pursuits. There can be no doubt that India was acquired by the influence of her commerce. Canada was also won in con- sequence of her trade relations; and, indeed, look where you will, it is apparent that in con- sequence of her commerce she has become rich. and from her richness she has become power- ful, and in consequence of her power she is unconquerable by the nations of the earth. I do not want to say any more, Sir, but. in con- clusion, I would remark that it is the duty of the Government of New Zealand to see that all her children are well educated in the three Rs before it forces schoolmasters to give the children instruction in drill in all the public schools of this country. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) .- Sir, I have to compliment the honourable member who has just resumed his seat on the lucid speech he has made to the House. All the evening I was try- ing to grasp his ideas, but I could not tell what he was talking about. Sir, I understand the subject before the House is the State-school Children Compulsory Drill Bill, which has been introduced by the honourable member for the Grev. I think it is a very good Bill, notwith- standing all the adverse criticism that has been levelled against it by the honourable member for Waipawa. An Hon. MEMBER. - How do you know that ? Mr. MCLACHLAN. - Well. I assume he was speaking against the Bill. At any rate, some of the members this afternoon objected to com- pulsory drill for girls. I would ask. Why should they not be drilled ? We want Amazons in this colony, and from the Amazons we will breed soldiers. We could not have anything better for our girls than physical training if we wish to rear New Zealand soldiers. Sir. various arguments were used this afternoon with regard to the Bill. Some were favourable to it, and some were against it : but I must say that the arguments used against it were of a most flimsy kind. Some honourable mem- bers spoke about the degradation of our girls, doing this or that. Why should our girls not take all advantage they can of the benefit Parliament is willing to give them ? They are entitled to it ; they are citizens, and they deserve any benefit that we may have it in our power to confer on them. This afternoon the member for Waihemo indulged in a tirade against the Bill, and in the whole of his abuse there was not one logical statement. As I have already intimated, Sir, I shall support the Bill. I regard it as the forerunner of the initiation of a great family whom I wish to see physically developed. Without physical training our in- tellectual training is worth nothing. I did the honourable member for Waihemo an injustice. I said that he was speaking adversely to the Bill, but the fact of the matter was that I did not catch his remarks. I thought, from his volubility and the noise that he made, he was against it ; but I now withdraw the remarks I made in reference to the honourable member for Waihemo, and compliment him on support- ing the Bill. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, a great deal of blame has been put upon the shoulders of the 