tricts. There is another point, but perhaps it is not so much a matter for legislation as for the administration of the Government : that is, the extraordinary industrial districts the Government have-in the North Island at any rate. The whole of the Wellington and Hawke's Bay Provincial Districts are Jumped together in one industrial district, and it is ridiculous to say that the conditions of labour, employment, and living in Wellington City are to be compared with the conditions in the country districts ; and vet an award for Welling- toon City alone might be made to apply to the wole provincial district. I think there is some lack of proper administration by the Govern- ment in allowing such unwieldy districts to exist. It ought not.to be necessary to specify the matter in any Act, but some common-sense arrangement should be come to by the Govern- ment in connection with the division of the districts. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .-- I think, Sir, that the House and the whole country will realise that it is very desirable indeed to improve any measure that appertains to labour throughout the colony. With his youthful enthusiasm. the honourable member for Waitemata went fully into the question before the House-we have h ard the same remark from the honourable gentleman on many previous occasions-and, while I listened to him, I thought that old Solomon was perfectly right when he said that there was nothing new under the sun. The honourable gentleman, as you all know, has the interests of the country settlers at heart. I believe there is no man in the community, certainly no man in this House or in any branch of the Legislature, who is more desirous of advancing the best interests of the settlers of the colony than the honourable member for Wai- temata. But, Sir, the honourable gentleman fell into his usual mistake when he referred to the employment of boys in this colony. Does he not rethis that there never was a period in the his- tory of the colony when it was so difficult to get boy-labour as at the present time. Take the majority of the people of the colony take a c: msen-us of opinion on the question . . and you would find that the majority of the parents of the colony do not want their boys to go into trados. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are all in the Rail- way service. Mr. LAWRY .-- You cannot get them to go even into the Railway service. An Hon. MEMBER .- You can get them by thousands. Mr. LAWRY .- The honourable member for Waihomo says, " You can get them by thou- sands ": but only three or four weeks ago the Minister for Railways wired to me that he wanted a boy about eighteen years of age as a porter. I scoured the whole district for one and could not get one, and wired the Minister to that effect. Yesterday I gave notice that when this Bill was in Committee I would move certain amendments. I have been consulting probably the greatest and I got a reply saying that if my 11.30. amendments were introduced into the Bill it would necessitate the entire re- casting of the measure itself. What I want to see in dealing with these labour measures is that the men who are appointed as arbitrators should be men who understand what they are doing. What an absurdity it would be to ap- point as arbitrator a man who was a tailor to deal with things agricultural, or to deal with matters relating to the putting-up of wooden structures. What I want to see is that the Trades and Labour Councils of the country should have power to appoint two to deal with their particular trade questions, that the em- plovers who are affected by the decision should have power to appoint two, and that there should be a chairman appointed by the Govern- ment and paid by the Government, and that the unions should pay their appointees and the em- ployers theirs, respectively. That is what 1 wanted : but I was told by this great legal authority that to introduce a clause of that nature would necessitate the entire recast- ing of the measure. Now, Sir, I would like to point out that we very frequently interfere in this House with matters about which we have no understanding whatever. If we only dealt with things that came under our own particular ken, if we confined ourselves in our criticism to matters with which we are familiar, we certainly should make fewer mistakes, and our legislation generally would be more bene- ficial to the country. Sir, as pointed out by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), it was predicted when we introduced labour legislation in this colony disaster would inevitably follow. From the very first period of our introducing labour legislation, it was shown by Captain Russell, the defunet leader of an effete Opposition, that arbitration and concilia- tion were the only things to reconcile disputes between employer and employé. I have on many occasions, and I am pleased to do so now, given to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay great credit for what he has done in this particular matter. We all realise that there should be no conflict between labour and capi- tal We all realise to the fullest extent that they are dependent upon each other, and at the same time independent of each other, and we sce that if a labourer goes out for a day's work and does his duty, he simply exchanges his labour for an equivalent in sterling cash, and there the obligation ends : it is a mistake to regard the employer as a sort of philan- thropist. and the man who is employed as little better than a galley-slave. I am pleased indeed that the Premier has introduced this Bill. I take it his primary object is as far as possible to perfect the legislation. It is only when we come to questions of administration that we realise the benefits or otherwise of the measures enacted. I wish, however, instead of bringing in a separate Bill, the honourable gentleman had taken the initiative and had in- corporated this with the existing Bill. It is, in my opinion, the greatest mistake in life to go 