that the companies should pay for the use of this patent. At the same time the Minister should explain how much was still owing on account of this patent. He understood there was a balance of over $7,000 owing, and that the receipts, instead of increasing, were decreasing. In that case he doubted whether the colony would ever get its money. Mr. McGOWAN .- Oh, ves. Mr. J. ALLEN hoped they would. There was, however, over $7,000 to be collected. If the receipts were going to fall off at the rate of $500 a year, as happened last year, the colony would never get its money paid back. Mr. McGOWAN would remind the honourable member that at the time the Government made this purchase from the patentees the position was that the latter were charging large sums to the companies -- in many cases from 7 to 10 per cent. It was in order to obviate this that the Government acquired the rights ; and, in order to make it easier for the companies, the Government only made a charge of 2} per cent. As to the amount of money which would be received, that would depend entirely on the companies using the evanide. At the present time some companies did not come under this agreement, because they had made an indepen- dent agreement with the patentees. It was only reasonable that the Government should receive the money back again from the com- panies. He did not think it would take a long time to recover the amount, and then the companies could use cyanide absolutely without charge. Bill read a second time. PUBLIC HEALTH BILL. Sir J. G. WARD ( Minister of Public Health), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said that its object was simply to include the Chatham Islands in the provisions of the Public Health Act. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Minister whether he could see his way to allow the Health Officer at Dunedin to be the Lecturer on medical jurisprudence and public health at the University. He felt sure that if this request were granted the Government would be doing great good to the medical school there. The council of the University had asked that this should be agreed to, and he wished to know if the Minister could see his way to accede to that request. Sir J. G. WARD said he would be very glad to try and give effect to the proposal of the honour- able member as soon as a permanent Health Officer had been appointed. That question was before the Cabinet at the present time. He saw no reason why the Health Officer should not, if it did not interfere with his ordinary duties. rive lectures on medical jurisprudence and public health. Bill read a second time. TRUSTEE BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier), in moving the second reading of this Bill. said his attention which he had received, and he might be per- mitted to read it. It would explain to mem- bers of the legal profession in the House the necessity for amending our law in respect to trustees, so as to bring it into line with the law in England : - " In England the law on this point has been settled by 44 & 45 Vict., c. 41, secs. 38 and 52. and 45 & 46 Vict., c. 39. sec. 6, and the draft i> suggested as an amendment of . The Property Law Consolidation Act. 1883.' The clauses in the draft are identical with the clauses of the Imperial statutes above referred to, except that in clause 1 the case of administrators has been introduced, and the provision is framed so as not to limit any right now existing.' The Bill was necessary to bring the law bere into conformity with the law existing at Home. as the clauses were identical with the clauses of the Imperial statutes which had been referred to. He had had several communications from trustees in the colony who had been unable. under the existing condition of things, to do justice either to themselves or to their trust -. Section 2 dealt with the power of appointing new trustees. It read as follows :- "(1.) Where a trustee is dead, or remains out of the colony for the space of twelve months, or desires to be discharged from all or any of the trusts or powers reposed in or conferred on him. or refuses or is unfit to act therein, or is incai- able of so acting, then the persons nominated for the purpose of appointing new trustees b the instrument (if any) creating the trust. or, if there is no such person, or no such person alle and willing to act, then the surviving or con- tinuing trustees for the time being, or the per- sonal representatives of the last surviving or continuing trustee, may, by writing, appoint another person to be a trustee in the place of such first-mentioned trustee." Subsection (2) of section 2 provided for the appointment of a new trustee. Under subset- tion (a) the number of trustees could be in- creased ; and subsection (b) provided that a separate set of trustees might be appointed for a distinct portion of the trust. Clause 3 re- ferred to the retirement of trustees. It was as follows : - " (1.) Where there are more than two trus- tees, if one of them by deed declares that he is desirous of being discharged from the trust. and if his co-trustees and such other person of any) as is empowered to appoint trustees by deed consent to the discharge of the trustee. and to the vesting of the trust property in the co-trustees alone, then the trustee desirous of being discharged shall be deemed to have retired from the trust, and shall by the deed be di -. charged therefrom under this Act, without any new trustee being appointed in his place. "(2.) Any assurance or thing requisite for vesting the trust property in the continuitre trustees alone shall be executed and done. "(3.) This section applies -- "(a.) Only if and as far as a contrary inten- tion is not expressed in the instru- ment (if any) creating the trust. and 