ment of the House might be moved and a discussion follow, in which not only that subject but the subjects of other questions not been checked; and, more than that, the answered might be referred to. In this case, porter would hand over his (Mr. Feldwick's) on the motion for the adjournment of the portmanteau to a thief with as much courtesy as to himself. Council upon the conclusion of business, a matter previously dealt with was being reverted porter would hand it over to him with all due to by members, and a general debate was being courtesy. His honourable friend Mr. Jenkinson indulged in. He would like, therefore, the Hon. had said that if a person had checked his lug- the Speaker to consider for their future guid- gage from Invercargill to Lyttelton it would be ance whether this was in order or not. As the all right, and that at the end of his journey present debate had not been checked, and was he would find it all right. Well, when he was. apparently in order, he would like to say some- on his way up, the fast steamer " Tarawera " thing with reference to the matter which had was blowing her whistle just as they came been before the Council. He thought, unless out of the tunnel at Lyttelton. Instead of there being any check on the luggage coming the Government provided that all luggage must through from Dunedin, they had to claim their be checked, and that people should take out checks on their luggage, losses would continue luggage at Christchurch and look after it them- to occur; and the wonder was that greater losses selves. If they checked their luggage through did not happen, because when the train arrived at to Lyttelton and claimed it at the port station, astation the luggage was put out and any one who the chances were that they would either lose it chose to claim it got it. Therefore, under this or their boat. If they checked to Christchurch, condition of things, it was an astonishing thing they must either leave it to its fate or person- ally see it moved from the guard's van at the to him that there was no further loss than there was. As regarded the civility of the railway rear of the train to the intermediate van. If it happened to be on a Saturday night-when the servants, he, for one, would like to join in say- ing that his experience had been that they were people of Lyttelton came on to do their shop- uniformly civil and courteous ; and he would ping at Christchurch-the train might be an eighth of a mile long, and they would have to be sorry to think that they were civil to mem- bers of the Legislature simply because they struggle from one end of the train to the other were members of the Legislature. Now, with in order to see that their luggage was right .. The thing that was really necessary, whether reference to what had fallen from the Hon. there was any check or not, was that an inter- Mr. Jenkinson, he thought it was only fair to mediate van should be put on every day at Dun- say that he had had the pleasure of travelling edin, and if the luggage was labelled properly, over the Australian railways lately, where he had been travelling in a somewhat representa- and the van went right alongside the steamer, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 tive capacity. The members of the Federation all would be right. That was the position. He Commission, and the wives and daughters of was sorry he had raised the debate, for he had not intended anything of the kind in asking those members who accompanied the party, the question on the Order Paper. However, he were allowed to travel free on the State railways hoped the discussion would prove beneficial. there. That was a privilege which was not ac- corded to the wives and daughters of the Com- few words on the subject. The majority of the missioners in this colony, and therefore, so far remarks made by honourable members of the as they were concerned, the concessions were Council appeared to him to indicate that honour- greater in Australia than they were in New able members were hardly capable of travelling Zealand. The Hon. Mr. JONES wished to say, by way by themselves and taking care of their own lug- gage. He believed he could truthfully say that of explanation, that he would not like it to go few members travelled more than he did, and forth that he had meant that railway servants he generally carried a full share of luggage, but were civil to members of Parliament because they knew them as such. What he wished to he had never vet experienced the slightest in- convey was that there might be an instance in convenience or incivility from any railway ser- vant. He had always managed to get his lug- which a railway official would be courteous gage on board the steamer, and if he was unable because he knew the object of his attentions to get a porter he carried it himself. He did not was a member of Parliament. see any reason why honourable gentlemen should The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK also wanted to cry out so much about the inconvenience. There make a short explanation in regard to a remark was no reason for it when they looked after their made by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson about the check system in New Zealand. The system luggage ; and, so far as the railway servants of was all right. In America it was carried out the co'ony were concerned, he might say that, from Mr. Ronayne, the head of the Railway by means of a brass check or token; in New Department, to the lowest servant in the de- Zealand by a card. One half of this card was partment, he had never met with anything but attached to the luggage and the other half was the greatest possible civility. There might torn off and given to the proprietor of the lug- have been an exception; but the exception gaze. There was no particular benefit, of course, only proved the rule. He thought that, so- in the brass; but, as regarded the safety of the far as the Railway Department was concerned, person's luggage, any one could claim any one everything was done that could be done for the: else's things either in Christchurch or in Dun- edin. benefit of the travelling public. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not without a check. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said, If they had If the thief asked for it, the The Hon. Mr. REEVES would like to say a 