me, and I feel that it must be done. I refer to the tendency of late in some respects of the policy advocated and adopted by the Right Hon. the Premier. I do so with pain and regret. I understand that the Right Hon. the Premier, when at Christchurch, referred disparagingly to the great Liberal statesmen at Home who do not and cannot agree to the policy which is now being adopted by the Right Hon. Mr. Chamberlain and those with whom he is associated. Many appeals have been made to us by the Hon. the Premier of late to be loyal -to be patriotic. He has asked us for loyalty, and he has asked us for patriotism. There was little need to ask us for loyalty or patriotism. Loyalty and patriotism we have in plenty, and to spare. Who in this country is not loyal ? Who in this country is not patriotic ? But, to my mind, the Premier is going further : he is asking us not only to be loyal and patriotic, he is asking us to tie our- selves to the chariot-wheels of Mr. Chamberlain and of the Conservative party in England. I say that the policy which has been adopted by Mr. Chamberlain and that party in England - in spite of the beating of the big drums we have heard lately-in spite of the flag-waving, and the bawling and the shouting-in spite of all that-that policy is not acceptable to the bulk of the Liberals or Radicals in England or in this country. An Hon. MEMBER. - Yes. Mr. BARCLAY .- Well, I know that there has been a great noise throughout the country. I know that it is easy for men to deceive them- selves, on that account, that the people are in favour of their policy ; but the tide is receding even in England, and I say that the discontent with Mr. Chamberlain's policy is increasing day by day, as more and more light is being shed upon it. An Hon. MEMBER .- What are you referring to ? Mr. BARCLAY .- To Mr. Chamberlain's war policy. And I say that as more and more light is being shed upon that policy day by day so discontent with it is daily growing. What are the signs of the times? The time was when no moderate man in England cared to adversely criticize that policy. The time was when that great Liberal organ the Daily News offered no opposition to that policy ; but what is the policy of that organ now ? It is openly and strongly opposed to the war. And what is the position of the Labour party in England now on the matter? I need hardly tell honourable members, for they are as well aware of the fact as I am, that the great mass of the Labour party are averse to the policy of the Hon. Mr. Chamberlain. The trade-unions of England passed a resolution officially denouncing the war. Mr. SEDDON .- The Radicals and Liberals at Home are not pro-Boers. Mr. BARCLAY .- I do not know what the honourable gentleman exactly means by the term "pro-Boer," but I say this : that the great bulk of the Liberal party in England do not agree with the policy of the Right Hon. Mr. Chamberlain in respect to the origin or the conduct of that war; nor do I think they will in this country when they come to know the whole truth. What, again, are the signs of the times ? What did we hear the other day ? It was stated in a cablegram that the Battersea Town Council had a discussion as to whether or not they should call a particular street Methuen Street or Joubert Street. One party in the Council wanted to call it Methuen Street, and the other party wanted it named Joubert Street, after the Boer Commander-in-Chief. The latter gained the day, and there in a town which is situated alongside the metropolis you have a street named after the Commander-in- Chief of the enemy's forces, while war was actually going on. Was ever such a thing heard of before in the history of the world ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Where is their patriot- ism ? Mr. BARCLAY .- The honourable member may talk about his loyalty and his patriotism. but the names of loyalty and patriotism, like that of religion, have been used over and over again to cloak sins and crimes of those who used these terms. What are the signs of the times, Sir? Although at one time the Liberal party in England hesitated to open their mouths with regard to this war, we find that when Sir Alfred Milner came Home the other day from South Africa only one single Liberal attended the banquet to welcome him, and that Sir Henry Campbell - Bannerman and the leaders of the Liberal party in England are now openly and avowedly against this war. It is no use talking about " Little 3.0. England " or anything of that sort. Calling names is useless. Mr. Chamberlain and the Conservative party and the men who are associated with him are engaged in a struggle against truth. For a time they apparently succeeded. But truth is great and in the end comes out triumphant and will prevail, and the truth is becoming better known day by day. I say to honourable members that when the historian of the future comes to write the history of this war he will, in consideration to the fair name and honour of Great Britain, say as little as possible about its origin and conduct. Now, I say that I regret indeed to observe any tendency to obtain what is apparently expressions of approval from this country of the policy of Mr. Chamberlain and the party with whom he is associated. Mr. Chamberlain's history is probably well known to many members of this House. He entered political life as a Radical of the Radicals, and now he winds up as the darling of the Duchesses. He was the political Judas who sold his master. Mr. Gladstone. Perhaps honourable members will pardon me if I relate an incident in the life of the Right Hon. Mr. Chamberlain which. perhaps, is not very widely known, but which was communicated to me by one who was well acquainted with the facts, and who was in- terested in what took place at the time. There was a time when Mr. Gladstone was very ill. and when he had gone north to Scotland, and it was anticipated that he would not 