government, and I have never argued that. It would be nonsense to talk about it ; but I do think we should, by such a course, get rid of many of the evils inherent in our pre- sent system of party government. We should then have the honest opinions of members of this House - more honest votes than we get now. There is a great tendency, and an undoubted tendency, in this House to regard propositions coming from the Opposition as un- friendly to the Government. Those who are on the Government side treat propositions coming from the Opposition not on their merits, but, as I said before, on the quarter from which they come, and that is frequently the reason why propositions are placed on our statute-books which are contrary to the real mind and the honest mind of members of this House. The honourable member for Masterton said that he had nothing to reply to. He was lamenting the fact. I believe the honourable member is dis- tinctly opposed to the right of members of this House to elect the Ministry ; while the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) made a point ' of that, and expressed the opinion that we should have the power of electing the Ministry. Well, . if the member for Masterton wanted something to debate on this occasion, he might have re- plied to the argument advanced by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) in support of that proposition. Instead of that, we had him for about half an hour lamenting the fact of the emptiness of the Opposition benches, and he was looking across the table at the few empty . benches, saying, " Where are they ? Where are the people who formerly sat on these benches ?" https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 He also raked up a lot of party history 11.0. and party squabbles that were of no in- terest to the House or to the country, and which served no good purpose by repetition. member for Masterton said that with the growth of education we should get rid entirely of poverty, and the misery of children in poor and wretched homes. 1 only wish, Sir, that education could accomplish all the honourable gentleman wished for. In this country we have had a free system of education for many years, but, notwithstanding the fact that schools are within easy reach of all our children, our Judges are still lamenting the fact that young New- Zealanders are given to crime to a greater extent than might be expected, considering the opportunities there are round about them. We also have the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Tun- bridge, speaking of the growth of drunkenness in the country, and the records of our hospitals show that a considerable number of persons die annually from chronic alcoholism. The records further show that many persons enter the hospitals suffering from delirium tremens. Last year, in the City of Dunedin alone, twenty- nine persons entered the hospital suffering from chronic alcoholism-the largest number in any part of the colony. Sir, we have more to do than to attend to our educational system. We have a great deal to do in the way of warning our young people of the danger that must result from intemperance ; but, although the Minister of Education has been appealed to over and over again in regard to the matter, he has not even gone so far as the Education Department of Victoria has gone. That department has had printed at the colony's expense a number of charts setting forth the dangers of intemperance, and the dangers of alcohol as a beverage. These charts are distri- buted among the schools, and are a standing lesson to the young people. As I say, we have appealed over and over again to the Minister of Education, but we have received no sympathetic response from him. I venture to think, how- ever, that something should be done in the matter, seeing the officials of the Government report that drunkenness is on the increase in the community. Mr. NAPIER .- What is the increase ? Mr. ELL .- In Auckland alone it was seven hundred last year. Now, Sir, I wish to say I am glad the Federation Commission has sat and reported, because I believe that now the people will seriously consider the question. Some of them were disturbed in mind, and awaited the result of the inquiries of that Commission. I am glad the Commission have reported as they have done. I think we in New Zealand will still go on, notwithstanding any Commonwealth tariff that may be raised against us. I consider our progress will be very favour- able indeed ; at the same time we shall retain our individuality without having the trouble that has already arisen in the Commonwealth. We know that already there is a conflict be- tween the Federal Parliament and one of the State Parliaments-a trouble similar to that which the United States has experienced for many years past. At any rate there is a dispute at present between the Federal Government and the Parliament of Tasmania, and the question The at issue is to be sent to the Federal Judges for their interpretation of the Constitution. I venture this opinion : that had they abolished all their State Legislatures and had only one Legislature for the whole Federation it would then have only consisted of 426 members, as against over 600 in the House of Commons-that it would have been far better for the people of these States, and they would not then have before them the conflicts that they must have under their present position. I venture also to think that they will amend the Constitution under which they are working before they have had very many years' experience of it. With regard to our going to America for railway material, it is a matter of regret that railway gocds have been imported to this country when they could have been manufactured in the country. We have all the skill and the necessary energy and constructive ability amongst those directing our railway workshops to turn out the work that we require to be done, and the question simply comes to this : that there was a want of foresight on the part of the Government that they did not provide for that work, when they must have seen what would come about in a few years. I venture to say that, had the Govern- ment wished to borrow the necessary amount for the purpose, all they had to do was to come to the - House and the House would most readily have 