deal of reshuffling of the positions, and, although members of the House had a general idea of the portfolios held by Ministers, there were a num- ber of departments the political heads of which it was extremely difficult for one to know. His first idea was to ask the Premier to embody this information in a paper and have it for- warded to members, but, as that would be in the nature of a return, he had thought it better to ask the Premier the question, so that members would have a knowledge as to which Minister to address, in connection with the public business they had to transact. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) thought it would have been better if the honourable member had moved for a return ; but, if honourable members thought it would not be detaining the House too long, he would endeavour to give the infor- mation asked for. He was Premier, Colonial Treasurer, Minister' of Labour, Minister of Defence. He was also in charge of the Public Trust Department, the Government Insurance Department, and the Taxing Department. In respect to the Labour Department, the work- men's homes coming under the Land for Settlements Act, and the land-purchase por- tion of the Land for Settlements Act-that Act which had at one time been administered by the Minister of Lands-was now administered by himself. He might add that he also occa- sionally acted as Attorney-General. Then, Sir Joseph Ward acted as Minister for Railways, Colonial Secretary, Postmaster-General, Minis- ter of Industries and Commerce, and Minister of Public Health. Mr. Hall-Jones was Minister for Public Works and Minister of Marine, and he was also in charge of the Government Printing Office. Mr. McGowan was Minister of Justice, Minister of Mines, and was also in charge of the Police Department. Mr. Carroll was Native Minister and Commissioner of Stamps. Mr. Duncan was Minister of Lands and Agriculture. He (Mr. Duncan) also con- trolled the surveying and subdivision of land brought under the Land for Settlements Act. The Hon. Mr. Walker was Minister of Education, and. in addition to his duties in that respect, the cadets connected with the public schools and the industrial schools were under his charge. He (Mr. Walker) also administered the Lunacy and Charitable Aid Departments. Mr. Mills was Commissioner of Customs, and also was the Minister in charge of the Advances to Settlers Office. There were a large number of portfolios and departments, and the increase of work had, he thought, been fairly evenly divided. He only hoped that, with the increase of work Parliament was likely to place upon their shoulders, they would be able to carry it out without sacrifice to their health. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked if the honour- able gentleman would be good enough to supply members with a printed list of the portfolios he had just given to the House. Mr. SEDDON said there would probably be a corrected list issued in Hansard very shortly, and each member would have a copy. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Premier, If, in legislation dealing with combinations or trusts in the colony, he will include a provision against the Government Insurance Department entering into a combination with private acci- dent insurance companies in regard to accident insurance rates ? A local body in his district found that, whereas in the past they had been able to insure their employés for twenty-four hours at a low rate, the other day they received a communication from a private insurance com- pany to the effect that arrangements had been made by the Government Insurance Depart- ment by which accident insurance companies in the colony charged higher rates for accident insurance. Well, of course, the reason given for raising the rates was the operation of the Workers' Compensation Act, but it seemed to him that this combination on the part of the accident insurance companies with the Govern- ment department was exactly the thing they were endeavouring to prevent. He would like to ask the Premier whether he had any 4.0. knowledge of this combination, and, if it were a fact, whether he thought it proper that that sort of arrangement should be entered into by a Government department. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) must deprecate allegations being made, and, on the strength of these allegations, questions being asked of the Government, tending to produce a wrong impression if it got into the newspapers. The very fact of this question, as it appeared now, being before Parliament prejudiced the posi- tion of the Government and this particular department, and he (Mr. Seddon) was not going to be held responsible for what any of these rival companies might have stated in any letters or communications they had sent to would-be clients. Mr. PIRANI said he had asked if it was correct. Mr. SEDDON said, as the question now stood on the Order Paper it read as follows: " If, in legislation dealing with combinations or trusts in the colony, he (the Premier) will include a provision against the Government Insurance Department entering into a combination with private accident insurance companies in regard to accident insurance rates." Now, whoever read that would come to the conclusion that the Government were doing it, and that there was a necessity for special legislation preventing it, and he said that that was where the situa- tion and the position were prejudiced. Now, there was no such combination between the Government Insurance Department and any company, and he fancied they would see before long cases of agreement between the Government Insurance Department and these companies. That was as far as he knew ; and he had every reason to know that these companies had found out from the legislation which had been enacted that their terms and conditions must be the same as our Insurance Depart- ment's. The Legislature having ordered that this should be so, the companies had agreed. They had to agree whether they liked it or not. 