embezzlement. He was handling tens of thou- sands of pounds, and had a salary of £160 a year, out of which he had to keep himself well dressed and support a wife and family. I do not say he was justified in robbing the bank, but I say that a bank or institution that pays its men salaries of that kind, and expect them to keep up a style and appearance, have nothing else than dis- honesty to expect. There is also a proposal with regard to the reorganization of fire- brigades, and I may say that I regret to see that there is no proposal for the introduction of State fire insurance. There is no doubt the Government could insure much more cheaply than the companies charge at present. Thou- sands of pounds are spent in paying managers of insurance offices in all the large towns in the colony. The Government could run a State fire insurance department which could insure at something approximating the rates in the Old Country. In this connection I regret to see that the Government Accident Insurance De- partment has only started taking risks recently at the ordinary ruling rates. I have every reason to believe that they could take the risks at very much less than the ruling rates. I believe if the department had gone into the matter pro- perly they would have seen that they could take risks very much cheaper than they are taking them at present. One of the offices doing business in New Zealand commenced with a paid-up capital of $5,000, and at the end of the first twelve months they placed $6,000 to the credit of the reserve fund, and paid a dividend of 15 per cent., and gave 50 per cent. to the men who secured risks for them. And that company https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 did that on similar rates to those now being charged by the Government Accident Insurance Department. I trust the Government will see their way clear to materially reduce the rates, and I maintain they ought to be doing the whole of the business instead of only a small portion of it. I am very sorry to see that the Government have not seen fit to suggest something in the way of law reform. I know that a large number of members of this House are members of the legal profession, and I mean nothing personal when I say that it is high time there was something drastic in the way of law reform. Our present legal procedure is a relic of the " dark ages," and it is high time that we had further law reform. Scandinavia has set us an estimable example in this respect. They have a public arbitrator. When a man has a case against another he has a right to call him before the arbitrator, and they present their cases to him without the assistance of lawyers. The parties give their evidence, and each side calls his witnesses, and the arbi- trator gives his decision. If either party is dis- satisfied with the decision he may appeal to the law-courts, but in the large majority of cases the decision of the arbitrator is accepted by both the parties. I think something of that sort would be a step in the right direction. In the Governor's Speech reference is made to the general prosperity of the country, and it is my hope that that state of prosperity will long continue. We should further adjust taxation, so as to place it on the shoulders of those best able to bear it. We should pursue the present policy of settling the people on the lands, only with greater vigour ; and if we fulfil our duty in these two respects I think that the present prosperity will abide with us for many years to come. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) .- I desire to claim the indulgence of the House for just a few minutes. I should like to refer to a few of the subjects mentioned in His Excellency's Address. So many honourable members have already spoken during this debate that one might be pardoned if, in referring to some of the subjects contained in His Excellency's Speech, I of necessity travel over some ground that has been traversed by other honourable members. I wish to reiterate what has been said by many previous speakers in this debate, and add my testimony to the excellent way in which the mover and seconder of the Address in Reply performed their duty. Before pro- ceeding any further I desire to express my regret that the Opposition has not seen fit to be represented at this session by a leader. I con- sider that the confidence of a people in a Government is always greatly increased when there is a strong Opposition party, but to have an Opposition without a leader is very much like having a ship's crew without a captain - it is apt to lead to confusion. Sir, I hope that the honourable and courteous Captain Russell will yet become the recognised leader of His Majesty's Opposition. I desire to congratulate Sir Joseph Ward, and also Sir John Mckenzie, upon the honours conferred upon them by His Majesty. I think those honours are well merited. I certainly could not agree with the remarks which fell from the member for Dun- edin City (Mr. Barclay). I cannot see why a person should be less liberal in his principles because he holds a title. I wish also to congratu- late the Hon. the Minister of Education upon the honour which has been conferred upon him, and I desire, further, to express my pleasure that the Hon. the Native Minister, although he did not have a title conferred upon him, received a very great honour : he has been invited Home with Mrs. Carroll, to be guests of our future King. Any one who knows Sir Joseph Ward will realise that his Liberalism and his progressive- ness will not be affected because he has a title. I think we have reason to be proud of the dis- tinctions that are conferred upon our public men. The honour is not given to the individual solely ; it is an honour to the country, and as such we should appreciate it. The recognition of the great services performed by Sir Joseph Ward to the colony, not only in connection with the penny postage, but of his work on postal conferences in Australia when he was a comparative youth, is well merited. The honourable gentleman then won for himself a high position as an administrator and reformer in postal and electric cable affairs. Now, Sir, I should like to say a few words upon the Royal visit. The cost to the colony of that visit has been great, but I believe every penny of that money has been well spent. The two great 