up ? What was the proportion that was to be given to the public in that estate ? I say that had it not been for the strenuous opposition of the member for Masterton and myself this would have been done : that certain people who lived on that estate -- people who were not the children of the owners, who were not relatives at all of the owners, but simply the rabbiters, and ploughmen, and managers and sub-mana- gers-these men would have had the largest portion, and the best portion. of Langdale divided between them, and by whom ? By the department. They would have divided the best portion of the land ; and had it not been for the strenuous opposition of the member for Mas- terton and myself that iniquity would have been perpetrated in this colony. I sent a tele- gram to the Minister of Lands, and I told him that if he allowed this thing to be done it would aim the greatest blow at the land policy of the Government that had ever been aimed in this colony, and fortunately the idea was not carried out, and the success of the Langdale Settlement is most positively assured. Now, this I say : If that sort of thing were allowed by the Land Board, acting in conjunction with the Minister, then what is wrong about giving the members of a man's family the right to have a certain portion of the estate? If it is right for the ploughman and the rab- biters, and for the manager and sub-manager to get a portion of an estate -- without submitting to a ballot, mark you ---- if that is right, then is it not right also that the members of a man's family, who are bred and born and who grow up on an estate, should be given the same chance that the Government would have given to the manager and sub-manager, the rabbiters, and others in the cutting-up of a large estate ? You must admit that the contention is a fair one. Now, Sir, with regard to some of the remarks that have been made by the Minister who is in charge of the Advances to Settlers Office. The honourable gentleman has stated to-night that the only thing he is anxious about in adminis- tering the affairs of that office is that the security shall be good to the State that the "safety of the State shall be assured," he said. What are the facts for I am perfectly certain the Minister does not know the facts of the case ? I am perfectly certain the honourable gentle- man does not know the workings of the office over which he presides as Minister, and I will give you the reason : because what was stated to-night is proof to me that he does not know what is going on under his very nose. I will give the names and establish the matter as I go along. In the first place, there was a man who had wrought for years on a lease in perpetuity in the Wharau-Kaiwhata district. Phillipson is the man's name. This man worked there for years. He borrowed 5200 from the Advances to Settlers Office. He sought to borrow $200 more, and he was denied. They told him in so many words that his security was not good enough. Now, Sir, I interested myself on his behalf, because the man sub- mitted to me the returns from his property in the shape of wool and the sale of his stock, from vear to year, and I saw at once that the man had ample security according to the law. more than ample security for the money he was asking from the Government. He asked for an extra loan of $200. Now, Sir, when that application was laid before the Lending Board it was refused. Then, what happened a few months afterwards ? A few months afterwards that man. in disgust .. when he could not make as much headway as he desired on account of not having shta- cient stock for his property. because he could not get money so that he could put more stein on the land-sold out to two adjoining land- holders. He sold the value of his improve- ments on his lease for $1.200 in hard cash with- out any stock at all. He sold his stock at auction ; and yet this man, with twelve hundr. d pounds' worth of good security, could not get $400 from the Advances to Settlers Offre. And then to talk about assisting the poor and the struggling settler. I say this: that the office concerns itself mainly with the gat- edged security business, and does not care a snap of the fingers for the man who is buried away in the back blocks. The Nitz brothers. in the same district, sought to borrow a similar sum of money from the Advances Office, and they were refused ; vet. Sir, it is computed ?; a valuer \ ho knows what he is talking about -- and sometimes the Government valuers do not - that these two brothers have sixteen hundr d pounds' worth of improvements on their had- ing, and yet they cannot get $400 from the Go- vernment Advances to Settlers Office. Now. the Advances to Settlers Office was started for the purpose of assisting the small man above all others. It was started to rescue the strucgiang settler from the hands, from the gripe as it was stated, of the money-lender. It was to prevent the hard-hearted money-lending companies here from wringing every farthing out of the men in the way of interest ; and vet, instead of help being given. these men are actua a forced to go to a loan company and to pay ? or 3 per cent. more than they would have had to pay for the money to the Government Advano . to Settlers Office. These men are living on t'a back blocks ; they did not hold gilt-edged rity ; but they held sixteen hundred pomid- worth of improvements on their proper: valued by a competent valuer, and vet the cannot get $400 from the Government : and I say that is simply a scandal. There is some talk about the Minister obtaining inderende i.t valuations. I will tell you how these inde !. .. dent valuations are made. A gentleman con . . up to the settler's house, and he is very m: " when he gets there. He waits overnisi . and after breakfast next morning he puis his way up to the top of an adjacent hill and looks around him and says, " Oh, that will do, I have seen enough." and he comes down and goes away to make his report. He never goes over the man's property : he now.r goes out to see where the value is, or to kart where the improvements are. I can prove what I am stating here. I do not make this asse !- tion on the information of "the man in the street." I am not saying this for the mere saxe 