electors. With what result ? I say the result was to return the Liberal party to power with a greater majority than they ever previously had in this House. I say the Liberal measures, the progressive legislation, and the advanced ad- ministration was approved of by the people of the colony ; and we find the seats of those opposed to these measures vacant, and there has been almost an obliteration of the Oppo- sition. And the effect of public opinion upou the Opposition since that has been that we find they have elected no leader, and their late leader tells us that we are all on one plane-we are all supporting the Government policy. An Hon. MEMBER .- Hear, hear. Mr. SEDDON .- An honourable member says " Hear, hear." Let me tell him that I know what is happening behind the scenes. I know the arrangement entered into. I know the plan they have adopted to elect no leader, but simply to lie quiet and wait until there is dis- affection in our ranks, and then quietly pick up those who are disaffected, and who agree to support the proposal for an elective Executive. That is the reason you are supporting this Bill. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh, oh ! Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, it is all part of a pre- concerted arrangement and a plan of campaign. And when they are silent, and will not debate a question fraught with such great consequences to the country, I say, when they fail in their duty to criticize this Bill I know what their object is. On looking at the division list when this measure was last before the House I find the names of Mr. Bollard, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. W. Fraser, Mr. Herries, Mr. G. Hutchison, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Those gentlemen all and Captain Russell. voted against this Bill. If this Bill goes to a division I shall look to see how some of those be houourable members vote, and I shall very much surprised if they are consistent. I say, if this matter is not to be treated seriously, members have no conception of the responsibility cast upon them. The member for Waitaki may be said to have been a con- sistent party-man : there is no member of the party who can be relied upon with greater con- tidence. I say this measure is inconsistent with his own political existence and life. We find him - one of those who have always stood by his party- we find him now bringing in a Bill which in effect means to repeal and undo what the people decided upon at the last general election. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. SEDDON .- I say, Sir, the last 9.30. general election decided in favour of party, and decided in favour of the Liberal Government. Mr. PIRANI .- Be serious. Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, I am perfectly serious, and there can be no mistake in what I am saving. If proof were wanted, look at the empty Opposition benches. Now, I ask, I have What is really behind this Bill ? said that members are not prepared to give reasons. No reasons were given by the mem- ber who introduced the Bill. Must we come, then, to solid facts? Is it that there are , not know the difference between a correspon- that this is a means of bringing about a re- construction of the Ministry. Sir, if I put my hand on my heart I am afraid I should have to answer that question in the affirmative, and say, " I am afraid that has something to do with it." Of course, on the other side of the House anything that will tend to bring down the Minis- try will be supported. They care not what they do so long as they can destroy, and they will use those who may hold advanced views on the question, and who are conscientiously support- ing the measure. They think it will bring them nearer to the Treasury benches. Then, 1 ask another question : Is there a majority of the members of the House in favour of loosening the bonds between this country and the Mother- country ? I say that by this measure you are sapping that connection. Underlying this Bill you are affirming a principle which sets at defiance the representative of the King-the Crown-in this colony. Hon. MEMBERS. - Oh, oh ! Mr. SEDDON .- Interruptions by honourable members will not put me off my argument. I hope members will listen to what I am saying, because I am speaking seriously, and desire to show that if this great constitutional change is carried it means the cutting of one of the strands of the painter that binds us to the Mother-country. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. SEDDON .-- Then, honourable members have not read the Bill. Under section 4 it is provided that after an election has taken place in this House the names of the Cabinet have to be submitted to the Governor. If the Governor declines to accept the names, what is the re- sult ? Under that clause you have to come back to the House and have a fresh election. Let us suppose, then, that a majority of the members who voted in that election had been sincere and had voted for the men they believed would be the best men for the Ministry. The consequence is that there is at once a deadlock between the Representative of the Crown in the colony and the Legislature, and you bring the actions of the Governor on the floor of the House. Such a position would be quite unconstitutional. The Governor's action would be a subject of debate in the House, and would be in conflict with the majority of the people of the colony. If members will read that clause they must admit there is nothing that has ever been brought down in any Legislature that strikes more at loosen- ing the bonds and tends more to bring into conflict the Crown and the represen- tatives of the people of the colony. Let mem- bers read the clause for themselves. There is no getting away from it. Let the honourable member in charge of the Bill meet that point. I say, Sir, it is impossible for him to do so. Mr. HUTCHESON .- The Ballance Govern- ment were twice in conflict with the Governor, and twice they won. Mr. SEDDON. - Sir, when a member of the House is so dull of comprehension that he does 