to the well-being of the people, and I hope for some time to come we shall have a rest in this respect. I am very pleased to know of the great success of the penny-postage system, but there is another postal matter which I think ought to receive attention. I represent a city constituency, and they are supposed to be the people who have derived the most benefit from the inauguration of the penny- post. I have been out visiting in the country districts in the Auckland Province, and I find the country settlers pretty generally hold that opinion, and they make a claim which I think is a just one-that their newspapers ought to be carried free. In several of the Australian Colonies newspapers are carried free within the colony, and I see no reason at all why that simple concession should not be given to the settlers in the country districts of New Zea- land. The diffusion of news and information is a very important part of the education of the people, and the adoption of a free newspaper- postage would, 1 am sure, be a great advantage and benefit to the people of the colony. In con- nection with postal matters, there is the ques- tion of the San Francisco mail. The honour- able member for Wellington Suburbs last night made a very bitter attack on the present service. The one-sided nature of his remarks was rather too apparent. The bias he displayed in puffing a colonial company, and depreciating the American company, was considerably overdone. We all admit that the steamers employed in the San Francisco service have not given the satisfaction which was expected of them, and it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 is also a fact that boats built in Britain have sometimes failed to run smoothly in the earlier stages of their running ; but measures are being taken to put these boats in a condition that will enable them to carry out perfectly the time- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero table arrangements that they entered into. I cannot help thinking if these steamers had been calling at Petone or Wellington, where the honourable gentleman was interested, or even at some southern ports, we should not have had the wail about their shortcomings that we had last night. I hope, in considering any future mail arrangements, the benefits of this San Francisco mail-service, both in point of speed and regularity in the delivery of mails, will be duly considered, and that no steps will be taken to cut off what is one of the oldest services in the colony, and one which has done a great deal to advance the interests of New Zealand, until a better is found to take its place. The proposal made by the honourable gentleman to give encouragement towards reviving the old Vancouver service required a good deal of audacity, in face of the previous experience of the running of that service. The honourable gentleman referred to the Fr'isco steamers being one, two, and three days late, but the Vancouver boats, if I remem- ber rightly, were weeks late on some occasions, and therefore to commend that as a mail-service in preference to the Fr'isco mail-service was very peculiar indeed. I notice in His Excel- lency's Speech that it is proposed to legislate in the interests of the bank-clerks. I quite agree that bank-clerks should have similar assistance from the legislation of the Government that other workers have; but it is possible some- times in trying to do a kindness to do harm ; and I know that some of the bank-clerks with whom I have conversed are not at all in favour of legislative interference, because they now get certain holidays which they will have to give up if they are asked to conform to legislative enactment as to hours, et cetera. Legislation of this kind very often defeats the end in view. For example, we passed last year the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act. I received a letter the other night from a car- penter in Auckland, pointing out how that Act operated in his particular case. He had applied for a mortgage on a house he was building, and he was compelled to pay 10s. a year as insurance to the mortgagee. I consider, Sir, that charges of that kind minimise the value workers would receive from the compensation. The Govern- ment should provide means to insure the mort- gagce at a lower rate than is proposed at present, because the risk of being called upon to con- tribute is very small indeed. There is mention in the Speech of a Bill to indemnify local autho- rities for expenditure in connection with the Royal visit, and that, of course, is absolutely necessary. But I would like to point out that it seems to be wrong that local authorities should be put into a position of having to spend money illegally on an occasion of this kind, and then be at the mercy of the Government of the day for the indemnification of the expenditure. Last year we passed the Municipal Corporations Act, and yet within a few months afterwards the leading Municipalities of the colony were invited by the Government to violate that law with the idea of having an indemnity provided by this House. An Hon. MEMBER .- Some of them were coerced. Mr. FOWLDS. - "Some of them were coerced " the honourable member says. Well, leaving that alone, the question that they had to do it, and were invited to do it, shows that provision ought to be made in the Municipal Corporations Act for the City Councils taking a .poll of the ratepayers, who are the people who have to find the money, and who should have the opportunity of deciding how that money should be spent. We should leave it entirely to be decided by those who have to pay. With reference to the question of defence, and Volunteering, I have to say it was very un- satisfactory last year, and I think it has been pretty well the same every year. The capita- tion-money for the Volunteers is not paid until long after it is due. It is due on the 31st March, and this year in the Auckland District it had not been paid in June. The excuse, as far as Auckland is concerned, will, no doubt, be that some class-firing had not been carried out ; but the fact is the Volunteers there are prohibited from class-firing on the only range there is. If, therefore, Sir, it is to be said that they are to be kept out of their capitation on that account, it is an extra- ordinary position. I also hope the Government 