is to say, should be borne by the tenants who come into possession of the property ; but surely we must be very careful how we agree to this provision in the face of the fact that the Minister may exceed the patronage already given to him by the powers of this Act, by travelling about the country nominally with a view to looking at and selecting pieces of land for acquisition and subsequent settlement, but in reality for elec- tioneering purposes ; and I say therefore that we ought, if we agree to the clause, also to insist that there shall be a detailed return laid before Parliament of every expense in connection with the advertising, with the collecting of information regarding the land, and all the particulars of travelling - expenses connected with the acquisition of every particular estate. If that were not done I believe it would be pos- sible for Ministers' travelling-expenses to be charged to the Land for Settlements Account, instead of being shown as ordinary travelling- expenses. Probably at present the travelling- expenses of Ministers. nominally in connection with the acquisition of estates - but really ex- penses connected with electioneering tours -- are charged to that account. Such expenses, though utterly unjustifiable, should be charged to Ministerial travelling-allowances, and not to the administration of the Land for Settlements Account. Regarding clause 5, we were again told that this is a mere technical alteration ; but it appears to me that it is an alteration of the most serious importance. The Premier told us about the late owner of the Hatuma Estate-how he was an absentee proprietor who was living in England, or on the continent of Europe, and consequently how difficult it was to serve him with a notice as required by the Act of the intention of the Government to acquire his estate. Well, Sir, I realise that it is the business of every member of Parliament, whether he approves of the principle or not of an Act, to endeavour, so long as it is on the statute-book. to see that it is put in fair and workable order, neither unjust to the individual nor cumbersome to the Government which has to administer it, and therefore I have realised fully that there was a serious disadvantage to the Government - a disadvantage which probably ought not to have been-in serving a notice on the proprietor of an estate who lives permanently in Europe. As to clause 5, I would 3.30. say it would appear to me the drafting of the clause is wrong, inasmuch as the prin- ciples laid down in clause 5 are directly at variance with the principles laid down in clauses 16 and 17 of " The Land for Settle- ments Consolidation Act. 1900," and therefore those clauses ought to be specifically repealed or amended. Sir, I would apologise to the House if I take a wrong view of the clause ; but the fact is, I was refused an opportunity to study the Bill and its effect on measures of an analogous kind already on the statute-book. At any rate, under the Bill now before us, it would appear to me that if a man chances to lie on a bed of sickness - which he may at any moment-and should be unable to attend to his business for a short time; or if he should go to | Sir, I contend that the practice of dummyisra. the South Sea Islands to recruit his health- in gold-laced coat, cocked hat, and sword, and silk breeches or on a holiday trip to Australia, his property might be endangered in his absence, because he cannot comply with the provisions of this clause. Such is the fact, even if not so in- tended. Surely no member, however advanced his theories may be, will say that no man has a right to take a trip to Sydney or Mell ourne for a month's holiday without incurring the risk of having his property taken from him before he is able to deposit at some office the statemen: of claim he has to make as the owner of the property. I should say "the late owner." because the Government will have served a notice on him by leaving it at his place of abode : and when once negotiations are initiated under this Bill, the ownership of the land is instanth transferred to the Government. Therefore. 3 longer period than twenty-one days should be allowed to elapse before any man is placed in the unfortunate position of being prevented from putting in a claim. Sir, I was much amused and much interested, and somewhat consoled by some of the statements of the Right Hon. the Premier. He told us he looked on the ballot system as a mere covering for dummyism. Well, we in the Opposition have preached that doctrine ever since first the We have system of ballot was introduced. always said it was perfectly monstrous. whilst. on the other hand, the Right Hon. the Premier has continually pleaded as an illustration of the complete success of this Land Act. that. whenever there was a section thrown off! for selection by ballot, there were five or six applicants for it ; he now admits that the gret bulk of those applicants were in reality impo- tors and dummies, and no more wished to go ou the land than I wish to take a plunge in We' lington Harbour at the present moment. Hr said, " How else can it be done ?" and he asked how could the evil be avoided. If there was a process of selection, the Ministers, he said. would be accused of favouritism, and the Land Boards also would be accused of partiality, and righar so. But there is a plan that has always com. monded itself to my mind-I know it is held to be a wrong one, but I have always believed it " be the right one namely, that the land should go to the person who is prepared to lease it at the highest rental and under proper conditions and while a section possibly should not be put up at public auction, there ought to be a svetos of tender, by which the exciting influence of public auction would be avoided, while the State would reap the advantage of the highest bidder The Right Hon. the Premier said the Brands were now in many cases offering lower prices than the land was worth; and, as be sure of an estate which was refused by the Land Purchase Board, and then was subsequentis sold by auction, I realised a case in point -. probably the same case occurred to us both -- where the Government said they would take » piece of land which was subsequenth pat m at auction and realised consideral ly more than the Government officers had offered for it 