Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) did not wish to oppose the motion, but would point out that the course now suggested by the honour- able member was a growing practice in the House. He would like to invite the attention of the House to the question of whether the petitions referred to all Committees and which were not dealt with in any one year should not be again remitted to the Committees for con- sideration. He did not think it was right that without notice they should consider a motion like the one proposed by the honourable gentle- man. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said that leaving petitions over to be dealt with in the following session was an old practice of the Native Affairs Committee. He thought it would be wise to have that Committee divided like the A to L and the M to Z Public Petitions Committee. The fact was, the Native Affairs Committee could never get through their work in the session, and he would suggest to those in charge of the business of the House that the question should be considered whether the Native Affairs Committee should not be divided like the Public Petitions Committee. Motion agreed to. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. On the motion for the second reading of this Bill, Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said,- Sir, I rise to a point of order. The Land for Settlements Bill was placed in my possession at twelve minutes to one p.m. to-day : it had not been circulated before that. The Bill was read a first time to-day, and it is absolutely im- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 possible that honourable members could have had time between twelve minutes to one p.m. and the reassembling of the House at half-past two p.m. to read the Bill, to understand it, and to compare it with the principal Act. Standing Order No. 330 says, " A Bill having been read a first time is ordered to be read a second time on a future dav." As this Bill has been read only this morning, certainly all precedent is against reading the Bill a second time within two hours of its being laid before members, unless there is great urgency. I therefore raise the point of order as to whether, under Standing Order No. 330, it is not irregular in this case that the Bill should be brought down for dis- cussion on the day it is first read. There was a thin House this morning, and there was not an opportunity of suspending the Standing Orders, as there was not a sufficient number of members in the House to enable that to be done. I think, under the circumstances. it would be wrong to bring on a Bill that members have not had the opportunity of reading, far less considering. Mr. SPE KER .- Standing Order No. 330 is generally acted on : still, if a measure is of an urgent nature it may be set aside and procedure taken under Standing Order No. 361. I. pre- sume this Bill is urgent, or it would not have been brought on for its second reading to-day. Mr. ATKINSON .- Is this an urgent mea- sure ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Yes, it is. Every notice that has been served and every notice we serve now is liable to be evaded by the transfer of the property. That is going on at the pre- sent time, and it is a question whether the law is to be a dead-letter in respect to ac- quiring land for workmen's homes, or whether we are to stop it. If I had not been so con- siderate last night for the forms of the House this Bill would have been introduced yesterday: it would have gone through Committee of the Whole, and the second reading would have been set down for to-day. An Hon. MEMBER .- You brought it up after twelve o'clock last night. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, there is no doubt the clock had gone beyond the stroke, but the pro- duction of the Bill was actually commenced be- fore twelve o'clock. The message was received before twelve o'clock, and consequently had a right to be dealt with, and it was not new busi- However, ness to remit it to the Committee. we are here now, and I do not think there is anything in the Bill that will cause members to say they cannot understand it in five minutes, let alone two hours and a half. Not only that, but over sixty votes were recorded this morning that the Bill should proceed at half-past two- a fact of which the leader of the Opposition seems oblivious. Sir, I do not wish to strain the Standing Orders at all, but the fact is that there is no Bill on the Order Paper and uc measure we have brought forward this sesstet that is of a more urgent character than this Bill. We have notices out, and we have other notices to go out, which will be imperilled if we do not pass this Bill. That is the position. I mav say the committal stage will not take place to-day. Captain RUSSELL .- If it is urgent take it to-day. Mr. SEDDON. - Well, if you wish it. Captain RUSSELL. - I shall not oppose it if you say it is urgent. Mr. SEDDON. . I do not want to irritate the honourable member. Of course, the honour- able member only speaks for himself. I shall do nothing further, because it is not an ex- tension of the Land for Settlements Act. Iti merely a question of perfecting the existing legislation. Under clause 2 provision is made affecting section 54 of the principal Act. A: the present time leases are granted under the Land for Settlements Act. If members will look at section 54 of the Act, it says, - " In every case where buildings are situated on the land at the time when it is to be disposed of by way of lease, then, notwithstanding any. thing contained to the contrary in this Act. the following special provisions shall apply." Well, this Bill extends it to apply to leases. We are making it . retroactive, and it is in the interests of the lessees. The Minister, of course. has to be a consenting party to it. There can te no exception taken to it, and I am advised by my officers this is necessary, otherwise the loss are placed at a disadvantage. Section 3 has tode with the extension of the Minister's powers. At the present time, suppose we find it is necessary to cut a drain to put the land in good condition 