district, town district, or a borough, or any [ time are almost impassable. I therefore hope other division that already exists. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- If the tax once comes into force, does it stop for ever ? Mr. FOWLDS .- No: there is provision that the tax can be reduced to a minimum rate. If any district found that they had no need to collect a 5s. tax, they could reduce it to, say, 6d., simply to carry on the registration of bicycles, as at present. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- Do I understand you would i.e prepared to alter the Bill in Commit- tee so that on a petition from the cyclists in any Town Board district or county which wished it they might be exempted from the operation of the Bill? Are you prepared to accept such an amendment as that ? Mr. FOWLDS .- Yes. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- Or Road Board dis- trict ? Mr. FOWLDS .- Any division that exists in the county at present. If such cyclists petition to be cut out, I for one would say their wishes shall be given effect to. Now, the honourable member for Geraldine, Mr. Flatman, spoke about the cyclists interfering with the local authority. Well, it is expressly provided they shall not do so. They can only operate on the roads with the consent of the local authority, but they can buy land for making cycle- tracks without consent. Surely you would not give the local authority the power to say the cyclists shall not buy land in a district to make a track, so long as it does not interfere with any existing road ? In fact, they can buy land for a track now with- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 out the Bill at all. The common law would allow an individual as well as the Cycle Board to buy land in any part of the colony to make a cycle-track, so that absolutely no interference with the local authority is involved by the Bill. The honourable gentleman also raised a diffi- culty about them borrowing money for want of security. The lender of money will always take care of that. If there is no security he will lend no money. I think these are the main points raised in the debate, and with respect to the size of the district, I think I have fairly met it, by the proviso I have offered to accept. I am sure the Bill as a whole will be of very great benefit to the cyclists in the various parts of the country. If the cyclists in districts where good roads exist do not want it, they need not bring the Act into operation ; but in other districts where the roads are bad they will gladly bring it in and contribute the small tax necessary to put it into operation. Now, with reference to the length of tracks that may be made : they can be made for about $50 a mile, and in some districts they might be made at the rate of fifty miles a year. That would soon cover the major part of the country with passable tracks, and I am sure, when these tracks are provided, there will be greater in- ducements for tourists from all parts of the world to come and visit our colony, and benefit will result in every way. It will provide, as I said in my opening remarks, a good footpath in country districts, where the roads in winter that the House will agree to the second reading of the Bill, and that in Committee the main features of the Bill will not be interfered with, but that the suggestion with reference to the cutting out of a district will be accepted as a satisfactory solution of the difficulties raised about the size of the districts. Bill read a second time. STATUTES COMPILATION BILL. Major STEWARD .-- Sir, I offer this Bill to the House with very considerable confidence, because I think that it will be found a very useful Bill to the public generally. The con- tents are the work of the last two or three years, in which I have had the assistance of the Statutes Revision Committee, and I may say also, indirectly, the assistance of the Solicitor- General, inasmuch as in the first drafting of the Bill to meet this object there were certain difficulties pointed out by him which were threshed out in the Statutes Revision Com- mittee, and are got over in the form in which the Bill is now presented. I have not pre- viously had the opportunity of bringing this Bill forward, and, therefore, I will shortly state what it is proposed to effect. It proposes to enable our Acts with their various amendments to be compiled, and enable them to be printed as compiled statutes, so that the public can, by paying a shilling or so for one copy, obtain practically the whole of the law upon any one subject instead of having, as now is too often the case, to invest in a dozen Acts and amending Acts. Sir, there is also a method proposed in the Bill, whereby if it is desired the compiled statute can be turned into statute law by a very simple process. Nothing could be more clear and intelligible than the wording of the Bill, and if the House will allow me to read the Bill itself that will be all the speech I need to make on the subject. What the Bill proposes is this :- "From and after the passing of this Act, whenever either House of the General Assembly shall by resolution direct the compilation with its amendments of any Act in force in the colony, it shall be the duty of the Solicitor- General. so soon as may be possible after the termination of the session in which such resolu- tion shall have been passed, to prepare a com- pilation embodying all the provisions of such Act and the amendments thereof, omitting all those portions of the text of such Act which have been repealed or altered by subsequent Acts, and inserting in the proper places all words or sections substituted for or added to the text of the original Act by such subsequent Acts, with marginal reference notes citing sec- tion and Act ; and he shall add to such compila- tion an appendix showing the Acts and sections of Acts comprised therein." The next section provides- " Such compilation shall be forwarded to the Clerk of Parliaments by the Solicitor-General, with a certificate under his hand that the same is a true and correct compilation of such Act and the amendments thereof ; and thereupon 