of the Liberal party the country has prospered, and the people have prospered, and are now per- fectly satisfied with the present system of go- vernment. There may be defects in the nomi- native Executive system, but these defects are only slight compared with the evils and dangers that would follow the abolition of party govern- ment. Let me quote a few lines from the "Cyclopedia of Political Science," by J. J. Lalor :-- " The most gifted and freest nations, politi- cally, are precisely those that have the most sharply defined parties, for the most important phenomena in the life of a State are conditioned by party struggles. It is only through the struggles and interaction of opposing forces that all the hidden wealth of a people's power is made clearly manifest. This proves the necessity and utility of the formation of parties. Parties are not an evil to the State, as many narrow and over-anxious minds are inclined to think. It reflects no glory on a statesman to stand aloof from his party, and it is no com- mendable virtue in the citizen of a State to belong to no party. For parties are, in the very nature of the case, the necessary manifesta- tions of the innermost impulses of the heart of the nation." Again, we find Lowell on "European Go- vernment." saying,- " A division into two parties is not only the normal result of the parliamentary system but also an essential condition of its success : with- out it parliamentary government would become an impossibility." The elective Executive method would lead to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the formation of parties, as has been very clearly pointed out by another speaker this evening. It would cause confusion, and I believe the public business would be neglected to a very great extent by reason of the petty quarrels which would ensue through the establishment of the various coteries in this House. I think it would open the door for log-rolling, bribery, and corruption, perhaps in its worst form. Under the Bill Ministers would be really re- duced to the condition of political puppets in the hands of the House. They would cease to be responsible to the country for their actions. Just imagine the chaos that would result from a Cabinet Minister conducting his own depart- We ment without consulting his colleagues. may have, say, the Minister for Public Works deciding to carry on a progessive public works policy. The Commissioner of Customs might decide to make considerable reductions in the tariff in the interests of the people by reducing the duties on the necessaries of life-a very popular thing to do. The Minister of Lands might intend to devote large sums of money towards the construction of roads and bridges, but the Colonial Treasurer says, "No, there is no money for you." Well, what would be the result ? We should have the Ministers op- posing each other in the Cabinet and on the floor of this House. Mr. ELL .- Do they not do it now ? Mr. E. G. ALLEN .- I hope not. They ought not to do it. Under the conditions proposed in this Bill the Minister who opposed concessions to the people would in all probability be im- peached, and have to stand his trial on the floor of this House at the hands of his brother members and probably be dismissed from office, and not only that, but practically dis- graced, because to any one dismissed from office it certainly would be a disgrace. And what would happen ? His place would be filled by a more pliant man. Sir, what would bo the position of a member who voted for a Minister who did not give satis- faction to that member's district ? Well, he would find that at the next general election he would not be re-elected, because he voted to put a Minister on the Treasury benches who did not give satisfaction to his district. We know that Ministers cannot satisfy everybody. Diversity of opinion amongst Ministers would lead to strife amongst themselves, and neglect of the country's welfare. Where two compact parties exist, each watching the actions of the other, the people's rights are safeguarded, Now, what does Mr. Sydney E. Williams say on that ques- tion ? He says,- " It may be said that the advanced views of one side are necessary in order to overcome the backward views of the other, and, vice versa, that the immobility of one section is necessary in order to check the restlessness of the other ; and to a certain extent this is true. It is a natural law, which makes the opposite weak- nesses of human nature neutralise one an other." Then, Mr. Disraeli-and no one will doubt his authority-says,- " You can have no parliamentary govern- ment if you have no party government, and therefore when gentlemen denounce party go- vernment they strike at that scheme of govern- ment that has made this country great." Sir, this Bill aims at destroying the system of party government, and the system under which the country has prospered, and not only this country, but under which the country to which we belong has also grown great. Sir, it is a system that makes political corruption next door to impossible, and under which all the great reforms have been effected. It is a sys- tem that makes the Government responsible to the country for their actions, and enables the party in opposition to criticize the action of the party in power and to expose anything they conceive to be wrong. It is a system that en- ables a strong and wise man to exercise his strength and wisdom for the welfare of the country. Carlyle, in speaking of that, says, - "The functions of good government does not lie in the capabilities of Parliament, but in one noble man, at once of natural wisdom and prac- tical experience. What might not one such man effect ? " Well, I would not go so far as Mr. Carlyle in that respect, but I do say that the incentive to devote both energies and abilities to the common good of all would be considerably weakened if he held office at the mere caprice of members of this House. It is absurd that a man like the Premier-a man who possesses the confidence of - 