against the third reading. I have also to point out to the Minister in charge of the Bill that in Committee I endeavoured to have an amendment carried to effect that these so-called Protection Officers should wear some badge or uniform : and I gave an instance of what had occurred in this city, where two men were committed for trial for personating a detective and vilely assaulting a young woman. I say, if this Bill becomes law, if some such badge of office is not worn, you will have things occurring in this colony such as have been proved to have occurred in London and Paris under the C.D. Act. I do not think the Bill is at all necessary, for the law at the present time is quite suffi- cient, and does deal with neglected children. Frequently we see in our Police Courts cases of children brought up as being neglected, and the law provides for dealing with them. I detest this Bill, because I believe it will do injury ; and I do not think it will at all accomplish the object which the introducers have sought in asking us to place it on the statute-book. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I shall not detain the House discussing the merits or demerits of this Bill. As is well known, I do not like it even in the condition in which it now is, although it is very much improved, though not to the extent we thought it was last night. There is this still in the Bill : that it is at the discretion of the officer whether he gives the parents notice or not. Now, in my opinion, that notice should be given. It should not be left to the discretion of the officer, and depend https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 upon whether the answers are satisfactory. Do you mean to tell me that the officer ever would be satisfied with any answer? Rarely so. I should say that very few notices will ever be given to parents in these cases. This is really a Bill to foist upon the colony a lot of billets for billet-hunters. There is no doubt of that in my mind ; and we shall have no end of "discreet women " getting billets under this Act. It is wonderful the amount of patronage that is asked for. The Bill is not to be brought into operation but by leave of the Governor, and I hope it will never be put into force. At all events, I shall put on record my opinion by voting against the third reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- A great change has been made in this Bill by the Council since it was first sent down by the Government. Upon its first appearance it was to come into opera- tion throughout the colony upon the passing of the Bill. Owing to amendments made by the Council this has been modified to a great ex- tent. It can now only be brought into opera- tion in boroughs or counties by Order in Coun- cil, and the Government of the day must take the responsibility of bringing it into operation within any special district. That is a great change for the better. There must be a specific statement made and evidence furnished with regard to juvenile immorality in a borough or county before the Governor in Council would be justified in bringing the Act into operation. considered it was a slander upon the people of the colony to say that juvenile immorality was rampant within the large towns of the colony. That is not for a moment to be believed. Un- doubtedly there is, to a certain extent, juvenile delinquency in the towns of New Zealand, as in all other towns, but it is untrue to say that it is specially prevalent here. The only effectual way to remedy that, to my mind, is to impress upon the parents to be more careful in the con- trol of, and to remove temptation out of the path of, their children. Another amendment made by the Council was that it applied to young persons, when first introduced, of the age of sixteen and under. The Council re- duced that to fourteen. It may be admitted that children of such tender years who are found in the street at late hours ought to be dealt with as proposed by the Bill, but that cannot apply to those of a more mature age. In consequence of these amendments made in the Bill since it was brought down it is much more workable, and I am content to give it a trial, and to see what effect it will have in remedying the evil complained of. The Hon. Mr. REEVES. - As the Bill now stands I wish also to vote for it. It has come within my own knowledge that even in some small towns in the colony which I could mention young men under the age of eighteen, and sometimes mere boys, congregate about the corners of the streets and make use of filthy language, so that any respectable female passing by is subject to insulting remarks. I think the time has come when we ought to put an end to such incipient larrikinism, or " hooliganism," as it has been called in the Old Country. At one time I was certainly indisposed to vote for the Bill. When it came before the Council last session I voted against it, but there have been alterations and improvements which make it more acceptable, and I have risen for the purpose of explaining my reasons for voting for the Bill. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- Sir, I have no wish to delay the Bill for any length of time. I have good reason to believe the Bill will pass, but when it has passed it will be a perfectly useless measure. One objection I have to it is that we advertise ourselves to the world as a most immoral people, and say that we cannot trust our young folks in the streets after nine o'clock. If that is so, it is not our young people that are to blame-it must be our old people. Why not prevent the old people from being in the streets after nine o'clock, instead of preventing the young who are per- fectly innocent, and are doing what their own parents allow ? If the older people were not there the young people could not take much harm. As to what my honourable friend Mr. Reeves has said about finding at the street- corners a larrikin element of youths of seven- teen, eighteen, or more, who use vile and hlthy language to females, I quite agree with that ; but there is a law now which will prevent that. Every person using such language can be brought before a Magistrate and properly dealt with. L. 