are reasonably impressed with the responsi- bilities with which the accident of birth has invested them, they will feel that they have received very much in the privilege of personal contact with the vast extent of the Empire of the British people, and have acquired that knowledge and intimacy with the various colonies and their growing cities which will be of service to them at that time when, in the course of events, I hope they will reach the throne of Great Britain. But there is one matter to which I feel it my duty to call attention-not so much, I hope the Premier will understand, with the object of carping at what has taken place, as in order that it may act as a deterrent against any action of a similar kind in future-action which, I feel, might detract somewhat from the alacrity and generous hospitality of our Municipali- ties when they act as hosts to distinguished guests who may from time to time come to our shores. Sir, I think the Mayors of our great cities, and their Municipalities, should be regarded as the hosts of such visitors, and the Premier, whoever he may be, should not assume such control over their functions and independ- enco as I think has on several occasions been practised by the right honourable gentleman. For instance, I think it was unreasonable that the Premier, when he desired that a local body should spend its money, and that wealthy citi- zons should contribute largely in order that decorations and demonstrations worthy of the occasion should take place, should dare to send an outsider like Mr. Holmes to exercise control over the arrangements and contributions of the Auckland people. I am only speaking of Auckland ; representatives can speak for other cities. I felt somewhat indignant at this, pleasing as was the prospect of a visit from a member of the Royal Family who, in the order of Providence, will be King over our children. I think they should have entertained him in their own way; and I think contributions in the shape of private donations would have been much larger than was the case in conse- quence of the Premier's interference. There was one gentleman who was sent up-Mr. Smith, an energetic young man, much more so than Holmes-who was quite sufficient to give assistance to the authorities in Auckland. But to have a Commissioner to dictate how they should spend the money they had raised with considerable trouble, and also the contributions from the local bodies, was highly reprehensible. Then, again, there are several other matters which have thwarted the desires which would have been carried out by the Auckland people- in the first place, as to the reception which should be given to their Highnesses by the Maoris-specially a feature for the Auckland City. This was controlled by the Cabinet, con- trary to the arrangements proposed by the citi- zens of that beautiful city, and it interfered with what might have been a historic gather- ing. I hope I am not traversing the statement made by His Excellency in his Speech. It was, no doubt, special and remarkable so far as his knowledge or experience went; but if the Natives had been allowed to gather, as was at first suggested, at One Tree Hill, double the : number would have assembled, and a pro- gramme and aquatic pageant would have re- sulted which would have conferred pleasure on fifty or sixty thousand people of this colony, who were debarred from that entertainment by its being held at Rotorua. They would have been ready, and they had promised to con- tribute to a function of that kind, which would have combined all that was done at Rotorua, with an added naval display which perhaps the young people of Auckland will never again have the opportunity of witnessing. And, above all this, there was the opportunity of completely effacing the feeling of exclusiveness which is existing in the heart of some of the Natives of this Island, and the first step towards which effacement was secured last session by the visit of Mahuta to Wellington, over which the Government then made much ado; and it only required the graceful condescension of the Government to assemble the Waikato Na- tives with all the others, and to have made a display that, once and for all, would have blended Maori sentiment and European hos- pitality in enduring harmony and concilia- tion. But feeling has been rather irritated than effaced by what has taken place. I know the reply will be that "we made an arrange- ment that the Natives should go to Rotorua." Precisely so, and the initial feeling prompting that arrangement was the gratification of an ancient East Coast Maori grudge. And in send- ing the Natives to Rotorua it was more costly than if the gathering had taken place as was suggested. It would have been more con- venient-I will say nothing about the pleasure, which I consider of moment-to the people of Auckland. Along the East Coast and up to the North Cape the Natives would have been brought to Auckland by steamer ; little or no railage cost would have been incurred. and a few thousands of the Waikatos and other \- - - - Natives who did not go because of their objec- tion to the treatment accorded to Mahuta would have been there, and the feeling of irrita- tion engendered in the minds of important tribes would have been avoided. I do not for- get that some sneers have been thrown at Ma- huta's claim to rank and precedence in Maori lore ; but remember, also, that Mahuta has a genealogy of which he can be quite as proud as some of the great families of England It was are of the genealogies they possess. admitted by the Natives themselves, in the selection of Mahuta's grandfather, as blending in his veins the best blood of Maori heroes. ! Potatau was a very warm and hearty friend indeed to the Europeans. I cannot help myself \--- feeling a personal regard for Potatau. because in my childhood perhaps he saved the Euro- peans from massacre by warning Heke that he would resist the hostile descent on Auckland which he threatened to make. Therefore I feel indebted to his memory. Again I say that the Natives' display and the ceremonies which they would have carried out in escorting the "Ophir " as she approached the Auckland 