member of the House of an attack being made sound judgment. I have nothing whatever my- such as has been made by the honourable mem- self to say. That he iserratic, that he would have ber for Hawke's Bay-namely, that because a a petition now and again. goes without saying. certain gentleman held a position as a District First of all, setting aside all precedent, he comes Court Judge, and because he gave a certain upon the floor of this House as a petitioner. decision-that is what the honourable member There is notice given. What happens then ? for Hawke's Bay said-he was elevated to the He comes before the House, shall I say, having tilts at a Minister of the Crown. Supreme Court Bench. I unhesitatingly say anything done, or was there any interference that he never held the position of a Supreme on the part of the Government ? Not the Court Judge at all ; and what the honourable member was referring to probably was his slightest. I challenge the honourable mem- acting as a Royal Commissioner, and, because ber or any other member on the floor of this of his finding as a Royal Commissioner, on House to give to the country a single in. that ground the appointment to the Supreme stance where pressure was brought to bear on Court Bench took place. If this is what the a Magistrate or upon a District Court Judge. honourable gentleman is alluding to-I do not either in respect to their decisions or anything know whether he was or was not on the Minis- they may have said on the Bench. Let us not terial benches at all at the time - his own col- have these generalities. leiques first appointed the gentleman to the Supreme Court Bench. Now, as I say, does it croft ? not show how unthinkingly and how without any due sense of responsibility charges of that member again to give an instance in the case of kind are levelled at the Government ? Mr. Northeroft, or any one else. Captain RUSSELL .- It is the Horowhenua Commission I was speaking of. from pillar to post. Mr. SEDDON .- If you withdraw what you have said as referring to District Judge Ward, from pillar to post. I say that, so far as the well and good. removal of Magistrates is concerned, I think Captain RUSSELL. - I did not allude to him. there ought to be more removals-they ought Mr. SEDDON. - But you were alluding to to be removed periodically. When they are a him. long time in a place they get into society, and I Captain RUSSELL. -- No, I was not. say unconsciously it has a detrimental effect. Mr. SEDDON. - You may not have intended That is my opinion about the matter, and I it, but, at any rate, there was only one District believe that periodical changes would be to the Court Judge who was ever put on the Supreme benefit of the administration of justice. But I Court bench. If the honourable gentleman want to know a single case-and there have been complaints at all times, not from mom- now admits that what he was alluding to was another matter altogether, and to another per- bers on this side of the House but from that side of the House-where there has been in- son, then I will meet him on that. I say, with regard to the remarks of the honourable gentle- terference by the Government : and I want to know a case where there has been inter- min in reference to the appointment of the late Julgo Martin, he was Crown Prosecutor in ference with the independence of the Bench. When the honourable members now on that Christchurch, and he was also a Magistrate. and one of the best Magistrates that ever we side of the House were on these benches why did they not bring down an amendment of the had on the bench in the colony. The Press, law in regard to District Court Judges and from one end of the colony to the other, extolled Magistrates ? If the Magistrates under the him because of his judgments and fairness, and it existing law were content to remain there was because of his strictness, and for no other whilst other Governments were on the Trea- reason, that he was placed upon the Supreme sury benches, why should we depart from that Court banch : and to cast the slur the honour- able gentleman did upon Sir John Mckenzie position and say that we are not to be trusted with the administration of Magistrates ? It is and upon the Administration is therefore out quite evident that if we are not trusted by the of place. With all Sir John Mckenzie's Magistrates we are trusted by the people, and faults there is this about him, at all events : Ho would be no party to appointing any per- that is what the honourable gentleman never son to a position unless on account of his was. fitness. And in respect to the Commission honourable gentleman, as the House must, to which the honourable member refers, the under the new rule, adjourn to-day at half-past evidence to-day stands there and proves con- con-ively that the findings wore in accordance ten o'clock p.m. therewith ; and does it help Judge Kettle to bring that up now on a Bill of this kind? It is impossible for it to do so. This constant bring- p.m. ing-up of Judge Kettle keeps him almost at all times at every session in hot water, and it is not right. I can only say that I believe him to Was there An Hon. MEMBER. -- What about Mr. North- Mr. SEDDON. - I challenge the honourable An Hon. MEMBER .- He has been hounded Mr. SEDDON. - Neither has he been hounded Mr. SPEAKER .- I must now interrupt the On motion of Mr. MILLS, debate adjourned. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock 