ing our forests. I trust that the Government will keenly watch what has been going on. From what has occurred over a number of years a very important lesson is to be learnt. We have had hundreds of thousands of pounds' worth of valuable timber destroyed in the pro- cess of settlement, and I hope this will not be continued. We want to conserve our forests, to see that our timber is put to a good pur- pose, and to help our sawmills, because the sawmiller ought to be the forerunner in our bush districts of every class of settlement. It is by assisting him that we shall best assist the labouring-classes to get on the land and to found homes for themselves. If we do that we may depend upon it that we have not yet reached the height of our prosperity by any means. I do not for a moment believe that there is depression in front of us. I maintain that, as long as this Government or any other Government carries out the wishes of a politi- cally educated people such as we have now in New Zealand, there is nothing whatever to fear. The country will be able to hold its own, and the clouds of depression will not be allowed to overcast our horizon. Turning to another im- portant branch of our industries-that is, mining -I will ask, Has the Government done too much to assist the miner? I believe that every shil- ling spent in this direction is likely to turn out extremely profitable, in the same way as the ex- pendit ure on our roads, bridges, and railways is likely to be highly reproductive. I am satisfied that the money expended in developing the splendid mining resources of this country will eventually yield a profitable harvest. During the last month or two I travelled over some parts of the South Island where mining opera- tions are being carried on. When I contrasted the evidences of what had been done in the haunts of the miner in former years with the wealth of mining country still unexplored- awaiting prospecting and testing-I was forced to the conclusion that after all that has been done by the miners of New Zealand we have merely scratched the surface. When you look at those huge mountains between Springfield and Hokitika, and view the scenes where the miners of former days were able to make, some of them, not merely a fair living but a consider- able amount of wealth, and you now find those places deserted ; when you consider that the huge mountains that rise abruptly above the gorges and rivers must have undoubtedly shed the wealth that has been found in their beds and terraces ; and when you contemplate the fact that hundreds of miles of that country has never vet been trodden by the foot of man, to what conclusion are you forced ? There is a field for the geologist and the pro- spector. There is a field in which, I believe, there is enough hidden wealth to sustain a much larger population than we are likely to have in New Zealand for the next century. Sir, not only has the Government of the day endeavoured to do its duty towards our settlers and our miners, but in the matter of public buildings and conveniences of various kinds the citizens of our towns have not been over- Mr. Hogg master-General the utmost credit for what he has done in instituting a penny postage ? That. however, has been only one of many directions in which the department over which he pre- sides has done a great amount of good within the last twelve months to the people of the country. We have the colony reticulated not merely with telegraph, but with telephone wires. We have telephone bureaux in every direction. We have people living long dis- tances apart who are now able to speak to each other at any hour of the day and almost at any hour of the night. We have conveniences that a few years ago we little dreamt of. I can point to places in my own district where, when I was first elected, it was impossible to hold communication with people who lived only a short distance away more than once a week or once a fortnight. Now they can hold communication every minute if they wish to. Is not that something the Go- vernment and their party have a right to receive credit for ? In the matter of public buildings, I do not believe there has ever before been so much money expended or such a fine class of buildings erected as we have had of late. I do not refer only to the principal centres ; there is hardly a town of any magnitude in New Zea- land that has not had its streets materially improved by the character of the structures the Government is erecting for the convenience of the public. Then, Sir. I might be excused if I say a few words about the necessity of push- ing on our railways. Such of our railways as are likely to be of importance to our settlers and are urgently required by the country ought to be completed. We ought to continue to expend as much money as possible on those works. The North Island Trunk Railway is one that will open up a very large amount of excellent country. It is a line that is likely to be highly reproductive. It will bring to the market a great quantity of exceedingly valuable timber-timber which. I believe, will produce for the Crown some millions of money. There are other lines, no doubt, that also ought to receive attention. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Wairarapa. Mr. HOGG .- Yes; there is the Wairarapa deviation. It should be seen to as soon as pos- sible. I believe money could not be more pro- fitably spent than in making a line to take the place of an incline that should never have been constructed. The track over the hill is a huge engineering blunder, and the sooner it is avoided the better it will be for the country. But I de- sire to say this : that, having travelled over the country between the Otira Station and Spring- field, in Canterbury. I have been forced to the conclusion that any further outlay on that line will be money that might as well be thrown into mid-ocean. A tunnel of about six miles and a half in length now requires to be made through a huge mountain barrier ; and I would ask any one, seeing that the principal traffic is likely to be the tourist traffic, whether the prosecution of such a work will not be downright mad- ness. The present value of this country is its 