most parts of the colony with regard to the interference of this Royal Commissioner, Mr. Holmes-the Royal Commission Agent, as I have heard him called, and I think it is a very appropriate name. He was drawing, I understand, commission at the rate of £100 per month, which is a large salary, but still not as much as a Supreme Court Judge gets ; and, whatever Supreme Court Judges may do, they cannot send such lovely telegrams as Mr. Holmes sent. There is only one man in the colony I know of who can send them as good, and that is the Right Hon. the Premier himself. There was one particularly nauseat- ing telegram that Mr Holmes sent, which expressed his hope that he would see in New Zealand "a line of loyalty a thousand miles long." It was positively nauseating to read such a telegram. But any one who can stand the Right Hon. the Premier's style should be able to stand it. The honourable member for Waitemata referred to what he termed the "grandiose exhibitions " of the Premier. But I cannot agree with one remark of the mem- ber for Waitemata in that connection. He said he wished Ministers would leave Auck- land alone, and stay in Wellington all the time. Wein Wellington do not want them here all the time-we can really do without them now and then. The elephant may be necessary to a travelling menagerie, as the member for Ash- burton has said, but we will gladly spare the elephant from the menagerie in Wellington whenever he cares to travel. The visit of our Royal guests was a splendid opportunity for a display of our public spirit and our patriotism ; but, owing to the residence of Ministers in Wel- lington, even that was to some extent spoilt by the introduction of the lowest-I will not say party politics-I was almost going to say gutter politics, but let me say personal spite on the part of one man. We really had the ques- tion of the removal of the shelter-sheds-a question which the House has heard a good deal of already, and it may possibly hear more- we actually had that made a test question by the Minister for Public Works- and we know whom the Minister for Public Works represents -with reference to the Royal reception. We citizens of Wellington were not allowed to pre- sent our loyal address in front of the Post Office -which we all agreed was the best site for the purpose-unless we consented to the removal of the shelter-sheds. That paltry exhibition-I will not say of party politics-but that paltry exhibition of the spleen and spite of a single man against a single city -- that was brought into play here to add to the enthusiasm with which the city was going to welcome the Royal guests. Now, we have had some "grandiose exhibitions " here: I shall speak of a small matter. but it is really a serious matter. I felt positively ashamed for this colony, notwith- standing the brilliancy of the reception which we gave to our Royal guests-I felt positively ashamed for this colony to find myself in the presence of distinguished visitors from England -men of culture, some of them, and a few of them men of rank-and really men of rank are not much to me-but still they were mem- bers of the aristocracy of England, and one of . their characteristics is a perfect sense of good manners-I felt positively ashamed for the colony when I noticed that at a banquet given to our visitors all the toasts but one were mono- polized by a single man. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who was that ? Mr. ATKINSON .- The Premier ; and he had all of his colleagues around him. None of them was given a single toast except Sir Joseph Ward. And on the following day, at the reception to the returned troopers-on that occasion the right honourable gentleman went one better : every single toast was monopolized by the Premier himself. He would not allow us to encore some very excellent music, but he encored his own speech till we were weary. The Premier spoke at such length that he and everybody who sat till the finish-I did not-missed the farewell to the Duke and Duchess ; and Sir John Anderson, of the Colonial Office, was late for the departure of the "Ophir," and had to be pitched on board at the last moment. Now, of course, we saw the same thing running through all this busi- ness, and it spoilt what would really have been a very good evening, and much of the enthusiasm which would otherwise have been felt. The right honourable gentleman to-night character- ized their Royal Highnesses' visit as "pleasur- able." We had the same word in the Govern- ment's address at Auckland ; we had it in His Excellency's Speech ; we had it in the Address we sent in reply ; we have it running right through ; and we have had it in the telegrams which have been sent broadcast during these proceedings. We had it, first of all, in the telegram to the Mayor of Dunedin-"a great, unique, and plea- surable occasion." The word is, I suppose, in the dictionaries, and it may be a fitting word to apply to a picnic or a circus, but surely it is not expressive of the sentiments of loyalty and patriotism evoked by the Royal visit. Now with regard to the interference of the Royal Commis- sioner, Mr. Holmes: As I have said already, I give the Government full credit for all they did, and if they had attended to their own part, and not interfered with the local receptions, there would have been nothing to complain of, and I should have had nothing but praise for their organization. But it was part of their scheme that the localities should be pulled up to the mark, and if they had not sufficient spontaneity themselves the Government would supply the spontaneity. An Hon. MEMBER .- The "spondulix." Mr. ATKINSON. - No; the Government was asked to supply that, but they declined. But what was really the essential part of the Government's scheme was that these localities should spontaneously demonstrate, and that the spontaneous demonstration should be supplied from headquarters if the tap was not turned on hard enough by the local authority. We had that indicated by the Premier in a statement to one committee that, if any local body did not come up to the required mark, they would have the whole of the reception taken out of their hands, and the Government would run it them- 