<!-- PageNumber="238" --> <!-- PageHeader="Close Settlement in" --> <!-- PageHeader="[HOUSE.]" --> Mr. SEDDON said he believed he was quite in order. The Rev. Mr. Elmslie, speaking on this question,-if the report from which he was quoting was correct,-had said :- "He was satisfied that the absence of biblical teaching in schools was one of the reasons for the prevalent juvenile immorality. During the last twenty years, thousands of children had been turned out of our public schools, and were the young men and women who were causing so much distress at the present time." That statement implied that it was the young men and women of to-day, who had gone through our public schools in the colony, who were caus- ing immorality and the existing distress-that these people were guilty of immorality. If such a sweeping and unmerited charge had been levelled, there was no language he could use that seemed sufficiently strong to characterize the statement. He could not possibly believe the statement had been made, but he thought he was merciful and moderate in his criticism of the conduct of the reverend gentleman if the statement had been made. But he must go further, and say that this was a charge also levelled against the Government. The charge levelled against the Government was that the Government favoured, or pandered to, the Roman Catholics. That, again, was a slander. There had been no preference whatever given to them. He was prepared to submit the matter to any investigation as to the appointments the Government had made, and it would be proved absolutely that the statements alleged to have been made by Bishop Julius were with- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 out the slightest foundation. From recent de- velopments it seemed as if the heads of some of the Churches were going into political matters, and making, if correctly reported, wholesale charges without foundation and without in- quiry. The question was this : Were the people of the colony on proper and legitimate lines to see to their rights and privileges and to main- tain them, or were they to go back to the dark ages when the Churches were dominant, and when the people were ignorant and crime was more frequent than it was to-day ? That was the question they would have to face. For him- self, he believed in Bible-reading and in religious teaching. He believed that the training of a person was not complete without religious teach- ing; but it was certainly not in the public schools that such teaching should be given. # CLOSE SETTLEMENT IN WANGANUI DISTRICT. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) asked the Premier. What steps have been taken by the Government under the Land for Settlements Act to acquire the Marahau Estate or other properties in the Wanganui district suitable for cutting up into small holdings; also, what action has been taken in the direction of purchasing land in the vicinity of the Town of Wanganni for cutting up into sections for the establishment of work- men's homes? Last session the Goverment promised that an endeavour would be made to purchase land for settlement in the Wanganui Wanganui District. [JULY 10 as suitable for the purpose was the Marahau Estate. Since the Government had announced their intention of buying land, he believed a syndicate had purchased that particular pro- perty, with the idea that they would be able to offer it to the Government subsequently and make something out of it. That, he con- sidered, was a most improper thing to do. If he was now to be told that it was on account of this action on the part of the syndicate that the Government had not been able to purchase the estate, he would ask if there were not other properties available, and if there was not an understanding that an effort would be made to acquire properties near the Town of Wanganui for the workers. The late Premier, Mr. John Ballance, was the originator of the Land for Settlements Act, and, as he was the representa- tive in the House for Wanganui for some years, Wanganui should have its fair share of the land acquired under the Act for settlement. So far not a single aere had been set apart for that purpose in the district. He would like the Premier to say that, if they could not get possession of the Marahau Estate, they would acquire other land for settlement, so that the district might be put on the same footing as other parts of the colony. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that some con- siderable time ago the Government were ap- proached with respect to the purchase of the Marahau Estate. Mr. MeKerrow went over it. and came to the conclusion that a certain sum should be offered for it. Nothing, however, was done for a time, as it was intimated indirectly to Mr. Mckerrow that the offer would not be accepted. Further inquiry was then made, and the Commissioner of Crown Lands for the Tara- naki District visited the estate and reported on it, and his report coincided with that of Mr. Mckerrow. The result was that an offer of €42,000) was made to the owners for the property -- about five thousand acres. Then it was found, either immediately before the offer was made or shortly after, that the owner had sold the pro- perty to a syndicate in Wanganui, and probably the idea was to get something out of the Go- vernment ; but, if so, a great mistake was being made, for, as far as he was concerned, the Land for Settlements Act was not going to be used for such a purpose. For himself, he would hke to see it provided that when once the Govern- ment had made an offer for an estate that offer should stand as between the Government and the owner. Sometimes the sales that were made after the Government had made an offer were of a questionable character. In answer to the second part of the question, he had to say that negotiations for the purchase of land for workmen's homes in the vicinity of Wanganui had been in progress, but so far without effect- ing a purchase, the prices asked by vendors being considered too high. If the Land Pur- chase Inspector and those who advised him considered the price asked was too much, be (Mr. Seddon) would not be justified in either bringing pressure to bear or in giving more than the officers considered a proper value. 