of actually paid-up cash, and there would be no getting out of it. It should also be provided that the directors should hold their shares for a certain time -- at any rate, until the credit and position of the company is assured. Then I go on to the allotment clause. The amount above 5 per cent. is left to be fixed entirely by the directors. You have only 2s. paid up, and there is no further obligation upon the direc- tors. This clause-clause 6-is a very bad clause, and forms one of the chief faults of the English Act, because after the lapse of one year. as I pointed out before, a prospectus may be issued and steps taken to invite applications free from restrictions. Then, clause 10 deals with the question of com- missions . that they may be paid. Now. that is faulty. It must be a mistake in drafting, because the first part of the clause tells us that the commission may be paid. while the second part says it must not be paid out of the funds of the company, and therefore this is a direct incentive to directors finding out of their own pockets the payments they may make to brokers for the sale of shares in order that they may float the company. Now, that is evidently a wrong conception of the requirements of the case. The next clause deals with the filing of the prospectus, which is a minor matter, and the registering of it before issue, and that is quite correct. Then, particulars are to be furnished ; that is also correct. Clause 12, in the part dealing with contracts, says the obligation to disclose contracts only extends to those made within two years preceding the publication of the pro- spectus. A further mistake again is made there. Why should that be? It is misleading, and might result in misapprehension by investors. The clauses dealing with general meetings are satisfactory. They might be more amplified and made more complete, but as far as they go they are satisfactory. I am very glad to see that attention has been directed to the question of auditing. As most people know, for many years it has been generally understood that in many cases it is a very perfunctory process at the best. Never have I been able to understand how people could expect to get a good audit for the small fee that is usually paid. How is it pos- sible for the fee of $50 or so to go over all the intricate accounts of a large bank, or even of a large mercantile establishment ? It is impos- sible to do justice to the position. In order to give the shareholders and the public generally a thorough certificate that that company or bank is essentially sound and can be relied on, the mercantile institution, or whatever it may be, ought to have an audit which would practically extend from one year to the other, so that the whole of its operations could be traced through and examined, in order that it might be found whether they were in accordance with the in- terests of the company or not. Then, the Bill `deals with the winding-up of companies. The weak feature of this part of the Bill is that winding up under the Court is only dealt with. No one hitherto that I know of has objected to the method by which a com- VOL. CXVI .- 24. with technical advisers associated with the liquidator-as this Bill provides-a completely effective process is assured. But I regret that better machinery has not been put in the Bill for insuring a more satisfactory method of wind- ing up companies under the voluntary system. I know of a case which may probably be disclosed very soon -- a gross case of a company eleven or twelve years old. It is almost a private com- pany, or what is generally known as a private one, but still there are some few outside share- holders, and that company has been going on for a good number of years doing business abso- lutely without a shilling of capital, and the fact still never disclosed. It commenced business, I should say, about twelve years ago. It soon made bad debts of a very heavy amount. Now, these bad debts, absolutely worthless though they were known by the directors to be-not worth the thousandth part of a farthing in the pound -were carried forward up to 1898 as good assets. Then the directors faced the situation and saw the necessity of realising the position, and they sold the company themselves, with- out any special resolution,-without holding a meeting of the shareholders at all,-and they adjusted their balance-sheet with a de- ficiency of some $18,000 or $19,000, while in the previous balance-sheet they had issued they had a credit balance of #150. Now, there is a scandalous state of things. The directors sold this business, and then fifteen months afterwards they called the shareholders together,-that is, the few small shareholders outside .- and told them what they had done was in their own interest and the interest of the shareholders, and they asked for an indem- nity, which was given by those present. Well, now, the selling of the business under those cir- cumstances meant that they absolutely put aside the provision as to audit and ignored the Companies Act. No special or extraordinary resolutions were passed ; they relied on the shareholders sending private letters that they would agree to it. To some extent the share- holders have done so: but some have not- hence the sale is invalid, and the directors have committed themselves to an illegal position. This is one of the most signal proofs possible of the necessity of bringing a Companies Act into existence to make such things absolutely impossible in the future. Now I have dealt with. the main provisions of the Act. To my mind, the whole of the old Companies Act should be sub- jected to a very close examination by a commit- tee of expert business-men, assisted by some legal advice. We want the Act to be brought into such a condition as will enable it to be a real and effective protection of the public. It is not so now ; and I do not hesitate to say if this Bill goes through in the form in which it now is it will not give sufficient protection to investors. I have pointed out two or three ways in which some defects can be remedied, and probably on further examination I could show some more. However, the Government is to be commended for an attempt to do some- thing in this direction, and I trust when the 