the occasion occur when we will be required to act on the defensive-and we all hope it will not-we will be able to give a good account of our- selves in defending our shores from the invasion of a foreign foe. I hope that a Bill to enable a referendum to be taken on the main political questions that affect the public for the time being will be passed, and that the Referendum Bill will become a statute. I hope, also, that provision will be made this session for an Act to increase the salaries of honourable members. I am one of those who on former occasions advocated increasing the salaries of honourable members, and the time, in my mind, has ar- rived when such should be done. We find, for example, that in Victoria the honorarium is $300 a year, in Queensland the same, and in New South Wales the same ; but in New South Wales there is a sessional allowance of about $35. In this colony we represent a much greater num- ber of constituents than what they do in those colonies, seeing that the female franchise has come into vogue in New Zealand, and that the work of members has increased all round. Seeing that the duties that have to be attended to by members of Parliament have very much increased, I consider we should be placed on an equal footing with those across the Tasman Sea. Going beyond the Australian Colonies, we find that in France the senators, who are elected for nine years, get $360 a year, and in the Chamber of Deputies each member gets ยฃ360 a year and is elected for four years. Labour members of the British Parliament, where there is no honorarium paid, are really expected to receive from their constituents the sum of $500 a year, and I think they do receive that sum from the labour organizations. That is looked upon as the least salary they ought to get for their services on behalf of their constituents. Until a few years ago in New Zealand the hono- rarium was two hundred guineas per session, not per year, and very often it happened that in a Parliament there were four sessions ; con- sequently, that meant they earned eight hundred guineas for the four sessions. Captain RUSSELL .- Where was this ? Mr. GILFEDDER .- In New Zealand. We had four sessions, for example, in the last Par- liament ; but, unfortunately, seeing the hono- rarium was $240 a vear, it made no difference. Consequently, in New Zealand until recently, with four sessions of Parliament, the difference between what would be obtained then and now is #180. Now, last session a measure was in- troduced called the Public Revenues Bill, and in that a clause was inserted which enabled members of the House to receive a sessional allowance of $40. On that occasion I think only eleven or twelve members voted against it. and I was sorry to see afterwards that some of those honourable gentlemen sought to obtain a little credit by telling their audiences that they did not vote for this sum, and had not drawn it out of the Treasury. But I wish to put on record the fact that no honourable member could draw that #40 until he had filled in a voucher. What he did with it afterwards Mr. Gilfedder but, to my mind, there is nothing more re- prehensible than for honourable members to fill in a voucher and draw that $40 while leading their constituents to believe that they would not touch it on any account. Some members were said to have devoted the ยง40 to bribing their constituents ; but I can hardly be- lieve that honourable members would draw the grant out of the Treasury and give it to those who might in time to come repay them by re- cording their votes in favour of the donors. But, as I intend to ask for a return of those honourable members who have filled in vouchers and drawn the $40 voted last session, it is un- necessary for me to deal with the matter further. Now, Sir, I think that members of the Opposition will agree with me in stating that at no time in the history of the colony has it been more prosperous than it is just now. Of course, the members of the Opposition will not give credit to the Government for assisting to bring about or for increasing that prosperity ; but, Sir, I consider that prosperity is due mainly to three causes. First of all, there is the cheap money under the Advances to Settlers Act, then there is the extension of land-settlement, and the extension of trade and commerce. I con- sider, Sir, that some of these measures have conduced considerably to increase that pro- sperity, ameliorate the condition of the masses, and place New Zealand in the happy position it is in to-day. Those honourable members who talked themselves hoarse over granting assist- ance to the Bank of New Zealand some years ago-those members who so persistently and consistently stonewalled and obstructed every measure brought forward by the Government- are now quite willing to concede that those measures have proved beneficial, and have justi- fied their enactment. Therefore I hope the Op- position now, unlike the roaring lions we heard about the other night. have seen the error of their ways, and that they will assist us to carry out the legislation that is demanded by the people of the country, and so enable us to place New Zealand in the foreground of the countries of the world. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) .- I must congratu- late the honourable member who has just sat down, particularly with respect to the latter part of his speech. But I must make an exception to one of his references to the Opposition, with respect to the Bank of New Zealand. It is sur- prising how accurate some honourable members are on certain subjects when they are endeavour- ing to make political capital. Mr. GILFEDDER .- Look up Hansard. Mr. McGUIRE .- The honourable member says, " Look up Hansard." I have no occasion to look up Hansard. I maintain that the statement made by the honourable member is incorrect. I wish the honourable member had been more accurate for his own sake, because I am not without admiration of a kind for him. There is not much interest taken in politics at present, and there are several reasons why this is so. What has taken place in South Africa during the past two years has distracted the 