Committee when he said there was no neces- sity for such a clause. At the present time, if the honourable gentleman wishes to avoid the operation of the Land for Settlements Act, there is nothing to prevent him dividing his estate amongst his family. Captain RUSSELL .- I can give you some, but I am not likely to. Mr. LAWRY. -- If the honourable gentleman gave me a slice I would say that it was the re- ward of merit, and that it was the only generous thing the honourable gentleman ever did in the whole course of his life. I may say that I would take a slice from the honourable gentle- man, but I would not take any position as the nominee of any Government that ever existed in New Zealand. I take it that this land-for- settlement policy teaches the country one great lesson, and that is that the wealthy men of the country, the great landowners, should not wait until they are about to die and then leave their estates to be divided amongst their families; nor should they leave their estates for rapacious lawyers to quarrel over through the provisions of a will which no one can understand, and which the trustees can scarcely ever administer. During this debate we have had several questions discussed. We have had first and foremost the great question of lease- hold versus freehold. One honourable member said that under the various systems of lease- hold the leaseholder could not transfer his land without the permission of the Government. I would ask if this is not a wise provision. If it is not a wise provision, why did not the honourable gentleman who propounded the theory declare that a lawyer, when drafting a deed of mortgage. should be prohibited from putting a clause in the deed that the mortgagor should not transfer his liabilities without the consent of the mortgagee ? Then, it has been said that the State is a tyrannical landlord. I would ask if the State is as tyrannical a land- lord as the ordinary mortgagee. Captain RUSSELL. - Much more so. Mr. LAWRY. - I have never known the State to foreclose when a man showed that he was endeavouring to pay the interest upon his holding. I have known thousands and thou- sands of mortgagees to foreclose because they saw an opportunity to make money by doing So. Then, the question of administering our lands has cropped up in this debate, and upon that particular matter we have had a vast amount, of information. We know that the benefits of a law depend upon the adminis- tration, just exactly as good government depends upon sound and economical ad- ministration : and I think the present Govern- ment have shown that they are capable of sound and economical administration. Then, we come again to the question of 12.30. Land Boards. I have always con- tended, Sir, that the Land Boards of the country should be elective, and I have always contended that no member of this House should accept any position as a nominee of a Govern- ment. I remember well the political fight that took place in New Zealand when the honour- able member for Eden and myself were on different sides, as we are now-the great con- test between Mr. Whitaker and Mr. Tole. Up to that time I had never taken the slightest interest in politics, except local ones. Sir Frederick Whitaker asked me whether I would assist him in the election. I said, "No." I had never taken any interest in politics up to that time, but I said, " I recognise that you and the party surrounding you are acquiring large estates and principalities by means of advantages which are not open to myself and others; and I tell you honestly, although I do not know Mr. Tole from Father Adam, that I am going from this day to work in order to secure the election of Mr. Tole." Sir, on the declaration of the poll Mr. Whitaker declared that he owed his de feat principally to the energetic work done by Frank Lawry. Then, when the elec- tion was over, Sir George Grey wrote to me offering me a seat on the Land Board. I wrote back saying. " Supposing, now, I had worked as energetically against the party as I have done for the party, would you have offered me that seat ? " He said, "No, I should not." Al- though it has been said, Sir, that the deceased statesman was not honest, he was honest in his reply to me. Well, I said, " Keep your seat, and give it to somebody else." Now, coming to the honourable member for Palmerston : When he was first elected to this House it was to support the land-administration of the Hon. Sir John McKenzie. Sir John McKenzie appointed the honourable member to the Wel- lington Land Board to administer the Land Act as it existed, but the honourable gentle- man very soon kicked over the traces, and he was ejected from his office by the Minister who had appointed him. Mr. PIRANI .- No. Mr. LAWRY .-- Well, he was not reappointed. Sir, when the honourable gentleman was ap- pointed I recognised that he had remarkable ability as a politician, but none as a states- man ; there is a great difference. I recognised it was a fatal mistake to place the honourable member on the Land Board, because he knew no more about the requirements of land-settle- ment or about the quality of land than a mis- chievous kitten knows about the locomotion of a gigantic elephant. Mr. PIRANI. -- You have been approving of me all along. Mr. LAWRY .- I do not approve of "rats." Mr. PIRANI. -- You have ratted often enough, at any rate. Mr. LAWRY .- If the honourable gentleman can prove I ratted once during the whole course of my political life I will resign my seat to- morrow. An Hon. MEMBER. -- Do you remember your first speech ? Mr. LAWRY .- Do I remember my first speech ? What did I then say ? An Hon. MEMBER .- That you would support Scobie Mackenzie. Mr. LAWRY .- I said I would support any party, no matter what. if they would abolish 