" As soon as practicable after any estate has been acquired the Minister shall, where neces- sary. cause it to be surveyed, classed, and sub Į colony, were repealed, and if instead there was divided, and may lay off such roads and set aside such reserves as he thinks expedient." It appears evident it has been found that that section is not extensive enough. This Bill pro- vides that the Minister's power shall be ex- tended. " To construct roads, bridges, drainage-works and river - protection works, and such other . regard to the forty-two days and 150 days works upon or in respect of land acquired under the principal Act as the Minister thinks expe- dient in order to facilitate the proper settlement of the land or to protect it from injury from floods, river encroachment, or otherwise." Now. I think it is quite right that, in the case of any property acquired by the Government for settlement, they should be able to take such steps as may be necessary to construct roads and necessary protective works; and if the clause in the Consolidation Act of last session does not give them the power which is neces- sary, then it is only right they should obtain it. With reference to the statement of the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay, that an owner absent from the colony for twenty-one days might come back and find his property taken from him, I take it that the provision in clause 5 of this Bill is in addition to, and not in substitution of. the provisions in section 15 of last session's Consolidation Act, which pro- vides that notice of intention to take the land must be gazetted. It also provides that notice must be given to the owner of the property pro- posed to be taken within twenty one days of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 gazetting, and notice must be given by the owner of his claim for compensation within forty two days of the gazetting, if he is within the colony ; and if he is outside the Colony of New Zealand, then he has a hundred and fifty days in which to make his claim. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is repealed alto- gether. Mr. GRAHAM .- Where is it repealed in this Bill? That is where we differ on the question. My opinion is that it is not repealed, because this Bill, in clause 5, says, "In any proceed- ings under section fifteen of the principal Act for the compulsory taking of land the claimant shall, not later than twenty-one days after ser- vice of the claim for compensation." He has to make his claim for compensation within forty-two days of the gazetting if he is in the colony, and he has to make it within 150 days if he is without the colony. This Bill says, " not later than twenty-one days after the ser- vice of the claim for compensation." There- fore, if the owner is outside the colony, and does not know anything about the notice, and has not made his claim for compensation, he has five months' time in which to make it. I hope the Minister will make this per- fectly clear when he replies or in Committee. If I am wrong, then I can be corrected ; but my reading of the Bill is that the period of twenty-one days given by section 5 is absolutely in addition to that given in the principal Act. It would be an atrocious thing if the present law, which gives a man forty-two days if he is within the colony or 150 days if beyond the an arbitrary provision made that, no matter what part of the world a man might be in. in his absence his property could be taken from him. Captain RUSSELL .- Read subsection (3) of that clause 5. Mr. GRAHAM .- I suppose the honourable gentleman does not doubt my statement with which are set out in the Consolidation Act ? Captain RUSSELL. - I am afraid that it would take too long to explain. Mr. GRAHAM .- Very well, I will show the honourable gentleman that it is so. Clause 15 of the Act of 1900 says, - " Whenever it is intended to take land com- pulsorily under this Act the Minister shall cause notice of such intention to be gazetted." Clause 16 says, - " Within twenty-one days after the gazetting of the requisition the Minister shall serve the same on the owner of the land to be taken, and also on every person who, so far as is known to the Minister, has any estate or interest there- in." Section 17 says,- "Not later than forty-two days after the gazetting of the requisition in the case of a claimant who at the time of the gazetting was in New Zealand, or one hundred and fifty days in any other case, each claimant shall serve on the Minister a claim in the prescribed form setting forth, with all such plans, descriptions, and particulars as the circumstances may re- quire," et cetera. He has therefore, it is quite clear, 150 days if he is out of the colony in which to make his claim for compensation. Then, in the Bill now under discussion it says distinctly that in any proceedings under section 15 of the principal Act the claimant shall, not later than twenty. one days after service of the claim for compen- sation, file in the Supreme Court a copy of his claim. I therefore contend that it is quite clear this clause does not in any way repeal or abrogate the provisions of the main Act. Subsection (3), to which the honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay referred me, makes pro- vision in case the claimant or the Minister fail in appointing an Assessor. It says :- " If the claimant makes default in making or serving his claim, or if the claimant or the Minis- ter makes default in appointing an Assessor, or in doing any other act, matter, or thing by the principal Act or by this Act required or directed to be done, then, on summary application in that behalf by the party not in default, the Chief Justice may, on such terms as to costs and otherwise as he thinks fit, appoint an As- sessor, or give such directions and make such orders as in his opinion are necessary or ex- pedient to enable the claim to be heard and determined by the Compensation Court." A remedy is therefore given by putting the matter into the hands of the Chief Justice to do what either or both of the parties have neglected to do. 