ought to know the facts of the case. I should have thought, in place of Wellington being full of crime and immorality, as it is under the influence of Parliament it would have been almost pure ; but it appears to be the most wicked place conceivable. I almost think from what has transpired that there may be some collusion between the honourable member for Wellington City and the Commissioner, for ex- pressions of opinion in favour of the Commis- sioner have been drawn from almost every member of the House. I have very little acquaintance with Commissioner Tunbridge or any policeman, and probably no man in Parlia- ment knows less of the inner workings of the Police Force, and it is conceivable that there may be differences of opinion between the heads of the department. Now, I have known Inspector Pender almost ever since he arrived in the colony. I was in Canterbury before he arrived there, and I have known him inti- mately; in fact, he is the only policeman I have known intimately, and I am sure that no man who has ever held a position in the Police Force is held in higher respect than Inspector Pender is held in in Canterbury. If Inspector Pender is too old for service-if the heads of the department say that he should be retired- I hope this House will make liberal provision for him, and give him such a retiring-allowance as he is entitled to. I regret that occasions of this sort should be used for the purpose of casting slurs upon officials. It is both undig- nified and unprofitable, and a course that I, for one, will never countenance. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to. The House resolved itself into Committee of Ways and Means. On the question, That provision be made in accordance with His Excellency's message, Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - I should like the Colonial Treasurer to inform the Com- mittee how it is that we now require a sum of £940,000 to be passed through on imprest on the 26th of July of this year, when last year we only had required 5750,000 at a similar time. That is an increase of $190,000 which the Colonial Treasurer wants by way of imprest. I hope he will give us some reason why the amount is so vastly increased. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) .- It is owing to the increased estimates, and, as stated when the last Imprest Supply Bill was in debate, very large orders from the Agent- General came to book, and 1 have been told there is $40,000 additional to what we had. It is the increased general expenditure that necessitates this increased imprest on the Pub- lic Works Fund and Consolidated Fund. Captain RUSSELL .- There may be a neces- sity for increasing the expenditure ; but really the estimates have nothing to do with it. Can the Premier not give us a clear idea of what the expenditure is? $190,000 is a vastly in- creased sum, and the estimates can have nothing to do with it. Mr. SEDDON .- If you increase the public works expenditure, and also increase your ex- penditure out of the Consolidated Fund, the Mr. Me Lachlan imprests of your officers must also be increased If you keep down the expenditure, then your estimates are not so much. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- A plain question has been asked of the Premier, and I do not think he has given any reply to it. We are en- titled to have this information. Mr. SEDDON .- If you increase the expendi- ture you must increase the imprest. Mr. MASSEY .-- But in what way is this money being spent ? Can the honourable gentle- man give us an explanation at all ? Mr. SEDDON .- 1 say it has been expended in accordance with the direction of Parlament and on the lines of what has been previously appropriated. We are not going outside proper authority, not in a single iota. Resolution agreed to, and reported to the House. Bill read a first and second time. On the question, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I wish to remind the Premier, Sir, that certain returns which were ordered last session have not yet been laid on the table. I want to remind him particu- larly of one return which on my motion was ordered-a return showing the travelling-ex- penses of Ministers for the year ending the 31st March, 1900. We have not yet seen that return. I consider that when a return is ordered, and is not produced within reasonable time, that Ministers are treating the House with contempt ; but, unfortunately, a majority of members do not mind being so treated with contempt. I wish to remind the Premier that within a few weeks, in all probability, he will be asking the House to pass estimates, and I want to say that probably he will find that the esti- mates will go through more easily and more quickly if these returns that have been ordered are forthcoming. Now. a word about the way the business of the House is conducted. The Standing Orders provide that questions may be asked and answered in the early part of the session on three days of each week, and later on on four days. On how many days have ques- tions been asked this week ? On one day, and this is the last sitting-day of the week. It has been the same with private and local Bills. The Standing Orders provide that private members' Bills shall take precedence on Wed- nesdays -. Mr. SPEAKER .- I think the honourable member must speak on the financial aspect of affairs, and must not raise a discussion on general matters. Mr. MASSEY .- I thought I was within my right in discussing grievances before granting Supply. Do you. Sir, rule me out of order. Mr. SPEAKER. - Yes. The discussion of redress of grievances before grant of Supply is confined to the motion for going into Com- mittee of Supply or Ways and Means, and does not extend to the stage of the Bill appro- priating the money. Mr. MASSEY .- Then I shall take another opportunity to deal with the matter which I intended to refer to, but I hope the Premier in 