Mr. TANNER .- Who is responsible for it ? Mr. SEDDON .- You try to alter it, and you will find where the opposition comes from. Mr. TANNER .- You have a party strong enough to alter it now if you never had before. Mr. SEDDON. - I do not know. Members will say, the moment you appoint a tribunal to select the bona fide applications, you will have favouritism-" spoils to the victors," and all that sort of thing ; that you will have mem- bers of the House on the Land Boards, and those members will favour applicants from their o n districts. I have heard that said already. I have heard it argued that no member of the House should be on a Land Board, and I am not so sure myself whether there is not a good deal in that contention. At all events- Mr. MCLACHLAN .- We will oppose your Bill all the same. Mr. SEDDON .- You may or you may not ; but I can assure members of the House that if a ballot of members were taken there would be a majority against members of the House being on Land Boards. Mr. PIRANI .- A majority of those who are not on Land Boards. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, if you ask me whether they would all go on Boards, I should say Yes. At all events, the point is that, whilst I say the ballot system is defective, this proposal, to some extent, minimises its defects by saying that the application of the married man shall have the preference over that of the single man. Mr. PIRANI .- Provided he has not got a separation order. Mr. SEDDON. - We have fixed that,- we have said that his wife must be with him in the colony. and that together they should go on the land,-we do all that by regulation ; but we have got to affirm by Act that married men are to have the preference. Clause 9 is simply the usual clause which is necessary to make regulations giving effect to what is contem- plated by the Act, and what is required under the existing law. There is nothing new in it. Subsection (1) is as follows :- " The Governor may from time to time make regulations prescribing the procedure and forms to be used in making and disposing of claims for compensation in respect of the compulsory taking of land, and for that purpose modifying the provisions of 'The Public Works Act, 1894,' in its application to such claims." The Public Works Act was intended for railways and public works, and not for taking land for settlement, and it requires power to make regulations dealing solely with land taken under the Land for Settlements Act ; hence the necessity for this machinery. Subsection (2) provides- " All regulations heretofore made, or pur- porting to be made, under the principal Act shall be deemed to be as valid as if they had been made under this Act." I think I have explained to the House that this is purely a Bill of a technical character ; there is no large departure in principle, and it is merely meeting matters that have arisen in the course of the administration of the Act where we have found the present law defective. I move the second reading of the Bill. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - It is true, as the Right Hon. the Premier says, that this is practically a technical Bill. I do not rise, then, with the intention of saying that I shall oppose the Bill going to its second read- ing, but I wish again to protest against the prin- ciple which is constantly growing of allowing Bills to be brought into the House and debated before they have been read. This Bill was first put into my hands at ten minutes to one o'clock. There are exactly one hundred lines in the Bill, and I had exactly one hundred minutes in which to master it. It is quite true one can read one hundred lines in less than one hundred minutes ; but, seeing that there are various Acts that have to be studied and compared in order to understand the mean- ing of the Bill, I maintain the House is placed in a most disadvantageous position as compared with the Minister in charge, inasmuch as he has had the administration of the Act for some time ; he is supposed to have had the prepara- tion of the Bill, and therefore has the whole amendments and provisions involved at his fingers' ends, while we were permitted no oppor- tunity of knowing the provisions of the Bill until it was time to leave the Chamber to get a breath of fresh air. The Bill has been introduced by the Premier. I maintain that he ought not to have been the person to introduce it, he has had no right to administer the Act, and he is departing altogether from the intention of the Act in doing so. In the interpretation clause of the Land for Settlements Act of 1900, you will find "Minister " means "the Minister of Lands." I think at any rate the Premier. even if he administers the Bill, should at least pay his colleague, the Minister of Lands, the compliment of allowing him to appear on its surface. He ought to be allowed occasionally to sign some document-whether he reads it or not is immaterial to the Premier. The Premier will in all probability say, "This Bill is entirely right ; will the Minister of Lands be good enough ?"-no, not will he be good enough, but "put your signature to that." This may be a right manner of conducting departmental work, but it seems a process under which political patronage can be grasped. Mr. SEDDON .- How ? Captain RUSSELL. - We know the Land for Settlements Board does not decide what blocks of land are to be selected for settlement : the Right Hon. the Premier decides that que- tion, and orders the Board to proceed to purchase the land which political necessity de- mands. There is, I think, sufficient evidence. and it is a notorious fact that, when the Premier was flying round the country electioneering. prior to the last election, he travelled the con- stituencies saying, "I will have that piece of land taken ; I will see that that block is cut up, and I will have another run over there if you support the Government candidate : but if you will not support my Government, land will 