words of disdain to any democrat who, as the representative of a self-governing people, went to interview the Sovereign and there con- formed to the customs to any degree, how- ever ludicrous it might appear to me. But that he should parade in livery here, that he should have been photographed in it in the presence of, amongst others, the King of the Cannibal Islands, and Maori chiefs in- numerable, in his inordinate desire for notoriety and fame, is another matter. If that is his idea of being a leader of a democratic commu- nity such as ours, then I say more's the pity. The short glimpse I got of him " with them all on " reminded me of nothing else than Hosea Biglow's recruiting sergeant, as thus described in the " Biglow Papers " : - "Our Hosea wuz down to Boston last week, and he see a cruetin Sarjunt a struttin round as popler as a hen with 1 chicking, with 2 fellers a drummin and fifin arter him like all nater. the Sarjunt he thout Hosea hedn't gut his i teeth cut cos he looked a kindo's though he'd jest com down, so he cal'lated to hook him in, but Hosy woodn't take none o' his sarse, for all he hed's much as 20 Rooster's tales stuck on- to his hat and eenamost enuf brass a bobbin up and down on his shoulders, and figureed onto his coat and trousis, let alone wut natur hed sot in his featers to make a six-pounder out on." Now, the right honourable gentleman was good enough to make his usual reference to myself, when commiserating the honourable member for Hawke's Bay on having such as myself and the honourable member for Palmerston sitting with him. The honourable gentleman alluded to me by name as one of two https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 vipers that he had taken to his bosom to sting him. Now, under what circumstances did I leave the right honourable gentleman's leader- ship? Was my cessation from his lead not done as honourably as a man could do? Did I not resign my seat in this House on the issue that I could no longer follow his lead, and did I not again seek and receive from my constituents a new charter, direct- ing me and instructing me no longer to fol- low him? What has he to complain of? While in his following did he find me ever deceive him, lie to him, or do one disin- genuous or unfair thing to him ? Did I not protest against the abuses of his Administration, as many of his party are candidly and honestly obliged to do; and was it not reluctantly, and after long and painful experience, that I became disillusioned from the estimate I had formed of his character? Why, then, should he com- plain, or deny me the right to candidly criticize his public actions now? What right has he to accuse me more than any other member who is opposed to him of any kind of treachery, or want of fealty, or anything else? Did I not sever my connection as honourably as a man could do, by resigning my position in the House and appealing unto Casar, who gave me a new charter? Coming to the Speech itself, I wish to express my simple and earnest regret at the loss of a Sovereign the like of whom the world bas seen but few indeed ; and. Sir, my regret is quite as sincere and quite as vain as the long string of greasy phrases hung together in this haphazard fashion, and reading more like a Dr. Williams's pink pills advertisement than an Address from the Crown-one of those ad- vertisements with conspicuous headlines, which. after you have read on a bit, you find is all about Clement's Tonic or Mother Siegel's Syrup. Yet Ministers put this thing into the mouth of His Excellency, and we are asked to pass a motion embodying a resolution that we present a respectful Address agreeing to con- sider the contents of this message. With many of the measures of policy outlined in the message I am in perfect agreement. The methods or the ultimate form of them is another matter. But the proposals are there laid down in fine terms of generalities, so that no man can say what may be evolved. Now. reference has been made to the increase in the Maori race. A recent writer in one of our daily papers has questioned that, and from the character of his writings I am inclined to believe he is a man who knows something of the subject. He points out very rightly that this is probably the very first occasion upon which a complete or exhaustive census of the Native race has been taken. If it is correct that the Native people in the colony are in- creasing I shall rejoice ; but it is well we should not delude ourselves by false estimates, when we come to consider that any census of the Native people that has hitherto been taken has been admittedly imperfect in the extreme. There are just one or two more points I would like to sav a few words upon, because I know the House is desirous of closing this debate and going to a division, and I will not be the means of keeping members too long out of their beds. The Speech makes reference to the stopping of the operation of trusts and combines. All I hope is that legislation may do it; but I have very strong doubts that it will be found that those who are engaged in the formation of trusts and combines will succeed in defeating the spirit if not the letter of any legislation that we may pass. I ask members who know anything of the subject -- who have given themselves the trouble to look into their wives' grocers' bills-who has got the benefit of the recent rebate on the items composing the necessaries of life included in the recent rebate in the Customs duties ? I have carefully studied the grocers' bills from that time till now, and I find there is absolutely no difference whatever, not even in the price of kerosene. I find that two-shilling tea is still two-shilling tea, and I want to know who has got the benefit of the remission? It certainly has not come Home to the con- sumers and those whom it was intended to benefit. What a remarkable coincidence it was that the price of kerosene jumped up as soon as the news reached America that 6d. 3 gallon duty had been taken off in New Zealand. Was it a coincidence, or was it in keeping with the practices of trusts and combines like the Standard Oil Trust and others ? Whoever has got the benefit, I say it has not gone to the pockets of those whom it was intended to benefit 