form to the Minister, and, of course, from a strictly military point of view, to the Governor as a still higher authority : but as to what the honourable gentleman referred to, the setting- up of the court-martial to inquire into that matter and the action of the Commandant, it was an utter impossibility from a military point of view. It was absurd to suppose that the Commandant, or any other officer appointed by the Minister, was not responsible to the Minis- ter, who controlled everything he did. As to the new appointment, he believed it was the same as the last one-for $700 a year, with an engagement for five years. The Hon. Mr. JONES said, Supposing the Commandant, although he was responsible to his Minister, should chafe at any interference, what would be the position then ? Would it be possible for him to be summarily dismissed, or would the colony have to keep him during the whole term of his engagement ? This was very important. Of course, the honourable gentle- man representing the Government had assured the Council that the choice would be made with the greatest care and on the recommendation of the highest authority, perhaps, in the military world : but we have had such recommendations made before, and the persons who had been recommended had not been quite satisfactory to this colony. They had an instance of this in the gentleman who at present occupied the position of Commandant. He hoped that an appointment would be made of some military authority in the colony. It might be that that idea was due to his ignorance of the subject, but late military developments had demon- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 strated that those military men who had been accustomed to rough warfare were the men who were likely to figure prominently in the wars of the future. At any rate, they had done the best service in the war in South Africa. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he had listened with the greatest interest to what had been said. He had only stated, for the informa- tion of the Council, what it was his duty to intimate ; and if any honourable gentleman wished to challenge the appointment, or the terms of the appointment, his proper course was to table a motion. STANDARD CERTIFICATES. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS asked the Minister of Education, Whether the right of giving certificates, as required by the Education Act, of passing the standards is denied to pupils attending any scholastic institution in the colony, thereby inflicting an injustice on some pupils by preventing them from obtaining em- ployment in the public service of the colony ? He asked this question in consequence of a letter he had received from a gentleman who at one time occupied one of the highest educa- tional positions in the colony. At present he had a training-college in Auckland, and the letter to him (Mr. Jennings) stated that he had written to the department some time ago asking that the right of giving certificates on passing the standards should be allowed in his college to his pupils, as a similar privilege had been given to institutions in Auckland conducted on the same lines as his own. He felt, not having received any reply from the department to his request, that his pupils should be placed in such a position that if they were desirous of entering the Civil Service they should not be debarred because these certificates were not granted. The name of the gentleman was Mr. Malcolm, of the Auckland Training College. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, Of course, children attending the public schools got the standard certificates as provided under the regulations. As regards the Roman Catholic schools, it was felt to be a hardship, as far as they were concerned, that they should be debarred from entering the public service, or any other service where standard certificates were required, because they were not attending public schools. For nine years it had been the practice that in each diocese of the Roman Catholic Church the Bishops appointed exa- miners and inspectors, who were approved of by the department, and on their verdict the standard certificates were issued to all children presenting themselves to him, so that the Catholic children were protected all over the colony wherever the Catholic authorities chose to avail themselves of it, so far as the public service was concerned. There was another question involved, and that was where the ordinary Inspectors were also examining these schools and issuing standard certificates. Well, the practice was not uniform. In some districts the Inspectors were instructed to inspect them and give certificates : in other districts they did not. That was a matter the Government could not interfere with. In regard to the matter of per- sonal complaint that the honourable gentleman had indicated in his question, he was sorry the honourable member had not informed him of the matter before he rose to speak, so that he (Mr. Walker) might have been perfectly clear as to the point at issue. If he had been able to inform himself, of course, he could have given the necessary answer, but at the present time. he could only tell the honourable member that if he would bring the matter to him personally after the rising of the Council he would look into it and endeavour to see that his friend received every consideration ; but the intention of the Government was to put the Catholic children at no disadvantage, so far as the public service was concerned, in regard to passing the standard examinations. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS might say at once that his question did not raise the subject of Catholic schools at all. Mr. Malcolm, who had a training college in Auckland, stated that he applied in a public manner for the same privilege as that accorded a similar institution in Auckland to the one he had, and no reply had been given him. Therefore, to prevent in- justice being done to Mr. Malcolm's pupils, he thought it his duty, with the consent of the gentleman who wrote him, to bring the question . forward in a public manner. An Hon. MEMBER .-- What is the training college ? The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said it was a college 