enable the poor struggling settlers to bring their produce to the nearest markets. They have no roads at all ; and, in the case of the settlers around the Auckland Harbour, they have no means of railway communication with the city. They have to drive down to the Auckland Harbour and cross the water-way. We have heard of the proposal to spend three or four millions in establishing steamer lines been this colony and Australia and Eng- land. I think what should be done is to make these harbours traversable, in order that the produce of our settlers may be brought to market. And, in the face of all this, here is a proposal that eight hours a day shall be the limit of work. We do not even allow, under this Bill, the man who engages in the dairy in- dustry to employ his men the few hours neces- sary to enable his cows to be milked. There is a clause in the Bill about working-cattle and horses, but that does not mean cows. I do not infer that city men do not know the difference between working-cattle and dairy cows. but I do know the case of a settler who arrived from London, and he was personally ignorant of cattle and blundered through it. He agreed with a friend of his to go to the nearest mar- ket to buy some dairy cows. They had all the appliances for the dairy cheese-making, and they each wished to start dairying on their respective holdings. They went to the sale and saw there a pen of very big cattle and another pen of small cattle, and they decided to buy the two pens between them, and divide the animals afterwards. One pen happened to contain bullocks and the other cows. They bought them, and brought the cattle home. They https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 tossed for choice, and the man who had the first chance picked out all the biggest beasts and put them in his stockyard, and then brought his servant out to milk them, but they were all working-bullocks. There is a clause provided in this Bill in reference to looking after working-cattle. But I ask, what about the man who is engaged in the dairying indus- try ? We have no means for the settlers to get their produce to market, and, though it is a very grand thing to send our produce to England or Australia, there are markets here much nearer than England and Australia that many of our poor struggling settlers have no opportunity of reaching. I hope sincerely that the attention of this Parliament will be given to the inter- nal requirements of the country, and to the needs of our settlers and working-men ; and I so far support anything in the labour line that I think our duty lies in the direction of giving every attention to establishing avenues of labour in every part of New Zealand. Let there be no such thing as. I am sorry to say, has already happened, of returning troopers not being able to find work. I think it is the duty of the Minister of Labour, if he is any good-and I believe he is-to find work for these young men, and not let us have them, as was the case with the First Contingent, idling about the town and looking for work. Let the Government find work for them, no matter whether it be survey-work, or road-work, or railway-making, or prospecting for gold, so long as we do anything to assist in developing the resources of the country by some- thing practical and definite. I do not think that the Government has sufficiently developed our resources. I think, if the energy that has been directed in sending men to South Africa had been diverted to making roads, surveying railway .. duplicating railways, and laying out townships, and arranging for drainage schemes and water- supplies, there would be no difficulty whatever in employing ten times the number of men who are at present employed in this country. li the Government set to work and laid out a practical programme of this sort, I say it would be entirely in the interests of the colony. and would push this country ahead to an extent never dreamed of. I say the more wealth-pro- ducers there are in the country the better it is for the country, because every man's labour is worth $40 or $50 to the State. Our difficulty should be not how to find work for men al- ready here, but how to get enough men to develop the country's mineral and pastoral wealth. We should use every effort to bring men to this colony in order to develop the resources of New Zealand, which are so great and immense ; and if we did that attention will be diverted from South Africa, and, instead of the people of New Zealand and Australia going there, it will bring them here and keep them here, and then this country will go ahead. Thai is practically the way in which I should like to see New Zealand handled. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- I consider that the Premier's speech was well timed and conciliatory, and I will say no word to spoil its good effect. As my views are so well known on the matter of the regulation of the hours of labour, it is scarcely necessary that I should recapitulate them. But surely by this time we have discovered that the conditions which apply to industrial labour in the centres of population and the conditions that will suit the independent toiler on the soil are not com patible. While I agree in one respect with the member for Riccarton, who introduced this measure, I think he has been rather ambitious : that he has got out of his depth - if I may be pardoned for saying so; that he has sought to include a heterogeneous aggregation of worker, scarcely knowing the various conditions of labour applying to them, and so has caused some hostility to the Bill which otherwise might not have arisen. Of course, these matters can be dealt with in Committee. I quite agree with country members that the restriction of country workers to eight hours a day is practically in- possible. But I do frankly and very freely acknowledge that no class in the community has up to recent times had such an ungodly dog's life as the dairy farmer. I lived for a con- siderable number of years near a dairy farm. and I have watched the ceaseless, hopeless toil of the unfortunate wretch during every day of the week, and at all hours almost of the day and night. I merely rose to-night to make one reference to the question of the dairy industry. Let us not be altogether carried away by our enthusiastic support of a young industry to the 