"(4.) If both the Protection Officer and the person in charge of the shelter concur as to the expediency of the course, the young person may either be de- tained there until he can be brought before a Magistrate, as hereinafter provided, or may be dealt with under subsection two hereof : and, if they do not coneur, then he shall be dealt with under that subsection. " (5.) If such young person is again found by a Protection Officer to be loitering as aforesaid, the Protection Officer shall forthwith take him to a shelter, where he shall be detained as aforesaid until he can be brought before a Magis- trate." The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON moved, That subsection (2) be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, " That the subsection be retained." AYES, 15. Arkwright Jones Swanson Kelly, W. Barnicoat Tomoana Bolt Pitt Twomey Scotland Walker, L. Harris Smith, W. C. Walker, W. C. Jenkinson NOES, 8. Feldwick Kerr Smith, A. L. Jennings Pinkerton Stevens. Johnston Shrimski Majority for, 7. Subsection retained. Clause 11 .- " Any member of the Police Force may at any time, under warrant signed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 by a Magistrate, enter and search any house, shop, building, or other premises occupied or frequented by prostitutes or gamblers, or which he has cause to suspect to be frequented for gambling or other illegal or improper purposes by boys apparently under the age of seventeen years ; and every such boy there found shall be forthwith taken to the nearest police-station, and there detained in custody until he can be brought before the Magistrate by the police on the charge of being not under proper control, whereupon the provisions of sections seven and eight hereof shall, mutatis mutandis, apply." The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved to insert the words " if not admitted to bail," after the word " custody." Progress reported. CYANIDE PROCESS EXTENSION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. -- This Bill is introduced in order that the colony may get the full benefit of the Act passed in 1897. The Council will remember that in 1897 we passed an Act enabling the Government to pay a cer- tain sum for the patent rights connected with the cyanide gold-extraction process. At that time the companies were being charged a cer- tain percentage for the use of the patent. The Government bought the patent rights for $10,000, and they charged a royalty to the users of 23 per cent. only. Only about half of that money has been paid to the Government in the shape of percentages, and this Bill extends the operation of the Act until the Government has recouped the amount they paid for the patent. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. STEVENS .- It is highly probable that this Bill may be necessary, but, so far as I have been able to discover, its provisions are really entirely covered by the existing Act. The Bill proposes not an ex- tension in reality : it simply says, - " It is hereby declared that the term during which the patent rights acquired under the principal Act were protected under . The Patents, Designs, and Trade-marks Act, 1889,' shall (not withstanding anything in that Act) be extended until such time as it is notified in the Gazette under section eighteen of the principal Act that the total of the moneys received under the principal Act and paid into the Consolidated Fund is equal to the total of the moneys paid out of the Consolidated Fund under the same Act : and the provisions of the principal Act shall be construed accordingly." The 18th section of the Act says exactly the same thing. It says, -- " As soon as the total of the moneys received under this Act and paid into the Consolidated Fund is equal in amount to the total of the moneys paid under this Act out of the Consoli- dated Fund, the Colonial Treasurer shall certify the fact to the Governor, who shall notify the same in the Gazette." And then the whole operation of the Act would practically come to an end. That is really what it appears to me this Bill savs ; so that there must be some very abstruse legal point to make this Bill necessary which I think has not been disclosed to my honourable friend. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am not at the present moment able to state any more than that my colleague the Minister of Mine- i of opinion that this Bill requires to be pa-d in order to protect the colony. I suggest that the Bill be referred to the Mines Committee. and if the Council will pass the second reading the Mines Committee will be able to go into it and report to the Council. Bill read the second time. PUBLIC HEALTH BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir. this is a short Bill of two clauses. The first clause is to enable the Governor, by Order in Council from time to time to prohibit the importation into New Zealand of any material hable to convey infectious diseases. It is quite clear to most of us nowadays that all sorts of sultane. and germs and other things are transmitted bv post for scientific and other purposes, and it is right that we should have power to regulate their importation. The next clause is to ena de the Public Health Act of last year to extend to the Chatham Islands, which, by reason of their not being included in any county, and not bemig under the control of any local body, do not at pre- sent come under the operation of the Act. Some such provision as this is necessary to enable the people there to get the benefit of modern ideas 