gether put into the hat. Mr. ATKINSON .- No; they have a hat each. Captain RUSSELL .- No, no. As I read the clause it would appear to me that a certain number of persons after, in all probability, all those who really want to settle on the land are eliminated by the process of the first ballot, are to have names put into one hat, and the num- bers of every variety of differing size of sections are to be put into another, and the consequence will be that probably a man with large capital who wants a large piece of land, will, in all pro- bability, draw a very small section, whilst the man who wants a small section will have a large piece allotted for him ; neither of them are to be allowed to transfer their holdings, they must live on them continuously, and forfeit their deposit if they do not take up what they did not apply for and do not want. A greater piece of burlesque than that introduced by the Premier I have never seen played on any stage. Why, he ac- tually fell into the trap we set for him last night. We would not argue about this clause. It was so absurd that we laughed in our sleeves. The Premier, finding we did not argue, believed it perfect, and we divided against it only after he inserted these comic words in the Bill. I see the Premier is laughing at his own folly. Mr. SEDDON. - Time will tell. Captain RUSSELL .- Yes, we will see. Now, I want to say a few words about the clause I endeavoured to introduce in the Bill. And here I would say that though the Premier endea- voured to delude the House, yet he did not con- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 vince the House for a single moment. Though he asserted over and over again, with an itera- tion which, if it were not unparliamentary, I . might call damnable, that the passing of my amendment would upset the whole land-settle- ment policy, and that I, an old Tory, was en- deavouring to do something to prevent the people going on the land. Why. as I looked round the House, and as I listened to the honourable gentleman's speech-I believe I am right in asserting that if a division could have been taken according to men's consciences there are not ten men in the House who would not have voted for my amendment. But there, the omnipotence of the Premier once more pre- vailed, and honourable members whose sym- pathies were with the principle I endeavoured to give effect to voted against the clause, and, like the member for Auckland, Mr. Witheford, thev disagreed altogether with the principles which the Premier enunciated, but voted to avert his wrath. What I am anxious to give effect to, and I shall read it so that it may appear on record, is this :- " Where an owner of land has children born in lawful wedlock, the areas limited by sub- sections two and three of section twelve of . The Land for Settlements Consolidation Act, 1900,' shall be increased as follows, that is to say : Of first-class land, an additional area of five hundred acres for each such child; of second-class land, an additional area of one thousand acres for each such child ; and of pas- Captain Russell acres for each such child." When the honourable member for Napier asked if I would do so I agreed to a modification of my scheme, and when other members threw out suggestions I said on each occasion that I was not wedded to my own particular words. but what I wished to affirm was the principle that a man's family should be allowed, when compulsorily acquired, to share in the land which their father, after perhaps forty or fifty years of strenuous toil, has converted from a wilderness into a paying estate. I said that. in many instances, I knew where the children had been working alongside their father, and, instead of taking actual remuneration from their father they worked on the estate, and were living under the promise that, when the fatal day came when the estate had to be divided, they would be allowed to share in the estate which by their labour they helped to create. Is there anything monstrous in such a proposition as that ? Is there anything in my suggestion that a single man in this Chamber would not attempt to do if he were able? If there is a single man in this Chamber who says that he would not try to bequeath to his own children his own property, I say that he would not receive the approval of reasonable people. Now, what will be the effect of my proposition ? The Premier endeavoured to prove that under that clause it would be difficult to obtain any estate for settlement, and he drew attention to the third subsection of clause 12. I was quite prepared to allow that to be modified if neces- sary. All I wished was to affirm the principle that a man's children should have the right to participate on the division of his estate. Now. just let us consider for two or three minutes what the State is doing at the present time, and what my proposal means. The Right Hon. the Premier spoke as if every man was the father of at least eight children, though only a short time before the honourable member for Masterton led us to understand that every man who owned land refused to have a family, and only the poor were prolific. I do not understand why that should be so; but if, as he told us distinctly, all the large families are to be found in the slums, while the wealthy classes had no families at all, it would be impossible to argue on the premise that all landowners have eight children. What I do suppose is that there will be an average of three or four children, and that there should be an area of five hundred acres given to each child : and as the Land for Settlements Act is meant principally to divide estates, I maintain the principle would not be vitiated by the proposal I suggest ; because it is only a matter for arrangement that the 500-acre blocks of land should be vested in each individual child if it was considered desirable that that should be the case. And the argument which has been put forward by the Premier that if the land- owner really wants to benefit his family the estate ought to be divided up during the life- time of the father, was merely a sophisticated argument, the truth being that, in a majority 