speech from the Minister for Railways, which made matters still more clear, and by the time the Premier had finished I think he had pretty well killed the Bill. Therefore, I do not think it is necessary for me to detain the House any longer, further than to say that honourable members, especially the honour- able member for Riccarton, who was returned to this House on the shoulders of the Liberal party, is supporting a measure which, if the second reading is carried, will turn the Ministry off those benches. In fact, there is no other constitutional course open to them. If this measure is put on the statute-book it will be almost an impossibility to get any one with any self-respect at all to sit on those benches. What would be the result ? There would be several small parties in this House, and each one would want a friend as a Minister ; and then two or three would combine together, and they could hold the Treasury benches for ever, and at the same time, so far as representing the opinions of the veople of the colony is concerned, they would epresent a great many less than the number .mentioned by the honourable member for Masterton. Of course, as was stated by Sir Robert Stout, there would be log-rolling and jobbery going on all the time under such a sys- tem, and I am quite sure the electors of this colony do not want that. An Hon. MEMBER. Try them. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I am quite willing to try them. You can always trust the people. Unfortunately, there are people who are sent to this House that you cannot trust ; and, in fact, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 they cannot trust themselves. That is the posi- tion of certain members in connection with this measure. If they had it on the statute-book to- morrow, before a couple of years had passed they would find they had made a mistake, and would want it repealed. An Hon. MEMBER .- Put it to the referendum. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- This is one of the questions I do not think should be put to the referendum hurriedly. This is one of the matters on which the electors of the colony require a great deal of education. When members of this House do not understand it, how can you expect the general run of the com- munity to understand it ? Then, Sir, we have the same old story of Switzerland dragged in. Surely the sense of a British community and the traditions of their country are sufficient for them to work a Constitution from, without going to ill-governed Switzerland ? What, after all, is Switzerland when you inquire into it ? It is a small buffer State between four of the military camps of Europe; it has been neces- sary for them to support and maintain it to keep themselves apart and to regulate the balance of power, otherwise Switzerland would not be there at all. If you look at its progress We were told and its prosperity, what is it ? that it had a population of three millions, but we know that it is at least two thousand years old ; so that by the time New Zealand is probably another hundred years old we shall have five or six million people, and there is therefore no comparison between it and Switzer- land. Take the wages that are paid to the working-classes and compare them with the wages paid in this colony. Do you think it is right and proper that the representatives of the working-men of this colony should adopt a system of government like they have in Switzer- land? It would be an outrage on the intelligence of the people of the colony. I am quite con- vinced that this Parliament is not going to pass this measure, and that the electors of the colony, if it were referred to them to-morrow, would not accept it. Consequently I do not think it is necessary for me to detain the House any longer. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I think, Sir, the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, perhaps unintentionally, did an injustice to the mover of this Bill in saying that his ob- ject in bringing forward this measure was to bring about a disruption of the present Minis- try. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I said distinctly that it was not. I said that would be the effect of it. Mr. COLLINS .- I do not think that would be the effect of the Bill; and that such is not the intent of the Bill is clearly shown by the fact that a Bill of a similar character was brought in in 1891, when the Ballance Ministry was in power. Now, if members of the House just cast their minds back to the time of the Ballance Ministry, and remember the personn. l of that Ministry, I am sure that every member of the House will agree with me when I say that it is impossible to think that the original mover of this Bill had any such intention in his mind as bringing about a disruption of that Furthermore, this Bill has been Ministry. brought forward session after session in 1894. 1895, and 1896-and at that time the Ministry occupying the benches was just as strong a Ministry as the Liberal party could desire to see sitting there, and there could be no desire to bring about a disruption of that Ministry. We may give the mover of the Bill credit - he being a staunch supporter of the party-for having brought forward this Bill on the ground . f principle, and on the ground of principle only. I concede this to the honourable gentleman. that although I agree with him in principie. yet I differ from him with regard to every detail of the Bill. I wish to say at once that I take up a somewhat similar position to that taken up by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), who declared in the concluding words of his speech that he was in favour of the principle underlying the Bill. So do I: but from that point I part company with the honour. able gentleman, for the whole of his speech was a tirade against the principle of the Bill itself - with which principle he said he agreed. I agree with the principle of the Bill, and I will tell the House why I do so. It is not for the purpose of disturbing the gentlemen occupying the Trei- sury benches, for I have said outside the House, and I say it within the House, that I neither ask for nor want any stronger leader than the honourable gentleman who is at the 