are; and we are going to criticize, in every way we think proper or necessary, the Government measures as they are brought down "? And surely, Sir, when the debate on the whole policy of the Government is proceeding, this is the time for them to speak ! I am astonished- I sit down utterly astonished-at the honourable gentlemen who have now assumed the role of "dumb dogs," instead of doing their duty as His Majesty's Opposition. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- Mr. Speaker, I feel in a great difficulty, because I am called upon to participate in a debate, and I want to know whether this can really be called a debate. Who am I following ? We have had this afternoon the Liberal member for Auckland City, Mr. Fowlds, the Liberal member for Ashburton, Mr. McLachlan, and following that gentleman we have just heard the Liberal member for Mana- watu, Mr. Stevens. I am called upon to follow those honourable gentlemen without having anything to denounce or demolish. I want to know what has become of the Opposition ? An HON. MEMBER. - Gone. Mr. HOGG .- There is very little doubt of that. When I look across the table and see those benches comparatively empty, desolate, and dumb I feel at a great disadvantage. These once historic, but now almost deserted, benches a few years ago were occupied by some of the most prominent men in the country ; men who attained an honourable position, because, not- withstanding all their Conservative tendencies, they were giants in debate. Mr. WILFORD .- Question. Mr. HOGG .- There is no question about it. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Men like Sir John Hall ; men such as the Hon. Mr. Rolleston, a representative as superior to the man whosucceeded him as day is to night ; a man who never endeavoured to lower the tone http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of debate, but always gave it an elevating im- petus. I say that men like these were a credit to the country, and likewise to the Opposi- tion. But what have we now ? An Opposition still, but an Opposition without a head. I do not say we have an Opposition without ability and intelligence. I believe the honourable gentlemen have brains in abundance, but why do not they use them ? Can they be said to do so if they do not give expression to their thoughts? What is the attitude of the mem- bers of the Opposition this afternoon ? I feel forlorn and sad when I look around and miss my accustomed friend and familiar political foe the late member for Wairarapa An Hon. MEMBER .- He is not dead yet. Mr. HOGG .- No; and possibly he might come back even if he were dead; but I feel almost like the American tramp who was found shedding tears at the roadside. He was asked what was the matter, and he said, " Look at the world to-day. What has become of Shake- speare ? Where is Hood ? Poor Tom Moore ? Where are such men as Shelley and Browning, and the other poets? Why, the world is not worth living in ; we have lost them all, and there is no one to hold companionship with a man like me." I do not like beating the air, and that is what I fear I should have to do if I attempted to attack the Opposition. Virtually we have no Opposition to fight against, and I believe the fact has given a depressing and dreary tone to the debate. A debate is useless and worthless unless there is plenty of force and vitality, and electricity; but where there is nothing to rub against you cannot possibly have that vitality and that interest that is essential to the proper discussion of public questions. I say, Sir, this House is not doing its duty, and the members of the Opposi- tion are not doing their duty, if they refrain from fighting in the interests of those who sent them here to represent them. Nothing, Sir. would give me more pleasure than to see the Opposition resuscitated. The value of our legis- lation depends greatly on having a vigorous Opposition. For myself, I have no grudge against the members opposite. I like to meet an opponent, because I know it is only by thresh- ing out measures of importance that we can dedevelop true progress. But it is undoubtedly a most lamentable state of affairs when we find in the Parliament of a young country like this, where there has been so much progress of late years, the Opposition becoming almost defunct. Sir, I call upon those who remain, small in number though they be, and notwith- standing that misfortune after misfortune has befallen them, to rally their forces, appoint a leader, and endeavour to meet the members on this side of the House in vigorous political combat. Constant agitation is essential to the healthy lifeblood of our young nation, and I call on the Opposition to do their duty to the country. If it were not for my loyalty to the Government-a loyalty that has not wavered, and will never waver as long as they carry out the views of a majority of the people of this country-I would like to have a set-to with Ministers ; but I cannot consistently do that. I am not, I trust, like the honourable member for Riccarton. I do not care to dance from one side to another. I do not believe in rail-riding, nor do I believe in railing at men and manners. Hence, I am in the curious predicament of having to enter into a debate with little or nothing to condemn or fairly criticize. Look- ing at the Speech from the Throne, on which we are expected to express our opinions, I have to say, much as it goes against my grain to be simply adding praise to praise, that I cordially indorse almost the whole of the sentiments it contains. The loyalty of the Parliament and the people of New Zealand is given utterance to in choice and felicitous language. Expres- sion, sympathetic and sincere, is also given to the voice of a bereaved nation over the loss of a loved Sovereign. This is followed by a fitting reference to the new King. Then, the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York is referred to. That visit, Sir has enabled New Zealand to display herself in holi- day attire. I have not had the pleasure of fully contemplating the extent of the decorations and festivities in the Australian Colonies, but I ven- ture to say that New Zealand and the people of New Zealand have nobly done their duty in paying due homage to the son of their ruler. 