probably be found in the archives of Paris or Berlin, or perhaps in some part of America. These relics and other articles should certainly be retained in the colony, if possible, by the Government, and he felt sure he had only to call the attention of the Minister to the matter to obtain from him a sympathetic answer to the question. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) need hardly say he was in entire sympathy with the honour- able gentleman on the question. It was true that many of our very valuable assets in the way of relies, ornaments, et cetera, representing high Maori art, were leaving the colony. That evidently showed that private enterprise had been much keener than any public spirit we had ever evinced as a colony in securing the posses- sion of such articles. There might come a time when we would have to seek in other colonies, in other countries, and in their museums, to re- claim, if possible, our own property at a heavy cost. Therefore it must to any one appear advisable that steps should be taken to keep what they had in association with this colony and its people for all time. He had heard that in some countries they had legislation preventing the exportation of such things, and that certain powers were given the Government to purchase or otherwise acquire them as State property. He was quite willing to receive any information from the honourable gentleman as to what was in vogue in other countries, with the view of drafting some form of legislation which would enable the Government to collect, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 acquire, and gather on behalf of the State every- thing of the kind that might be of historie value. He was also glad this question had been put on the Order Paper, if it was only to awaken some interest in the public mind in the direction of retaining these things in our own possession. SOUTH ISLAND MAORIS. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori District) asked the Native Minister, Whether it is the intention of the Government during this session to introduce legislation prohibiting the Maoris of the South Island from devising their lands by will ? His reason for putting this question on the Order Paper was that numerous petitions had been received from the Maori residents of the South Island protesting against a practice that was there in vogue of Natives leaving their inter- ests in land to persons other than their own relatives. During last April the Native Land Court sat at Waikouaiti and Kaiapoi, and dealt with certain applications for probate of wills devising Maori lands, which came before them there, and a very rotten state of things was disclosed, and some serious trouble arose in consequence. It was represented to the Chief Judge of the Native Land Court, in consequence of what there transpired, that it had become a common practice for Natives to make wills de- vising their land away from their own relatives, and there was therefore a necessity for re- straining them from so doing. It even turned out that one deceased person had made as many as five or six different wills, each of which de- vised his property in a different direction, though none of his own relatives were bene- ficiaries under any one of them. He maintained that if the practice was not put a stop to, of this indiscriminate making of wills by Natives in the South Island, it would only be a matter of time when all their land would have passed away from them. The land would pass away to European beneficiaries, or to strange Natives who might be residents of this Island, and there would be no object in Commissioners 1.0. setting apart land for landless Natives in the South Island if the Natives were allowed to deprive themselves or their relatives of it by will. He would ask the Government to frame such legislation as would limit or place within certain restrictions the power under which wills might be made by Natives owning land in the South Island. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said this was a question which involved one of policy, and was a very serious matter as explained by the honourable gentleman. He could assure the honourable gentleman, however, that the Government would consider the position with a view to in some way meeting the dangers which he naturally apprehended. He was only too sorry to admit that in many cases the prac- tice had grown up of manufacturing wills and endeavouring to prove them before our tri- bunals. Personally, he thought that the oppor- tunities of will-making on the part of the Maoris should be limited as much as possible ; but even that might be open to question, and it touched on the larger question as to the right of any person to make a will. As a general rule. the limitation on will - making might beneficially apply to the bulk of the Natives : but there were those, again, who were far advanced and intelligent, who could fairly claim the right of disposing of their property by will. However, in the way that the law was now it was not possible for the Natives by will to absolutely deprive their natural heirs of all their landed property-that was to say, they could not will away their entire property from their natural successors if the said suc- cessors had not sufficient land for their maintenance. He would put the matter to the honourable gentleman : Would he be in favour of taking away the right absolutely from any Native to make a will and leave his property as he would like to the different mem- bers of his family or outside his family ? Mr. PARATA .- No. Mr. CARROLL said, In any case, the question was a very important one, and the honourable gentleman's question had, at any rate, served the purpose of drawing the attention of the authorities to the fact that wills were being improperly made with the object of depriving rightful people of their interests, and it be- hoved our Courts to be most careful in examining the bona fides of those concerned, and see that wills were clearly proved. He could not give a definite answer to the honourable gentleman as to whether the Government would make any alteration in the law. as at present. The ques- tion demanded careful consideration. 