from us every safeguard which now surrounds our legislative proceedings every person cannot fail to observe. Mr. HUTCHESON .- They are all gone, any how. Captain RUSSELL .- They are practically all gone. as the honourable member for Wellington City says ; and as the Premier told us to-night, the Legislative Council being now in touch with Ministers, everything goes exactly as the Right Hon. the Premier would wish it. Mr. SEDDON .- They are in touch with public opinion. Captain RUSSELL .- "They are in touch with public opinion," and the Premier is public opinion. That is what I understood his argu- ment to be, and therefore I think I am right in pursuing the position logically, and saying that the Legislative Council now represents the views of the Right Hon. the Premier, and there- fore is a body to be admired by all the Right Hon. the Premier's admirers. But, at any rate, up to the present time it has been held that we have, under the British Constitution, three branches of the Legislature-the King, Lords, and Commons ; and in New Zealand the Go- vernor, the Legislative Council, and the House of Representatives. But under this Bill we virtually are abrogating the whole position. We are destroying the power of the House of Representatives ; we are abolishing the functions of the Legislative Council ; and we are, I should say, practically infringing the prerogatives of the Crown, insomuch that if a Bill which is rejected by one branch of the Legislature, and possibly might not be approved of by the Crown, is referred over the heads of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 three branches of the Legislature to the unin- formed vote of the people, I venture to think that it would be held inexpedient, even by the sovereign people, that a Bill which is so passed .- its provisions most probably unap- preciated by or unknown to the people,- -hall become the law of the country, though two instructed branches of the Legislature might be opposed to it. Well, that may be held to be right by the Premier, but I confess that I am sufficiently old-fashioned-sufficiently Conservative, if you choose to call it so-to think that the restrictions on hasty legislation are not too great at the present time. I am sick of hearing the phrase that " We are in the van of civilisation," and that " in our legislation we are giving a lead to the world." Sir, it is no one but a vainglorious child who could make such a statement as that, though we very often hear the statement from the Treasury bench, and from no person more frequently than the Right Hon. the Premier himself. I should not, however. dream of calling him a vainglorious child. but I should stop at the word " vain- glorious." and not add " child " at the end of it. But the continual assertion that New Zealand is in the van of civilisation, creating the progress of the universe, and that no people in the world can compare with us for the wisdom of the legislation, all emanating from himself, from the Right Hon. Pooh Bah of this colony, is to most men almost nauseous. But, looking at the provisions of the Bill, what do we find ? Why, that all the ancient safe- guards of representative government are swept away entirely. Virtually we are transgressing the Standing Orders in force at the present time, because they forbid a Bill having precisely the same object, after being rejected, being intro- duced again in the same session. Under this Bill, if a measure which is introduced in either branch of the Legislature is passed by it and rejected by the other Chamber, it can be subsequently reintroduced in the same session. It can then be again passed by the originating Chamber, and, if rejected, possibly, by the other, it is then immediately referred to the people. According to the invariable custom of the present Go- vernment the Bills of most importance, and very likely infringing our liberties, are in- troduced in the dying hours of the session. Within the last fortnight of the end of a session every Bill of real importance is introduced into Parliament. We are not allowed even to see Bills till we are so physically exhausted that scarcely a member is able to pay them proper attention. At this period of the session a Bill is introduced into Parliament, and hurried through both branches of the Legislature in a manner which nobody here can attempt to deny is most discreditable to any Legislative Assembly, and to which honourable members themselves cannot pretend to be able to pay sufficient attention. Let us assume a Bill of vital importance to the welfare of the colony is introduced within a month of the end of the session ; is passed by one Chamber and rejected by the other ; then the Bill is again introduced into the Chamber where it originated-and it is quite possible to do that within twenty-eight days ; it comes again to the other Chamber, and is again rejected. It is now ready to be referred to the people. The Referendum Bill provides that, within seven days of the proroga- tion of Parliament, steps are to be taken for the submission of the Bill to the people, and the referendum is to be held within twenty-eight days of the prorogation. I am overstating the period necessary to elapse when I say that, within fifty-six days of the assembled repre- sentatives of the people first hearing of a policy measure, it is handed over for decision to the young and old electors of the colony-it is to be submitted to the people, who, I ven- ture to say, have no conception-nine out of ten of them-of the measure on which they are called upon to vote. Is this a desirable state of things ; is it conducive to careful and prudent legislation ? Assuming that the prin- ciple is a wise one, is it right that a Bill utterly unknown to the world in general shall be compulsorily forced upon the people for their ultimate decision within fifty-six days at the outside-I believe I may say within very little over forty days? I ask the House to pause and consider whether such a Bill is de- sirable; whether we want-because that is what it amounts to-to abrogate our present position and place ourselves unreservedly in the hands of the people, whose collective wis- dom we are supposed to represent ? I may be 