Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I do not intend to discuss this matter; but I would like to express my sincere regret-and I think that regret will be echoed from one end of the colony to the other-that none of our brave men who have been in South Africa, and who have seen many times the service that the gentleman just referred to has seen in South Africa, have not been considered fit enough for the position. Mr. SEDDON .- The responsibility is with the Government in respect to this matter, and we have cast no slight whatever on those who have served this colony in South Africa. I say here that we have no one in this colony who can compare with the officer I have mentioned, and in a matter of this kind it is necessary that the War Office and Commander-in-Chief should be in touch with the defences of this colony, and we have been acting in accordance with the express wishes of this country in this respect. We have taken what we believe to be the best advice possible, and we have done that which will give confidence to the people of the colony. We are not going to place any one over the heads of our own men in this colony who is not as well fitted to hold the position. I would like the honourable member, before making a state- ment of this kind-it may be done for effect- to name any officer in this colony whom we have overlooked. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I would like the Premier to state the terms of the pro- posed engagement, and the emoluments of the office. Mr. SEDDON .-- The appointment is on the same terms and conditions as Colonel Penton's engagement. I think that is $700 a year, and I think the Act of last session makes the term not exceeding five years. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .-- Sir. I would like to ask the Premier whether, if the terms now offered are not sufficient to induce a good man to come here, he will so alter those terms as to induce a really good man, such as this officer appears to be, to take up the position. I take it that the whole position with regard to our defences here depends very largely on the capa- bilities of the man who is in supreme command, and I question very much whether an offer of $700 a year will induce a man of first-class ability and record of service to accept the ap- pointment. If it will not induce him to come to the colony, I want to know if the Premier will give something more to secure the valuable services of a first-class man ? Mr. SEDDON .- I take it, Sir, that the Agent-General. in communicating with the War Office, would tell them the terms and conditions which the New Zealand Govern- ment were offering, and that this recommen- dation has been made by the War Office under those conditions. I quite agree with the honourable member that for the sake of a few pounds it would not be advisable for the colony to stand in the way of getting a thoroughly good man. This is not saying that we have not had excellent men in the colony at the same pay. I say we had a good man in Colonel Fox, and I say we have a good 1 man in Colonel Penton, and I do not see why we cannot get a good man at that rate, because .. after all, the pay in the military service at Home is very low. Then, again, an officer will look for- ward to improving his position in the Imperial service, and being the Commandant of the Forces of a colony like New Zealand will help him in his position as a military officer in the Imperial service. It is not altogether a question of money that officers should look to. I would say to the House, so that there might be no mistake as to the intention of the Government as regards the positions under the Commandau:, that we intend to adhere to what I stated to the House previously-namely, that we shall give preference to our own men, and to those who have had training in South Africa: and we are doing that. Any appointments madr that might appear to clash with that statement arose from the fact that in accordance with the recommendations of the Commanding Officer we were to have four adjutants to help the Officer Commanding Districts. We sent to the War Office and asked them - nearly two years ago-to make recommendations, and they did so, but the officers at that time could not come. Take the case of Captain Bingley, for instance. When we were informed that the officers could not come, we stated we would endeavour to supply the positions from within ourseives. Then we got an intimation that Captain Bingley had left the Cape, because, having accepted the appointment some months before, he decided to come to New Zealand after his service in South Africa to take up the position, and although our reply had gone to the War Office we could do nothing else under the circumstance but accept his services. However, in the future we shall adhere to the position I have already laid down. and I think that, with a Commandant such as we have succeeded in obtaining, our own officers will be able to fill all the other positions. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- While the Pre- mier proposes introducing a Commandant from England to take charge of the forces of thecolon;, and to fill up the officerships under him with the officers of our returned contingents who are eligible, and who desire to follow a military life. is the honourable gentleman prepared to allow our own officers who have returned from South Africa, and who desire to follow a military his, to go Home and complete their education in military colleges, in order to provide from our own material officers to fill the position of Commandant in the future? I think if that i not done it will be offering a serious reflection to the young men who have so distinguished themselves in the command of our contingents in South Africa as to merit the highest commendation from the highest military at- thority-Lord Roberts. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - Sir. might I be permitted to ask the Premier if the Colonel St. Henry he speaks of is the Colonel Henry who visited this colony when the Fourth Contingent went away ? Mr. SEDDON .- I do not think, looking at the record of service I have here, it can be that Colonel Henry ; but, of course, I have no deti- 