" Any person who shall cause, or attempt | convey no such document. A gentleman of to cause. any Fijian to be disaffected towards the Government, or who shall induce, or attempt to induce. any Fijian to take any action having for its object the subversion or alteration of the present form of government, shall be guilty of an offence under this Ordi- hance, and shall be liable on summary convic- tion to imprisonment with or without hard labour for any term not exceeding six months." That law had just come into force. and there was no doubt that it had the effect of depriving our fellow-colonists in Fiji of liberty of speech. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) replied that the attention of the Government had been called to the matter. and he was astounded when he received a copy of this Ordinance which had just been passed, together with a copy of the report of proceedings. The Ordinance was extraordi- nary. infringed liberty of speech, and was sub- versive of the liberty of the English and Indian subjects in Fiji. for any person speaking to a Fijian now in respect to change of system of And government was liable to be sent to gaol. what made his astonishment greater was a letter received from the Secretary of State, which he had promised to lay on the table later on. In that communication the Secretary of State said that no constitutional change should take place without the Fijians being consulted : as they had ceded their lands to the Crown, but not by reason of conquest, their wishes must be consulted. And when the Secretary of State held that view, it was a strange thing that the Government should pass an Ordinance at twenty- four hours' notice-subversive of their Standing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Orders, which enacted that there should be three days' notice-that any one who spoke to Fijians on the question was to have six months' imprisonment. He would be a brave man now who spoke to a Fijian on federation with Aus- tralia or New Zealand, or in respect to self- government. But as it affected this colony and the Parliament of New Zealand, and as this colony had been previously insulted by what bad been said by His Excellency Governor O'Brien, the matter could not be allowed to rest where it was, and the passing of the Ordi- nance was done to intimidate settlers, and Aus- tralia and New Zealand. He had received the Fiji Times of the 26th June, which contained the following article :-- " We heard yesterday with feelings of un- mixed regret that the Hon. Mr. F. E. Edlin -who so recently came out from England as Attorney-General of Fiji, and immediately be- came Acting Chief-Justice of the colony during the absence of Sir Henry Berkeley-has now, to mark his indignation at certain expressions used to him by His Excellency the Governor at a recent private interview, tendered his resigna- tion. It is significant that Sir Henry Berkeley also (we do not know if our readers have heard this) had, before his last departure, sent in a formal complaint to the Secretary of State as to discourtesy and incivility shown him by His Excellency. Mr. Edlin's appointment, being an English one, the Secretary of State alone, we presume, can accept his resignation. We sin- cerely trust that the next outgoing mail will Mr. Edlin's judicial capacity and firmness can be ill spared from the Bench just now, and we sincerely trust that, upon reflection, he will re- fuse to play into the hands of His Excellency, as he would be doing if he helped to remove the only official who has dared to do his plain duty as guardian of right and justice, and criticize the ignorance of Crown-colony officialdom." He thought this disclosed a lamentable condi- tion of affairs, and it was only what he had said would happen when the speech was delivered by the Governor of Fiji at the opening of the Wainibokasi Hospital, and was misunderstood as it had been by the natives. The Governor was now reaping the whirlwind he himself had sown. He made the speech, circulated it through the Government paper, the Na Mata ; it was ordered to be read to the Natives, and had the direct opposite effect the Governor intended. It affected this colony in two ways : They were the largest consumers of the pro- duce of Fiji, and the majority of the Euro- peans in Fiji were, he believed, New-Zea- landers. They were also interested now on account of the islands not far off from Fiji, and trouble starting in Fiji might permeate through the islands. It therefore required careful handling ; and to have this state of things existing-that the Chief Justice was deposed and the ex-Collector of Customs made Chief Justice, and men being tried for murder without the informations being signed by the Attorney-General-pointed to the fact that it was his duty to ask members to assist him in asking the Imperial Government to take cog- nisance of the matter, and, in respect to the insult to this colony, to grant inquiry, so that they might remove the stigma. They could not judge between the parties at this distance, but at the same time there was no doubt as to the Order in Council being passed. There was no doubt about that. What had led to that con- dition of things he could not say, but the con- dition of things was such as to warrant imme- diate action being taken. The outlook was serious in the extreme, and from his knowledge of the Fijians and the white people on the Islands the extreme step taken was a mistake, and after careful consideration of the matter he would be in a position to submit proposals to the House. Captain RUSSELL .- Sir, Mr. SPEAKER .- I cannot allow any debate on the matter of a question that I allowed to be put to the Right Hon. the Premier on the ground of it being one of urgency. It does not seem to me to have been entitled to precedency, but should have been given notice of on the Order Paper. I must observe the re- gular course of procedure by calling on " Papers to be presented." If I were to allow the honourable member to speak, every mem- ber would have a right to speak, and thereby seriously retard the business we have come here to transact. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - I merely want to protest against the practice of members being allowed to make debatable speeches, and no debate being allowed. 