sperity of any other particular country, is due to the place England has in the commercial world with her products and produce. I say it is the British navy that has made England what she is to-day ; and it is a very very plain way of putting it to the honourable gentleman -if he cannot realise it in any other way- to say that if you have got a bull-dog in your back yard you won't lose your chickens. Now. Sir, it is. of course, quite plain that the honour- able member who last spoke must have a very short memory. He objects to the word " com- pulsory "; and why, forsooth? He objects to the compulsory system, or to the word " com- pulsory," which is being introduced in our various measures. Why, our very education system is compulsory, and the honourable mem- ber for Masterton is a gentleman who takes the greatest interest, or professes to do so, in that particular part of the curriculum, if I might so call it. "Compulsory " is a word introduced into our Education Act, and one which, to my mind, is a proper one to be introduced in this Bill. I support the honourable member for the Grey in his Bill. I now wish to make one or two remarks with reference to the statements made by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), who, I regret to see, is not present, and when I reply to his remarks I shall endeavour to do so without heat or warmth, and, though I may feel a warmth and an amount of feeling which perhaps the honourable gentleman could not appreciate, I shall endeavour to reply to his few statements as clearly and calmly as I can. He says, in a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 few words, "Hang this spirit of militarism, and let us do what we can to keep it away "; and he also says, in answer to the remarks of the Premier, that he is against, and was against from the start, the sending of troops to the assistance of the Mother-country in South Africa. Sir, I say this with a due feeling of responsibility: Thank Heaven no such state- ment as that has been made in this House by a young New-Zealander, and I hope as long as I am in this House I shall never hear a young New - Zealander make such a state- ment. Thank Goodness it is the imported article that uses this kind of statement in this colony. I feel certain there is no young New- Zealander in the colony to-day that does not applaud the part the colony has taken in South Africa by sending troops there. There is no young New-Zealander who does not feel in his heart the good that has been done, and the great majority of the old settlers back up the young New-Zealanders in that feeling. That statement which the honourable member ex- pressed was never made by a young New-Zea- lander, and I do not think any young New-Zea- lander would so disgrace himself as to put forward that proposition in the House. The honourable member has added that he does not believe in the fostering or encouraging of this spirit. That may be so. The honourable member might carry his objection even to the ducal visit we have heard so much about ; but the honourable member, although he may object to the display that took place on the occasion of the recent visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, does not hesi. tate to take a contract for the festooning and garlanding of the city in order to fittingly wel- come the Duke and Duchess. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is there any harm in that ? Mr. WILFORD .- None whatever. It is inconsistent : that is all. Now, what 4.30. does the Bill do? It simply makes drill compulsory, subject to a conditional re- servation. Section 6, as has already been pointed out by an honourable member, is a kind of conscience clause which enables the parent of any child, on a certificate, to prevent that child going through the drill which it would be ordered to go through under this measure. The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) was far, far away from the fact when he said that it was an absurd thing for children under eight years of age to be expected to drill, and that the difficulty would be met by raising the age to ten years. Sir, I have in my hand a photograph of what is called the Rangitikei Battalion School Cadets, A Division, and I can tell the honourable gentleman that the picture comprises children ranging from ten years of age to under six years. Mr. ARNOLD .- Military drill ? Mr. WILFORD. - Yes, and they are all armed with the wooden rifles which the honourable gentleman laughs at, and they are uniformed in a way that is a credit to the district they hail from. That company of school cadets is practically a voluntary com- pany. It is a company that has been raised by the enthusiasm of the people of the Rangitikei district. The schools have their sectional divi- sions, and the various divisions form a battalion with their headquarters at Hunterville. A very enthusiastic man, Captain Tegner, took the matter in hand, and without any remuneration or reward he works in his spare time to bring these children to a state of efficiency as far as drill is concerned. That he has succeeded there can be no question. The photograph which I have here, and which I will hand to the mem- ber for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold), will prove to him that his statement that children under the age of eight years would not be able to drill with the wooden carbines is nonsensical. He also ridiculed the idea of the wooden carbine, and said he could tell whether a man had been drilled or not by his walk. Well, I venture to say the honourable gentleman was never drilled in his life. Mr. ARNOLD .- You are wrong. Mr. WILFORD .- Then, if I am mistaken, the argument of the honourable gentleman is very weak, because I am forming my judgment The honourable from his style of walking. gentleman says these wooden carbines are of no use for practical purposes in drilling. I saw they are absolutely useful. He furthermore said it would only engender in the mind of the young children a ridiculous value of the weapons they were holding. I say that nothing of the kind will result. I say-and I believe it is correct-that children, especially those under 