venture to say he will discharge his duties position is well qualified to carry out the work intrusted to him, and that he will, when he capably for this country, and I am astonished fairly starts on his work, show such results at the Minister being so far gone in his mental as will be satisfactory to members of this House and also to the colony. The amount ing from my utterances. placed on the estimates in the past, I admit, has been small, because we never before had planation, I wish to say the explanation given a commercial agent, and never before had taken such steps in the Industries and Com- gentleman had urged the acquisition of the merce Department as were indicated in last year's Financial Statement. It was then de- termined to take further steps in the direction of endeavouring to find markets where our pro- ducers were not so much subject to the prices ruling in one part of the world. And those steps have been taken, and the agent is only commencing on his work, and the honourable member might wait until he has had time to show us what can be done. With regard to the Bill, I am afraid I am somewhat like the honourable member for Waihemo. He spoke for twenty-five minutes on other matters and then for five minutes on the Bill. I need not say that I am and always have been an ardent advocate of the land-for-settlements policy. I point that fitted in with the railway being pro- realised from the first the advantage it would ceeded with in either direction. I hope, Sir, confer upon the colony. It is not a matter for only one Island or the other, for we must bear in mind that what improves the condition of the North Island reacts on the South Island, and vice versa. We stand as one colony, and must not allow narrow-minded provincialism to come in and hinder or retard the good work we have in hand : but we must work together, not in any carping spirit, but with one object, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 (Mr. Witheford), " Why buy land in the South to push our colony along and make it what it ought to be. If we do that we need not have any fear of the result, and we need have no fear of those periods of depression which have come to the colony in previous years. make a home in the North ? Why should there Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honour- about Ardgowan? I remember seeing that able gentleman, probably unconsciously, has failed to grasp what I said in the discussion. I said that I did not advocate the purchase of it and a manager. Eighteen months after 1 the property except in connection with the railway-construction, and that if they were not going to purchase the property they should stop the line two miles from Heriot, at a point that would be available for the further exten- on well, and rejoiced that the Government had sion, and if they did not purchase the property they should not put it one yard further ; and that it was a gross political job to divert the line to Rae's Junction, and the Minister knew it. The next point was this : I did not say that the be driven from the North Island ? land-for-settlements policy had not assisted the country, but what I did say was that a member of the House had attributed the entire success are lands constantly being opened up, and there and prosperity of the country to the land-for- settle. However, I do not see why we should settlements policy. I pointed out that the total have these objections raised by North Island money spent on land for settlement was under $2,000,000 sterling, whereas the value of agri- cultural and pastoral land in use in the colony was $109,000,000, so that €2,000,000 against £109,000,000 certainly could not have that in- fluence. The third point was this : I did not say a land and form homes for themselves. With re- gard to the remarks of the honourable member single word in criticism against Mr. Gow, the new Produce Commissioner, because he is a most excellent man. I know him personally, and I VOL. CXVI .- 35. equilibrium as to have deduced such a reason- Mr. HALL-JONES .- Sir, as a personal ex- by the honourable member has somewhat cleared the atmosphere. I said the honourable Moa Flat Estate. If he did not do so, I ask honourable members what he did do. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Only in connection with the railway. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Well, really, I think that is rather too thin ; but, of course, I accept the honourable member's explanation. I also say that his remarks concerning the Depart- ment of Industries and Commerce would be taken by any member of the House as a reflec- tion on the officer who has been appointed as Commissioner in that department. As for the Heriot Railway, I wish to say that my instruc- tions were that the line was to be taken to a the honourable member will be more careful in his future utterances. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I do not think the time taken up in discussing this Bill this afternoon and evening has been wasted, be- cause members have been discussing a question that is of the greatest importance to the people of the colony. With regard to the remark of the honourable member for Auckland City Island ? " I would ask the honourable gentle- man why we in the South should have our young people driven away from the South to be large estates locking in some of the towns in the South, as they do at Oamaru ? What estate before it was purchased by the Govern- ment, with only two or three shepherds' huts on went over the same land, and I met on it work- ing-men who had come from Dunedin and other places who were settled there. and were getting purchased that estate. It has done good to the town itself: and it would do good to other towns also if we purchased some of the large estates lying round about them. Mr. WITHEFORD .- Why should our sons Mr. ELL .- There is no need for that. There is any amount of land on which they might members to the Government policy of pur- chasing extensive estates in the South Island for the benefit of the farmers' sons and the poorer class of people who wish to go on the for Ashburton respecting the work of the Land Purchase Board, I wish to say there have been 