Assyrians to come here ; they are here amongst us ; and the least we can do is not only to allow them to stay, but to encourage them to earn an honest livelihood. If you debar these people from getting a livelihood in the manner they are doing at present you drive them into the towns, you congest the population in the cities, they become a burden on the charitable aid, on the old-age pensions, and upon charitably dis- posed members of the community. There was a time when such a Bill as this would have been condemned in the strongest terms on the floor of the House. These people have been driven by the hands of the oppressor from Damascus, the mountains of Lebanon, and from the plains of Armenia. I need only re- mind honourable members that there was a time when Great Britain opened her doors and received numbers of refugees from Holland, when the people of the Netherlands were being cruelly persecuted by the Duke of Alva. Were they placed under any disadvantage in Great Britain at that time? None whatever, They settled in Britain, earning a livelihood in dif- ferent parts of the country, and became in- dustrious, law-abiding, respectable citizens. I do not believe in oppressing these people. We ought to treat them kindly ; and, as far as I have had an opportunity of meeting with these A-syrian hawkers and pedlars in country districts, I have found that no objection what- ever has been raised against them. They are industrious, sober people ; they seem thrifty and careful, and they deserve in their own way to get a living, and in such a way that they will not dislocate our own industries in any shape https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 or form. But this Bill not only prohibits As- syrian pedlars and hawkers, but prohibits those of our own people. For example: Suppose an accident happens to a young man ; he loses an arm, and is thus incapacitated from carry- ing on his former occupation. The neighbours of this young man organize a subscription, and they probably raise from $100 to $150, and fit hun out with a hawker's cart and goods ; but under the provisions of this Bill that man is to be placed under a disability. He is to be called upon whenever he goes into the neigh- bourhood of a Town Board or a Road Board to pay a recurring license-fee that I look upon as penal. In my district I can imagine such a young man going into the district of a Town Board where he can do business in one dav with almost all the people of that dis- trict ; but as soon as he gets to the limits of the Town Board district and gets into the Road Board district he is called upon to pay a fee by th - Clerk of the Road Board. I consider this a great hardship, and I say that these penal laws should not be imposed on our people in the manner proposed by this Bill. Then, again. I i have the greatest objection to clause 15, which interferes with commercial travellers. There are establishments in Christchurch, such as Ballantyne and Co., Strange and Co., Beath and Co., and the D.I.C., who carry on a very large retail and wholesale business. They have got their commercial travellers travelling all over Canterbury. A traveller at the end of the : this Bill these travellers, if they go from day reaches a farmer's house and stays there for the night. He takes the measurement of the sons for suits of clothes ; he takes orders from the good lady of the house for clothing for the girls ; but under the provisions of this Bill he is not allowed to do so. An Hon. MEMBER .- He is not a traveller. Mr. MEREDITH. - You cannot call such a man anything else than a commercial traveller as defined by the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- He is a pedlar. Mr. MEREDITH .- He is nothing of the kind under the definition of the Bill. But, supposing that he is a pedlar, he is a prohibited person, and such an unnecessary and vexatious interference with the rights of the people should I intend to not be tolerated for one moment. oppose this Bill. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). -- I should like to ask your ruling, Sir, whether, in regard to a Bill like this, which proposes to tax certain members of the community, it should not ema- nate from the Government, and be introduced by a Minister of the Crown. It proposes to place taxation upon persons who are carrying on their businesses. Mr. SPEAKER. - I have not studied the Bill in the light of its being a tax Bill, well knowing that only a Minister of the Crown can propose to impose a tax. But charges can be imposed without the recommendation of the Crown when they do not become colonial revenue or affect colonial expenditure. In this Bill the charges become local revenue. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It appears to me that the measure is so wide-reaching in its effect that I can hardly understand one of such im- portance being introduced excepting by the Go- vernment. It will change to a very large extent the whole manner of commercial life so far as the country districts are concerned. If it were entitled, instead of a "Hawkers and Pedlars Bill," a " Bill to confer a monopoly in country trade upon country storekeepers," I think that would be a more accurate title for it than the one that is placed at the head of the Bill. We all know that in the country districts people obtain goods at a lower cost through com- mercial travellers and others than they would otherwise be able to obtain if they were forced to deal solely through the storekeepers. Of course, it may be said that that is a disad- vantage to the storekeepers who live in the district, but equally it is an advantage to the purchaser. A very important matter is that country people receive the benefit of cheaper goods through having larger stocks to select from and the lower rates that the city houses are able to sell at. Now, many honourable members are aware, as was stated by the honourable member for Ashley, that there are large metropolitan houses in the cities who are able with their large finances and larger stocks to give a wider selection at a .very much lower cost. Why should these houses be prevented from sending their travellers out in order to obtain clients in the way they have been doing for a number of years past ? Under 