nesses had said they would meet the Natives at Rotorua, to have made a special pre- sentation of Mahuta would have given him a position he was not entitled to, and could reasonably expect. His Excellency in this matter was in complete accord with Ministers ; and all the Maoris that had met at Rotorua would have been offended had a special pre- ference been given to Mahuta, and you would have undone all the years of Native concilia- tion work in this colony. Much as I would have liked to have pleased the citizens of Auckland-proof of which I have given time after time-when it came to that matter, it was impossible for me to accede. But that did not stop the canoes coming down. It seems to me that this canoe business was only a ruse, for, as soon as the preferential presentation of Mahuta was refused, the Maoris refused to allow the canoes to come down. The Govern- ment had done nothing to prevent the canoes coming down to Auckland. The canoes were at Mercer, ready to be put on the trucks, and a special train was sent up to bring them down, but the Maoris would neither come nor send down the canoes. Mr. MASSEY. -- Do you say the canoes were on the trucks ? Mr. SEDDON .- They were at Mercer; and the trucks were ready to receive them. I say, Sir, it is most reprehensible to make capital against the Government on that matter. What was done was done in the best interests of the colony. However, Sir, all is well that ends well. I say the Government were quite willing, and would have rendered every assist- ance to the aquatic display, but the Natives themselves ultimately told the reception com- mittee they were not coming. When they found that Mahuta could not be present they turned round and said they would not take part in the canoe exhibition. With regard to the Indian troops, it was represented to the Government that there was not sufficient aerated water for one-half of the men. After being in the broil- ing sun and undergoing the fatigue they did, it would have been, in my opinion, a grave reflec- tion upon the colony to have allowed them to remain there without refreshment, and the Government stepped in and did what was neces- sary. The question as to who provided the beer, mentioned by honourable the member for Eden, has nothing to do with it. The question is, whether you are to bring men to- gether and subject them to fatigue, and then leave them without water or anything else to drink. The Mayor informed me that there were only seventy dozen bottles of aerated water and that there were over a thousand men. We merely did what we believed to be our duty. The affair passed off very well, and there ought to have been an end of it. As far as I am concerned, what was done then would be done again if a similar situation arose. 'One never likes taking responsibilities ; but what I think is to be regretted is that we should have been called upon to accept such responsibility, and that any committee should, under the circumstances, have endeavoured to force their Mr. Seddon consulted ; and they did so on the ground that it was in accordance with Lord Roberts's wishes, whereas Lord Roberts, on a great and solemn occasion, deliberately ordered that the men should be given a certain amount of beer. If Lord Roberts had been there, he would have done just the same as the Government did, or the Premier did. I, therefore, think this debate might have been avoided. I think we ought simply to have agreed to the second read- ing of the Bill, and not have had a debate of this kind, which will probably be cabled to the other colonies ere the Royal visitors have left them. I think it is to be regretted that this debate should have been forced on the House, but the responsibility for that I throw on the shoulders of the member for Waitemata. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- Do I understand the Premier to say that before the brewers agreed to send the beer to the Imperial troops they got an order from the Government ? Mr. SEDDON .- I deliberately say that before it was known who the beer was to come from, the Commandant and others represented to the Government the situation ; and when the order was given by the Government that beer was to be supplied, it was intended by the Government to pay for it. Later on, the offer to supply it free came from the Auckland brewers. The Commandant telegraphed on the subject, and that telegram appeared in the papers. I cannot say now whether the whole of the beer was pre- sented to the troops or whether we had to pay for it. All I know is that we took action as & Government, and not at the suggestion of the brewers or any one else. Bill read a second time. REFERENDUM BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, this Bill provides a long-felt want. I am sure there will be no personalities introduced in respect to this particular Bill, except that it may be said the Premier, after considerable time and under a certain amount of pressure, had intro- duced it. But I think during late years, while the Bill was in charge of the member for Inangahua, there was a general consensus of opinion in the House that the Bill should have an opportunity of being read a second time, and that members should go into Com- mittee upon it ; and, Sir, when there is a generally expressed wish of that nature. I do not think any one can blame the Government for giving an opportunity such as this. If they did so it would be the height of ingratitude. However, we have the same principle put in concrete form in this Bill. The question of referring matters to the people is nothing new at all. It is only a question of providing against deadlocks occurring-deadlocks such as occur as between the two branches of the Legislature. We have passed Bills-take Mr. Lawry's Bill, for instance, the Deceased Husband's Brother Bill, and I might mention many other mea- sures -- which were thrown out in another Cham- ber, and there was practically no appeal. They came here, were passed, and were rejected in 