delighted at the results, and was pleased to find that the institution was doing excellent work for Canterbury and the Canterbury farmers ; but there was another aspect of the question : the number of students was totally inade- quate; the whole thing needed recasting : in- stead of their being twenty or thirty students, there should be two or three hundred students." Among the students at the present time-and it had been the same for years between 20 and 30 per cent. were young men who came direct from England - the sons of wealthy families who were not suited for the army and other positions. They entered the College, and they received cheap board and lodging as students of the Agricultural School. This was an abuse of the institution never contemplated. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the regulations under the Manual and Technical Instruction Act provided for instruction of pupils of public schools in elementary agriculture, dairying, and cottage gardening, and for technical instruction to older pupils in rural districts in agriculture, horticulture, dairying work, and in chemistry, or any other science treated practically with immediate reference to agriculture, horticul- ture. or dairy-work, et cetera. The establishment of these rural technical schools, together with any dairy or farm schools that might be set up, would, it appeared to him, provide for the need of such instruction locally. Further. he might say the Government felt that in this respect . there was a great deal to be done. Of course, they must proceed on progressive lines - they must take advantage of what the Legislature had provided. The means were there, and the only question was as to its application. Then, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 coming to the local matter he had referred to in his speech, he wished to say he adhered to all he had already stated. He thought the time had arrived for inquiry, and for an entire change of the management of Lin- coln College. If, as the honourable member said, its benefits were availed of by only a few, and those few were not of our own colony, it was clear that. as the maintenance of the in- stitution was derived from the lands of the colony, and endowments, it was high time the institution was placed at the command of the sons of the farmers of our own colony. Mr. MEREDITH asked if the Premier would introduce a measure dealing with the question this session. Mr. SEDDON thought the matter should be referred either to a Select Committee or to the Lands Committee of the House. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Agricultural Com- mittee ? Mr. SEDDON said, Either Committee, or both Committees if they liked. At all events, it wanted dealing with, and the more the matter was put off the worse it was, in his opinion. MINISTERS' TRAVELLING - EXPENSES. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked the Government, on behalf of Mr. Massey, When they intended to lay before the House the return ordered on the 19th September last, showing the travelling-expenses of Ministers for Mr. Meredith the previous financial year ? It would be found. on reference to the Journals of the House for the 19th September last, that it was ordered, on the motion of Mr. Massey -- "That there be laid before this House a return, in continuation of H .- 29. 1899, showing for the financial year ended 31st March, 1900,- (1) The amounts drawn by each member of the Executive for travelling-allowances : and (2) the amounts charged by voucher for actual travel- ling-expenses of each member of the Execu- tive." That return was ordered nearly twelve months ago, and it had not yet been laid before the House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, To-day the return had been asked for again, and they had consented to give it. He had agreed to the details being furnished, and he was informed to-day that the return was Captain RUSSELL asked if the Premier had any idea why it had been delayed. Mr. SEDDON said there was nothing to pre- vent or hinder it, so far as he knew. ALLEGED MISCONDUCT OF VOLUN- TEERS AT WOODVILLE. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will set up a properly con- stituted Court or Commission to thoroughly investigate the alleged charge of misconduct of the Volunteers at Woodville on or about the sth February last ; and if he will withhold any er parte papers or report until after the investiga- tion ? He had been induced to put this ques- tion on the Order Paper not only in the inte- rest of the Volunteers, but because his name had been mentioned as having been at Wood- ville on the night of the alleged misconduct. He thought it was the duty of the Government to thoroughly investigate any such cases as this. The statement made the other day by the De- fence Minister was that an investigation had been held. The alleged investigation, he submitted. was only an er rarte examination by policemen. He said such an examination as that was not satisfactory, not even British : both sides should be heard. There should be a thorough examina- tion before any papers were laid on the table. more especially in a case of this kind. He trusted the honourable gentleman would see his way to set up a Court or Commission to make a thorough inquiry at the earliest date possible. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said. If the honourable member would permit him. he thought in this way he was only staving off the evil day. The fact was that the charges laid were not a military breach of the law. If things were taken from a public bar; if the girl was assaulted, as it was stated she was, by one of the men spitting in her face, that was not a ques. tion for a military inquiry. It was a question for the police. As for the papers he referred to. the Mayor laid a complaint, and the member for the district supported that complaint. The matter was handed over to the police, and he (Mr. Seddon) had said he would lay the police papers upon the table of the House. The matter was not one for a military inquiry. 