tration that, in any measure submitted to the people, you should have the most complete ex- pression of the public will, and there should be allowed no removable obstruction to such a re- snit being placed before the country. It is not possible to have any effective referendum, in New Zealand particularly, for the reasons I have mentioned, excepting by the issue of electoral rights. You could have your ballot in the same method as now for those who desire to exercise it ; but those who feel perfectly inde- pendent, under certain regulations, let the Government impose whatever regulations they can devise for the purpose of securing absolute secrecy and prevention of fraud-let them im- pose whatever conditions for this purpose can be contrived-but let those who desire to take out electoral rights have the opportunity of doing so. I can assure the Premier that in this-like many other things I have mentioned -I am instigated by an honest desire that the welfare of the people should be secured, and for that reason I feel conscious that sooner or later this principle will be adopted by the people. Let me assure the right honourable gentle- man that he could make no movement to secure greater popularity and a consciousness on the part of the public that he is earnestly desirous of establishing the best welfare of the commonwealth than by granting such a boon to the people as the issue of electoral rights. There is not a woman-and the more educated the woman the more likely she will be to take advantage of it-who would not appreciate it ; and the best of our citizens are likely to embrace the opportunity of taking out electoral rights, and those living in the country, scattered far away, but with a consciousness of how important is the exercise of the public will through the franchise for the welfare of the community - those who feel that every indi- vidual in our commonwealth is potentially re sponsible for the legislation that takes place- those, Sir, are the persons who will more than any other do their utmost to supply them- selves with the convenience of using an elec- toral right, and then no ordinary conditions of distance, or weather, or roads can prevent them from, through the post-offices of the country, recording their opinions upon any measure that is submitted for the people's will. Under a democracy like ours, if we wish to have good administration it must be by inculcating in the public mind the feeling that it is only in the culture and fitness of the units composing the commonwealth that the best results can be secured, and the Government will best respond to such a desire on the part of a cultured people by determining that there shall be every possible facility for every elector, even in the roadless out posts of settlement, to record their votes and opinions on public matters. I shall heartily support the motion which has been moved by the member for Palmerston, though I feel at the same time assured that the Premier him- self is well aware that it does not fully provide all that is necessary to achieve the purpose I have suggested, and which will yet be the law of the land. VOL. CXVI .- 32. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I do not think the member for Palmerston seriously means this amendment at all, and I regret very much that our Standing Orders permit that every amend- ment which has been moved in Committee on the Bill can be moved in the House on the consideration of the amendment and also again on the third reading. It is high time the Stand- ing Orders were amended. In this respect some alteration is required or you will never get your legislation through at all. But I rose more particularly to show how unscrupulous, if I might use the term, the member for Palmers- ton is in the assertions he makes. He said he was moving the recommittal of the Bill at my suggestion. He made a statement there, Sir, which is absolutely not in accordance with the facts, because the records are against him, and it is only when you have the re- cords that you can catch the honourable gentleman. To show how far the honour- able gentleman has forgotten himself, I find from the records of the House that on the 12th July the Referendum Bill was before the Committee, and on that evening Mr. Pirani moved an amendment. I then moved to report progress, so as to give members time to consider that amendment. Then, on the 16th July this Bill came before the Committee There had been time to consider again. the honourable gentleman's amendment be- tween the 12th and 16th July. This is the amendment : " To insert the words in lieu there- of, ' to be passed in accordance with regulations made by Order in Council.'-Mr. Pirani." Sir, the member for Palmerston was not present, and because he could not leave his home and come down here on the 16th July the House is now asked to reconsider this matter. If that is to be the manner in which we are to conduct our business, when we have any matter at all in which the honourable member is interested it would be well to meet the honourable mem- ber's modest reques' and adjourn the consider- ation of it until he arrives. I must note carefully for the future whether the honourable member is in his place. At all events, Sir, time was given for consideration. When the motion was moved there was a larger House than there is now, and a division was not called for. The matter was allowed to go on the voices. The member for Waitemata was in his place at the time. He spoke on the question, and yet to- day he seconds an amendment to send it back to the Committee, when he would not take the trouble to call for a division. Mr. MONK .- I had nothing to do with the motion, and could not compel it. Mr. SEDDON. - You were a supporter of it, and you support it now. You spoke in Com- mittee it favour of it. You spoke, we thought, seriously, and you were in earnest, and when a member speaks seriously and will not take the trouble to record his own vote, or the vote of any one else, we may take it he has been con- vinced by others that his arguments were fallacious. I take it the honourable member was so convinced. Then. Sir, I say that to at- tempt to alter the ballot in the Referendum Bi ] 