the Governor, and had presented to him the Address in reply to the Governor's Speech, and that His Excellency was pleased to return the following answer : - " Wellington, 4th July, 1901. "MR. SPEAKER AND HONOURABLE GENTLEMEN OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL,- "I beg to thank you for the Address you have presented, and for the renewed assurance of hearty co-operation in all matters appertain- ing to the ultimate development and prosperity of the people of New Zealand. " RANFURLY." The Council adjourned at three o'clock p.m. ## HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 4th July, 1901. First Reading-Cost of Imperial Visits-Address in Reply. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Fair Rent Bill. COST OF IMPERIAL VISITS. On the motion of Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City), it was ordered,-That there be laid before this House three separate returns showing the cost in every department of,-(1) The visit of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the Imperial troops ; (2) the visit of the Indian troops ; (3) the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero ## ADDRESS IN REPLY. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Sir, it is not my intention to occupy the time of the House at any length, and I only rise because of a few hints dropped by other members, to which I would like to reply. I would like also to add my tribute to what has been already said by honourable members in expressing deep regret at the loss our Empire has sustained by the death of Her Most Gracious Majesty, and to ex- press the joy with which we have received a visit from our future King and Queen. I am sure that much good will redound to the colony from their visit. We could have nothing that would advertise our colony so well, and I feel sure that whatever has been spent in entertain- ing our Royal visitors has been well spent. I hope that the returns that are asked for by some honourable members have not been asked for through a stingy or pernicious motive, and that we shall all agree that what has been spent has been done with the best of intentions. No doubt it will pay the colony in the long-run. Like others, I was very pleased to see in Christchurch City the grand review that was held there on the day of the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to that city. I may say that the cadets in their march past did great credit to themselves and those who were in charge of them. The only fault is, as has been said be- fore-and I repeat it now-that they ought to be equipped with better arms, and the colony could then look to them to be more efficient in the fu- ture. There is another thing, Sir, that I would like to mention, and that is the amount of land which has been bought for settlement. The land-hunger has not been nearly satisfied, and there are thousands who are ready to take up land, and I am sure that the Government will act wisely if they spend money even faster than they have done in the past in acquiring land for settlement. There is another thing that is not very clear at the present time which I would like to mention. It is in connection with a Bill passed last session, and, although it is possibly going outside the lines of the Address. in Reply, I would like to say that there are many persons who are in doubt as to how far the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act applies, and whether it applies to the farming and pastoral community or not. I think it rests very much on the way the law is construed ; and I believe it is safer for every one to insure their men than to run the risk of being sued for any loss or injury which might occur to their employés. I was very pleased indeed to hear the late leader of the Opposition. acknow- ledge that those on that side of the House were now all equal. I would like to ask him who equalised them ? Nobody, Sir, but those who sit on this side of the House, and those who sent us here. We on this side of the House have had to work hard to make the Opposition acknowledge that they are now equal, and I feel certain they will acknowledge that we have had to fight hard to attain that end. We have had to pass laws practically at the point of the bayonet; but from the speech of the late leader of the Opposition (Captain Russell) I gather the fight is now over, and if those honourable gentlemen wish to shake hands with us let them do so at once, and assist to pass further Liberal legislation in the in- terests of the country. We will willingly hail them on our side. But I am rather afraid to trust them when I look back and find that in passing the Government Advances to Settlers Act, the Land for Settlements Acts, and also the Old-age Pensions Acts we found in them very great " snags " indeed, and it took us on this side of the House all our time and energy to pass those Acts ; and I say that not one of those honour- able gentlemen opposite dare go on a public platform and say that they would like to re- peal either one or the other of the measures I have mentioned. They have, therefore, to thank this side of the House for levelling them up, and I hope they will continue to keep level and level-headed. I am sure the country will heartily appreciate their action, and not think it at all derogatory of them to acknowledge that they are now trying to keep on a level with this side of the House. I was very sorry indeed to hear the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton last night, and I do not know that I ought to refer to it ; but perhaps it would be as well to tell that honourable gentleman that 