would be ; and under these conditions what would you find ? First they have to elect a Pre- mier. They have to face the election of a Pre- mier. Well, I have seen the election of a County Chairman, and you have had to pass special legislation upon it. Seven out of nine mem- bers want to be Chairman ; and I have known friction arise, and last for the whole year, in the selection of a Chairman. The Premier and the members of the Cabinet are human, just the same as members of the County Councils. Well, friction first commences in the election by the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, and then, as though you wished to commit the country to still further difficulty, the Prime Minister is only elected for the year. At the end of the year there is to be a further election. Who, under the circumstances, would be Prime Minister? Why, there is no man of light, no man of leading, no man of any self-respect, who would put himself in that unfortunate position. But in this Bill you go further. You provide here that the resignation of five Ministers puts out the whole Ministry. While the Premier with three colleagues may be holding out on a large question of policy, or of administra- tion- An Hon. MEMBER .- They never resign. Mr. SEDDON .- If five Ministers resign, the other four must. I am giving you the Bill as it stands. There is the compulsory resignation of the whole Ministry if five of the Ministers resign. Again, at the end of three years all the Ministry must resign and submit them- selves to the ballot. And if one resigns, by Order in Council the vacancy is filled ; but if during the recess the whole of the Ministers resign, there can be no Order in Council passed and no Ministry. Then, Sir, there is in this Bill a setting aside altogether of another branch of the Legislature - the Legislative Council ; and the Legislative Council is to have as leader a member of the Executive, but he is not to have any salary. He is only to have $150 a year, and two guineas a day travel- ling-expenses. At the present time he is only allowed 91 10s. Clause 17 says, - " An Executive Councillor not holding Minis- terial office shall not be paid any salary in addi- tion to the payment he may receive as a mem- ber of the Legislative Council, but he may be paid travelling - expenses at the rate of two guineas per day.' Why, Sir, I cannot understand why the honourable gentleman would cast such a grave reflection upon another Chamber. But the honourable gentleman goes further. In the last clause of the Bill he provides that you can take into the Executive a representative of the Native race who is not to be elected at all, who is not to be brought under this law at all. He is under the existing statute, and so he is to remain. I want to know why the honourable gentleman desires to make that change. What reason has he given for it ? None whatever. Sir, the whole position, I think, may be summed up in this way : there are some people who are always desirous of bringing something new forward. Very well; I say that if what you are bringing forward is an improvement, and if in administration it will be an improvement, then, Sir, it is our duty to support it. Our colony now stands the first in the British Empire, and to make a change such as now proposed would be a stop in the wrong direction. If you take the condition of the workers here they are better off than in any other part of the British Empire. If you take the industries and manufacturers here you will find that they are well satisfied, and are doing well. Take the farmers and the producers of the country : the country has developed. Every encouragement has been given to local indus- tries, and they have been fairly treated by the present party and the present Administration. In connection with our railways-in connection with our administration as a whole-there is no fault to be found, and unless you can show that our system does not prove satisfactory you have no right to ask for the change to be made. I, for one, am in favour of progress, but I do not see my way under existing conditions to sup- port the extraordinary and insufficiently con- sidered measure now before the House, and which in effect will destroy every power for good, and give us chaos in return. There cannot be any argument in favour of such a change. It is well to look before you leap, and there have been no good reasons shown for this change, and I will ask members under these cir- cumstances to remain firm and steadfast. If the people were going back-if our country was going back, as it was years ago -- then there might be some cause for that change ; but with our country prosperous and hope for the people. and with advancement within the reach of all, why should we of the Liberal party be parties to a change ? It is quite reasonable to under stand that men who have been driven from public life by the people should, like drowning men, grasp at any straw. The gentlemen opposite are grasping at a straw now, and they wish to use this to the detriment of the progressive party, and I would ask the extremists of the Liberal party not to help them to undo all the good work we have done in the past, to pass a Bill that will in the future prevent further pro- gress and good work. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City). - Sir, the Postmaster-General, Sir Joseph Ward, twitted those who are in favour of this Bill as being engaged in a conspiracy of silence. Now, Sir, there is only one way to meet a conspiracy of stonewall, and that is by keeping silent. Honourable members who have been speaking against the Bill have not been trying to bring forth arguments against it, but to fill up the time till twelve o'clock, in order to get an ad- journment of the debate, when this matter will never have another chance of coming forward on the Order Paper. It is a well-known fact that the most vigorous whipping of the last two sessions have been against this Bill by the Government ; and I say that all the pressure of roads and bridges has been brought to hear, so as to prevent members of the party from re- cording their votes according to their convic- tions. I do not want to waste time, because 