and honey, that there was an artistic taste in our people, and that they had the wealth to give expression to that artistic taste ; and in many ways these arches and other decorations were the coping-stone to the whole ceremony. I say that, taking all these circumstances into account, the preparations were well done, the ceremonies passed off with every success, and the result will be greatly to the advantage of the colony. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, I just wish to say a word in connection with the subject of the Royal visit. I believe that two circum- stances that occurred will stand out in the future as mementoes of that visit. One is the great Maori demonstration at Rotorua, which was unexampled in our history, and really a sight which was worth going thousands of miles to see ; the other was the laying of the founda- tion-stone of the Maori Girls' College at Auck- land by the Duchess of Cornwall and York. While a lot of the other tawdry embellishments in connection with that visit will fade away, those two events will ever remain in the memory of the Royal visitors and others who witnessed them. I trust the Government will I other town for a similar length of time. how see its way clear to assist that very desirable institution-the Maori Girls' College in Auck- land-the foundation-stone of which was laid by the Duchess of York. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- I fail to see the object of this discussion. The money for which the Bill provides was spent by the local bodies with the general concurrence of the people immediately concerned, and it appears to me that all we have do to is to pass this Bill, so that all those who expended the money shall be indemnified. So far as this debate has.gone, as I said before, I do not see what object is to be served by it. It seems to me that it may be looked on only as a sort of finishing-up of the amusement connected with the Royal visit. The charges that have been brought against .democracy by my honourable friend Mr. Scot- land seemed to me very absurd. The honour- able gentleman is so filled with the spirit of utilitarianism that he would consider that he had done enough on a great occasion of this sort by simply presenting a formal address. Well, if his patriotism is of such a character that there is to be no self-sacrifice connected with a visit of this sort, and no money expended, I do not think that his patriotism amounts to very much. I look upon the expenditure that has taken place in this colony as a very proper expenditure un- der the circumstances. It was a unique event, a great occasion, and I think the expenditure has certainly not been too much. I have no sym- pathy with this spirit which professes to feel that a great occasion of this sort should be met in a cheap and nasty way. Therefore I think the criticism regarding the expenditure is not justified, and I do not think we should go any further with it, but simply pass this Bill. In- deed, we have very little to do with it. It is the money of the public bodies, and the public bodies practically have already indorsed the expenditure. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- Sir, I to some extent regret that a debate of this kind has cropped up. I think it would have been far better to pass the Bill and say nothing about it. I think the colony itself quite understood that this Parliament would indemnity there local bodies when they incurred expenses be- yond the legal limit. But, Sir, it is refreshing to know that there are one or two individuals who know more than all the rest of the four centres of the colony. They tell us that the people in the four different centres were a parcel of fools and asses, and that they alone have the sense and wisdom to know how to receive Royalty or any great personage. Sir, I take it that the persons in the different centres who thought this thing out, and who desired to carry it out, and who carried it out well, will have given every satisfaction to the Royal visitors ; and 1 think now, Sir, when that has been done, that the least this Parliament can do is to indemnify the local bodies and the Borough Councils who have incurred expense. As to the Oamaru fight, we get that occasionally, and I am not going to make very much of it. But supposing the Royal visitors had been entertained at Oamaru for half a day or a day, and in every long would it have taken them to go through the colony ? The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I never asked that. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .-- I do not know what was asked for, but the honourable member complained very loudly that more attention should have been given to Oamaru, and that Timaru was favoured against Oamaru. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I never said a word about Timaru. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- If the honour- able gentleman did not, somebody else did. Sir. the Royal visitors had a duty to perform, given them. no doubt, by the Crown of England. They carried it out to the best of their ability, and. I think, to the entire satisfaction of the people of New Zealand and the colonies generally. S.r. I have nothing more to say, except that i exceedingly regret that a debate of this kind bas been raised. I hope there will be very little more, and that the Bill will be passed and the indemnity given. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Sir, I quite agre with the expression that has fallen from m. honourable friend. I think the colony so far has done very well indeed in the reception of their Royal Highnesses, and the few paltry pounds we have spent will not come to very much after all when you come to reckon it up. There is only one blot on the whole thing. i. you can call it a blot, and that was that they did not go to the West Coast. If they had gone there it would have been the coping-stone to the whole reception. There they would have got a royal West Coast reception, and would have seen the finest country in New Zealsad That is all I have to say. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I only wish to tell my honourable friend Mr. Scotland that. so far as I know, this Bill covers the whok expenditure that the Municipalities are liable for Bill read the second and the third time. The Council adjourned at four o'clock p.m. 