doubt, will be opened up by the gentleman who is representing the Department of Commerce of this colony. I am pleased to hear that ; and I am glad that many members think as I do, and have given expression to that opinion on the floor of this House, for it is a movement I thoroughly believe in. If the Government were to acquire a line of steamers-I would not say buy steamers, but charter them - and send the farmers' produce to the markets, it would be a good thing for the farming com- munity, enabling them to ship regularly and meet the markets. The Government, in my opinion, should go a little further, and, in- stead of allowing the middleman-the freezing companies in the North and South Islands, wool-buvers, et cetera-to acquire sheep and other products at their own prices, they should step in and say to these settlers who have mutton or wool or any other products to send Home, " We will advance you a certain sum of money. we will prepare cool-stores here for you, and will arrange for agents and markets in the Home-country and dispose of your produce." By this means, instead of the producer getting only a fourth of the value of his produce, he would pay a reasonable proportion of the sum he received for the sale of his products in the way of commission to the agent or the Govern- ment for the disposal of it, and would receive a considerably larger proportion of the price realised than he does at present. That method, I think, should be carried out. The Minister in charge of the Department of Commerce might very easily communicate with the Com- monwealth of Australia, and probably also the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 Argentine Republic, and ask them to join with New Zealand in endeavouring to get a fair price for wool. We find now that the wool sent Home is bringing from 4d. to 5d. per pound. Well, if the countries I have mentioned were to combine and say that the wool from these countries will not be sold under a fair price Ir pound, I feel it could be done, because they are the only producing portions of the world that have a surplus. If you take the Continent and if you take the Old Country, you will find that they have no surplus of wool ; they con- sume themselves all they can grow. I hope the Government will move in this matter. If they do not I will bring it forward again and again until something is done. At all events, cargo- boats, cool-stores, and selling agents should be arranged at once, so as to allow the farmers of this colony to live, and not be robbed by the middleman as at present. If you take the price of wool at the present time, and compare that with the selling-price obtained by the retailer for a pair of blankets, you will find that 10lb. of wool-I think that is the weight of wool put into a double blanket-at 53d. a pound, gives 4. 2d. to the producer as his share in an article for which the last man who has to handle it receives $1 2s. 6d. That shows how the profit goes to those who handle the products between the producer and the retail purchaser. The Go- vernment have to be congratulated on the effec- tive steps they took to stamp out the plague in this colony. We remember at the time the plague existed in Auckland what the behaviour of the Auckland members was in this House. They were simply furious at the idea of the plague existing in Auckland, yet they must have known that it was there perfectly well. They tried to disabuse their minds of the fact, but I understand it has been proved beyond a doubt that the plague did exist in Auckland, and were it not for the action of Dr. Mason, Mr. Gilruth, and the Government we would have no doubt had it all over the colony, owing to the carelessness and neglect of some of the Auckland people. In one portion of the Speech it says,- " On the 31st March last the people of this colony were enumerated. The returns disclose a substantial, increase as compared with the census of 1896, and a considerable increase as compared with the census of 1891. The increase on the whole is not unsatisfactory, yet in a young country like this, so favourably circumstanced, there is room for improvement, especially in respect to the natural increase, and the falling-off in the birth-rate gives ground for reflection and anxiety. The most pleasing feature in the late enumerating of the people is that there is a marked increase in the number of those of the Maori race, and the out- look in this respect is cheering in the extreme, and exceptional in regard to aboriginals when surrounded by and brought into close contact with other races, their customs, and environ- ments." Well, if the Government are anxious to remedy the falling-off in the birth-rate I think I could easily propound a scheme to increase the population of our colony, and that is to make a provision similar to the old-age pensions. For instance, there are many men in my district who have large families to keep, and there are many others who would probably have large families, but they are unable to maintain them. I would suggest that every man who has a family of over six children should be entitled to a pension. Mr. HORNSBY .- Give them grants of land. Mr. O'MEARA .- I do not care in what way you assist them so long as they are assisted in some way. I think if that were done it would be a good thing, and it would, at all events, assist those who have large families to bring up, and who find a difficulty in properly keeping and educating their children. I have little more to say. There are many matters which I would like to speak upon, but I shall take an- other opportunity when the Financial State- ment comes down. I would merely warn honourable members of the Liberal party that they should study Liberal principles, and, instead of criticizing the personal character of the leaders of their own party, they should faithfully support the leader they were elected to follow in carrying out the true principles of Liberalism. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .- It was not my inten- tion to have added my meed of commendation to that of the mover and seconder of the Address in Reply, or other members who have spoken. Members of the Liberal party, at any 