' The Land for Settlements Consolidation Act, 1900,' shall be increased as follows-that is to say. an additional area of five hundred acres for each such child; of second-class land, an ad- ditional area of one thousand acres for each such child ; and of pastoral land. an additional area of two thousand acres for each such child." Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) moved, That progress be reported. The Committee divided. AYES, 22. Russell, G. W. Bennet Lang Russell, W. R. Collins Massey Smith, G. J. Fraser, W. McGuire Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. Gilfedder Millar Hanan Hardy Monk Tellers. Herries Pirani Graham Rhodes Hutcheson Meredith. NOES, 35. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. Palmer Arnold Hall Parata Seddon Hall-Jones Barclay Laurenson Buddo Stevens Lawry Carneross Steward McGowan Tanner Carroll Colvin Mckenzie, R. Ward Duncan McLachlan Wilford McNab Ell Willis. Field Mills Tellers. Fisher Napier Hogy Flatman O'Meara Hornsby. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 PAIRS. For. Against. Allen, J. Morrison Houston Bollard Smith, E. M. Lethbridge. Majority against, 13. Motion negatived. The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 13. Russell, W. R. Fraser, W. Lang Mackenzie, T. Hardy Monk Teliers. Herries Fraser, A. L. D. Hornsby Rhodes Russell, G. W. Massev. Hutcheson NOES, 39. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Parata Laurenson Pirani Arnold Lawry Seddon Barclay Bennet Smith, G. J. McGowan Mckenzie, R. Buddo Stevens Steward McLachlan Carucross McNab Carroll Tanner Meredith Ward Collins Millar Wilford Colvin Willis. Mills Duncan Napier Ell Tellers. Field O'Meara Flatman Palmer Graham Hogg. Hall VOL .. CXVI .- 39. PAIRS. For. Against. Allen, J. Morrison Bollard Houston Lethbridge Smith, E. M. McGuire Witheford Thomson, J. W. Fisher. Majority against, 26. Motion negatived. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved the following new clause :- "Every person who, at any time now or here- after, may be the holder of land under lease in perpetuity under the principal Act shall be entitled to acquire the frechold of such land as soon as he shall have carried out all such improvements, if any, as are required to be made by his lease, and if he shall have fulfilled all the conditions of his lease, except the con- dition for payment of his fees or rent on the land, which are required by his lease, on appli- cation to the Commissioner for the purpose, and paying the full price of the land." The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 10. Hardy Monk Tellers. Hornsby Pirani Herries Massey Rhodes Lang. Mackenzie, T. Russell, W. R. NOES, 41. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Fraser, W. Arnold Palmer Parata Barclay Graham Bennet Hall-Jones Seddon Buddo Smith, G. J. Hogg Carncross Hutcheson Stevens Carroll Laurenson Steward Collins Tanner Lawry Colvin Ward McGowan Mckenzie, R. Wilford Duncan Ell Mclachlan Willis. Field McNab Teller .. Flatman Millar Hall Fowlds Napier. Mills PAIRS. For. Against. Allen, J. Morrison Houston Bollard Smith, E. M. Lethbridge Witheford McGuire Fisher. Thomson, J. W. Majority against, 31. Motion negatived. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) moved the following new clause : " Section fifty-two of the principal Act is hereby repealed, and also ' The Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act, 1900,' in so far as it applies to any land held under the principal Act, and the following substituted : ' Where in any case, in the opinion of the Land Board, the rent is too high, the Minister, on the recommendation of the Land Board, may make such reduction of the rent as the Minister and the said Land Board may deem reasonable." " -- New clause, by leave, withdrawn. 