Let honourable members try to realise the members possessing the ability of the Opposition working of such a measure as this. The ballot under this Bill is proposed to be by an absolute majority, though it does not say how the absolute majority is to be ascertained. Do honourable members mean to tell me that mem- bers so balloted for who had not an absolute ma- jority would not in turn have their names set again before members to be reballoted upon as in the incidence of taxation in this colony, or to who should be selected a member of the Executive ? The number of votes cast for the man who had not an absolute majority would, of course, be known, and that would mean that the disappointed man or men of those first nominated could intrigue with half a dozen members or more, as the case may be, and so attempt to change the vote cast at the first bal- lot. in order to enable him to get an absolute majority. and that, perhaps, for a man who, in the first place, was in a hopeless minority. Now. take the proposed system of twenty-five members from time to time having the right to petition the Speaker. One member might be disappointed with a particular member of the Ministry because the Minister did not yield to ali he desired. What would that mean ? Not a day passes now under the existing system but a member of the Administration has to do some- thing which is not pleasing to a member. His requests have to be refused frequently. A mem- ber may have strong feelings on the matter. Well. Sir. if under the elective Executive system the members of the House found a Minister who had a strong backbone, who was firm, and who was determined to give full effect to what he believed to be right as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 an act of administration, and refused to do what members pressed him to do, then, in turn. they could set to work to get twenty- five men to go to the Speaker and say, " We wish to have that member of the Ministry removed." A nice position to place a Minister in. If members agree to pass this Bill I am convinced they will be creating a vicious sys- tem -- ave, of the very worst kind that has ever been established in this or any other self-governing country. Again, picture for a moment what would have been the position in New Zealand during the last ten years if this elective Executive system had been adopted. Why, we have had before the country since 1891 proposals which some people would term of a revolutionary character -proposals which the Government and the Liberal party be- lieved to be for the benefit of the masses of the people and for the general welfare of the colony. These proposals have come from one side of the House primarily, and they were vigorously and continuously opposed by the Opposition. There was at one time a balance of parties in this House-there was, from memory, I think, only a difference of about four between those opposed to the policy of the Administration and those favourable to it. Can members of the House conceive what would have been the position if an elective Executive system had been in operation during the time to which I have referred ? The chances are that at least one or two popular would have been elected to the Ministry. Would the colony have possessed any of the advanced measures it has to-day ? I say it would not. An active minority in a Cabinet, quite independent of their colleagues, could "sprag" almost any advanced proposal. Would it have been possible to bring about a change to have effected legislation to give our farmers cheap money ; would we have had many of the social measures we now possess, under which enormous advantages and general improvements have been given to the workers of the colony, many of which, I admit, were at the time ex- periments, and which drew forth adverse criti- cism and the most resolute and bitter opposition from those people, who were originally unable to conceive the possibility of their turning out a success ? Under the elective Executive system could honourable members have established the present land for settlements policy ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. Sir J. G. WARD. - The honourable member says " Yes." Sir, let him turn up the pages of Hansard and see if I am not correct in saying that that policy was fought for determinedly by men who were returned on one side of the House. Sir, under an elective Executive system, if a minority of the members of the Cabinet had opposed the policy of land for settlements and the acquisition of estates, no Government, however powerful some of its members, could have brought a workable scheme before the House and asked the House to affirm it. Honourable members know that under such a system they would be able to select from among the gentlemen on the oppo- site side of this House-some of whom have great ability, but whose policy has been dia- metrically opposed to the wishes of the vast majority of the people of this country for years past. Sir, if any of those honourable gentle- men had been in the Cabinet they could, with- out offence to their colleagues, have been the means of raising internal strife, of effecting prolonged delays, and of having emasculated proposals before they saw the light of day : and then what would have been the position of our advanced legislation, much of which, hardly fought for and hardly won. has conferred last- ing and inestimable benefits upon thousands and thousands of our fellow-colonists ? Under this Bill it is actually suggested that the Pre- mier of the country should be selected by his colleagues for a term of twelve months. Now, does any honourable member mean to tell me that in any enlightened country in the world, except Switzerland, which I shall refer to pre- sently. you will find such a method ? What continuity of policy could there be with the head of a Government liable to be changed every twelve months? Under such a system, would you expect to find men prepared to go to the hustings with a forward policy when the head of the Government. subject to the domination of a minority of the House, would be at the caprice of a certain number, who, if they so desired, could go to the Speaker and ask him to have 