Elective Executive Hill. 446 of action. I do not care whether it is in New Zealand or outside, unless you get a certain number of men to act together you can achieve nothing. It has been well said by a distin- guish. d politician of the last century-I refer to Edmund Burke -- that " a man who lives wholly detached from others must be an angel or a devil." I maintain that according to principle, and according to experience, which is always, I think, the best test, party govern- mont is the best in a free State. It has been defended by almost every writer of eminence on political ethics. There is scarcaly a man in the front rank of British political scientists who has attacked the principle of party government. I take the leading writers of the present day or of a past apech on political philosophy, and I do not think there is one in the front rank who attacks the principle of party go- vernment. There are a number of small-fry writers of minor importance who clamour for its abolition : but if you will inquire who these writers are you will find that in nearly every case the works of these minor writers are the works of men who are opposed to the party of the people, and in most cases the works are published by societies and organizations banded together to keep the power in the hands of the classes and take it out of the hands of the masses. Now, Sir, Edmund Burke, on the sub- ject of political science, is probably head and shoulders above any authority of the present or past timos. Edmund Burke says, - " l'arty divisions, whether on the whole operating for good or evil, are things insepar- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 able from free government. This is a truth which, I believe, admits little dispute, having been established by the uniform experience of all ages." Now, that is the testimony of one of the deepest thinkers and most distinguished writers that has ever lived. If you take countries where no party government existed you will find disorder, insecurity of life and property, chaos. Take the case of Rome. Was it not the absence of strong political parties that largely contri- buted to the destruction of Rome? If you take any writer on the history of Rome you like- take Froude : road the Life of Casar by Froude, or read any book on the political history of Rome - you will find that sectional jealousies and the intrigues of coteries brought about the fall of Roman liberty. Mr. W. H. Lecky, who is one of the greatest living English writers on politics, in his work on "Democracy and Liberty." speaking on the party system, says,- " In a Parliament divided into several groups its "Executive' strength is still further dimi- nished. A coalition may at any time overthrow it. It depends upon the concurrence of many distinct groups, governed by different motives, aiming at different objects, representing dif- feront shades of political feeling. It is obliged to conciliate by separate bribes these different sections, or to discover some cry that may rally them, some active and aggressive policy that may secure their support, and to which they will subordinate their special [HOUSE.] Elective Executice Bill. [JULY 17 strongly organized parties these minor ques- tions fall into their natural place: but in a Parliament broken into many fractions, each fraction can exercise a power utterly dispro- portionate to its numbers and to its real haid upon the country. Que consequence of this disintegration of Parliament is a greatly increased probability that policies which the nation does not really wish for may be carried into effect. The process which the Americans call . log-rolling' becomes very easy. Om minority will agree to support the objects of another minority on condition of receiving in return a similar assistance, and a number of small minorities aiming at different objects, ne one of which is really desired by the majority of the nation, may attain their several ends by forming themselves into a political syndicate and mutually co-operating." The Bill, therefore, is one that I cannot sup- port : but I think that some change in the existing system is necessary, and the change which I suggest, and which, I submit, is in ae- cordance with the theory of the Constitution. is that the predominant political party should elect the Ministry. At the beginning of each. Parliament there could be a meeting of the party in power, and the Ministry could be elected by the members of the party. Notwith. standing what the honourable member who in- troduced the Bill has said, I think it might ix possible for one or more of the minority in on- position to get into the Ministry under his bian. That would destroy the solidarity of the Govern- I maintain that, unless you have a ment. united Government acting in concert on main lines of policy, it is not possible that you cat have effective administration. The experi- ence of other countries bears this ont : but time will not permit my further referring to them to-night. Probably the introduction of the Bill and the discussion will have done good. I think that when Parliament is sitting, and the members are assanbled in Wellington, the members of the party in power ought to be consulted about fresh appointment- to the Ministry. That party having received the con- tidence of the people of the colony, it is its function to nominate the members of the Executive. And, no matter how caparle the judgment of the head of the party may be, and even though his choice of Ministers may be in accordance with the wishes of the party, I maintain there ought to be a proseccional meeting at the beginning of a new Parliament, and that Ministers ought to be elected by the members of the party. No new law is neces- sary for this purpose. The law does not it- cognise Liberals and Conservatives: there- fore no legislation is necessary to place u- in a legitimate constitutional position. - am glad that the opportunity has occurred for this debate, and I am sorry that the honourable gentlemen opposite have ut thought it to discuss the proposal. I hope that on some future occasion we may have a resolution introduced-that would be quite sufficient. If it is desired that the question 