system of nominated Land Boards, especi- ally so far as members of this House are concerned, is done away with the better. I think it is unfair for their political oppo- nents at elections to find that members of the House occupy positions on Land Boards, for it gives them an influence over the settlers that is wrong. Now, Sir, in conclusion, when this Bill is passed what will be the general idea created ? It will be seen that great faults have been dis- covered in the present land-for-settlement policy of the Goverment. The Premier himself has confessed in Committee that the system of the ballot is nothing short of gambling and swin- dling. He has endeavoured by the new clause 8 to mitigate that, and to try and prevent the evils he has so graphically described in Com- inittee. But I want to ask why it is that, when during all these years this gambling and swin- dling has been going on at the ballot-box. -- for the Premier told us he had seen it, that he had attended the balloting and had seen the mani- pulation of the ballot - why is it, then, that no Bill has been brought down before to try and de- feat this swindling? The Premier pretends to know about it ; why is it that we have this pro- vision to prevent it put simply in a land-for- settlements clause? Why is it not in a Land Bill, to apply to all Crown lands? I do trust the Premier, now he has admitted the almost entire failure of his land policy, now he has admitted that the machinery is altogether de- fective- I do trust that he will bring down another Land Bill and try to remedy these defects in the same way as he has done, or thinks he has, in this Bill. This is only a par- tial measure. It does not apply to the whole of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 the lands of the colony. and if the system of ballot is wrong for the land for settlements it is equally wrong for all the Crown lands of the colony ; and the effect is that there will be two ballot systems, one for the land for settlements and the other for the rest of the Crown lands of the colony. I trust we shall see an amendment brought down, tardy though the remedy must now be; and, though it should have been done years ago, I trust it will be brought down, though even at a late stage of the session. Mr. MILLS (Minister of Trade and Cus- toms) .-. Sir, the speech we have just listened to is precisely like a great number of other speeches that we have heard in this House during the last ten years. It is a very good Opposition speech, and there can be no doubt on which side the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty is to be found. We always know where to look for him and what to expect. Therefore I was not at all surprised to-night to hear him defend the freehold tenure as the panacea for all evils. That has been reiterated over and over again in this House ; but at the same time we have managed to make headway, even though it may have been at the point of the political bayonet, in forcing this land-for- settlements policy through the House. Day after day has been consumed in what we may call useless argument, argument which in many cases has been nothing more than obstruction - a mere wasting of the time of the House. Mr. Herries But, after all, we have managed to carry the policy through ; the colony has approved of the policy ; and now, when the Premier deem- it advisable to go a little further to protect the interests of those in the country who need that protection most, we have to fight the battle over and over again. But, Sir, the Liberal party are prepared to do battle, and to stand to their guns so long as is needed, in order to carry on the policy that we feel is best and most beneficial for New Zealand. I was very much surprised to hear the remarks of the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty in respect to the Land Boards. Sir, I think these remarks were most uncalled - for. Sir. the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty told us that the Land Boards were political ma- chines. I say it is a disgrace to any man wie utters such a sentiment in this House, because every one who knows the colony, as a great number in this House do, must acknowledge the great services which are rendered by those gentlemen who occupy the high position . f members on the Land Boards throughout the colony. An Hon. MEMBER. -- What did the Premier say about them ? Mr. MIL.I.S .--- Well, the Premier expressed an opinion with regard to the Land Boards i. only a general way, saying in some instances it might be wise to make some change; but it does not follow, because there may be some few exceptions, that all the members are not the proper class of men to administer the Land Act and its amendments. I challenge contradic- tion to this statement from any one who has any knowledge of the Land Boards of the colony. We have on those bodies men wir have devoted a great deal of time and evpatie to the interests and welfare of the districts which they represent, and we are very largey indebted to the good local knowledge and sound common-sense of the men who give their Nr. vices to the country by sitting on those bodies. Therefore I consider it most unfair to have any reflection cast on men of that class, who are not here to defend themselves. An Hon. MEMBER .- There are plenty of them here. Mr. MILLS .- I am alluding to those mem- bers of Land Boards who do not hold seats in this House : those who are here can defend themselves. But, Sir. the Opposition have always taken a jaundiced view of any matter which reflected at all on their policy or party. and therefore they call these Boards policie. machines, simply because they do not carry out a policy which their party wish them to do. But, Sir, the members of the Land Board- have to guide their actions by the statutes which have passed through this Parliament. and they administer them to the best of their ability ; and I venture to say, in spite of all the -I was going to say rubbish about the fra. hold, although I must qualify that statement. as I admire the desire for it in some who haw imbibed that sentiment from their childhoci. but at the same time I believe in progresses. moving steadily forward -- I am quite sati-ned 