there were a number of members who took a considerable interest in this matter of the issue of State notes, either redeemable or irredeem- able, and he asked the question for the purpose of bringing it under the notice of the Govern- ment and calling attention to it once again. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he really could not understand the present circumlocution, because it came back to the same thing -it was paper. They issued debentures, and gave secu- rity to somebody else ; behind that paper was the security of the State-the security of the real estate of the people of the colony ; then that somebody else had got to make so much out of it, but he had not got gold behind it. Take the banks. They only had one-third of gold behind their notes. The Government went to the banks, and asked them to find money for them, and gave them a big percentage for doing it. In Queensland the Government issued the notes, and were behind them, and then, after they had issued them, they paid 33 to 4 per cent. to somebody else to simply hand them back their own notes. The more one thought of this question the more one found one's-self in favour of the State giving direct security. He looked forward with hope to the move- ment made in the direction indicated. BLUECLIFFS ESTATE. Hon. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Premier, Whether the Bluecliffs Estate has been placed under offer to the Land Purchase Commissioners, and whether the offer has been accepted ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that part of the Bluecliffs Estate, comprising 10,000 acres, had been offered, and would be shortly inspected and reported on as to its suitability. VOLUNTEER UNIFORMS. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will this session amend the Defence Act by striking out the clause enabling Volunteer corps to import their uniforms free of duty? He would like the Minister to do as he suggested in this question, because last session the tariff was practically evaded by means of a clause put into this Act. No one would think of looking into the Defence Act to find the duty placed on any article, and yet that was what was done in the Defence Act. This was a very important matter as far as the girls of the colony were concerned, because many of them were employed in the making of uniforms. Under that Act uniforms could be imported free of duty, and the girls were going to lose a large proportion of the work. Had the question come down in the Tariff Bill it would have been fought out pro- perly, and it was doubtful whether it would have been done, but, although no attempt had been made to deal with it in the Tariff Bill, it had been slipped through in the Defence Act. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said, What the honourable gentleman stated was quite true, but he did not think it was advisable to alter the Customs tariff in this matter. What really was intended was to admit a class of uniform and gold lace for officers, and that it should not have a general application. An absolute power was left to the Minister of Defence in the matter. There were some uniforms which could not be got in the colony ; consequently, this was a tariff on the officers principally, and what he had indicated was all that was intended by the amendment. As was usually the case, he found himself, as Defence Minister, practically in the position of having to give decisions in regard to different ap- plications that came in that Parliament only should give, and he did not think that was right. The matter ought to be definite, and he would prefer to repeal that clause altogether. There had been very little application for exemption as far as uniforms were concerned, but there had been opposition, because he had refused these applications made by local traders who wished to import such uniforms, as there was a danger of local traders importing large orders and saying they were for So-and -- o. Of course, if they could import in that way they would have an advantage in selling over other traders-by selling them outside the Volunteer corps and at a less price. seeing that they had to pay no duty on them -- - and he had found that his certificate had been wrongh used. He thought the best thing to do would be to repeal that provision altogether, and he would bring down a measure to do so. LICENSING ACT. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) asked the Premier. If, when dealing with the licensing question, he will so amend the law as to include a section containing provisions similiar to those contained in section 25 of " The Intoxicating Liquors Act. 1872," in force in England, an amendment which has been recommended by Commissioner Tunbridge and his predecessor in office ? He felt quite convinced that many of the evils in the liquor trade were attributable to the selling of liquor that went on during prohibited hours - on Sundays, and after hours -- and if a clause similiar to that existing in the English Act were introduced it would have a good effect in regard to lessening the evil complained of. In that direction the New Zealand Act works very unfairly, because if a publican serves liquor after hours he renders himself liable to punishment. but the customer who frequented the house. and whom he could not possibly get rid of. escaped scot-free if a prosecution were laid. The principal part of the clause reads as follows : - " If, during any period during which any premises are required under the provisions of this Act to be closed, any person is found on such premises, he shall, unless he satisfies the Court that he was an inmate, servant. or a lodger on such premises, or a bond ficie traveller. or that otherwise his presence on the premises was not in contravention of the provisions of this Act with respect to the closing of licensed premises, be liable to a penalty of not exceeding forty shillings." He thought it was only fair that those people who really tempted the publican to break the law should also take their part of the risk as 