On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), the words " and the Shipping-master " were in- serted after the words " officer of Customs." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved to strike out the words "or, if not then on board, have not landed in New Zealand." Amendment negatived, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 4 .- Not deemed a passenger on com- pliance with the Act. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) moved the addition of the following proviso :- " Provided that the maximum penalty im- posed by section nine of the principal Act is hereby increased from twenty pounds to fifty pounds, and that section, and section six of ' The Chinese Immigrants Act Amendment Act, 1sss,' shall be read and construed accordingly." Proviso agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 5 .- " Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be lawful for any Chinese member of the crew as aforesaid from time to time to go ashore in the performance of his duties in con- nection with the ship." Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) moved to add at the end of the clause the words " but for no other purpose." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " Nothing in this Act shall affect any pro- ceeding under the principal Act now pending." New clause added. Bill reported and read a third time. REFERENDUM BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 8 .- "Subject to the provisions of this Act. such poll shall be taken in each electoral ditrict in the colony by the same Returning Officer, at the same polling-places, and in the same manner as in the case of a general elec- tion, and the provisions of 'The Corrupt Prac- tices Prevention Act, 1881,' and ' The Electoral Act, 1893.' in so far as they are applicable, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply accordingly." Question, That the words "in each electoral district in the colony by the same Returning Officer, at the same polling-places, and in the same manner as in the case of a general elec- tion " be struck out, with the view of inserting " by post, in accordance with the regulations made by Order in Council." Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 14 .- " With respect to any Bill or other legislative proposal which has been sub- mitted to the referendum the following pro- visions shall apply :- "(1.) It shall not be again submitted for a period of three years after the gazet- ting of the result of the poll taken on the first submission unless at least ten thousand electors so request by petition to Parliament. " (2.). It shall not be again submitted unless the provisions of section four of this Act are complied with afresh." Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) moved the excision of the words "ten thousand elec- tors," with the view to substituting in lieu thereof the following words : "ten per centum of all the electors on the electoral rolls at the date of the taking of the poll." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 15 .- " Nothing in this Act shall apply to,- " (1.) Any Bill or other legislative proposal which deals with the construction or maintenance of public works of a purely local character, or with par- liamentary procedure, or which the House of Representatives, by resolu- tion, declares to be a matter of urgency ; nor to " (2.) Any private Bill." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, in subsec- tion (2), the insertion of the words "or local." Words added, and clause as amended agreed to. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "In the case of any Bill submitted to the referendum, a copy of such Bill shall be posted for public inspection in every post-office in the colony in a conspicuous place for fourteen days before the taking of the poll." Clause agreed to. Bill reported. EXPORTATION OF ARMS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, there is a necessity for the passing of this Bill. Without it, the colony might be made the vehicle of having arms exported therefrom, to its detri- ment and to the detriment of the Empire. More particularly is it necessary we should have this measure in respect to the islands of the Pacific. Not only that, but in communica- tion with the Imperial authorities on the sub- ject they concur in thinking that a measure of this kind would be of service and is necessary. I therefore move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read a second time. DISTRICT COURTS BILL. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- Sir, this is a short Bill, but a very important one to the community. It gives the District Court the same power in regard to certain offences as the Supreme Court possesses. It also extends the jurisdiction of the District Courts Criminal Jurisdiction Extension Act of 1870. Section 4 of that Act is amended by repealing the words "or any felony which when committed by a person not previously convicted of felony is punishable by penal servitude for more than seven years," and it provides that " the juris- diction conferred upon the Supreme Court by section fourteen of 'The Indictable Offences Summary Jurisdiction Amendment Act, 1900,' may be exercised by the District Court or a Judge thereof in respect of all offences within the jurisdiction of the District Court." I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. 