HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. [ in the same manner in all respects as an in- dustrial agreement duly executed and filed by Friday, 12th July, 1901. the parties." Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill-Cyanide clause by repealing the words " or any of." Process Extension Bill-Public Health Bili- It is necessary that that amendment should be Trustee Bill-Chinese Immigrants Bill-Acei- made so as to prevent that situation. Clause 10 dents Compensation Bill-The Contingents on the Steamer " Tagus "- Referendum Bill. is rendered necessary because it has been found that some of the largest unions. notably the Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past Seamen's Union, were absolutely prevented ten o'clock. from passing a resolution to bring their case under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. as PRAYERS. they never could get a majority of members INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND present in any one place. I may say that the ARBITRATION BILL. shearers and miners also found the same diffi- Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) .- Sir, culty. It is really a transposition. The pro- honourable members who have perused this vision is all right, but it got into the wrong Bill will have seen from its nature that it is place, and we have got to hark back and put it purely of a technical character. There is no large right. Then, clause 11 is to prevent any departure-in fact, scarcely a departure at all- intimidation or revenge. The necessity for from the principles obtaining and which have this has been occasioned in respect to the obtained in regard to the laws on our statute- disputes at Waihi and at Christchurch. The book. Being a Bill of the character named, I amending Act of 1895 allowed retrospective will give the reasons and the necessity for the protection for six weeks, but in the consolidat- alterations proposed. If honourable members ing Act of 1890 by some action this was left will turn to clause 3 they will find that under open. It is quite clear that the employers have the principal Act there is no power to make a the power, when they hear that one of their foreign company, carrying on business through employés becomes a member of a union, or an agent under a power of attorney, register as takes office in a union, or they fancy or have a union of employers. Obviously, therefore that some evidence that their employés are about to must be met, and the law perfected. Clause 4 take action to improve their position-they can, is desired for the purpose of enabling trade- on such grounds, or probably without having unions to be parties to an industrial agreement, any ground at all to which exception could be and clause 7 provides that they shall be bound taken, discharge their employés. The men by an award. Now the employers and industrial would be in such a position that they could / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 unions in a district are bound by an award, not carry on their unions under such circum- while a dissenting trade - union will not be stances. I think there ought to be retro- bound. Clause 5 is rendered necessary because spective power given, and in actions such as it has been found that the old maxim has been have been taken at the Waihi Mine and at applied to it: "You may pass any law you Christchurch we must protect the men. The like, but the lawyers will drive a coach-and- evidence on that point is very clear -- in fact, the four through it." Whilst we have decided by manager subsequently admitted it. That does law that members of the legal profession shall not, of course, recoup the men who have been not appear. they have got over that difficulty by thrown out of employment for a number of being made attorneys for either party, and as weeks. What we want to do is to make the law attorneys the Court has decided that they may as perfect as we can to prevent these contin- Well, this, of course, is designed to gencies arising. There is nothing further in appear. the Bill. It may probably be said that we meet that. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- They will be too many ought to let these matters rest ; but where a for you. no matter what you do. measure is purely experimental in its charac- Mr. SEDDON .- I am afraid that is so ; but, ter, if we find in working the legislation at all events, we can lock the stable-door against that Courts point out defects, it is surely our duty to rectify them. As I have said, there is their appearing as attorneys. It obviously puts nothing in the Bill with the exception of things on an equal footing. The only way to cause 11. There is no new principle in the stop it would be to say that they might appear, but must not get anything for it. I believe Bill : it is simply a Bill to remove difficulties found in the working of the Act. I move the that that would probably meet the case. I think you will admit that they are a necessary second reading of the Bill. evil. Clause 57 of the principal Act is as fol- lows :- Speaker, it becomes one's duty to give an expres- - " At any time before the Board's recommen- sion of opinion upon an amendment relating to Acts that have been in existence, and have been dation is filed. all or any of the parties to the pretty well tested over the colony during the reference may by memorandum of consent in last few years, and especially when one's the prescribed form, executed by themselves or opinion is diametrically opposed to the state- their attorneys (but not by their representa- ments made with regard to the working of these tivest, and filed in the office of the Clerk. agree measures by the Premier, and also by gentlemen to accept the recommendation of the Board, in prominent positions who claim that indus- and in such case the Board's recommendation, trial peace, order, and also good-will and amity when filed, shall operate and be enforceable Now, clause 6 of the present Bill amends the Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - I think, Mr. 