But for his own information I can tell him that House know what it means to take round a be was a staunch supporter of the measure. petition to the electors for any particular pur- Mr. SEDDON .- Possibly he voted for it, and pose? Why, Sir, you can get a petition signed spoke against it. by people with the greatest of ease-signed by Mr. WILFORD. Of course, I am young in the same people both for and against the same parliamentary procedure, but I have heard that object. You have only got to argue with -uch things do happen. I shall support the them, and they will sign whatever you like. wond reading of this Bill. I have always ap- They will say, "Oh, I will sign it, and let proved of it, and on the public platform I have me get on with my work." That frequently suggested that I would like such a Bill to be occurs on the taking round of petitions, and produced : and I think if, when the Hon. I am certain that in submitting the refer- Major Steward comes to consider his Elective endum to the people very much the same Executive Bill, he considers the advisability of thing would occur. The time for which we putting a clause into it that his measure be are elected is very short -- it is only a matter referred to the public of New Zealand, there of three years and surely, when our time would be a great deal more likelihood of his expires, if we have acted against the wishes of Bill getting through this House. our constituents, all they have to do is to turn An Hon. MEMBER .- You cannot discuss Bills us out, and put in those who will better represent them. If it were a long period-say, a matter on the Order Paper. of five or seven years the position would be Mr. WILFORD .- My honourable friend says I cannot discuss Bills on the Order Paper. But different, but when we are here for only three years it is not necessary that these matters i say he is wrong, for I say that, subject to should be submitted to the people. Then, let Mr. Speaker's ruling, which I greatly prefer, I would be perfectly in order in discussing a us consider the immense cost this will mean to clause that is to be added to that Bill so long submit question after question to the people, as the clause deals with the referendum. How- each measure so submitted costing as much as .ver. as the hour is late, I have no desire to a general election. Not that I would say that detain the House. I will merely conclude by the cost should deter us from getting an expres- saving I shall heartily support the measure. sion from the people if it were necessary. I Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- It is somewhat think the question of cost would probably only surprising for me to find the manner in which be a secondary matter. I do not wish to un- the minds of members of this House in regard necessarily take up the time of the House ; but to this Bill have changed. I remember when at the same time I think it is my duty, not- this Bill was brought down by the honourable withstanding the fact that so many members have changed their minds and turned political member for the Buller some years ago there somersaults, to maintain the position I have Was very strong opposition to it, and I was one of those who then strongly opposed the intro- always taken up, and record my vote against duction of the Bill. Well, Sir, I cannot say the referendum. that I am in the same position as other mem- vers who have so rapidly changed their minds. The difficulties and objections that I saw to the twelve o'clock p.m. measure then I see at the present time. It -cems to me that this shifting of duties from the members of both Houses of Parliament to the people of the electorates is unconstitu- cional, and ought not to be supported. Now, Sir. the great difficulty, it seems to me, with regard to subinitting this question to the elec- tors is that. generally speaking, on measures of this kind there is a great deal of indifference. half-past two o'clock. it is generally supposed that when members have been returned to this House they are here to study these questions, and act in the interests of those who have returned them. Supposing this question should be submitted to the electors of the colony, I am afraid that the number of those who would well consider the question, and who would make a study of it, would be com- That the Hon. Mr. W. C. Smith be appointed paratively few, and that the very object that Chairman of Committees, in compliance with one would wish would be defeated. That is to Standing Order No. 253. In moving this av. that many of our best Liberal measures, motion, Sir, I trust that the Council will agree which we take a pride in passing, I have no with me that the gentleman I am proposing is doubt. through their being imperfectly con- well qualified to carry out the important duties idered, would be rejected by the people. It for which he is nominated. In doing so I de- takes time to bring about reforms and for the sire to express my regret that the honourable people to thoroughly understand them, and I gentleman who has for so many years exercised think. myself, that every object we desire to the position, functions, and duties of Chairman vain would be defeated. Now, I would take the of Committees in this Council has not again ray of petitions. How many members in this VOL. CXVI .- 15. <!-- PageNumber="." --> Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at five minutes to LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 10th July, 1901. First Reading-Chairman of Committees. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Law Amendment Bill. CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. . I move, 