gradually, but surely-to the old Tory régime. Sir, I consider that in the past the Government has paid too much attention to labour adminis- tration, to the neglect of the country districts. The country districts can progress even without the industries of the colony, and ship, if neces- sary, their products from any part of New Zea- land without the aid of a large city. Mr. MORRISON .- With Government assist- ance. Mr. O'MEARA .- No; without the assistance of the Government, by a little arrangement. At any rate, I wish to warn the Government that, unless more attention is paid to the wants of country districts, these districts will assert themselves and insist on receiving more atten- tion than they are getting now. One town member who spoke in this debate suggested an increase in the land-tax. Sir, if I had my way I would like to put that honourable mem- ber on a 200-acre farm to-morrow, and if he were put on it he might carry on for twelve months, and then, having lost his capital, he would go back to the business from which he came. Sir, I desire to congratulate the Minister for Railways not only on his successful ad- ministration of the Railway Department, but also on his administration of the Postal Depart- ment. Cur labour members come here and condemn the Minister for importing carriages from America, yet they were the very men who the man's own personality. Do you mean to denounced the Minister last year for not pro- viding sufficient rolling-stock. They said they wanted it at once. It could not be manu- factured in the colony, could not be done in Great Britain, and the Minister was compelled to send wherever he could get them built ; and, now that he has complied with the demands of the public, these men are condemning him for doing what they themselves actually asked him to do last session. With respect to the Liberal, and will be admired and returned to old-age pensions, which is another subject mentioned in the Specch, I wish to say that I deprecate the names of the old-age pensioners being published in the public Press when the pensions are granted by the Magistrate. I think make him blush, and I do not think I have the it is unfair that that should be done. These old people are advertised quite sufficiently as it is, and it is only advertising their poverty. I sin- sentative, a man who will do good work in this House, and I hope his constituents will knock cerely hope this will be altered. The less 5.0. publicity we can give these old people this House over and over again. With respect to the better. As it is now, every old pensioner in the country districts and in the the proposer of the Address in Reply, his change largest centres of population is known to the of tone as compared with his utterance of last residents, and I say it is unfair and improper session is astonishing, and I do not understand that those who apply for their pensions should what has come over him since last session, when have their names disclosed by publication in the I thought from his speeches at that time he had severed his connection with the party newspapers. I listened very attentively to the little member for Dunedin City, and he said he altogether. He then acted-as the leader of and his colleagues were blamed for not sending the Opposition declared the other night-as a congratulatory message to Sir Joseph Ward. though he were an Oppositionist, and de- I do not think Sir Joseph Ward wanted that nounced the Premier of this colony. fact, I can assure the senior member for message, and they were not blamed for that ; but he certainly protested against the message Christchurch City that I was very much that was sent to him, which, in my opinion, surprised at his attitude; but we were pleased to get him back into the fold once more, was a most insulting one. If they could not congratulate him let them leave him alone. and I congratulate the honourable member on Why, the honourable member spoke as though the tone of his speech in proposing the Address he represented the Liberal party in this coun- in Reply, and on his reversion to the Liberal try. What a jolly diminutive representative he would make! I should be very sorry indeed to follow such a representative, and I deprecate and disapprove of the labour members of Dun- edin sending such a telegram. If they could not congratulate the honourable gentleman, the least they could have done was to have kept silence. I think I am safe in stating that 90 per cent. of the Liberal party in New Zealand are overjoyed at the high distinction that has been conferred on Sir Joseph Ward by His Majesty the King, and no one feels more pleased of it than I do. If a man, though he be a Liberal, takes office as a Minister of the Crown, is he to be condemned for accepting an honour that has been conferred upon him by his Sove- reign ? I say, if that is the case, the one who objects is not a loyal subject. If we are all to do that what will be the result ? Why, in the course of a few years the chances are that our King would be deposed, and we would have King Barclay in his stead reign- ing over our great Empire. The honourable member made reference to an election which took place in New South Wales the other day, when he said a well - known New-Zealander, Mr. Eden George, had defeated Sir John Gra- ham at a State election. We saw that in the paper also, but it was not his titular distinction that caused Sir John's defeat. It was probably tell me that Sir George Grey lost the confidence of the Liberals of this country because he was Sir George Grey? Did it affect him in the slightest degree? Would the honourable mem- ber condemn him for being Sir George Grey ? I advise the honourable gentleman to read the late honourable gentleman's speeches, and follow in his footsteps as closely as he possibly can. If he does that, I feel sure he will become a true this House time after time as a consistent follower of the Liberal party. An Hon. MEMBER .- You make him blush. Mr. O'MEARA. - No, I have no desire to power to do it. At the same time I recognise that the honourable gentleman is a good repre- the rough corners off him and return him to In 