Zealand Parliament has been its head, Mr. [ give my support to the present Government and Seddon. Although I differ from him in regard to many of the details of his administration, still, on the whole, I do not think you can im- prove upon the position by putting any other man in his place, and, even if you did, in a week's time he would be kicked out. It would only lead to a crisis which would interfere with the present position of the colony. Now, Sir, as to the general policy that has been carried . best answer the honourable member who has out during the past few years. During the past twelve months, for instance, we know there has been a magnificent display of Im- perial unity and a desire to help the Empire ! a noble son to fight the battles of the Empire which we all admire and esteem ; but still, I say, in a colony like this, where we want all our men and money, and where we want to see a ; nations, men like the honourable member for development of the industries of the colony, it is . Auckland City did not hesitate to send their possible to carry this Imperial military craze too far. If the Government are prepared to stop the militarism and stop this course of fascination held out to our young men to leave our shores : in which he has been such a noble participant and develop the resources of South Africa and i in the past, I think he may take to himself ; he fight its battles. I am quite prepared to stand up for the Government. But I do not think it is in the interests of the people of the colony that there should be any further attempt to send more contingents or men out of New Zealand. I unhesitatingly say so, although I am possibly one of the most consistent supporters of the present Government, and I shall be so to the end. But when the First Contingent came back a number of their men could not get em- ploy ment in this colony, and, as they could see no work ahead, they went back and joined the Sixth Contingent. I do not want to see a re- currence of that when other of our brave boys come back, because I am satisfied that if the Government of this country run the colony on business lines there will be no difficulty in find- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ing employment for every one of those brave boys who come back to our shores. and, instead of them going back to South Africa, settling and marrying there, and increasing the popula- tion of South Africa, we should keep them in this country, which is quite as good. If we could only get the Government to keep away from this cloud of Imperialism in which, I am afraid, their intelligence has been too much absorbed of late, and in which they are lost to a certain extent to the necessities of the colony and colonial life, and if they will set their intelligence to finding work for these men who are back from the war, I am quite satisfied that this country would be the most fascinating and productive on the earth for the British race to come to. If I blame the present Government for anything it will be if they allow this session to pass without having arranged an attractive programme of settlement for our returned troopers, so as to keep them in the country, and that they will have something to go to settle- ment on the land, work on the survey staffs, or .in the mining industry, I do not care what, so long as we can make them feel that in New Zealand there is a home for every man who likes to settle down, and especially for the New-Zca- landers who come back from fighting the battles { five members may petition the Speaker and of the Empire. So long as that is the case I will | that member is to go out of the Ministry. work against any change until they have had a fair trial, to see if they can create and maintain the necessary avenues of labour for the sons of the colony. I say let New Zealand be made an attractive home for the members of the British race. If the Government do that I will support them ; if they do not, I will not. Sir J. G. WARD .- Sir, I think perhaps I can last spoken by saying that example is better than precept. He will find the practical illus- tration of that in the fact that he sent out in South Africa. When there was a probability being involved with other of our country sons to the front. No man could do more, and it will ever be remembered to his credit. So that when he now takes exception to the policy words I first used, that " example is better than precept." He has set a splendid example, and with many such men in our country we nood have no fear as to its future. On such an in- portant occasion as this I would not like to se what is apparently a conspiracy of silence on the part of some honourable members on important proposals such as are contained in the Bill that has been placed before the House by the honour- able member for Waitaki. I would not like such an occasion to pass without, at any rate, putting upon record my own belief of the unde- sirability of effecting such a drastic change as the adoption of the elective Executive, which some honourable members believe would be better than the party system, and some of whom-I am sorry to affirm my conviction - no doubt are actuated by a hope that something mas crop up by a turn of the political wheel - a shuffle of the Ministerial cards -ard si effect a change, perhaps, in the personnel of the Administration as it is at present formed should be very sorry indeed, even had so great a principle been before the country, which it has not. to find that the party system, under which for generations so much has been det to maintain and build up that Empire of w.tb we are all rightly so proud, was to be abolished. or that from fastidious notions, or from pique or a craving for a change. any honourable memter was voting against what I honestly beheve to be his conscientious convictions and for th, adoption of the elective Executive. What is proposed under this Bill? It is proposed to introduce into this House a system of decep- tions, intrigue, and underhand methods which would bring discredit on the House of Represen- tatives, and which would in turn bring discredit on the colony. Why, what is proposed in the 1st or 2nd clause of this Bill? It is propri to select, by ballot, eight members to form :br Executive, and, in the event of it being con- sidered that any particular member of the Cabinet should be displaced, then twenty- 