and ascertain for himself, he having the records of the land. But, where a man was simply brought in to witness the signatures of the Natives he only would have read over to him the price and the conditions the Native was asked to sign. But I say that outside the law those were the instructions of the department. When I said that was the case the honourable member denied it was the law. I say it was the instructions, and I know what I am speaking about. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I will simply say that, whatever were the instructions, it was never done. The House divided. AYES, 33. Hall-Jones Allen, E. G. Rhodes Herries Russell, G. W. Arnold Buddo Hogg Seddon Smith, G. J. Carroll Hornsby Houston Tanner Collins Colvin Laurenson Ward Wilford Duncan Lawry Field Witheford. McGowan Mckenzie, R. Flatman Telers. Mills Fowlds Barclay Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Palmer. Hall NOES, 6. Tellers. Heke Massey Carncross Haselden Monk Stevens. PAIR. For. Against. Fisher. Bollard. Majority for, 27. Bill read a third time. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to four o'clock a.m. (Friday), until half-past two o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 26th July, 1901. . First Reading-Third Reading-Gold-mining Indus- try-Vaccination-Goldfields and Mines Com- mittee-Referendum Bill-Police Offences Bill- Imprest Supply Bill (No. 2). The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Land for Settlements Amendment Bill. THIRD READING. Cemetery Trustees Validation Bill. GOLD-MINING INDUSTRY. The Hon. Mr. REEVES asked the Minister of Education, If the Government will place a sum of money on the estimates as a bonus to -- which gold can be recovered from black sand ? There were thousands of acres of land on the West Coast, and a large amount of land on the East Coast, consisting of black sand and auriferous deposit. The difficulty of separating the black sand from the gold, both being of high specific gravity, was very great, and he thought some inducement should be offered to people to discover a process by which this could be done. He might point out that the Government, in their wisdom, offered rewards, or bonuses, as they were called, for various things. . For instance, a bonus had been offered some time ago for the best mode of treating flax, a very valuable commodity, and one that he would like to see something done to improve. A re- spectable bonus had been offered for the pro- duction of a certain quantity of shale-oil ; and he might also mention that bonuses had been offered for quicksilver, iron, and various other products. He could not enumerate all the bonuses that had been offered, but he would point out that the offering of these bonuses cost the colony nothing unless successful methods were discovered. If a process were discovered by which the gold could be saved from this black sand, that would produce great wealth to the colony ; and if no one came forward with the necessary machinery for saving the gold the offering of the bonus would cost nothing. Under the circumstances, he thought the Go- vernment would do well to offer a sum sufficient to induce people to exercise their brains and ingenuity in endeavouring to discover some means by which one of the most valuable in- dustries of the colony could be carried on. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, No doubt the question the honourable gentleman had brought under notice was a very important one. The Government had at many times endea- voured to encourage inventions in similar direc- tions, and he could assure the honourable gentle- man that this particular matter that he had brought before the notice of the Council - namely, the discovery of a process by which gold could be recovered from black sand - ho supposed he meant under remunerative con ditions - would not escape the notice of the Government, and that, if possible, arrange- ments would be made by which a bonus would be offered. VACCINATION. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS moved, That there be laid on the table of the Council a return showing for the past five years,-(1.) The num- ber of births registered and the number of vaccinations recorded. (2.) How many cases for non-compliance of the compulsory clauses of " The Public Health Act, 1876," and amend- ments, have been instituted by Registrars dur- ing the past five years, and also how many persons have been fined for conscientiously re- fusing to have their children vaccinated. Sir, Dr. Karl Kubin, of New York, in the Medical Record, a paper published in that city in April last, gave some startling phases of the vaccina- tion question, and the dangers arising there- 