man who introduced the Bill. I shall not go Government system in Switzerland is a thing into ancient history, or follow him in the of yesterday; it is only a matter of the last parallel which he drew between the Witenage- forty years. But let us see how that system works in Switzerland. It is true, I believe, mote and the proposal here introduced. That that the meetings of the Federal Assembly are Assembly. I take leave to point out, was not an conducted in a very businesslike way, and in Assembly in which all the people met together and legislated. It was an Assembly of the King some respects, possibly, we may find things and his Earldormen, and one in which the people that we can imitate; but in some respects I do not think that is the case. In the Swiss had no room whatever. The King and his Earls legislated for the people, but the people had Assembly every man has to go dressed in a ne voice in it. But let us come to Switzer- black coat; that might be a very excellent land. The argument of the honourable mem- thing, but I do not think we need imitate that. ber for Selwyn amounted to this: that the They have no Hansard in Switzerland, and I do Swiss are a nation in every respect very superior not know that we should like to copy that. to us - higher educated and better governed. They meet at eight o'clock in the morning, and, The honourable gentleman stated that they supposing we should copy that, I am afraid I Were such a good example that we should should have to retire from public life. Then, the Swiss Federal Assembly is not distinguished, endeavour to follow them, and that we ought to adopt their peculiar system of electing the under the present system, for leading the way Executive. He considered that the superior in progressive legislation, but quite the re- position of the Swiss was due to the elective verse. During the last forty years they have Executive system. But, first of all, I deny not done anything much in the direction of industrial legislation. that the Swiss, fine people as they are, are a better people, or that their country is a better gentleman referred to the fact that we were country, than New Zealand. Are the Swiss a now face to face with great social questions, more moral people than we are? I say they and that we ought to meet them ; but I say, if are not. The proportion of illegitimate births we take into consideration the question of the there is above what it is here. Are they a labour legislation, and the position we have more sober people than we are? I say they taken in this colony in regard to that, and com- are not. They are commonly called a nation pare it with that of Switzerland, we shall find of innkeepers. For the benefit of the honour- that the position of the labour-laws of that able member for Christchurch City (Mr. J. G. country is very backward indeed. So far as Smith), I may mention that they have made the result of the Swiss system of elective the manufacture of spirits a Government mono- Government is concerned, I think the best they poly, and they got a very large revenue from claim is that their departmental work has been that. Are they a better educated people than very well done. That is the one good result https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 of their system. The honouralle member for we are? No, they are not. Then, have they set us any example in legislative reform in Selwyn also stated that the Swiss stood pre- recent years? That is exactly where the elec- eminent for economy in their finances ; but for tive Executive system has failed. No Parlia- the last four years for which I could get their ment that has sat in Switzerland during the Budget figures they brought down deficits, and last forty years can show anything like such I hope we shall not copy them in that respecet. a brilliant record as the Parliament of New Zealand during the last four years. If we want borrow. They do not borrow. an example of success in legislative reform, by It has no no means copy the Swiss system. national debt, and if the honourable gentleman doubt its strong points, but legislative reform will look at the statistics he will see that they is not among them. What, then, is the source do borrow, most certainly. How is it that the of the comparative well-being of the Swiss popu- Swiss get ahead of their Federal Central As- lation ? To ascertain this we have to go back sembly? It is on account of their excellent to ancient history. The Swiss were always a system of local self-government ; and the posi- nation occupying the position, so to speak, of a tion of the Swiss Confederation shows what citadel surrounded by the many fortresses of New Zealand ought to have been, and what Europe: and in the case of people inhabiting New Zealand might have become but for the mountainous country you will find them de- abolition of the provinces. If we are to imitate veloped into a very fine physical and industrious Switzerland, let us do so in that respect. and let race. In many a tough battle with the feudal us reform our system of local self-government armies of their neighbours they won their free- and go back to a modified system of Provin- dem. Having that, they learned to manage I cialism. If we do that. I think we shall be able their affairs, and developed their excellent to take many a good hint from Switzerland in sistem of local government, and it is because the conduct of a local-government system. But the Swiss are a very intelligent people that I say the Swiss are not ahead of us ; that their they long ago developed that fine system of good position springs not from the fact of the education which has put them at the head of elective system, but from their excellent primary system of education, from their historical tradi- the other nations of Europe. I believe their tions of freedom, and from their fine system of system of education and their system of local local self-government. With regard to their government have been the sources of the pro- Executive system, one political party has almost sperity and well-being of Switzerland, and not The honourable " Sir R. STOUT .- So will you if you cease to " Mr. REEVES .- Don't they ! They have a 