ment we find that those employés work very long hours indeed. I can quote one case specially-there are numbers that could be quoted-down South, where a man was work- ing in connection with the railway, and where he got under a truck and had his legs cut off. That man had worked for about sixteen hours during that day, and it was very little wonder that when night came on he was so fatigued - that might have been the reason ; I do not say it was ; but in all probability it had something to do with it-that that man slipped and met with the accident he did meet with. Then, during last session of Parliament, I brought before the notice of the Minister of Justice from time to time the question of the hours that were being worked by the warders in the gaols of New Zealand. I have not mentioned that question this session-not because I have for- gotten it-but I trust the Minister will be able to tell us presently what has been done with regard to this class of Government labour. I thought, Sir, it was necessary to say a few words on this Bill for this simple reason, that I con- sider that as at present presented to us it is most unsatisfactory. I do not think it will accomplish any good; but I trust that the matter having been mentioned here will cause the Ministry once more to think of their em- płoyes, and rectify some of these evils that do exist, and which are I was going to say a dis- grace, Sir, - but certainly a weakness in a party that so well and ably represents the labour people of this colony. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I wish to say, Sir, that I agree with the greater num- ber of the speeches I have heard in this debate, and especially was I glad to hear the speech of the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold), who preceded me. I am sub- stantially in accord with him, and with the great majority of those who have already spoken : but, though I share their opinions with regard to this Bill, and with regard to the question generally, I am not at present able to follow their example when they say they propose to vote for the second reading. The attitude of the average member who speaks on the Bill is this : that he will vote for the second reading, provided, however, under no consideration whatever will he vote for the third reading. Now, my position is this: I quite see that clause 3, dealing with domestic servants, and clause 4, dealing with farm labourers, cannot possibly stand. At the same time, I am thoroughly in accord with the general principle which is laid down in clause 2 of the Bill : but I am determined not to vote for the Bill simply on account of its good name, nor even on account of its affirming an excellent abstract principle, unless it is going to affirm it in such a way as will lead to some beneficial result. Therefore I put it to the honourable gentleman who introduced this Bill that it is incumbent on him to show to me and others who are in the same position what the concrete result from the Bill may be expected to be when these clauses are taken out of it. There will be ciple that eight hours shall be a legal day's work ; and there will be left clause 6, which says that " Any person employed for a longer period than forty-eight hours in any one week, except as provided in this Act, may demand from his emplover, and recover in any Court of competent jurisdiction, full additional wages or salary pro rata for the overtime so worked, and in addition thereto a further sum of twenty-five per centum on such amount." What the practical value of that last clause is I fail to see, unless there is fixed not only the legal number of hours, but the legal rate of wages. If the legal rate of wages fits in with the legal day of eight hours, then, of course, the net effect of these two clauses would be something prac- tical. Supposing I want to work a man nine hours a day, and only pay him 8s., though you may declare eight hours is a legal day's work you will not be declaring that 8s. is a legal day's pay. I may think 8s. nevertheless a fair pay for a day's work, and yet there is nothing to prevent me agreeing with my workman that I shall pay him at the rate of 6s. a day and employ him nine hours; there is nothing illegal in that. Assuming that 6s. is the wage agreed upon, and I employ the man for nine hours, then by this Bill I should have to pay 25 per cent. extra for the ninth hour, which still comes to something less than what admit- tedly would be a fair rate of pay, Ss. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It would be a hard case to pay a man worth 8s. only 6s. Mr. ATKINSON .- I want to put it to the honourable gentleman that what we have got to guard against in legislating is the dodging of an Act ; and, if it is as easy to be done as to tumble off a log, then the Act is not worth putting on the statute-book ; it will not aid in achieving what honourable members desire. What I desire to find out is, in the first place, if the Bill does not fix the legal rate of pay in addition to the legal length of the day, how can we possibly make that provision in clause 2 operative ? Now, another question, which is a very serious one, and to which I would like to draw his attention is this: the rela- tion of that declaration in clause 2 to the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Arbitration Court may fix forty-five hours a week as the legal week, and this Bill says it shall be forty-eight hours. The honourable member for Palmerston reminds me that in some cases it has been fixed that forty-four and a half hours shall be the legal week. What is the position then? Of course, the inference from clause 2 is that forty-eight hours a week is the legal week, notwithstanding the award of the Arbitration Court, and the award of the Court then would be an illegal week's work. That has not been contemplated by honourable members, who surely must see that a relation- ship should be established between the declara- tions of this Bill and the awards of Arbitration Courts. I remember the period to which the honourable member for Palmerston has re- ferred, the period of Parliament from 1893 to 1896, when there were a good many Eight 