pied and uncultivated. Until these lands had been taken up and occupied by the hardy sons and daughters of the South it was time enough for him to complain of the large estates in the South. They did the best they could. They came to the North and took up lands that were unoccupied, and did not disturb the large estates in the South. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, I supported on account of the principle, but I consider the area too large which he in- tended to give to the sons and daughters. I do not agree with the honourable member for Masterton when he says that freeholders were only serfs, and that the freehold tenure had been the curse of New Zealand. Has this country been cursed? Has it not been an exceedingly prosperous coun- try, and have not all the tenures that have ob- tained -- have not all the different systems that have obtained from even the squatters' days tended to advance the country ? As for the large areas that were taken up by the squatters in the early days, I may point out that those squatters were a means of colonisation. They brought high-class stock to the country, and they employed numbers of people at good wages, and all around many of these stations in the early days the very best settlement in this colony was formed ; but as the demand for land has increased these large blocks of land must come into use. To refuse to admit that the large landed proprietors did fill a very useful place in the early development of the country is, I say distinctly, ungenerous. For my part, I shall be glad to see the Bill made a workable one, and if that is done I believe it will be in the interest of the people of New Zealand. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) .-- I cannot allow this land-for-settlements question that is now before the House to pass without saying a few http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#cc-zero words on it. There is no question on which the people in the country districts feel more keenly than this question of the compulsory taking of land for settlement. I must say that this land-for-settlement scheme is wrong in principle from start to finish. The thing amounts practically to robbery and confisca- tion. In the first place, much of this land was taken up in the early days. The Government has given a title to it, and, after the settlers have felled the bush and sown it in grass, after they have fenced it by the help of their sons and even of their daughters, that land is taken from them by the Government; and for what reason ? Because the people in the towns have been frightened to go into the back country, and because they covet their neighbours' land. The land that has been improved in face of so many drawbacks and difficulties they covet and wish to take, and therefore they bring pres- sure on the Government to seize that land, because it is now easy for them to settle on. The Government back up these people because of their votes, and they are the means of keeping them on the Treasury benches, and that is one of the principal reasons for the acquisition of these estates. Then, how are they acquired ? I am not conversant with the South Island, but I can speak of the North Island, and most of the VOL. CXVI .- 41. estates were acquired at above their fair market values, with the result that this Government, which is supposed to represent the working-man, are bound to charge a rack-rent for the land because they have paid for it more than it is worth. And with the inflated price of land and the bottom tumbling out of the wool-market land-values must also fall, and with these de- pressing conditions the farmer will have to pay land-tax on higher valuations. I say that if the people want land let them carve out homes for themselves in the back country; but at present, through the continuation of the system of compulsory acquisition of estates, there is a feeling of intimidation spreading throughout this country amongst the landowners that does not augur well for the happiness and prosperity of the country. One gentleman told me that he would vote for me, but would not give me his open support, because if he did so he would be a marked man by the present Govern- ment. That occurred at the last election the other day. He said he would be marked, and his land would be acquired. I do not say that that would be likely, but that was his feeling. Most of the estates that have been acquired have been freely parted with by the owners because they have got more for them than they could have got in the open market. The sum of $12 per acre was paid for an estate in my district which a few weeks before was offered to a friend of mine for $10 per acre. The Living- stone Estate, near Hawera, was bought only a few weeks ago. A man said he would pay any rent for a part of it for a year or two, and then he would fall back on the Government and ask them to reduce it. The honourable member for Wairarapa mentioned the question of the Government valuers, and stated that some of them did not understand their business, and the honourable gentleman never said a truer word. And another thing is that the Go- vernment put a man in a position that ie not fair to himself. Three valuators should be appointed instead of one; two should be practical farmers, and the third should be a business-man. Then we should not hear anything of the bribery that goes on now in connection with the acquirement of these estates. Members laughed at me just now when I said there was a reign of terror prevailing in the country; but let me say that a lady said to me that she would shoot the first man who crossed her boundary to take her land -the land that she intended to leave to her children. That is the way the people are already feeling in this country over the land question. In all the cases where estates have been taken the land has been reproductive, and carrying stock. There are still thousands of acres yet to be taken up that are at present lying unproductive; and why should not the Government first attempt to settle the people on these lands, and leave the owners of the estates that are reproductive alone ? I saw the name of Mr. MeCardle mentioned in the morn- ing paper, stating that he had informed the Land Board that there was better land available in the Waikato district at 10s. an acre than the 