a person living outside that district must pay a { may be remedied in Committee, and that mem- tax to the Wellington cycling district, otherwise he cannot ride his bicycle outside his own dis- triet. Sir, I do not wish to oppose the Bill if it is amended in such a way that will benefit evelists, but I certainly think that if they want any rate it might be given a trial. I believe the privileges as set forth in this Bill, they have every right to pay for them. I think the House should see that that is provided before the Bill passes its final stage. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, it ought to satisfy the honourable member for Geraldine to know that already one of the objections he has any reform brought down that is not objected raised to the Bill has been provided for in clause 34. which sets forth that a Board cannot do anything to a road in a local body's district without the consent of that local body. So supporting the Bill. I believe in the prin- ciple of the Bill, and will vote for its second that the bogey the honourable gentleman has raised about Cycle Boards making cycle-tracks on a road in a district without the consent of argument of the honourable member for the local body is actually not in existence. In fact, I have never heard vet of a local body opposing any one improving their roads or buy- ing land to make tracks for themselves. The great trouble with local bodies is that the rate- payers in a district do not assist -- as they do in here : Those people who give that money have some parts of the United States-to maintain the roads by their own work, but simply con- tribute rates for the maintenance of roads and other works. I think the measure should improve the roads, and the people on the out receive the hearty support of every member of side have little say in the matter. If there the House, and especially the support of the country members. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. PIRANI .- The reason I sav the country be spent in that district, there would be some members is this, that I have time and again heard farmers complain that many of the cyclists have been used against the Bill, and met them are the only people who use the roads without contributing in any way to the maintenance ; that cyclists purchase no horse-feed from the farmers, they do not buy stock from them, and they do not contribute wheel-tax, which is be anxious to have their roads improved, will levied on vehicles in some districts ; and I think this Bill is the first step in the direction of making evelists contribute their share towards the cost of the maintenance of the roads they use. Sir. so far as we know not a single cyclist has objected to the clauses of the Bill. There matter. That is where I think there is an in- have been no petitions sent to the House against it, there have been no public meetings against justice to certain districts, and if the honour- able member will receive amendments to pro- it, but there have been meetings and petitions in favour of it. That is as about as good a districts, shall be spent in those districts, proof that the people who are proposed to be taxed in this Bill do not object to the in order that those subscribing may receive small contribution of 1}d. a week towards the maintenance of a decent track in some parts of the colony. It has been said the result of the honourable member will consent to receive amendments of that kind, I believe the Bill operations of these Boards will be simply to make good tracks in the vicinity of the large cities. But honourable members seem to forget that cyclists do not so much want good tracks near the large cities as better facilities when ground I shall vote for its second reading. they go on a trip abroad-when they travel throughout the colony-instead of going over the roads they have to use at the present time, and it seems to me that under this Bill cyclists will secure in the course of time something have been raised are worthy of consideration, like suitable tracks to travel on. I trust if there and I have no doubt they will receive that con- are any general objections to the Bill, that it bers will not oppose the second reading. I think the measure might be allowed to go into Committee so that it may be put into the best shape in the interests of the colony, and that at the Bill is wanted, both by cyclists and by the general public, and I think it would generally be found to be of very great assistance in a direc- tion that is urgently required. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- Sir, I think it will be admitted that there is hardly to by some people. In this particular matter difficulties have been suggested that to my mind have not been met by those who are reading; but, at the same time, 1 think the Marsden has not been answered. That argu- ment is this : That it is a hardship that cyclists in the out-districts of Hokianga, Whangarei, Waihi, and Coromandel should have to pay their annual fee of 5s. The hardship comes in no voice at all in the making of the roads, and necessarily the expenditure must be wherever the number in the larger centres may decide to were some proposal in the Bill that protected those who pay in each district, so that the money contributed in their own district could fairness in these proposals. The member for Palmerston met some of the arguments that very fairly. I believe the local bodies are all anxious to have their roads improved. At the same time it is not a question of the local bodies, because the local bodies, while they may take no action unless it is decided that certain roads shall be improved. Then, the very place that may most stand in need of improvements, and that may pay a good deal of money by way ot income, may have very little say in the vide that the moneys subscribed in certain the benefit of the expenditure, I think the measure would be a reasonable one. If the will be accorded the general support of members of the House. In any case, the tendency of the Bill is in the right direction, and on that Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). - Sir. there is a ring of self-reliance about this Bill that I like. " God helps those who help them- selves," and no doubt Parliament will assist the cyclists in this matter. The difficulties that 