say unjustifiable, for I am not sure that it would not be justifiable- but it might be unwise to obstruct. The right honourable gentleman will probably tell us presently that it was impossible to avoid the dilemma in which we are placed : that in the exuberance of our loyalty we have had no opportunity of thinking of anything but giving a hearty welcome to the distinguished visitors who have lately been in this colony, and that consequent on that visit the meeting of Parliament has had to be postponed to such a date as would prevent Supply being passed in such time as it ought to be passed. But let us consider whether that is really the case. Know- ing long ago, as we did, that the colony was to be visited by the Heir-Apparent, I think we could most properly show our loyalty by con- forming to ancient constitutional practice, and that ancient constitutional practice is that we, the representatives of the people, have the right to express our views and to obtain redress of grievances before granting Supply to the Crown. When once that power has passed from us, when once the power of refusing Supply to the Crown has been given up by the representatives of the people, the great constitutional privilege of ob- taining redress of grievances passes from us. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Captain RUSSELL. - Probably the Right Hon. the Premier will say No ; but he knows as well as I do that he has continually violated the constitutional practice. In 1898, as leader of the Opposition, I consented to help the Hon. the Premier out of a similar dilemma to that in which he has placed us now ; but I then said that such complaisance on my part must not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788238 be reckoned upon as a precedent for the future. But, notwithstanding that, in 1899 we were again placed in a similar position, and once more the Opposition felt, rather than incon- venience all the Civil servants of the colony, rather than throw out of joint the whole machi- nery of government, by refusing to pass, as I then thought improperly, an Imprest Supply Bill, we consented to the passage of that Bill ; and again I said that consent must not be taken as a precedent. Now we revert once more to a position which could have been avoided this year. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Captain RUSSELL .- The Right Hon. the Premier says " No." Let us take the example of the English Parliament. The Budget is brought down in the English House of Commons always within a fortnight, or three weeks at any rate. I had no idea that this Bill was going to be sprung upon us now, or else I should have prepared myself definitely with the facts ; but I believe I am right in saying that the English Budget is never withheld for a longer period than one month after the end of the financial year. Surely it would be quite possible, if an Empire extending from one end of the world to the other, which has fleets floating upon every sea, and colonies and dependencies in every part of the world -if its Budget can be brought down within one month of the end of the financial year, surely we, in our small Colony of New Zealand, with a population of considerably under a million people, should be able to do that which the great Empire of Great Britain is able to do within one month. And there- fore, as our financial year ended on the 31st March, I say there is no reason whatsoever why the Premier should not have been able to be ready to go on with the financial exposition of the affairs of the colony, at any rate, within two months after the end of our financial year. Sir, there was no possible reason that I can understand why His Excellency should not have convened Parliament about the 1st May, or shortly after that date-at any rate, long before the 1st July. Parliament, I say, might have been convened, and His Excellency might have delivered his Speech, giving his reasons for calling Parliament together at that date. This House might then have passed the Address in Reply, and after that, according to good con- stitutional principles, we could have proceeded to grant Supply if Supply was demanded. Sir, under the 414th Standing Order it is perfectly clear that the course we are now pursuing is one which is extremely irregular, because such & course cannot be pursued without the sus- pension of that Standing Order. It is known that the invariable custom was for the Address in Reply to be passed, and for Committee of Supply to be then set up. Why, Sir, were the representatives of the people not called to- gether ? The Right Hon. the Premier says it was impossible. I would like to know his reason for saying that. Was it that he was obliged personally to arrange every detail of the Royal visit? I maintain that no such thing has been the case. What possible reason. then, has the Premier and Colonial Treasurer that is stronger than the upholding of the people s liberties and privileges-which are continually being violated by this system of compelling the representatives of the people to \--- pass an Imprest Supply Bill before we have had an opportunity of discussing any grievances there may be? It is an old and constitutional practice that I desire to uphold. It has come down from time immemorial-from the days when the Crown was liable, when once it had received supplies, to flout the Commons, and give them no chance of expressing grievances or redressing wrongs, the result of such action being that the House of Commons insisted that before Supply was granted to the Crown, there should be an opportunity given to them to discuss any grievances there might be. It is not the first time we have had this old custom violated in this colony. Time after time the Finan- cial Statement has been put off for two or three months, until in some instances we find ourselves debating the finances of the colony seven or eight months after the end of the financial year. Those of us who have all along been anxious to uphold constitutional principle, and the observance of the Standing Order I have referred to, are, unfortunately, not in a position to do more than raise our voices against the constant violation of our own Stand ing Orders and constitutional practice that is being pursued. In this case, however, I con- sider that we may really put aside all question 